BOHN'S ILLUSTRATED LIBRARY.

ROBINSON CRUSOE:

ELLI'STRATED BY STOTHARD. HARVEY.
AND OTHERS., / / // ,/' /.':"/' 1/ ,/ /
/ _,/

/ Iva/xxx "Ar/.wx/<<zyz 2/ <<-444. 4/ 4:12.07 .r. / XIV/7,1,THE

LIFE AND SURPRISING ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,
@f goth, 31min",

WITH. A

BIOGRAPHICAL ACCOUNT OF DEFOE,

I LLUSTRATBD WITH

SEVENTY CHARACTERISTIC WOOD ENGRAVINGS,

CIHBPLY AFTER DESIGNS BY HARVEY,

AND TWELVE ENGRAVINGS 0N STEEL. AFTER STOTHARD.

 

LONDON:
HENRY G. BOHN, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1859.CONTENTS

 

IAOI

Bloouuucu. 813203 or DAxm m:o;........,............. ..u..............

8361'on l.
. Robinaon'l Funny, lc.---Eil Human {mm his Pmfl.........m...............

SECTION 11.

Pint Admtum u 8M. ud Expodence of I Human Lita--Voyage to
Guinea .......... .

 

 

nun-onuuuuu. .

 

Inaummuvnlnun m

 

SECTION III.
Bobimon'a Captivity u sun--nap. um. mam--mm u an arid.
SECTION IV.
Bo nettle! in the Bruin " s Hanan--Hutu Another Voylge, um! i: I111]!-
BMION V.

Robinson find: Hand! in I dual-t. hint--Procure- a Stock 0! Ankle-
hon MWncL--Comm his Minion .............

 

u-uum-....m... .-

MION VI.

Curie: all his Mel, Envision, cc. moo hh-thimiom--Dreuinau 0!

SECTION VII.

Bobinlon'l Hod: of reckoning Tm.--Diflmltiel arising M m cl Took.
--30 with Habitation .u..........................................................-

SECTION VIII.

Rolland: Joann--Donn: d u- nmade Economy And Comm--
" a! a Mull cum.-

..u-u..." unumuunnum.um.u mud-uno-

 

SECTION- B. '
W ohm "Aral-hon Ihonh--Ebmnu nd ma...

3117110)! x.

Eh m.--nn can: in leading an Saipm--Xnu in We:
Moth- lat-dc: <<no halt--hm u. " nom'-.............................

k

45

1.'vi couram.

' nu
SECTION XX.

30an nuke: e Tour to explore his Mani--Employed In Basket-mung 82

SECTION X".
In return: to hit Cue--Bil Agricultural Lnbonn end Bum ......u.......... 86

SECTION XIII.
Hie Huntecture at Pottery, and Contrivence for linking Breed 92

SECTION XIV.

Mediates his Escape horn the Blunt--Builds e Canoe--Failure of his
Scheme--Resignetien to his Condition.--Mekes himself 1 new Dress 98

SECTION XV.

He nukes n smeller Canoe. In which he attempts to cruise and the Mind.--
His perilous uituntion at Seek--He returns home ..... 105

SECTION XVI.

He rem I Flock of Gout--His Diary.--Hie Domestic Habits and Style of
Living.--Inereuing Prosperity ... II2

SECTION XVII.
Unexpected Aim and Cline for Apprehension.--He fortiflee his Abode 119

SECTION XVIII.

Preceutionn ngninst Supine--Robinson diaceven that hi5 Inland he been

SECTION XIX.
Robinson dilcoven n Cue. which serves him u e Retreat mint the Sunset 134

SECTION XX.

Another Visit of the Sufism--Robinson nee- thm dendng.--Pereeivee the
Wreck of; Vessel ........... I"

SECTION III.

He visits the Wreck And ohtninl may Store- aom IL--Agein think: of quit-
ting the "Anal--Ha Irennrhhle Dream............................................. "5

SECTION XIII.

Robinson ream one of theIrCeptives non: the thom he ulna
Friday, and nukes his Servant "mm.................................................... 155

SECTION XXIII.

Robinson Ira-tram end dvmuehhlhn Eider--m bflvehhn
Id. "Christianity ulmmmmn-nunmm.c-a~oummunuummmm~~~~ I"con-mm. vi

830110311".
lel
humans-abundumummumw Country.--
Thdr Schu- puma"! bymuflnldgl'utyo! Mahatma--017'

smxox m. '

Minn "lulu a Spankrd.--Pddaydkcovul HI PAMPAW
don provided {ox the" an Guam--who no man an! to manna
tho can! Spam--Arrival o! u: Englilh Vc-IL.....................mm... Ill

SECTION xx".

30th discover-I Mm the English Captain--Luisa Him in reducing
hi. madman Cum--who lubmit to Him............................................. 1"

31-10110}! nvn.

Atkins when: the (3an 8: 3pm his Lift--The kw remu- hil Vessel
hon the ludnoem-- and PS0an lam nu bland...................... ... 206

SECTION mm.

Robinson (on to when, when he and: the Pom (hymn. who mam
him "Account ofhh Pnpeny in th- Bnlilm--Bm man hi- Return
to Enghnd by hum"...........,............................................................ m
amen XXIX.

hid-fl haunt-r with a Bun--Robinson und hb {allow mum
Mad by 1 Flock Mdew--Hh Amt 0! his Am", and
lam-go In" his mm to magi-ad................................................. :24

51131108 xxx.
Kohdudflmnmwnvfllhhm--m "Wit--hump"

to [o to flu Icahn--TAI- out I Cum m u. Cob)........................ m
amen XXII.
Robin-cram" menu"! I had: Vudmmmm... fl!

\ SIMON xxxn.
BMmmx-mmhwho mm.--Axflvuflhhmuul 249

83011011 nnn.

mumpM--mmmmmmnpw
<<Mp-dummflm'lqfltdflfimuuwm-.. I"

IMHO! mm

15. M cum--Quack m to him--A m
mmmdnmmmmm--mlm
may an Mumammmmfimmmmmmmm--cmm-mmmmn I!viii com

SECTION XXIV.
nu
Thenfiwhglhhmanm wmmm--wm
noun! <<pun Salsa--Tm lb Paula uwmmmmmuuummm ISO
exciton xxm.

Swan! Sula. kind; the Ballads: luv. 1):. [dandy--A Pluto! than
AMI-rd. unfit--A men! Blah--Thu Saugu at W. Ind
'l'nuquilmy mtgnd............................................................."mum"... 391

SECTION XXIV".

Robin-on learn- !rom the Spain-d: tho Diliculfiu they had in anemia.
--Ko Misha nu Poop]. with Tools. ae--Thn Punch mac." soc

SENIOR XXXVI".
Robinson's Discourse with the Ecclesimic u to introducing Hui-rinse.
anon; tho Putnam--Mm Manuel--Mun: eonveru hin Wile...... m

SECTION xxxxx.

Atkin- nhm hi: Conversation with hi: Vim--Tho hm: hpfiud by the
Print--Account of the tuning sun of thou on bond the WVeuel.

 

--Bobinun's DOW Mm the bland... ........................... 33:
SECTION XL
Encounur wkh Sugge- u Su--Ffiday'n Delay--Robinson find: hi: former
Puma: in the mum--sm- {or the Eu: India................................. 850
SECTION 11.1.

The Vane] touche- n Mud-gum.--Aflny with the Kuhn--who an Inn-
umd by the Cum--Tho Slut!!! mama. rum: to nilwlth Robin-on,
who in ion by his Nophaw, an Captain, in Baud"............................... 858

SECTION nu.

Hubwithu mflmhntwithwhmhemdumme
--'l'hcy m mm for m.--anm their Puma--Von, lo
Chm--mm with the Cochin-China..--Ilhnd of Pontoon--Gull
o! Nam--AWN a! filling into tb- Hand- el ch. Dachau>>... :1:

SECTION XLIII.

1m to 1'um Join A Cm proceeding co locum--Bon-
n" with than Tum: .............................................um-................ <<1

SECTION XLIV.

Both w Imp--Mum uduSeoa Hacksaw-alibi.
--'nnwimla Gunmhml'orflm mmamm--
Tannin--Incom- Edict--W has I'm--mum
3M9! mmmmnm--mmqu
1.8", min- i! wm"nu-unommmuuu-u-n-ummmmmmmmmm "ILIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
Maugham

AFTER 'DESIGNS BY STOTHARD.

~

Cnuao: uma mu or am PM . . W

Cnuso:smrwuam.......pC/gea4

Cacao: on ms nu . . . . . . . -- 42
Cannon m m on: . . . . . . . . -- 52
Cacao: nu ma mum suns . . . . . . -- 116

Canon mar am Farm: . . . . . . -- 158
Canon: m Fm>>! mo A non . . . . -- 176
Cannot um Frau name A m . . . . -- 186
Canaan's mm m m 32M . . . --- 258
Tu no Exam mm . . . . . -- 290
Tax Emmnmr's amazon . . . . . -- 822

Cmcnmunnnmm. . . . ._-- 4MBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

OI'

DANIEL DEFOE.

Tn: author of Robinson Crusoe would be entitled to a prominent
place in the history of our literature, even had he never given to
the world that truly admirable production; and yet we may
reasonably question whether the name of Defoe would not long
ago have sunk into oblivion, or at least have been known, like
those of most of his contemporaries, only to the curious student,
were it not attached to a work whose popularity has been rarely
equalled--never, perhaps, excelled. Even as it is, the reputation
due to the writer has been nearly altogether absorbed in that of
his hero, and in the all-engrossing interest of his adventures:
thousands who have read Robinson Crusoe with delight, and
derived from it a satisfaction in no wise diminished by repeated
perusal, have never bestowed a thought on its author, or. indeed,
regarded it in the light of a literary performance. While its ,
fascination has been universally felt, the genius that conceived it,
the talent that perfected it, have been generally overlooked,
merely'because it is so full of nature and reality as to exhibit no
invention or exertion on the part of the author, inasmuch as he
appears simply to have recorded what actually happened, and
consequently only to have committed to paper plain matter of
feet, without study or embellishment. We wonder at and are
struck with admiration by the powers of Shahpeare or Cervantes;
with regard to Defoe we experience no similar feelings: itis not
the skill of the artist that enchants us, hut.the perfectnaturalne-
of the picture, which is such that we mistake it for a mirror: soX BIOGRAPHICAL sum or

that every reader persuades himself that he could write as well,
perhaps better, were he but furnished with the materials for an
equally interesting narrative.

There are many circumstances in Defoe's own history that
would recommend it to the notice of the hiographer, indepen-
dently of his claims as the author of Robinson: among which
are the variety and extraordinary number of his literary per-
formances, amounting to no fewer than two hundred and nine
different publications; and the no less singular fact that the
masterpiece of his genius was not only his first essay in that
species of composition, but was not produced till he was far
advanced in years, he having then arrived at a period of life when
the generality of authors close their literary career, and when the
powers of imagination either lose much of their vigour, or become
altogether torpid. Nor will our surprise at Defoe's industry, and
the almost unprecedented fertility of his pen, be at all diminished
by considering that he was not a recluse student or professed
scholar, but was engaged in trade and various other speculations.
In one respect, however, his mercantile occupations contributed
to lay the foundation of his excellence as a novel-writer, since
there can belittle doubt that it is to his actual experience of the
sea, and his acquaintance with other countries, we are indebted
for that truth and spirit which animate the more interesting parts
of Robinson Crusoe; while his manly good sense, unaffected
eamestness, and fund of native intelligence, have placed him
very far above those who presume to undervalue his literary
acquirements.

According to the latest and most copious of all his biographers,
Daniel Defoe was born in 1661, two years earlier than the
generally assigned date of his birth. His father was a butcher
in the parish of St. Giles, Cripplegate; and appears to have been
a citizen in easy circumstances, although his trade was one that
confers no particular lustre on a pedigree. It is usual to affect.
some degree of astonishment when we read of men whose alter
fame presents a. striking contrast to the humility of their origin:
yet we must recollect that it is not ancestry and splendid descent,
but education and circumstances which form the man; and in
this respect the middling classes possess a decided advantage over
those either below or above them: for if the former are precluded
from cultivating their talents and abilities, the latter generally
consider themselves exempt from the necessity of doing so, and9mm. um 31

accordingly content themselves with cultivating mere external
accomplishments, in preference to exercising their mental ener-
gies. Those on the contrary who are placed in a middle station,
while they are not debarred from the means of application, feel
that stimulus to exertion which arises from the desire of acquiring
fortune or fame. The history of such men as Ximenes, Wolsey,
Alberoni, and Napoleon, may, indeed, justly excite our wonder;
--when, too, we behold unlettered genius emerging, in spite
of every obstacle, from the obscurity to which it seemed con-
demned, as in a Fergusson, a Duval, a Burns, and an Opie, we
may be permitted to express our astonishment; but as regards
his origin, the history of Defoe is that of thousands who have
afterwards raised themselves into comparative elevation by the
display of their powers. The solicitude, therefore, so generally
displayed by biographera, on similar occasions, to trace some
consanguinity with a more dignified branch of their families, for
those whose native obscurity seems to demand some apology,
betrays a rather mistaken policy. However this may be, it is
certain that it is quite as honourable for Defoe to have ascended
from a butcher as it would have been to have descended from the
Conqueror himself.

One undoubted and very great advantage, for which Defoe
was indebted to his parents, who were Nonconformista, was an
education superior to what it was then usual for persons in their
station to bestow upon their children; and they were careful
also to implant in his youthful mind that regard for religion, and
that strict moral integrity. which atterwards displayed themselves
. not only in his writings, but his conduct through life. And this
rectitude of principle he most unequivocally evinced when his
misfortunes put it so severely to the proof. At about the age of
fourteen, he was placed under the tuition of the Rev. Charla!
Morton, of Newington Green, who was afterwards vice-president
of Harvard College, New England; and from various incidental
remarks in his own works, it appears that young Defoe now
entered upon an extensive course of studies, and made consider-
able proficiency in languages, mathematics, philosophy, history,
and theology; although the natural livelinesa of his disposition
unfitted him for that severe application which is necessary to form
a profound scholar in any one of those pursuits.

It was the intention of his parents that he should embrace
the clerical profession, which their religious feelings, and pro-xii sioowmcsn ssemn or

bably a very pardonable ambition, induced them to select for
him: yet, notwithstanding his regard for the sacred office, he
was unwilling to embrace it himself; or events, at least, diverted
his talents into another channel. The political and religious
excitements of that period were contagious for one of Defoe's
temper: he assumed the character of the patriot as soon as he
cast off that of the boy, and espoused the side of the popular
party with all the ardour of youth; nor was it long before he
had opportunities of distinguishing himself. He was a warm
advocate for the Bill of Exclusion, passed by the Commons to
prevent the succession of the Duke of York to the throne; and
regarded with abhorrence that spirit of despotism which sen-
tenced Sydney and so many others to the scafi'old. At the age
of twenty-one he commenced author, which employment he con-
tinued for nearly half a century, and that, too, almost uninter-
ruptedly, notwithstanding his various speculations of a different
nature. It cannot be expected that in a sketch of this nature
we should attempt to give anything like a connected account of
Defoe's various literary performances, they being too numerous
and multifarious for us to advert to them separately, even if we
conceived that by so doing we should greatly interest the readers
of this--the most distinguished of them all. But the truth is,
the majority of them are of that class which it is rather the
province of the bibliographer than the critic to describe. We
may, however, here mention the first production of his pen,
which, under the singular title of " Speculum Crape-gownorum,"
was a reply to a publication of Roger L'Estrange's, a noted party
writer of that day. In this work Defoe indulged in rather in-
temperate language, and while vindicating the dissenters, re-
flected in too hostile and indiscriminate a manner upon the
established clergy. This was succeeded by a "Treatise against
the Turks," occasioned by the war between them and the Im-
perialists; and was penned by Defoe for the purpose of showing
his countrymen that, if it was the interest of Protestantism not
to increase the influence of a Catholic power, it was infinitely
more so to oppose a Mohammedan one; which, however debate-
able it might appear to politicians, was almost too obvious a
truism to be entitled to any merit for its sagacity. It is the fate
of political publications quickly to fall into oblivion after the
events which call them forth have passed away; the reputation
derived from them is as transitory as the events themselves, or ifnames pesos. xiii

the fame of the writer occasionally descends to posterity, it is
more than can be afirmed of his writings.

Shortly after this, Defoe proved that he was as ready to
support the doctrines he advocated by the sword as by the pen:
he accordingly joined the standard of the Duke of Monmouth,
when the latter landed in England with the view of expelling a
Catholic prince from the throne, and seating himself upon it as
the defender of protestantism. The issue of that adventure, and
the subsequent fate of the unfortunate, if not perfectly innocent,
Monmouth are well known. Happier than the leader of the
enterprise, it was Defoe's better luck to escape: he retumed to
the metropolis in safety; and, abandoning politics and warfare,
was content for a while to turn his attention to the more humble
but less stormy pursuits of trade-

He now became a hosier, or rathera hose-factor, that is, a kind
of agent between the manufacturer and retailer; and, according to
Mr. Chalmers, he continued to carry on this concern from 1685 to
1695. It was about two years after he had thus established him-
self, that he was admitted a liveryman of London, on the 26(h of
January, 1687-8. Business, however, did not so entirely absorb
his attention but that he found time to engage in the various
controversies that agitated the public mind, and which were
occasioned by the arbitrary measures of James, who, feeling himself
secure after the removal of so dangerous an enemy as Monmouth,
began more openly to favour the Catholics, and to dispense with
the tests intended to prevent their accepting commissions in the
army. This of course excited both the alarm and indignation
of the Protestants, which were by no means allayed by the
temporizing servility of their own clergy, who exerted their elo-
quence in favour of the king's prerogative. Among those who
attacked the doctrine of the dispensing power was Defoe; nor, as
may well be imagined, was he afterwards an unconcerned spectator
of the Revolution, whose progress he had minutely watched, and
whose anniversary he continued yearly to celebrate as a day
marked by the deliverance of his country from political and
religious tyranny. His attachment to the new sovereign was con--
firmed by the personal notice shown him both by that prince and
his consort; for the "butcher's son " had had the honour of an
early introduction to the royal presence.

At this period Defoe resided at Tooting in Surrey, and he had
now launched out into more extensive commercial speculations,
having embarked in the Spanish and Portuguese trade, so that he
might fairly claim the title of merchant. The precise time of his
going to Spain, whether before or after the Revolution, cannot be
ascertained ; but he not only made a voyage thither, but stayed
some time in the country, and acquired a knowledge of the
language. Sincere as was his attachment to the purer tenets of
protestantism, it did not degenerate into blind prejudice, nor pre-
vent him from doing justice to catholics: he has accordingly, in
his Robinson Crusoe, represented the Spanish character under its
most amiable traits, and in a tone that may almost pass for
panegyric. This voyage, as we have already remarked, doubt-
lessly contributed to store his observant mind with many materials
for those descriptions of the perils and adventures common to a
seafaring life, that so strongly excite the sympathy of those who
follow his hero across the tracltless deep. Nor was he without
some experience of shipwreck, if not actually in his own person,
by the loss of a vessel in which he was a shareholder, and which
was wrecked in a violent storm off the coast of Biscay. It was
about this period also that he traded with Holland; probably for
civet, as one of his enemies has sneeringly styled him a " civet-
cat merchant." Besides this he visited some other parts of the
continent, particularly Germany : he did not, however, relinquish
his hose~agency business in consequence of his other engagements.
But commercial enterprise did not prove for him the road to
wealth: on the contrary, his speculations involved him in such
embarrassments, that, in 1692, he was obliged to abscond from
his creditors. A commission of bankruptcy was taken out against
him, yet it was afterwards superseded, those to whom he was most
in debt agreeing to accept a composition on his own bond; and
he not only punctually discharged these claims, but, after he had
somewhat retrieved his circumstances, voluntarily repaid the
remainder. This is so much the more to his honour, since so far
from having met with many precedents of similar prohity in
others, his misfortunes had been in some degree occasioned by
the knarery of unprincipled men, who, availing themselves of the
impunity held out to them by the supineness or the impotency of
the law, were then accustomed to set their creditors at defiance in
the most barefaced manner.

It was Defoe himself who first called the attention of the
legislature to the intolerable abuses which arose from those
sanctuaries, as they were termed, for criminals and debtors, which
then existed in the metropolis; and to him, consequently, may
we be said to be indebted for the abatement of a nuisance as dis-
graceful to the national character, as it was injurious to the indus-
trious and honest portion of the community.

With the view of assisting him in his distress, some of his
friends now came forward and offered to settle him as a factor
at Cadiz: yet, advantageous as the proposal was, he declined it,
preferring to endeavour to retrieve his finances by his pen. The
country being then engaged in an expensive war with France,
Defoe proposed a scheme to assist the government in raising
" the ways and means ;" and some time afterwards he received
the appointment of accountant to the commissioners of the glass
duty; but it proved only a temporary one, as the duty was
repealed in August, 1699. Probably it was also about the same
period that he became secretary to the tile-works at Tilbury, in
which concern he embarked some money, and was again a suf-
ferer. His " Essay on Projects," published in January, 1696-7,
shows him to have been, if not a very successful speculator him-
self, at least a very ingenious and fertile deviser of theoretical
plans, most of which must be allowed to have the welfare of
society in view; not have they been without influence in leading
to many improvements of later times: among those which have
been practically adopted, we may mention his scheme for Friendly
Societies and Savings Banks. Were any testimony requiied in
favour of this work, it would be sufficient to quote that of the
celebrated Franklin, who confesses that the impressions he received
from it gave a strong bias to his own pursuits.

If not invariably employed in the active defence of public
morals, Defoe's pen was too honest to betray their interests on
any occasion: it was not always that his topics called for, or even
admitted, any direct inculcations of virtue, but whenever they
did, he displayed his earnestness in its behalf. His publication
entitled " The Poor Man's Plea" is a very keen piece of satire,
with a considerable touch of humour, levelled against the vices of
the upper classes of society, in which he urges them to discoun-
tenance by their own conductfithe immorality they deem so
reprehensible in the vulgar. The stage too did not escape his
castigation; and really its transgressions were at that period so
harefaced and audacious, so ofl'ensive even to common decency,
that, whatever infamy there may have been in either tolerating

or in attempting to defend such a system of lewdness, there couldm MOGWKXCAL SKETCH OP

be no great triumph in exposing that which did not even attempt
to conceal itself.

We have now to notice our author in a-somewhat different
character--namely, as a candidate for poetical fame. His satire,
entitled the "Truebom Englishman," which was written for
the purpose of averting from the king the abusive reflections cast
upon him as a foreigner, had indeed a very great run at the time
--more, however, on accaunt of the matter than of the manner
----since both that and all Defoe's other attempts of the kind
convince us, that, like the great Roman orator, he was an intole~
rably bad poet, and not even a decent versifier. Yet could
gratitude and enthusiastic devotion to his prince have supplied
that inspiration which the muses denied him, Defoe's poetry
would have been of first-rate excellence, so sincere was his
admiration of, so zealous was his devotion to, William III. The
various effusions in rhyme, and the numerous political pamphlets
and tracts which he published at this interval, we must pass by,
and come directly to an event that obtained for our author a
rather unenviable species of distinction. The reign of Anne
commenced with much violence and with cabals between the
respective church parties, leading to controversies that rather
fanned than allayed the public ferment. On such an occasion,
it was not to be expected that Defoe would remain passive:
assuming the furious tone of the high-churchmen of the day
against the dissenters, he published a small pamphlet, which was
in reality a satire upon the writings which that party had issued
from the press, but the irony was so fine, and the imitation so
exact, that while it was supposed by them to utter the real senti-
ments of the writer, it was also interpreted by those whom it
was intended to serve as coming from a violent enemy. The
" Shortest Way with the Dissenters"---such was its title--created
an amazing sensation; and on its real object being exposed,
the high-church party became as fierce in their indignation, as
they had before been warm in their applause. The author
was detected, a reward ofi'ered for his apprehension, and he
himself sentenced to be imprisoned in Newgate, and to stand
in the pillory; but the attendance of his friends, and the enthu-
siasm of the populace in favour of the champion of religious
liberty. converted an ignominious punishment into a triumph,
so that his enemies had as little reason to emit in their victory,
as to be proud of the sagacity they had displayed. If, however..-

DANIEL DEPOS- XVII

this event rather increased than diminished Defoe's reputation,
it had a different effect upon his pecuniary affairs: his confine-
ment in Newgate prevented his attending any longer to his con-
cern at Tilbury, the consequence of which was that it was obliged
to be given up; and thus Defoe saw himself deprived at once of
what had been the source of a handsome income, for before this
affair he was in such thriving circumstances as to be able to keep
his coach. According to his own statement, he lost three thousand
five hundred pounds, a far more considerable sum at that period
than it would he now. There was indeed one way of both speedily
and safely repairing his finances, namely, by accepting the oven-
tnres made him by the ministry, who would gladly have enlisted
in their own cause that pen which had proved so powerful against
them : but Defoe was too independent of soul, and too high-prin-
cipled, to purchase his release upon terms that would inflict upon
him the disgrace the pillory had failed to effect.

Although a prison is not the most congenial place for literary
pursuits, our author availed himself of the time which the loss of
his liberty afforded him, of occupying his unwelcome leisure from
all other business in writing both in verse and prose. It was here
that he published his poem on the "Reformation of Manners," a
sufficiently copious theme in every age, and afterwards continued
the subject in another, entitled " More Reformation;" in which he
alludes to his own situation in the following nervous lines, de-
scribing himself as

" A modern tool,

To wit, to parties and himself. fool;

Embroil'd with men to do himself so good.

And by his friends themselves misunderstood;

Misconstrued first in every word he said.--

By these unpltied, and by those unpaid."
Here we may truly say faoit indignatio mm, for the caustic tone
and antithesis are not unworthy of Pope himself. The political
controversial pieces which he sent forth to the world from his
" place of durance vile" were too numerous for us to specify
them: we therefore prefer speaking of a work of more permanent
interest, one in which he may be regarded as the immediate pre-
decessor of two of the most popular and admired of our classic
writers in thedays of Anne--namely, Steele and Addison. Defoe's
" Review," which commenced Feb. 19, 1704, deserves to be con-
sidered as the prototype of our Tatlers and Spectators; and may
earn for its author the appellation of the Father of English
Essayists: since notwithstanding that political intelligence and
discussion constituted a great portion of its contents, it touched
upon a variety of other topics bearing upon literature, manners,
and morals; while it was itself hardly in any degree indebted for
this part of its plan to preceding or contemporary publications,
Uniformly assailing vice, or exposing to just ridicule the follies
and foibles of society, Defoe varied his mode of attack, at one
time employing grave reasoning and serious remonstrance; at
another, isubstituting sarcasm, humour, wit, and pleasantry, for
monitory reproot'. Toa modern reader, indeed, many of the topics
might seem to lack invention, and to be rather commonplace,
merely because they have been so repeatedly handled by later
writers, that both the wit and argument displayed in them have'
lost their freshness. This circumstance, however, does not detract
from Defoe's intrinsic merit, or from the praise due to him as an
originator: on the contrary, he, in this respect, only shares the
fate common to all those who open a new path in literature or art,
inviting imitators whose numbers oppress, if they do not over;
whelm them: that Defoe has not since been surpassed in this
species of writing is far more than we can venture to assert; yet
it should be recoll'ected that it is the first navigator of the Atlantic,
not those who cross it in a modern steam-host, who claims the
homage of our admiration.

Those who are unacqnainted with Defoe the essayist, as well
as Defoe the novelist, will not be able to appreciate the extent of
our author's powers, and the variety of his information. But we
have already dwelt upon the " Review "at greater length than is
'onsistent with the brevity we must perforce observe: it is time,
therefore, to proceed with our narrative. Mr. Harley, aflerwards
earl of Oxford, happened, by a change in the ministry, to come
into power, after Defoe had been about two years in confinement,
and being able to appreciate his abilities--perhaps anxious to
secure them in hia,own support, he represented his case to the
queen, who generously sent a sum of money to his wife and
family, and another to discharge his line and prison expenses.
Immediately upon his liberation Defoe retired to Bury St. Ed-
mund's. It was there that he wrote his masterly treatise, entitled
" Giving Alma no Charity," in which he displays great practical
knowledge, with enlarged and sound views on the causes of po-
verty, and on the employment of the poor. . In the intervals of
these and other occupations, for it should be observed tint hea

mum. baron. xxx

had been sent in 1705 by Harley on a secret mission to the con-
tinent, the express object of which has not transpired--he found
leisure to employ his pen on other subjects, and anticipating his
fixture character of a romance writer, he invented the " true
narrative" of Mrs. Veal's apparition, which was prefixed to a
translation of Drelincourt on Death. The supposed stranger
from the other world is made to recommend that performance;
and, as such supernatural testimony was irresistible, the whole
impression, which had before lain on the bookseller's shelves, was
quickly told, and was succeeded by many others, the work having
since passed through forty difi'erent editions. This stratagem
certainly does honour to Defoe's ingenuity and penetration; yet
whether it he entirely justifiable, considering the tendency of the
deception, may be doubted.

Leaving for awhile the account of his literary career, we must
now briefly notice a very important national subject, namely, the
Union with Scotland, in which, besides warmly advocating the
measure with his pen, Defoe was personally employed. At the
recommendation of Harley and Lord Godolphin, by whom he
had been recommended to the queen, he was sent on a mission to
Edinburgh, in which city he arrived in October, 1706. Here, it
should seem, he was chiefly employed in making calculations re-
lating to trade and taxes, for the information of the committees of
parliament; he also occupied himself in collecting those docu-
ments relative to the Union which he afterwards published.
Besides this, he proposed several plans for encouraging the
manufactures, and for promoting the trade, wealth, and maritime
resources of Scotland. After an absence of about sixteen months,
he returned to England in 1708, when his services obtained for him,
from the ministry, an appointment with a fixed salary; and as it
does not appear what was the nature of the office he held, we
may conclude it to have been merely a sinecure. Almost imme-
diately aficrwards, his pats-on Harley was dismissed from ofice,
through the persevering intrigues of the duchess of Marlborough,
whom he had supplanted in the queen's favour, an event that
suddenly overclouded Defoe's political prospects. Without com-
promising his principles, however, he espoused the interest of the
succeeding ministry; but although Godolphin treated binwith
consideration, he sufi'ered his pension to fall into arrears, perhaps
in consequence of Defoe's long absence in Scotland, whither ho

was again despatched a few months snerwsrds, upon some secret
I

'5'
business. In the following year, 1709, Defoe published a work
which, to use the.words of an eminent living critic, " places him
amongst the soundest historians of the day;" and which, accord-
ingto the testimony of another, would have handed down his
name to posterity, even had he not immortalized himself by
Robinson Crusoe. This was his "History of the Union," which
is as interesting for the minute descriptions it gives of the actors
and incidents in that important event, as for the documents it
furnishes.

Still engaged in politics, Defoe's continued and severe attacks
against the Tories and high-church party so exasperated them,
that they attempted to suppress his writings, and even threatened
him with prosecutions: their animosity, however, did not procure
for him, from those whose cause he defended, a degree of favour
and support at all commensurate with his long and able services.
He had also to contend with fresh pecuniary losses in some con-
cern in which he was engaged (1712) with Mr. Wood, a mercer
of Coleshill in Warwickshire, and with the personal abuse with
which his character was assailed by writers who reflected upon
him as being a knavish bankrupt. But his political career was
now drawing to its close: having carried on his " Review "
for more than nine years, he finally relinquished it in May, 1713,
when he was again a prisoner in Newgste upon an indictment
preferred against him by his friends the Whigs, as the author of
three treasonable Jacobitical pamphlets; whereas the publications
in question were of adirectly opposite tendency. The queen
once more bestowed a free pardon on him, and the malice of his
numerous enemies was defeated. From this time he employed
his pen only occasionally on political subjects. By the accession
of George I. to the throne, Defoe gained nothing, although his
writings had strenuously pleaded the cause of the House of
Hanover during the late reign; and although he had superior
claims upon public gratitude for the seal with which, during
nearly thirty years, he had not only advocated religious and
political independence, but endeavoured to call attention to sub-
jects of paramount importance to the national prosperity. That
this neglect should, in spite of all his philosophy, have occasioned
him considerable mortification, is not much to he wondered at;
and to the effect it had upon his health was attributed an
apoplectic attack in the year 1715, from which he wotinued to
suffer for six months.
Liter so serious a blow to his constitution, and at his advanced
period of life, it might have been expected that he would now
lay aside his pen,--at least remit in his exertions. Yet it was
subsequently to this apparently cloudy epoch of his career that
the brightest and most durable of his literary wreaths was won.
Great versatility of talent is not ofien accompanied by an equal
degree of vigour and raciness of intellect; when, however, such
does happen to be the case, it should seem that the former is
rather beneficial than otherwise to its possessor, and that change
of subject serves to recruit the meufil energies. Defoe at least
may be quoted as an extraordinary instance of rg'uvenescency
of mind in the decline of years. We do not here allude to his
" Family Instructor," although that performance is one of the
most valuable and useful systems of practical morality in our lan-
guage, and has, doubtless, been far more beneficial to society
than many works of even splendid celebrity. It is the series
of novels which now appear in quick succession from his pen,
that have won for him an imperishable reputation among the
worthies of English literature: nor will his claims upon our
admiration be diminished by considering the extravagant, unnn~
tural system of romance-writing which had till then prevailed,
where every thing was either so. artificial or so shadowy, that not
a glimpse of real life was to be discerned. In Defoe's narratives,
on the contrary, there is such an air of downright matter-of-fact
and unadorned truth, as to amount to actual deception; thereby
preventing us from crediting the author with any merit on the
score of imagination, contrivance, or invention. Of this the
reader will be amply convinced by the perusal of the present
work, on which it is not necessary that we should eapatiate, and
we shall therefore merely advert to the circumstances connected
with its origin and publication. The History of Robinson Crusoe
was first published in the year 1719, and its popularity may he
said to have been established immediately, since four editions
were called for in about as many months, a circumstance at that
time almost unprecedented in the annals of literature. It rarely
happens that an author's expectations are surpassed by the success
of his work, however astonishing it may seem to others: yet per-
haps even Defoe himself did not venture to look forward to such
a welcome on the part of the public, afier the repulses he had
experienced on that of the booksellers; for incredible as it now

appears, the manuscript of thezwork had been ofered to, and
I
XXII BIOGRAPHICAL am 0!'

rejected by, every one in the trade, in which respect its destiny
was not only similar to that of Paradise Lost, but of two of the
most celebrated literary productions of the present day, namely,
Waverley and Childe Harold; the former of which remained in
manuscript ten years, without any probability of ever seeing the
light, although its fame has since extended itself wherever the
English language is known--nay more, has even penetrated the
wilds of Siberia.

Astonishing as was the success of Defoe's romance, it did not
deter the envious from attfinpting to disparage it. The materials,
it was said, were either furnished by, or surreptitiously obtained
from, Alexander Selkirk, a mariner who had resided for four years
in the desert island of Juan Fernandez, and returned to England
in 1711. Very probably, his story, which then excited consider-
able interest and attention, did suggest to Defoe the idea of
writing his romance; but all the details and incidents are entirely
his own. Most certainly Defoe had obtained no papers or written
documents from Selkirk, as the latter had none to'communicate.
So far, however, have others been from taxing our author with pla-
giarism, that they have, on the contrary, charged him with putting
on paper a heap of chimeras, to impose upon public credulity.
Thus these two contradictory charges reciprocally destroy each
other. An attempt has also been made 3deg rob him entirely of the
brightest jewel in his literary crown, by denying him to have
been the author of Robinson Crusoe, which has been ascribed, by
some, to Arhnthnot; by others, to Defoe's patron, the first earl
of Oxford. Those who have wished to gain credit for the latter
opinion, assert that it was composed by that nobleman during his
imprisonment in the Tower, in l7l5, on a charge of high treason;
and they have argued that the whole tone of the work, especially
of that part towards the conclusion where an account is given of
the exiled nobles of Musccvy, is what would naturally be sugh
gested by the solitude of a prison. Yet as far as internal evidence
is concerned, that is, indisputably, much stronger in favour of
Defoe ; for he had not only been familiar with imprisonment, but
was also by his acquaintance with foreign countries, and his
experience in business and trafiic, much better qualified to pro-
duce a work which displays so much practical knowledge of things,
as well as of man. Indeed, nothing short of the most conclusive
and undeniable testimony of facts to the contrary can at all
invalidate his claims to be contacted as the real author. Hadnastier. name.' . 'xxiit

Robinson Crusoe been the only production of the kind that
proceeded from his pen, there might be better reason for doubting
whether he wrote it; but the various other novels, or rather
pieces of fictitious biography, which he produced, form an addi-
tional reason for attributing it to him.

Of these latter we must here speak far more briefly than they
deserve: the " History of Moll Flanders." which was published
in 1721, is an admirably drawn picture of life, and contains an
excellent moral lesson, although many of the scenes it necessarily
discloses are coarse and revolting. ' The " Life of Colonel Jaque "
contains also much able delineation of real life; and in that part
of the narrative which gives an' account of the hero's residence
in Virginia, Defoe has humanely advocated the cause of the
negro slaves. His " Memoirs of a Cavalier," which work is sup-
posed to have been written about the same time, is rather history
attired in the form of an iamginary piece of biography, than a
romance. Indeed. all the details are so circumstantial and acouo
rate, that it has been mistaken for a genuine narrative of the
events of the civil wars in England and Germany; and it was
actually recommended as the very best account of them
by the great Lord Chatham, with whom it was a favourite book.
In like manner our author's " History of the Plague " imposed
upon Dr. Mead, and since upon others, who have referred to it as
an authentic document, and a true recital of that great national
calamity. Here he is the rival of Thucydides and Boccaccio;
and depicts the horrors of pestilence as vividly and as masterly
as Poussin. It may, however, be imagined by some that this is
rather suspicious praise, and that the work of fiction which can
pass as true history must be cold, matter-of-fact, and tame--repul-
sive and dry. It is not, however, in the formal gravity of style
that these works resemble history; but they imitate and reflect
the features of the past in their most interesting, if not their most
engaging aspect.

Besides the preceding, and one or two other productions of a
similar cast, Defoe produced that very excellent and popular
work entitled "Religious Courtship," which was first published
in 1722, and afterwards went through numerous editions. This
and his "Family Instructor " are replete with lessons of the
aoundest practical wisdom, and place their author among the
most ertensively useful of our English moralists.

Here, however, we must terminate our sketch, having barelyXXiV BIbGRAPKICAL SKETCH OF DANIEL DEFOE.

left ourselves room to mention a few particulars relative to the
close of his life. Although the profits accruing from his publica-
tions had of late been considerable, and he had been able to give
a portion to his daughter Sophia, who married Mr. Baker, the
celebrated natural philosopher, in 1729, yet he was still doomed
to contend with misfortune. In addition to the affliction of bodily
infirmity and severe pain, he again fell into great pecuniary
difficulties, and was even arrested. He appears, however, to
have recovered his liberty within a short time : but the unnatural
conduct of his son, who refused to give up the property that had
been entrusted to him, with the view of securing a provision to
his mother and two unmarried sisters, was a heavier blow than
any he had before experienced; and the mental anguish it
occasioned doubtless accelerated his death, which occurred on the
24th of April, 1731. Since that period more than a century has
elapsed; and in that interval many names of considerable emi-
nence in their day have sunk into irretrievable oblivion; Defoe,
also, has lost some portion of the celebrity he enjoyed with his
contemporaries: yet, after every deduction, enough remains to
entitle him to a place among the Worthies of English literature,
for should all his other productions be forgotten, his Robinson
Crusoe must remain imperishable.
 

SECTION I.

ROBINSON'S FAMILY, ETC.--IIIS ELOPEMENT FROM HIS PARENTS.

I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good
family, though not of that country, my father being a foreigner
of Bremen, named Kreutznaer, who settled first at Hull. He
got agood estate by merchandise, and leaving off his trade,
lived afterwards at York; from whence he had married my
mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very good
family in that country, and after whom I was so called, that is
to say, Robinson Krcutznaer; but, by the usual corruption of
words in England, we are now called, nay, we call ourselves,
and. write our name, Crusoe; and so my companions always
called me. .

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel
to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded
by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle
near Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What became of my
second brother, Inever knew, any more than my father and

mother did know what was become of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade,

my head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts.
My father, who was very ged, had given me a competent share2 ADVENTURE or

of learning, as far as house education and a country free school
generally go, and designed me for the law; but I would be
satisfied with nothino but going to sea; and my inclination to
this led me so strongly a ainst the will, nay, the commands of
my father, and against a] the entreaties and persuasions of my
mother and other friends, that there seemed to be something
fatal in that propension of nature, tending directly to the life of
misery which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me
one morning into his chamber, where he was confined by the
gout, and expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject:

e asked me what reasons, more than a mere wandering incli-
nation, I had for leaving his house, and my native country, where
I might be well introduced, and had a prospect of raising my
fortune, by application and industry, with a life of ease and

leasure. He told me it was men of desperate fortunes, on one

and, or of superior fortunes, on the other, who went abroad
upon adventures, aspiring to rise by enterprise, and make them-
selves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common
road; that these things were all either too far above me, or too
far below me; that mine was the middle state, or what might be
called the upper station of low life, which he had found, by long
experience, was the best state in the world, the most suited to
human happiness; not exposed to the miseries and hardships,
the labour and sufferings, of the mechanic part of mankind, and
not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of
the upper part of mankind: he told me, I m' ht judge of the
happiness of this state by one thing, viz. that t is was the state
of life which all other people envied; that kings have frequently
lamented the miserable consequences of being born to great
things, and wished they had been laced in the middle of two
extremes, between the mean and t e great; that the wise man
gave his testimony to this as the just standard of true felicity,
when he rayed to have " neither overty nor riches."

He ba e me observe it, and I s ould always find, that the
calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part of
mankind; but that the middle station had the fewest disasters,
and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or
lower part of mankind: nay, they were not subjected to so many
distempers and uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those
were, who, by vicious living, luxury, and extravagancies, on one
hand, or, by hard labour, want of necessaries, and mean and
insufficient diet, on the other hand, briner distempers upon them-
selves by the natural consequences of their way of living; that
the middle station of life was calculated for all kind of virtues,
and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and plenty were the
handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation,nosmsos cannon. 8

quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all desir~
able pleasures were the lessings attending the middle station of
life; that this way men went silently and smoothly through the
world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the
labours of the hands or of the head, not sold to the life of slave
for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, w '
rob the soul of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with
the passion of envy, or secret burning lust of ambition for great
things; but, in easy circumstances, sliding fiendy through the
world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of 'ving. without the
bitter; feeling that they are happy, and learning by every day 's
experience, to know it more sensi ly
Alter this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most afi'ectionate
manner, not to play the youn man, nor to recipitate myself
into miseries which nature, an the station of life I was born in,
seemed to have provided ainst; that I was under no necessity
of seeking my bread; tha'fiie would do well for me, and endea-
vour to enter me fairly into the station of life which he had been
just recommendin to me; and that if I was not very easy and
h p y in the worl it must be my mere fate, or fault, that must
hindjer it; and that he should have nothing to answer for, having
thus discharged his duty in warning me ainst measures which
he knew would be to my hurt: in a we that as he would do
very kind things for me if! would stay and settle at home as he
directed; so he would not have so much hand in m misfortunes
as to give me any encouragement to go away: an to close all,
he told me I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he
had used the same earnest persuasions to keep im from going
into the Low Country wars; but could not revail, his young
desires pro ting him to run into the army, w ere he was killed;
and though, c said, he would not cease to pm for me, yet he
would venture to say to me, that if I did take t is foolish step,
God would not bless me; and I would have leisure, hereafter, to
reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to assist in my recovery.
I observed, in this last part of his discourse, whichwas truly
mphetic, though, I suppose, my father did not know it to be so
' self; I say, I observed the tears run down his face very
lentifully, especially when he spoke of my brother who was
' ed; and that, when he spoke of my having leisure to re out,
and none to assist me, he was so moved, that he broke o the
discourse, and told me his heart was so full, he could say no
more to me.
I was sincerely adected with this discourse; as, indeed, who
- could be otherwxse'l and lresolved not to think of going abroad
any more, but to settle at home, acoordin to m father's desire.
But alas! afew days woreitall oll': an in s ort, toprevent
any of my father's further import-unifies, in a few weeks alter I
resolved to run quite away from him. However, I did not act
so hastily, neither, as my first heat of resolution prompted; but
I took my mother, at a time when I thought her a little plea--
santer than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts were so
entirely bent u on seeing the world, that I should never settle
to anyt ' wit resolution enough to go through with it, and
my father ad better give me his consent than force me to go
without it; that I was now eighteen years old, which was too
late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney;
that I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out my time, and
I should certainly run away from my master before my time was
out, and go to sea; and if she would speak to my father to let
me make but one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did
not like it, I would go no more; and I would promise by a
double diligence, to recover the time I had lost.

This put in! mother into a great passion: she told me she
knew it won] be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any
such a subject; that he knew too well what was my interest to
give his consent to anything so much for my hurt; and that she
wondered how I could think of any such thing, afler such a
discourse as I had from my father, and such kind and tender
expressions as she knew my father had used to me; and that,
in short, if I would ruin myself, there was no help for me; but
I might depend I should never have their consent to it: that for
her part, she would not have so much hand in my destruction;
and I should never have it to say, that my mother was willing
when my father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to m father, yet, as I
have heard afierwards, she reported all the ' urse to him;
and that my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to
her with a sigh, That boy might be hap y if he would stay at
home; but if he goes abroad, he will he the most miserable
wretch that ever was born : I can give no consent to it.

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose;
though in the mean time I continued obstinately deaf to all
proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulating
with my father and mother about their being so positivel deter-
mined against what they knew my inclinations promp me to.
But being one day at Hull, whither I went casually, and without
any purpose of making an elopement at that time, and one of
my companions then going to London by seain his father's ship,
and prompting me to o with them by the common allurement
ofseafaring men, viz. t at it should cost me nothing for my
passage, I consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so
much as sent them word of it; but lefi: them to hear of it as
the might, without asking God's blessing, or my father's,
wit out any consideration of circumstances or consequences, and
in an ill hour, God knows.
 

SECTION II.

FIRST ADVENTURES AT SEA, AND EXPERIENCE OF A MARITIME LIFE.
VOYAGE TO GUINEA.

ON the lst September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,
began younger, or continued longer, than mine. The ship had
no sooner got out of the H umber, than the wind began to blow,
and the waves to rise, in a most frightful manner; and as I had
never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body,
and terrified in mind 2 I began now seriously to reflect upon
what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judg-
ment of Heaven, for wickedly leaving my father's house. All
the good counsels of my parents, my father's tears, and my
mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my mind; and my con-
science, which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to
which it has been since, reproached me with the codegntenipt of
advice, and the abandonment of my duty.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like
what I have seen many times since ; no, nor what I saw a few
days after; but, such as it was, enough to affect me then, who
was but a young sailor, and had never known anything of the
matter. Iexpected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the
trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more; and in
this agony of mind I made many vows and resOlutions, that if it
would please God to spare my life this voyage, if ever I got my
foot once on dry land, I would go directly home to my father,
and never set it into a ship again while I lived; that I would
take his advice, and never run myself into such miseries as these6 anvnrmmss or

any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness ofhis observations
about the middle station of life; how easy, how comfortable, he
had lived all his days, and never had been ex sed to tempests
at sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved t t I would, like a
true repenting prodi 1, go home to my father.

These wise and sofir thou hts oominued dnrin the storm,
and indeed some time afier; ut the next day, as e wind was
abated, and the sea calmer. I began to be a little inured to it.
However, I was very grave that da , being also a little sea-sick
still: but towards night the west er cleared u , the wind was

uite over, and a charming fine evening follow ; the sun went

own perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and having
little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the
sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that I ever saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick,
but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the see that was so
rough and terrible the day before, and could he so calm and
pleasant in a little time after.

And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my corn-
panion, who had indeed enticed me away, came to me, and said,
Well, Bob, clapping me on the shoulder, how do you do after it?
I warrant you you were frightened, wa'n't you, last night, when
it blew but a cap-full of wind'l--A cap-full, do you call it? said
I; 'twss a terrible storm--A storm, on fool! replies he, do you
call Lat a storm? Why, it was not ing at all; give us but a
good ship, and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall
of wind as that: you are but a fresh--water sailor, Bob; come,
let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that. D'ye see
what charming weather 'tis now? To make short this sad part
of my story, we went the way of all sailors; the punch was
made, and I was made drunk with it; and in that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon
my past conduct, and all my resolutions for the future. 11 a
word, as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of the storm, so the hurry of
my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowed up by the sea forgotten, and the current of my former
desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises I had
made in my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflec-
tion; and serious thou his did, as it were, endeavour to return
again sometimes; but shook them 06' and roused in self from
them, as it were from a distem er, and, applying myse to drink
and company, soon mastered t e return of those fits--for so I
called them; and I had in five or six days got as com lete a
victory over conscience as any young sinner, that resolv not to
be troubled with it, could desire. But I was to have another
trial for it still; and Providence, as in such cases generally it
does, resolved to leave me entirely without excuse: forif I would
not take this form deliverance, the next was to be such a one as
the worst and most hardened wretch amon us would confess
both the danger and the mercy of. The six da of our being
at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads; the win having been
contrary and the weather calm. we had made but little way since
the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and
here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. at south-west,
for seven or eight days, during which time a great many ships
from Newcastle came into the same roads, as the common har-
bour where the ships mi htwait fora wind for the river Thames.
We had not, however, ri here so long, but we should have tided
up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after we
had lain four or five da 8, blew very hard. However, the roads
being reckoned as g as a harbour, the anchorage good, and
our ground tackle very strong. our men were unconcerned, and
not in the lesstlnpprehensive of danger, but spent the time in
rest and mirth, ter the manner of the sea. But the ei hth day,
in the morning, the wind increased, and we had all ands at
work to strike our topmasts, and make everything snug and
close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible. By noon the
sea went very high indeed. and our ship rode forecastle in,
gripped several seas, end we thought, once or twice, our anchor

come home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables
veered out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began
to see terror and amazement. in the faces of even the seamen
themselves. The master was vigilant in the business of preserv-
ing the ship; but, as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I
could hear him softly say to himself several times, Lord, be
merciful to us! we shall be all lest; we shall be all undone! and
the like. During these first hurries I was stupid, living still in
my cabin, which was in the steerage, and cannot ascribe my
temper. I could ill reassume the first rsenitence, which I had
so apparently trampled upon, and ha cued myself against;
I thought that the bitterness of death had been past, and that
this would be nothing too, like the first: but when the master
himself came by me. as I saidjnst now, and said we should be
all lost, I was dreadfully frightened. I got up out of my cabin,
and looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw; the sea
went mountains high, and broke upon us every three _or four
minutes. When I could look about. I could see no but
distress around us; two shi s, that rid near us, we foun had
cut their masts by the b0 being deeply laden; and our men
cried out that a ship, which rid about a mile aheadof us, was
thundered. Two more ships being driven from their anchors,
were run out oftheroads hoses," alladventures, andthatwrth
not a mast standing. The light ships fined the beat, as notlo8 mm 0!

much labouring in the sea; but two or three of than drove, and
came close by us, running away, with only their ritsails out,
before the wind. Tower evening, the mate an bostswain
begged the master of our ship to let them cut away the fore-
mast, which he was ve loath to do; but the boatswain pm~
testing to him, that if e did not, the'ship would founder, he
consented; and when. they had cut. away the foremost, the
msiumsst stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they
were obliged to cut it away also, and make a ear deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all this,
who was but a oung sailor, and who had been in such a (right
before at but a 'ttle. But if I can express, at this distance, the
thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more
horror of mind upon account of my former convictions, and the
having returned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly
taken at first, than I was at death itself; and these, added to the
terror of the storm, put me into such a condition, that I can by
no words describe it; but the worst was not come yet; the storm
continued with such fury, that the seamen themselves acknow-
ledged they had never known a worse. We had a good ship, but
she was deep laden, and so wallowed in the sea, that the seamen
every now and then cried out she would founder. It was my
advantage, in one respect. that I did not know what they meant
by founder, till I inquired However, the storm was so violent,
that I saw what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain,
and some others, more sensible than the rest, at their rayers,
and expecting eve moment the shi would go to the ottom.
In the middle of t e night, and un er all the rest of our dis-
tresses, one of the men, that had been down on purpose to see,
cried out, we had sprung a leak; another said there was four
feet water in the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump.
At that very word my heart, as I thou ht, died within me, and
I fell backwards upon the side of my d, where I sat in the
cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me that I, who
was able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as
another: at which I stirred up and went to the pump, and
worked very heartily. While this was doing, the master seeing
some light colliers, who, not able to ride out the storm, were
obliged to slip and run away to sea, and would not come near
us, ordered us to fire a gun, as a signal of distress. I, who knew
nothing what that meant, was so surprised, that I thought the
ship had broke, or some dreadful thing had happened. In a
word, I was so surprised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this
was a time when everybody had his own life to think of, no one
minded me, or what was become of me: but another man
stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot,
let me lie, thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while
before I came to myself.
We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and though the storm
began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim
till we might run into a port, so the master continued '
guns for help; and a light ship, who had rid it out just ab
of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost
hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible for us to

st on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's side; till at

t the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives to
save ours, our men east them a rope over the stern with a buoy
to it, and then veered it out a t length. which they, alter
great labour and hazard, took ho d of, and we hauled them close
under our stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no pur-
pose for them or us, utter we were in the boat, to think of reach-
in their own ship; so all agreed to letherdrive, and only to
p her in towards shore as much as we could: and our master
promised them, that if the boat was staved upon shore, he would
make it good to their master; so partly rowing, and partly
driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping towards
the shore almost as fir as Winterton-Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our
ship when we saw her sink; and then I understood, for the first
time, what was meant b a ship thundering in the sea. I must
acknowledge, I had 11 y eyes to look up when the seamen
told me she was sinking; for, from that moment, they rather

ut me into the heat, than that I might be said to go in. My

cart was, as it were, dead within me, partly with fright, artly
with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet ei'ore
me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the
oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when, our
boat mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore) a
great many people running along the strand, to assist us when
we should come near; but we made slow way towards the
shore; nor were we able to reach it, till, being past the light-
house at Winterton, the shore falls of to the westward, towards
Cromer, and so the land broke of a little the violence of the
wind. Here we got in, and. though not without much Moulty,
got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yank
mouth; where, x unfortunate men, we were used with great
humanity, as w by the magistrates of the town, who assigned
us good quarters, as by the particular merchants and owners of
ships: and had money given us suficient to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit. .

Hadlnowhadtbesensetohavegonebaakwflumand
have gone home, I had been happy: and my father, an emblem
of our blessed Saviour's arable, had even killed the fitted
ealfforme;for,hearing ship [went inwu eastawayinlo anus-mars or

Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he had any
assurance that I was not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on with an obstinacy that nothing
could restst; and though I had several times loud calls from my
reason, and my more composed judgment, to go home, yet I had
no power to do it.-I know not what to call this, nor will I urge
that it is a secret, overruling decree, that hurries us on to he the
instruments of our own destruction, even though it be before us,
and that we rush upon it with our eyes open. Certainly, nothing
but some such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which
it was impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me for-
ward against the calm reasoniugs and persuasious of my most
retired thoughts, and against two such visible instructions as
I had met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who
was the master's son, was now less forward than I: the first
time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not
till two or three days, for we were separated in the town to
several quarters; I say, the first time he saw me, it appeared
his tone was altered, and, looking verv melancholy, and shaking
his head, he asked me how I did; telling his father who I was,
and how I had come this voyage only for a trial, in order to go
farther abroad. His father, turning to me, with a grave and
concerned tone, Young man, says he, you ought never to go to
sea any more; you ought to take this for a plain and visible
token, that you are not to be a seafaring mam--Why, sir? said
I; will you go to sea no more ?--That is another case, said he;
it is my calling, and therefore my duty; but as you made this
voy fire for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given {on
of w at you are to expect if you persist. Perhaps this as
all hefallen us on our account, like Jonah in the ship of Tar-
ahish.--Pray, continues he, what are you, and on what account
did you go to sea? Upon that I told him some of my story;
at the end of which he burst out with a strange kind of passion.
What had I done, said he, that such an unhappy wretch should
come into my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship
with thee again for a thousand pounds. This indeed was, as I
said, an excursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by the
sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have authority
to go.--However, he afterwards talked very gravely to me;
exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt Providence
to my ruin; told me, I might see a visible hand of Heaven
against me; and, young man, said he. depend upon it, if you do
not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are ftd-
filled upon you.

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw
him no more: which way he went. I know not: as for me
having some money in my pocket, I travelled to Londonh
land; and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles wit
myself wnat course of life I should take, and whether I should
go home or go to sea. As to goin home, shame opposed the

est motions that offered to my oughts; and it immediately
occurred to me how I should he laughed at among the neigh-
hours, and should be ashamed to see, not my father and mother
only, but even everybody else. From whence l have often since
observed, how incongruous and irrational the common temper
of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought
to guide them in such cases, viz. that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action,
for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools; but are
ashamed of the returning, which only can make them be esteemed
Wise men

In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain
what measures to take, and what course of life to lead. An
irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as I stayed
awhile, the remembrance of the distress I had been in were oil';
and as that abated, the little motion I had in my desires to a
return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts
of it, and looked out for a voyage. That evil influence which
carried me first away from my father's house, that hurried me.
into the wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune, and
that im ressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make
me dc to all good advice, and to the entreaties, and even the
commands of my father; I say, the same influence, whatever it
was, presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my
view; and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa;
or, as our sailors vulgsrly call it, a voyage to Guinea.

It was my great misfortune, that in all these adventures I did
not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though 1 might indeed
have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet, at the same time,
I had learned the duty and ofiice of a foremast-man, and in time
might have qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not a
master: but as it was always my fate to choose for the worse.
so I did here; for havindg money in my pocket, and good clothes
upon my back, I woul always go on board in the habit of a
gentleman; and so I neither ad any business in the ship, nor
learned to do any. It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty
good compan in London; which does not always happen to
such loose an misguided young fellows as I then was; the devil,
generally, not omitting to lay some snare for them very early.
But it was not so with me: I first fell minted with the
master of a ship, who had been on the coast 0 Guinea, and who,
havmg had very good sumess there, was resolved to go again.
He, takings fancy to my conversation, which was not at all dis-
Igreuhleatthatfimeandhearing mesaylhadamindtoaee

C/ .
the worlu, told me, that if I would go the voyage with him, I
should be at no expense; I should be his messmate and his com-
panion; and if I could carry anything with me, I should 'have
all the advantage of it that the trade would admit; and perhaps I
might meet with some encouragement. I embraced the offer, and,
entering into a strict friendship with this captain, who was an
honest and plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me; which, by the disinterested
honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very considerably;
for I carried about forty pounds in such toys and trifles as the
captain directed me to buy. This forty pounds 1 had mustered
together by the assistance of some of my relations whom I cor-
responded with; and who, I believe, got my father, or, at least,
my mother, to contribute so much as that to my first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in all
my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and honesty of
my friend the captain; under whom also I got a cempetent
knowledge of mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned
how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an observa-
tion, and, in short, to understand some thin s that were needful
to be understood by a sailor; for, as he too delight to instruct
me, I took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made
me both a sailor and a merchant: for I brought home five
pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded
me in London, at my return, almost three hundred pounds, and
this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so
completed my ruin. Yet even in this voyage I had my mis~
fortunes too; particularly, that I was continually sick, being
thrown into aviolent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate; our principal trading being upon the coast, from the
latitude of fifteen degrees north, even to the Line itself.
 

SECTION III.

RORINSON'S CAPTIVITY AT SALLEE--ESCAPE WITH XURY--ARRIVAL
AT THE BRAZILS.

I WAS now set up for 8. Guinea trader ; and my friend, to my great
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same
voyage again; and I embarked in the same vessel with one who
was his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the com-
mand of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever
man made; for though I did not carry quite a hundred pounds
of my new-gained wealth, so that I had two hundred pounds left,
and which I lodged With my friend's widow, who was very just
to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the
first was this, viz.--our ship, making her course towards the
Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and the Afn'can
shore, was surprised, in the gray of the morning, by a Turkish
rover, of Sallce, who gave chase to us with all the sail she could
make. We crowded also as much canvass as our yards would
spread, or our masts carry, to get clear; but finding the pirate
gained upon us, and would certainly come up with us in a few
hours, we prepared to fight, our ship having twelve guns and
the rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon he came up
with us; and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter,
instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought eight
of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broadside upon
him, which made him sheer off again, after returning our fire,
and pouring in also nis small shot from near two hundred men
which he had on board. However, we had not a man touched,
c 2
all our men keeping close He prepared to attack us again, and
we to defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next time
upon our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks,
who immediately fell to cutting and hackin the sails and rig-
ging. We plied them with small shot, half-pi es, powder-chests,
and such like, and cleared our deck of them twice. However,
to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being
disabled, and three of our men killed and eight wounded, we were
obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a
port belonging to the Moors. ,

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I appre-
hended: nor was I carried up the countr to the emperor's
court, as the rest of our men were, but was ept by the captain
of the rover as his proper prize, and made his slave, being young
and nimble, and fit for his business. At this surprising change
of my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable slave, I
was perfectly overwhelmed; and now looked back upon my
father's prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable,
and have none to relieve me; which I thought was now so
effectually brought to pass, that it could not be worse; that now
the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone, with-
out redemption. But. alas! this was but a taste of the mis
I was to go through, as will appear in the se uel of this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me ome to his house,
so I was in hopes he would take me with him when he went to
sea again, believing that it would, some time or other, be his
fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and
that then I should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was
soon taken away, for when he went to sea he left me on shore
to look after his little garden, and do the common drudgery of
slaves about his house; and when he came home again from his
cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin, to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method
I might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least
probability in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition
of it rational; forI had nobody to communicate it to that would
embark with me; no fellow-slave, no Englishman, lrishman, or
Scotchman there but myself; so that for two years, though I
often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never had the
least encouraging prospect of putting it in practice.

After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my libert
again in my head. My patron lying at home longer than usu ,
without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of
money, he used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes
ofiener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnacle, and
go out into the road a fishing; and as he always took me and a
young Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him veryROBINSON (330802. 15

merry, and I proved ve dexterous in catching fish, insomneh
that sometimes he woul send me with a Moor, one of his kins-
men, and the youth, the Moresco, as they called him, to catch
a dish of fish for him. '

It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a
league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing, we knew
not whither, or which way, we laboured all day, and all the
next night, and when the morning came, we found we had pulled
ofi' to sea, instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were
atleast two leagues 'from the shore: however, we got well in
again. though with a great deal of labour, and some danger, for
the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but par--
ticularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future; and having lying by him the
lougboat of our English ship he had taken, he resolved he
would not go a fishing any more without a compass and some
provision; so he ordered the carpenter of the ship, who was an
English slave, to build a little state-room or cabin in the middle
of t e longboat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand behind
it, to steer and haul home the main sheet, and room before for
a hand or two to stand and work the sails. She sailed with what
we called a shoulder-of-mutton sail, and the boom jibbed over
the top of the cabin, which lay very snug and low, and had in it
room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat on,
with some small lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he
thought fit to drink, and particularly his bread, rice, and coffee.

We went frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as Iwas
most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me.
It happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either
for pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some dia-
tinction in that place, and for whom he had provided extraordi-
narily, and had therefore sent on board the boat, overnight,
a larger store of provisions than ordinary, and had ordered me
to get read three fusees, with powder and shot, which were on
board his 3 ip, for that they designed some sport of fowling as
well as fishing. .

1 got all things ready as he directed, and wanted the next
mornin with the boat washed clean, her ensign and pendants
out, an everything to accommodate his guests: when, by and
by, my patron came on board alone, and told me his guests had
put 03' going, u on some business that fell out, and ordered me
with a man an boy, as usual, to go out with the boat, and
catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his
house; and commanded, that as soon as I had got some fish, I
should bring it home to his house: all which I prepared.>> do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my
thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my
command; and in master being one, I prepared to furnish
myself, not for a shing business, ut for a v0 are; though I
knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whi er I should
steer; for any where, to get out of that place, was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to s eak to this
Moor, to get something for our subsistence on ; for I told
him we must not presume to eat of our patron's bread: he said,
that was true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit,
of their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I
knew where my atrou's case of bottles stood, which it was
evident, by the ma e, were taken out of some English prize, and
l conve ed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as
if they ad been there before for our master. I conveyed also
sage": lump of bees-wax into the boat, which weighed above
h a hundred-weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a
hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use to us
afterwards, especially the wax, to make candles. Another trick
I tried upon him, which he innocently came into also: his name
was Ismael, whom they call Muley, or Moley: so I called to
him; Moley, said I, our patron's s are on board the boat,
can you not getalittle powder an shot? it may be we may kill
some alcamies (fowls like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know
he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship--Yes, says he, I will
bring some; and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch,
which held about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more,
and another with shot, that had five or six pounds, with some
bullets, and put all into the boat: at the same time I found some
powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which I filled
one of the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty,
pouring what was in it into another; and thus furnished with
every thing needful, we sailed out of the 'port to fish. The castle,
which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we were, and
took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out of the
port. before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish. The
wind blew from NN. E., which was con to my desire; for,
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to ave made the coast
of Spain, and at last reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my reso-
lutions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from
the horrid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and oatched nothing, for
when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that
he might not see them, I said to the Moor, This will not do;
(Ii-{ur- master will opt be thus served d we must strut??? all!

e,th1nhng' ' no arm,agreed;an bemg' at e o a
boat, setthesails; and as Ihadthehelm, Iruntheboat near
a league farther, and then brought to, as if I would fish. Then
giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor
was, and I took him by surprise, with my arm under his waist,
and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose imme~
diately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be
taken in, and told me he would go all the world over with me.
He swam so strong after the boat, that he would have reached
me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which I
stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fiowling-piews, I
presented it at him,andtoldhim,lhaddonehimnohurt, and
12' he would be quiet, I would do him none: But, said I, you swim
well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is calm; make the
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm: but if you
come near the boat, I will shoot you through the head; for I am
resolved to have my liberty. So he turned himself about, and

swam for the shore ; and I make no doubt but he reached it with
ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me
and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust
him. When he was gone I turned to the boy, whom they called
Xury, and said to him, Xury, if you will be faithful to me Iwill
make you a great man ; but if you will not stroke your face to
be true to me (that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's heard),
I must throw you into the sea too. The boy smiled in my face,
and spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him; and
swore to be faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood
out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward,
that they might think me gone towards the Strait's month (as
indeed an one that had been in their wits must have been sup-
posed to o); for who would have supposed we were sailin on
to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast, where w ole
nations of negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes,
and destroy us; where we could never once go on share but we
should be devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages
of human kind 2

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my
course, and steered directl south and b east, bending my course
a little towards the east, t I might esp in with the shore;
and having a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet see. I
made such sail, that I believe h the next day, at three o'clock
in the aftemoomwhenl made eland, I couldnotbe lesathan

one hundred and titty miles south of Salee, quite beyond the
, Emperor of Morocco's dominion, or indeed of any other king
thereabout; for we saw no eople.

Yet such was the fright had taken at the Moore, and the
dreadfirlapprehensions Ihadoffalling into theirhanda, that I
would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind
eonfinningfair, till I had sailed in that mannerfive days; and
then thewind shilling to the southward, I concluded also that If18 11mm or

any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would now
give over: so I ventured to make to the coast, and came to an
anchor in the mouth of a little river; I knew not what or where,
neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or what river.
I neither saw, nor desired to see, any people; the principal thing
I wanted was fresh water. We came into this creek in the
evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and
discover the country : but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard
such dreadful noises of the barking. roaring, and howliuo of wild
creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was
ready to die with fear. and begged of me not to go on shore till
day. Well, Xury, said I, then I will not; but it mav be, we may
see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions. Then
we may give them the shoot-gun, says Xury, laughing; make
them run away. Such English Xury spoke by conversing among
us slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, an
I gave him a dram out of our patron's case of bottles to cheer
him up. After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We
drop ed our little anchor, and lay still all night: I say still, for
we 3 ept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast creatures
(we knew not what to call them), of many sorts, come down to
the sea-shore, and run into the water, wallowing and washing
themselves, for the pleasure of cooling themselves , and they
made such hideous howlings and yellings, that 1 never indeed
heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too; but
we were both more frightened when we heard one of these mighty
creatures swimming towards our boat: we could not see him,
but we might hear him, by his blowing, to be a monstrous, huge
and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so,
for aught I know; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh the
anchor and row away. No, says I, Xu ; we can sli our cable
with a buoy to it, and go off to sea: t ey cannci to low as far.
I had no scone! said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever
it was) within two oars' length, which something s rised me;
however, I immediately stepped to the cabin door, an taking up
my gun, fired at him; upon which he immediately turned about,
and swam to the shore ' .

But it is impossible to escribe the horrible noises, and hideous
cries and howlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the
shore as higher within the country, upon the noise or report of
the gun; a thing, I believe, those creatures had never heard
before. This convinced me there was no going on shore for us
in the night upon that coast: and how to venture on shore in the
day, was another question too; for to have fallen into the hands
of any of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the
paws of lions and tigers; at least, we were equally apprehensive
of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere
or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat: when
and where to get it was the point. Xury said, if I would let him
go on shore with one of the jars, he would find if there was any
water, and bring some to me. I asked him why he would go;
wh I should not go, and he stayin the boat. The boy answered
wit so much affection, that he made me love him ever after.
Says he, If wild mans come, they eat me, on go awaya--Weil,
Xury, said 1, we will both go; and if the w' d mans come, we will
kill them; they shall eat neither of us. So I gave Xury a iece of
rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case of ottles,
which I mentioned before; and we hauled in the boat as near the
shore as we thought was proper, and so waded to shore, carrying
nothin but our arms, and two jars for water.

I di not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming
of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy, seeinga low
place about a mile up the country, rambled to it; and, by and by,
I saw him come running towards me. I thought he was pursued
by some savage, or frightened by some wild beast, and 1 therefore
ran forwards to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw
something hanging over his shoulders, which was acreature that
he had shot, like a bare, but different in colour, and longer legs:
however, we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat:
but the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he
had found good water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for
water; for a little higher u the creek where we were, we fotmd
the water fresh when the ti e was out, which flowed but a little
way up; so we filled our jars, and having a fire. feasted on the
here we had killed; and prepared to go on our way. having seen
no footsteps of any human creature in that art of the country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast fore, I knew very
well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd
Islands also. lay not far from the coast. But as I had no instru-
ments to take an observation, to find what latitude we were in ,
and did not exactly know, or at least remember, what latitude
they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or when to
stand 06 to sea towards them, otherwise! might now have easily
found some of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood
along this coast till I came to the part where the English traded,
I should find some of their vessels upon their usual design of
trade, that would relieve and take us in.

lathe best of my calculation, the place where I now was, must
be at country which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions and the Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except
by wild beasts; the N es having abandoned it, and one
farther south, for fear of t e Moors, and the Moors not thin '
itworth inhabiting, by reason of its harrenness; and, '
both forsaking it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers,
lions, leopards, and other furious creatures which harbour there:
so that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where the go
like an army, two or three thousand men at a time: and, '

for near a hundred miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing
but a waste, uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing but
howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.

Once or twice, in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of
Tenerifi'e, being the top of the mountain Tenerifi'e, in the Cana-
ries, and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching
thither; but having tried twice, I was forced in ' by con-
trary winds ; the sea also go' too high for my lit e vessel; so
I resolved to pursue my first esign, and keep along the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, afier we
had left this place; and once, in particular,being early in the
morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land which
was pretty high; and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still, to
go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him than, it
seems, mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me, that we had
best go farther off the shore; for. says he, Look, yonder lies a
dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep. I looked
where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it wasa
terrible great lion, that is on the side of the shore, under the
shade of a piece of the ' that h , as it were, over him.
Xury, says I, (you shall go on shore an kill him. Xury looked
frightened, an said, Me kill! he eat me at one mouth: one
mouthful he meant. However, I said no more to the ho but
bade him be still; and I took our biggest gun, which was ost
musket bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and
with two slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another gun
with two bullets: and a third, for we had three pieces, I loaded
with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with the
first piece, to have shot him in the head; but he Ia so, with his
leg raised a little above his nose, that the slugs hit ' leg about
the knee, and broke the bone: he started up, growling at first,
but finding his leg broke, fell down again, and then got up :pon
three legs. and gave the most hideous roar that ever I hea I
was a little surprised that I had not hit him on the head; how-
ever, I took up the second piece immediately, and though he
began to move 0E, fired again, and shot him in the head, and had
the pleasure to see him drop, and make but little noise, but lie
struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me
let him go on shore. Well, go, said I; so the boy jumped into
the water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore
with the other hand, and coming close to the creature, put the
mumle of the ieee to his ear, and shot him in the head again,
which despa ed him quite.

This was game. indeed, to us, but it was no food; and I wasMR 033903. '1

very so to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a
creature t was good for no ' to us. However, Xury said
he would have some of him; so a comes on board, and asked
me to give him the hatchet: For what, Xuryf said I. Me cut
off his head, said he. However, Xury could not cut of his
head; but he mtoflafootandhroughtit withhim, and it was
a monstrous great one. I bethought myself, however, that per-
haps the skin of him might, one way or other, be of some value
to us; and I resolved to take of hisskin,iII could. 80 any
and I went to work with him: but any was much the better
workman at it, for I knew ve ill how to do it. Indeed, it took
us both up the whole day; ut at last we at 03 the hide of
him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, t e sun effectually
dried it in two days' time, and it afierwards served me to lie
u on.
pAfter this stopBwe made on to the southward continually, for
ten or twelve ys, living very sparingly on our provisions,
which began to abate very much, and going no ofiener into the
shore than we were obliged to for fresh water. My design in
this, was to make the river Gambia, or Senegal: that is to say,
anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to
meet with some European ship; and if I did not, I knew not
what course I had to take, but to seek for the islands or perish
among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe,
which sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to
the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands: and in a
word I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either
that I must meet with some ship, or must perish.
When I had pursued this reso ution about ten days longer, as
I have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited; and in
two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw pen is stand upon
the shore to look at us : we could also perceive they were quite
black and stark naked. I was once inclined to have ne on
shore to them; but Xury was my better counsellor, an said to
me, No go, no go. However, I hauled in nearer the shore, that
I might talk to them; and I found they ran along the shore by
me a good we . I observed they had no was as m their hands,
except one, who had a. lon slender stick, w ' Xury said was
a lance, and that the we d throw them a great way with good
aim; so Ike tatadistaneeflmt talkedto them by signs, as
wellas I co d, and particularly made signs for something to
eat. They beckoned to me to stop my boat. and they would
fetch me some meat: upon this I owered the top of my sail,
andlayh , and two of them ran up into thecountry; andin
less than an hour came back, and bro t with them two
pieces ofdry flesh and some corn, such as produce o! the.
country; but we neither knew what the one or the other was;
however, we were willing to accept it. But how to come at 3
was our next dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore to
them, and they were as much afraid of us: but they took a safe
way for us all, for they brought it to the shore, and laid it down,
an went and stood a great way 03' till we fetched it on board,
and then came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to
make them amends; but an opportunity ofl'ered that very instant
to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were lving by the
shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as
we took it) with great fury, from the mountains towards the
sea; whether it was the male pursuing the female, or whether
they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any more than
we could tell whether it was usual or strange; but I believe it
was the latter, because, in the first place, those ravenous crea-
tures seldom appear but in the night; and, in the second place
we found the people terribly frightened, especially the women.
The man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from them, but
the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into
the water, they did not seem to ofi'er to fall upon any of the
Negroes, but lunged themselves into the sea, and swam about,
as if they ha come for their diversion; at last, one of them
began to come nearer our boat than I at first expected; but I
lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all possible
expedition, nnd bade Xury load both the others. As soon as
he came fairly within m reach, I fired, and shot him directly in
the hood: immediatel he sunk down into the water, but rose
instantly, and plunge up and down, as if he was stru gling for
life, and so indeed he was: he immediately made to t e shore;
but between the wound which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to expresg the astonishment of these poor
creatures, at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were
even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very
terror; but when the saw the creature dead, and sunk in the
water, and that I m e signs to them to come to the shore, they
took heart and came to the shore, and began to search for the
creature. I found him by his blood staininnr the water; and by
the help of a rope, which I slung round 5him, and gave the
Negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found that it
was a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to an admirable
degree; and the Negroes held In their hands with admiration, to
think what it was I had killed im with.

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire, and the
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directl to the
mountains from whence they came; nor could I, at that ' Lance,
know what it was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating
the flesh of this creature, so I was willin to have them take it
as a favour from me; which, when I e signs to them that
they might takehim, they were very thankful for. Immediately

e fe to work with him; and though they had no knife, yet
wit a sharpened piece of wood, they too off his skin as
readily, and much more readily, than we could have done with
a. knife. The ofi'ered me some of the tlesh, which I declined,
making as it" would give it them, but made signs for the skin,
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a great deal
more of t ell' provisons, which, though I did not understand,

et I accepted. I then made signs to them for some water, and

eld out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom upwards, to
show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it tilled.
They called immediately to some of their friends, and there came
two women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and
burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this they set down to me, as
before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them
all three. The women were as stark naked as the men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and
water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward for
about eleven days more, without offering to go near the shore,
till I saw the land run out a great lengt into the sen, at about
the distance of four or five leagues before me; and the sea being
very calm, I kept a large oiling, to make this point. At length,
doubling the point, at about two leagues from the land, I saw
plainly land on the other side, to seaward: then I concluded, as
it was most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and
those the islands, called, from thence, Cape de Verd Islands.
However, they were at a great distance, and I could not well
tell what I had best to do; for if I should be taken with a gale
of wind, I might neither reach one nor the other.

In this dilemma, as I was ve pensive. I stepped into the
cabin, and sat me down, Xury aving the helm; when, on a
sudden, the boy cried out, Master, mater, a ship with a sail!
and the foolish boy was frightened out of his wits, thinking it
must needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue us,
when I knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach I
jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not only the
ship, but what she was, viz. that it was a Portuguese ship, and,
as I thought, was bound to the Coast of Guinea, for Negroes.
But, when I observed the course she steered, I was soon con-
vinced they were bound some other we , and did not design to
come any nearer to the shore; upon w ' h, I stretched out to
sea as much as I could, resolving to speak with them, if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able
to come in their way, but that they would be as h before 1
could make any signal to them; but afier I h crow ed to the
utmost, and began to despair, the , it seems, saw me, by the
help of their perspective glasses, an that it was some European
boat, which, they supposed, must belong to some ship that was
lost: so they shortened sail, to let me come up. I was en-
couraged with this, and as I had my patron's ensign on board,
I made a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress, and fired a
gun, both which they saw; for they told me they saw the smoke,
though they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals, they
very kindly brought to, and lay by for me ; and in about three
hours' time 1 came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none of them; but, at last, a
Scotch sailor who was on board, called to me, and I answered
him, and told him I was an Englishman, that I had made my
escape out of slavery from the Moors, at Sallee: they then
bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all my

oods.

g It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will believe,
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a. miserable,
and almost hopeless, condition as I was in; and I immediately
ofl'ered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for my
deliverance; but he generously told me, he would take nothing
from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to me, when
I came to the Brazils. For, says he, I have saved your life on
no other terms than I would be glad to be saved myself; and
it may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken 11 in the same
condition. Besides, said he, when I carry you to t e Brazils, so
great a way from your own country, if I should take from you
what you have, you will be starved there, and then I only take
away that life I had given. No, no, Senhor Ingles (Mr. English--
man), says he, I will carry you thither in charity, and these
things will help to buy your subsistence there, and your pas-
sage home again.
 

SECTION 1'>>:
H2 SEITLES IN THE BRAZILS AS A PLANTER--MAKFS ANOTHER
VOYAGE, AND IS SHIPWRECKED.

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the
performance, to a tittle: for he ordered the seamen, that none
should offer to touch anything 1 had: then he took everything
into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory
of them, that I might have them, even so much as my three
earthen jars.

As to my beat, it was a very good one; and that he saw, and
told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use; and asked me
what I would have for it? I told him, he had been so generous
to me in everything, that I could not offer to make any price of
the boat, but left it entirely to him: upon which, he told me he
would give me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight
for it at Brazil; and when it came there, if any one offered to
give more, he would make it up. He offered me also sixty pieces
of eight more for my boy Xury, which I was loath to take; not
that I was not willing to let the captain have him, but I was
ver loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me
so aithfully in procuring my own. However, when I let him
know my reason, he owned it to be just, and oll'ered me this
medium, that he would give the boy an obligation to set him
free in ten years, if he turned Christian; upon this, and Xury
saying he was willing to go to him, I let the captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the
Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about twenty--
two days after. And now I was once more delivered from the
most miserable of all conditions of life; and what to do next
with myself, I was now to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never
enough remember: he would take nothing of me for my passage,
gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the
lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused everything I had
in the ship to he punctuall delivered to me; and what I was
willing to sell, he bought of me; such as the case of bottles. two
of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-wax,--~for I had
made candles of the rest: in a word, I made about two hundred
and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo; and with this stock,
1 went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the
house of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio
as they call it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house). I lived
with him some time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with
the manner of planting and of making sugar; and seeing how
well the planters lived, and how they got rich suddenly, I re-
solved. if I could get a license to settle there, I would turn
planter among them: endeavouring, in the meantime, to find
out some way to get my money, which I had left in London,
remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of letter of
naturalization, I urchased as much land that was uncured as
my money woul reach, and formed a plan for my plantation
and settlement; such a one as might be suitable to the stock
which I proposed to myself to receive from England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but horn of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbour, because his
plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably
together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we rather
planted for food than anything else, for about two years. How-
ever, we began to increase, and our land began to come into
order; so that the third year we planted some tobacco, and made
each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes in the
year to come; but we both wanted help; and now I found more
than before, I had done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no
great wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on: I had got into
an emplo ment uite remote to my genius, and directly contrary
to the li e I de 'ghted in, and for which I forsook my father's
house, and broke through all his good advice: nay, I was com-
ing into the very middle station, or upper degree of low life,
which my father advised me to before; and which, if I resolved
to go on with, I might as well have staid at home, and never
have fatigued myself in the world, as I had done: and I used
often to say to in self, I could have done this as well in England,
among my frien s, as have gone five thousand miles ofi to do it
among strangers and savages, in a wilderness, and at such a
distance as never to hear from any part of the world that had
the least knowledge of me.
In this manner, I used to look upon my condition with the
utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with, but now and
then this neighbour; no work to be done, but by the labour of
my hands:.and I used to as , I livedjust like a man cast away
upon some desolate island, t had nobody there but himself.
But how just has it been! and how should all men reflect, that
when they compare their present conditions with others thatare
worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the exchange, and be
convinced of their former felicity by their experience: I say,
how just has it been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on,
in an island of mere desolation, should be my lot, who had so
ofien unjustly compared it with the life which I then led, in
which, had I wntinued, I had, in all probability, been exceeding
prosperous and rich!

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures Ibr ca ' gon
the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of e ship
that took me up at sea, went back; for the ship remained there,
in providin his lading, and preparing for his voyage, near three
months; w en telling him what little stock I had lefl: behind
me in London, he gave me this friendly and sincere advice:
Senhor lnglez, says he (for so he always called me), if you will
give me letters, and a procuration here in form to me, with
orders to the person who has your money in London, to send
your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in
such goods as are pro er for this country, I will bring you the
produce of them, Go willing, at my return: but since human
afi'airs are all subject to char: and disasters, I would have
you give orders for but one hu pounds sterling, which, you
say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be'run {or the first, so
that if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way; and,
if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have recourse to
for your supply. This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best course
I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentle-
woman with whom I lefi: my money, and a procnration to the
Portuguese captain, as he desired me.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the
Portuguese captain at sea, the humanit of his behaviouraand
what condition I was now in, with all 0 er necessary directions
{or my supply; and when this honest again came to Lisbon,
he found means, by some of the Spill." merchants there, to
send over, not the order only, but a account of in story to
a merchant at London, who represented it efi'ec y to her:
whereupon she not onl delivered the money, but, out of her
own pocket, sent the ortugueae captain a very handsome
present for his humanity and charity to me. _

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds In

D
English goods, such as the captain had wrote for, sent them
directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me at
the Brazils : amOng which, without my direction (for I was too

oung in my business to think of them), he had taken care to
have all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils, necessary for
my plantation, and which were of great use to me. When this
cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, for I was surprised
with the joy of it; and my good steward, the captain, had laid
out the five pounds, which my friend had sent him as a present
for himself, to purchase and bring me over a servant, under
bond for six years' service, and would not accept of any con-
sideration, except a little tobacco, which I would have him
accept, being of my own produce. Neither was this all: but
my goods being all English manufactures, such as cloths, stuffs.
baize, and things particularly valuable and desirable in the
country, I found means to sell them to a very great advantage:
so that I might sav. I had more than four times the value of
my first cargo, and was now infinitely be ond my poor neigh-
bour, I mean in the advancement of my p antation: for the first
thing I did, I bought me a Negro slave, and a European servant
also; I mean another besides that which the captain brought
me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means
of our adversity, so was it with me. I went on the next year
with great success in my plantation; I raised fifty great rolls
oftobacco on my own ground, more than I had disposed of for
necessaries among my neighbours: and these fifty rolls, being
each of above one hundred pounds weight, were well cured, and
laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon: and now,
increasing in business and in wealth. my head began to be full
of projects and undertaki beyond my reach; such as are.
indeed, often the ruin of t e best heads in business. Had I
continued in the station I was now in, [had room for all the
happy things to have (yet befallen me, for which my father so
earnestly recommende a quiet, retired life, and which he had
so sensibly described the middle station of life to be full of: but
other things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent
of all my own miseries; and, particularly, to increase my fault,
and double the reflections upon myself, which in my future
sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these miscarriages
were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish
inclination, of wandering about. and pursuing that inclination,
in contradiction to the clearest views of doing myself good in a
fair and plain pursuit of those prospects, and those measures of
life, which nature and Providence concurred to present me with,
and to make my duty.

As I had once done thus in breaking away from my parents,
so I could not be content now, but I must go and leave the
happy view I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new

lantation. only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising
aster than the nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast
myself down again into the deepest of human mi that
ever man fell into, or perha s could consistent with ' e, and
a state of health in the worl .

To come then, by just degrees, to the particulars of this part
of my story.--You ma supnose, that ha ' now lived almost
four years in the Braniys' ,and ' ning to rive and reaper
very well upon my plantation, I ad not onl learned e lan-

e, but had contracted an acquaintance an friendship among
my ellow-planters. as well as among the merchants at St. Salva-
dor, which was our port: and that, in my discourses among them,
I had 1' uently given them an mount of my two voyages to the
coast of uinea, the manner of trading with the Negroes there,
and how eas it was to purchase on the coast for trifies--such as
beads, tovs, 'ves, sdssars, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like
--nbt only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c., but
Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.

The listened always very attentively to my discourses on
these eads, but esficially to that part which related to the
buying Negroes; w 'ch was a trade, at that time, not only not
far entered into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the
mientos, or permission of the kings of Spain and Po and
engrossed from the public; so that few Negroes were ught,
an those excessively dear.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my uaiutance, and talking of those things very
earnestly, three 0 them came to me the next morning, and told
me they had been musin very much upon what I had discoursed
with them of the last nig t, and they came to make a secret ro-
posal to me: and, after enjoinin me to secrecy, they to] me
that theth a mind to fit out a s ' to go to Guinea; that they
had all plantations as well as I, an were straitened for nothing
so much as servants; that as it was a trade that could not be
carried on, because they could not ublicly sell the Negroes when
they came home, so they des' to make but one voyage, to
bring the Negroes on shore privatel , and divide them among
their own plantations; and, in a worth the question was, whether
I would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the tradi

art upon the coast of Guinea; and they ofl'ered me that I shoul
have an e ual share of the Negroes, without providing any part

of the alias .
This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had it been made

to any one that had not a settlement and plantation of his own

tolook afier, which was in a fair way of coming to be very con.

siderable, and with a good stock upon it. But for me, that was

thus entered and established, am; had nothing to do but go on as
D30 ADYKNTURES OP

1 had begun, for three or four years more, and to have sent for

the other hundred pounds from England; and who, in that time

and with that little addition, could scarce have failed of being

worth three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that in.

creasing too; for me to think of such a voyage, was the most

Ezepostermfis thing that ever man, in such circumstances, could
' t o .

fifth" was born to be my own destroyer, could no more
resist the offer, than I could restrain my first rambling designs.
when my father's good counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I
told them I would go with all my heart, if they would undertake
to look after my plantation in my absence, and would dis use of
it to such as I should direct, if I miscarried. This ey all
en aged to do, and entered into writings or covenants to do so:
and I made a formal will. disposing of my plantation and efi'ects,
in case of my death; making the captain of the ship that had
saved my life, as before, my universal heir; but obliging him to
dispose of my effects as I had directed in my will; one-half of the
produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects, and
to keep up my plantation: had I used half as much prudence to
have looked into my own interest, and have made a judgment of
what I ought to have done and not to have done, I had certain]
never gone away from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving a
the probable views of a thriving circumstance, and gone a voyage
to sea, attended with all its common hazards, to say nothing of
the reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself.

ButI was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my
fancy, rather than my reason: and accordingly, the ship, being
fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things done as by
agreement, by my partners in the voyage, Iwent on board in an
evil hour again, the first of September, 1659, being the same day
eight years that I went from my parents at Hull, in order to act
the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own interest.

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden,
carried six guns and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
and myself; we had on board no large cargo of goods, exce t of
such to s as were fit for our trade with the N es, sue as
beads, its of glass, shells, and odd trifles, espee~ y little look-
ing-glasses, knives, scissars, hatchets, and the like.

The very same day I went on board we set sail, standing awa
to the northward upon our own coa'st, with design to stretch
over for the African coast. When they came about ten or twelve
degrees of northern latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of
their course in those days, we had very good weather, only
excessively hot all the way upon our own coast, till we came to
the height of Cape St. Au sfino; from whence, keeping farther
ofi' at sea, we lost sight ofiimd, and steered as if we were bound
nor the isle Fernando de Noronha, holding our course N. E. by N.
and leaving those isles on the east. In this course we passed
the Line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our last
observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern lati-
tude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us uite out of
our knowledge: it began from the south-east, came a out to the
north-west, and then settled in the north-east; from whence it
blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve da s together we
could do nothing but drive, and. scudding away fore it, let it
carry us whithersoever fate and the fury of the winds directed;
and, during these twelve days, I need not say that I expected
every day to be swallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship
expect to save their lives.

In this distress, we had, besides the tenor of the storm, one of
our men died of the calenture, and one man and a boy washed
overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little,
the master made an observation as well as he could, and found
that he was in about eleven degrees north latitude, but that he
was twenty-two degrees of longitude difi'erence, west from Cape
St. Augustino; so that he found he was got upon the coast of
Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazons,
toward that of the river Oronoco, commonly called the Great
River; and began to consult with me what course he should
take, for the ship was leaky and very much disabled, and he was
for going directly back to the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that; and lookin over the charts of
the sea-coast of America with him, we conc uded there was no
inhabited country for us to have recourse to, till we came within
the circle of the Carribee islands, and therefore resolved to stand
away for Barbadoes; which by keeping ofi' to sea, to avoid the
indraft of the ba or gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as
we hoped, in a out fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not
possibly make our voy e to the coast of Africa without some
assistance, both to our 3 ip and ourselves.

With this design, we changed our course, and steered away
N.W. l) W. in order to reach some of our English islands, where
I hope for relief: but our voyage was otherwise determined;
for being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes a
second storm came upon us, which carried us away with the
same impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the very way
of all human commerce, that had all our lives been saved, as to
the see, we were rather in danger of being devoured by savages
than ever returning to our own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing ver hard, one of our
men early in the morning, cried out, Lan ! and we had no
sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing
whereaboum in the world we were, than the ship struck upon
a sand, and in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the sea
broke over her in such a manner, that we expected we should all
have perished immediately; and we were immediately driven
into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and
spray of the sea.

'It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like con-
dition to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such
circumstances: we knew nothin where we were, or u on what
land it was we were driven, w ether an island or t e main,
whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind
was still eat, though rather less than at first, we could not so
much as ape to have the ship bold man minutes without
breaking in pieces, unless the wind, by a kin of miracle, should
immediately turn about. In a word we sat looking upon one
another, and expecting death every moment, and every man
acting accordingly, as preparing for another world; for there
was little or nothing more for us to do in this: that which was
our present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that, con
trary to our expectation. the ship did not break yet, and that
the master said the wind began to abate.

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, et
the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too sat
for us to expect her getting elf, we were in a dreadful condition
indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving our lives
as well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just before the
storm, but she was first staved by dashing against the ship's
rudder, and, in the next place, she broke away, and either sunk,
or was driven off to sea; so there was no hope from her: we
had another host on board, but how to get her ofl' into the sea
was a doubtful thing; however, there was no room to debate,
for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute, and
some told us she was actually broken already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest of the men, they got her dun over
the ship's side; and getting all into her, we et her go, an com-
mitted ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and
the wild sea: for though the storm was abated considerabi , yet
the sea went dreadfully high upon the shore, and mig t be
well called den wild ace, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.

And now our case was ve dismal indeed; for we all saw
plainly, that the sea went so igh, that the boat could not live,
and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail,
we had none; nor, if we had, could we have done an ' with
it; so we worked at the oar towards the land, though with eavy
hearts, like men going to execution; for we all knew that when
the boat came nearer to the shore, she would be dashed in a
thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we com-
mitted our souls to God in the most earnest manner, and the
wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our destruc-aosmson CRUSOIL 83

$15 with our own hands, pulling as well as we could towards

What the shore was--whether rock or sand, whether steep or
shoal--we knew not; the only hope that could rationally give
us the least shadow of expectation, was, if we might happen
into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by
great chance we might have run our boat in, or got under the

es of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But nothing
of this appeared; and as we made nearer and nearer the shore,
the land looked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a
half. as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling
astern of us, and plainly bade us ex the coup de ace. In
a word, it took us with such fur , at it overset e boat at
once; and separating us, as we from the boat as from one
another, gave us not time hardly to say," 0 God l " for we were
all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt,
when l sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet
lcould not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw my
breath, till that wave havin driven me, or rather carried me. a
vast way on towards the s ore, and having spent itself, went
back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead with
the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as well as
breath left, that seeing myself nearer the main land than I ex-
pected, I got upon in feet, and endeavoured to make on towards
the land as fast as could, before another wave should return
and take me up again; butl soon found it was impossible to
avoid it; for i saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill,
and as furious as an enemy which I had no means or strength to
contend with: my business was to hold my breath, and raise
myself upon the water, if I could; and so, by swimming, to pre
serve my breathing, and pilot myselftowards the shore, ifpos-
sihle; my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it would
carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on, might
not carry me back again with it when it gaveback towards thesea.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty
or th' feet deep in its own body; and I could feel myself car-
ried wi a mighty force and swittness towards the shore, a very
great way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim
still forward with all my might. I was ready to burst with
holding my breath, when, as I felt myself ris' up, so, to my
immediate relief, Ifound my head and hands a cot out above
the surface of the water; and though it was not two seconds of
time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave
me breath and new courage. I was covered again with water a
good while, but not so lo but I held it out; and finding the
water had spent itself, an began to return, I struck forward
against the return of the waves, and felt ground again with my
feet. I stood still a few moments, to recover breath, and till the
water went from me, and then took to my heels, and ran with what
strength ] had farther towards the shore. But neither would this
deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after
me again; and twice more I was lified up by the waves and
carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me; for
the sea; having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rather
dashedme, against a piece of a rock, and that with such force, that
it left me senseless, and indeed hel less, as to myown deliverance ;
for .the blow, taking my side an breast, beat the breath, as it
were, quite out of my body; and had it returned again imme-
diately, .I must have been strangled in the water: but I recovered
a-Iittle before the return of the waves, and, seeing I should again

be covered with the water, I resolved to hold fast b _a piece of
the rock, and. so to .hold my breath, if possible, ' the wave
went back. Now as the waves were not_so high as the first,
being nearer land, I held in bold till the wave abated, and then
fetched another run, which rought me so near the shore, that
the next wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow
me up as to carry me away; and the next run I took, I got to
the main land; w ere, to my great comfort, I clambered up the
cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up
and thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there
were, some minutes before, scarcely any room to hope. I be-
lieve it is impossible to express, to the life, what the ecstasies
and transports of the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say,
out of the grave: and I did not wonder now at the custom, viz.,
that when a malefactor, who has the halter about his neck, is
tied up, and just going to be turned off, and has a reprieve
brought to him ; I say, I do not wonder that they brin a surgeon
with it, to let him blood- that very moment they te him of it,
that the surprise mav not drive the animal spirits from the
heart, and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, likegriets, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my
whole being, as I may lay, wrapped up in the contemplation of
my deliverance ; making a thousand gestures and motions, which
I cannot describe; reflecting upon my comrades that were
drowned, and that there should not be one soul saved but my-
self; for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any sign
of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that
were not fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel--when the breach and
froth of the sea being so big I could hardly see it, it lay so far off--
and considered, Lord! how was it possible I could get on shore?ROBINSON causes. 35

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my
condition, I began to look around me, to see what kind of a place
I was in, and what was next to he done; and I soon found my
comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance:
for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to
eat or drink, to comfort me; neither did I see any prospect be-
fore me, but that of perishing with hunger, or being devoured
by wild beasts: and that which wasparticularly afllicting to me
was, that I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any creature
for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any other crea-
ture that might desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had
nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco
in a box. This was all my provision; and this threw me into
such terrible agonies of mind, that, for a while, I ran about like
a madman. Night coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart,
to consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous
beasts in that country, seeing at night they always come abroad
for their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that time, was,
to get up into a thick bushy tree, like a fir, but thorny--which
grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all night--and con--
sider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw no
prospect oflif'e. I walked about a furlong from the shore, to
see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my
greatjoy; and having drank, and put a little tobacco into my
mouth to revent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up
into it, en eavoured to place myself so as that, if I should fall
asleep, I might not fall; and having cut me a short stick. like a
truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and having
been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as com--
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condition; and
found myself the most refreshed with it that I think I ever was
on such an occasion.
 

S EC'I'I 0 .\' V

ROBINSON FINDS HIMSELF IN A DESOLATE ISLAND--I'ROCURES A
STOCK 01' ARTICLES FROM THE WIlECK--CONSTRUCI'S IllS
HABI'I'A'I'ION .

Win-2N I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the
storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before;
but that which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted
off in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of
the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at
first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the wave dashing
me against it. This being within about a mile from the shore
where I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I
wished myself on board, that at least I might save some neces-
sary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked
about me again, and the first thing I found was the boat; which
lay, as the wind and the sea had tossed her up, upon the land,
about two miles on my right hand. I walked as far as I could
upon the shore to have got to her; but found a neck, or inlet,
ofwatcr, between me and the boat, which was about halfa mile
broad; so I came back for the present, being more intent upon
getting at the ship, where I hoped to find something for my
present subsistence.

A little after noon, 1 found the sea very calm, and the tide
ebhcd so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of
the ship: and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief; for 1
saw evidently, that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe;
that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been
so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort and
company, as I now was. This forced tears from my eyes again;
but as their was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get

I
to the ship: so I pulled 011' my clothes, for the weather was hot
to extremity, and took the water: but when I came to the ship,
my dificulty was still ter to know how to t on board; for
as she lay aground, an ' h out of the water, t ere was nothin
within my reach to lay ho d of. I swam round her twice, an
the second time I spied a small piece of rope, which I wondered
l did not see at first, hang down by the fore-chains so low, as
that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that
rope got into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the
ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold; but
that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head
low, almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was
free, and all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure
in first work was to search and to see what was spoiled and
w at was free: and, first, I found that all the ship's provisions
were dry and untouched by the water; and, being very well dis-
posed to eat, I went to the bread-room, and filled my pockets
with biscuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I had
no time to lose. I also found some rum in the great cabin, of
which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed need enough
of, to spirit me for what was before me. Now I wanted nothing
but a boat, to furnish myself with many things which I foresaw
would be very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had.
and this extremity roused my application: we had several spare
yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare top-
mast or two in the ship; I resolved to fall to work With these,
and flung as many overboard as I could manage for their weight,
tying every one with a rope, that they might not drive away.
When this was done, I went down the shi 's side. and pulling
them to me, I tied four of them fast toge er at both ends, as
well as I could, in the form of a rafi, and laying two or three
short pieces of plank upon them, crossways, I found I could
walk upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear any
great weight, the pieces being too light: so I went to work, and
with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into three
len ha, and added them to my rah, with a great deal of labour
an pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries,
encouraged me to go eyond what I should have been able to
have done upon another occasion.

My rafi: was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weig 1:. My next care was whatOto load it with, and how to .
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was
not long considering this. I first laid all the planks or boards
upon it that I could get, and having considered well whatl most
wanted, I got three of the seamen's chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft; these
I filled with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses. live
ieces of dried goats' flesh (which we lived much u on), and a
ittle remainder of Euro an corn. which had been id b for

some ibwls which we h brought to sea with us, but the lowls

were killed. There had been some barley and wheat together,
but, to my great disap ointment, I found afterwards that the
rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several
cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some
cordial waters; and, in all, about five or six gallons of rack.

These I stowed by themselves, there being no need to put them

into the chests, nor any room for them. While I was doing this,

I found the tide began to flow, though very calm; and I had the

mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had

left on shore, u on the sand, swim away; as for my breeches,
which were on y linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in
them, and my stockings. However, this ut me upon rummag-
ing for clothes, of which I found enough, ut took no more than

I wanted for present use, for I had other things which my eye

was more upon; as, first, tools to work with on shore: and it

was after long searching that I found the carpenter's chest,
which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more
valuable than a ship-lading of gold would have been at that time.

I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing

time to look into it, for l knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There
were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two
pistols; these I secured first, with some powder--horns and a
small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there were
three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where our
gunner had stowed them; but with much search I found them,
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water. Those
two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought my--
self pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should get
to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rudder; and
the least capful of wind would have overset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements: lst, A smooth, calm sea:
2dly, The tide rising, and setting in to the shore; 3dly, What
little wind there was blew me towards the land. And thus,
having found two or three broken oars belonging to the boat,
and besides the tools which were in the chest, I found two saws,
an axe, and a hammer; and with this cargo 1 put to sea. For
a mile, or thereahouts, my raft went very well, only that! found
it drive a little distant from the place where I had landed before;
by which I perceived that there was some indratt of the water,
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or river there, which
I might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before me a little
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set
intoit; so Iguidedmyramaswellas Icould, to get into the
middle of the stream. But here I had like to have sufi'ered a
second shipwreck, which, if I had, I think it verily would have
broken my heart; for, knowing no ' of the coast, my rait ran
aground at one end of it u n a she and, not being aground
at the other end, it wan but a little that all my cargo had
slipped 011' towards that end that was afloat, and so fallen into
the water. I did my utmost, by setting my, back against the
chests, to keep them in their places, but could not thrust of the
raft with all my strength; neither durst I stir from the posture
l was in, but holding up the chests with all my might, I stood in
that manner near half an hour, in which time the risin of the
water brought me a little more upon a level; and a li 6 after,
the water still rising, my raft floated again. and I thrust her 03
with the oar I had into the channel, and than driving up higher,
I at length found myself in the mouth of a little river, with land
on both sides, and a strong current or tide running up. I looked
on both sides for a proper place to get to shore, for l was not
willing to be driven too hi h up the river; hoping, in time, to
see some ship at sea, and erefore resolved to place myself as
near the coast as I could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek,
to which, with great pain and difliculty, I guided my raft, and
at last got so near, as that, reachinlgnsround with my oar, I could
thrust her directly in; but here I like to have dipped all my
cargo into the sea again; for that shore lying retty steep, that
is to say, sloping, there was no place to lan but where one
end of my float, if it ran on shore, would lie so high, and the
other sink lower, as before, that it would endanger my cargo
again. All that I could do was to wait till the tide was at the
highest, keeping the rah with my oar like an anchor, to hold
the side of it test to the shore, near a flat piece of und, which
I expected the water would flow over; and so it "(1 As soon
as I found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot of water,
1 thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and there fastened
or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars into the ground,
one on one side, near one end, and one on the other si e, near
the other end: and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left
my rafi: and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure
them from whatever might happen. Where I was 1 yet knew
not; whether on the continent, or on an island; whether inha-
bited, or not inhabited; whether in danger of wild beasts, or not.
There was a hill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very
steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills,
which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took out one of
the fowling--pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder;
and thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top of that
hill; where, after I had, with great labour and difficulty, got up
to the top, I saw my fate, to my great affliction, viz. that I was
in an island, environed every way with the sea, no land to be
seen, except some rocks, which lay a great way ofi', and two small
islands, less than this, which lay about three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I
saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts,
of whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of fowls,
but. knew not their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could
I tell what was fit for food, and what not. At my coming back,
I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the
side of a great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had
been fired there since the creation of the world: Ihad no sooner
fired, but from all the parts of the wood there arose an innu-
merable number of fowls, of many sorts, making a confined
screaming, and crying, every one according to his usual note;
but not one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the crea-
ture I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak
resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more than common.
Its flesh was carrion and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and
fell to work to bringr my cargo on shore, which took me up the
rest of that day: what to do with myself at night I knew not,
nor indeed where to rest: for] was afraid to lie down on the
ground, not knowing but some wild beast might devour me;
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no need for those
fears. However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore. and
made a kind of but for that night's lodging. As for food, I yet
saw not which way to supply myself, except that Iliad seen two
or three creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where I shot
the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many
things out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and par-
ticularly some of the rigging and sails, and such other things as
might come to land; and I resolved to make another voyage on
board the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that the first storm
that blew must necessarily break her all in ieces, I resolved to
set all other things apart, till I got eve ing out of the ship
that I could get. Then I called a council, that is to say, in my
thoughts, whether I should take back the raft; but this ap eared
impracticable: so I resolved to go as before, when the ti was
down; and I did so, only that I stripped before I went from my
hut; having nothing on but a chequered shirt, a pair of linen
drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second ran;
and aving had experience of the first, I neither made this so
unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several
things very useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I
found two or three bags of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack,
a dozen or two of hatchets; and, above all, that most useful
thing called a grindstone. All these I secured together, with
several things belonging to the gunner; particularly, two or
three iron crows, and two barrels of musket bullets, seven mus-
kets, and another fowling- iece, with some small quantity of
powder more; a large bag of small shot, and a great roll of
sheet lead; but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it u
to get it over the ship's side. Besides these things, I took a
the men's clothes that I could find, and a s are foreatopsail, a
hammock, and some bedding; and with this loaded my second
raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort.

I was under some apprehensions lest, during my absence from
the land, my plrovisions might be devoured on shore: but when
I came bac , found no sign of an visitor; only there sat a
creature like a wild cat, upon one o the chests, which, when I
came towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still.
She sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked full in my
face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented
my gun to her, but, as she did not understand it, she was per-
fectl unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon
w ' I tossed hers bit of biscuit, though. by the ws , I was
not very free of it, for my store was not first ; however, spared
her a bit, I say, and she went to it, an ed of it, and ate it, and
looked (as pleased) for more; but I thanked her, and could spare
no more: so she marched ofl'. '

Having got my second cargo on shore--though I was thin to
open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they
were too heavy, being large casks--I went to work to make me
a little tent, With the sail, and some poles, which I cut for that
purpose; and into this tent I brought every thing that I knew
would'spoil either with rain or sun; and I piled all the empty
chests and cash up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from
any sudden attempt either from man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without:
and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two
Eratols just at my head, and my gun at length by me, went to

for the first time, and slept very quiet! all night, for I was
very weary and heavy; for the night before had ale t little, and
had laboured very hard all day, as well to fetch all ose things
from the shi , as to get them on shore. _

I had the iggest magazine of allkinds now that ever was laid
up, I believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still; for

while the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to42 anvasrunrs or

get every thing out of her that I could; so every day, at low
water, I went on board, and brought away something or other:
but particularly the third time I went, I brought away as much
of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes and rope-
twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvass, which was to
mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder.
In a word, I brought away all the sails first and last; only that
I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a.time as
I could; for they were no more useful to be sails, but as mere
canvass only.

But that which comforted me still more was, that, last of all,
after I had made live or six such voyages as these, and thought
I had nothing more to expect from the shi that was worth my
meddling with; I say, after all this, I l'oun a great hogshead of
bread, and three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of
sugar, and a barrel ot'fiue flour; this was surprising to me, be-
cause I had given over expecting any more provisions, except
what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead
of that. bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of
the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got all this safe on
shore also.

The next day I made another voyage, and now having plun-
dered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began
with the cables, and cutting the great cable into pieces such as
I could move, I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all
the iron work I could get; and having cut down the spritsail-
yard, and the mizen-yard, and everything I could, to make a
large ral't, I loaded it with all those heavy goods, and came
away: but my good luck began now to leave me; for this raft
was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that after I was entered the
little cove, where I had landed the rest of my goods, not being
able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and
threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for mysell',-it was
no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to my cargo,
it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I ex-
pected would have been of great use to me: however, when the
tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some
of the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was fain to dip
for it into the water, a work which fatigued me very much.
After this I went every day on board, and brought away what
I could get.

I had been new thirteen days ashore, and had been eleven
times on board the ship; in which time I had brought away all
that one pair of hands could well be supposed ca able to bring;
though I believe verily, had the calm weather eld, I,should
have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece, but preparing,
the twelfth time, to go on board, I found the wind began to rise:
however, at low water, I went on board; and though I thoughtodeflw/ ,//7//, //. / fl/e/z'z"

1/2/14
I had rummaged the cabin so effectually, as that nothing could
be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of
which I found two or three razors, and one pair of large scissam,
with some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks; in another
I found about thirty-six pounds in money, some European coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some 1d, and some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of is money; 0 drug! I
exclaimed, what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me,
no, not the ta ' 03' the ground; one of those knives is worth
all this heap: I ave no manner of use for thee; e'en remain
where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life
is not worth saving. However, upon second thoughts, I took
it away; and wrapping all this in a iece ofcanvass, I began to'
think of making another raft; but nglle I was preparing this, I
found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quar-
ter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore. It present]
occurred to me, that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft wi
the wind off shore; and that it was my business to be gone
before the tide of flood began, or othermse I might not be able
to reach the shore at all. Accordingly I let myself down into
the water, and swam across the channe which lay between the
ship' and the sands, and even that with difficulty enough, artly
wit the we' ht of the things I had about me, and part y the
roughnrss oligthe water; for the wind rose very hastily, and be-
fore it was quite high water it blew a storm.

But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all
my wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all that
night, and in the morning, when I looked out, behold no more
ship was to be seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered my-
self with this satisfactory reflection, viz. that I had lost no time,
nor abated no diligence, to get everything out of her, that could
be useful to me, and that, indeed, there was little lettin her that
I was able to bring away, if I had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any-
thiniout of her, except what mi ht drive on shore, from her
wrec ; as, indeed, divers pieces of er afterwards did ;.but those
things were of small use to me. _

My thou hts were now wholly employed about securing myself
against ei er savages, if anly should appear, or wild beasts, if
any were in the island; and had many t oughts of the method
how to do this, and what find of dwelling to make, whether I
should make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth;
and, in short, I resolved upon both; the manner and description
of which, it may not be irn mper to give an account of.

I soon found the place was in was not for my settlement,
particularly because it was in n a low, moorish ground. new
the sea, and I believed it we d not be wholesome; and more

particularly because there was no m1: water near it: so I
resolvsd to find a more healthy and more convenient spot of
roun .

g I consulted several things in my situation, which I found
would be proper for me; first, air and fresh water, I just now
mentioned: secondly, shelter from the heat of the sun: thirdly,
security from ravenous creatures, whether men or beasts:
fourthly, a view to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I
might not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was
not willing to banish all my expectation yet.

In search for a place proper for this, I found a little lain on
the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little p ain was
steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon
me from the top. On the side of this rock, there was a hollow
place, worn a little way in, like the entrance or door of a care;
but there was not really any cave, or way into the rock, at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I re-
solved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above a hundred
yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green be-
fore my door; and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every
way down into the,low ground by the seaside. It was on the
N.N.W. side of the hill; so that it was sheltered from the heat
every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts,
which, in those countries, is near the setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from
the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning
and ending.

In this half<:ircle I itched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the groun till they stood very firm like piles, the
biggest end being out of the ground, about five feet and a half,
and sharpened on the top The two rows did not stand above
six inches from one~another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship, and
laid them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between
these two rows of stakes, u to the top, placing other stakes in
the inside, leaning against t em, about two feet and a half high,
like a spur to a post; and this fence was so strong, that neither
man nor beast could get into it or over it. This cost me a great
deal of time and labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods,
bring them to the place, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but
by a short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was
in, I lifted over after me; and so I was completely fenced in and
fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and consequently slept
secure in the night, which otherwise I could not have done;
though, as it appeared afierwards, there was no need of all this
caution against the enemies that I apprehended danger from.
 

SECTION V I.

CARRIES ALL HIS RICHES, PROVISIONS, ETC. INTO HIS llABl'I'ATION
--I)R.EARINESS 0F SOLITUDE--CONSOLATORY REFLECTIONS.

INTO this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you
have the account above; and I made a. lalge tent, which, to
preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the year are very
violent them, I made double, viz. one smaller tent within, and
one large1 tent above it, and covered the uppermost 11 1th a lame
tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails.

And 110w I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had
brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a. very
good: one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything that
would spoil by the wet, and having thus enclosed all my goods,
I made up the entrance, which till now I had left open, and so

passed and re assed, as I said, by a short ladder.

When I had) done this, I began to work my way into the rock,
and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out
through my tent, I laid them up within my fence 1n the nature
of .a terrace, so that it raised the ground within about a foot and
a half; and thus I made me a cave, just behind my tent, which
served me like a cellar to my house. It cost me much labour
and many days, before all these things were brought to perfec-
tion; and therefore 1 must go back to some other things which

took up some of my thoughts. At the same time it happened,
E 2
after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent, and
making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick, dark
cloud, a sudden flash of lightning ha pened, and after that, a
great clap of thunder, as is naturally t e effect ofit. I was not
so much surprised with the lightning, as I was with a thought,
which darted into my mind as swift as the ' htning itself: 0 my
powder! My very heart sunk within me w en I thought, that
at one blast, all in powder might be destro ed; on which, not
my defence only, ut the providing me fo , as I thought, en-
tirely depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own
danger, though, had the powder taken fire, I should never have
known who had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that afier the storm
was over, I laid aside all my works, my budding and fortifying.
and applied myself to make bags and boxes, to separate the
powder, and to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope
that whatever might come, it might not all take fire at once;
and to keep it so apart, that it should not be ossible to make
one part fire another. I finished this work in a tit a fortnight;
and I think in powder, which in all was about two hundred
and forty poun 5 weight, was divided into not less than a bun-
dred parcels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I did not
apprehend any danger from that; so I placed it in my new cave,
which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the rest I hid up
and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come
to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out at
least once every day with my gun, as well to divert myself, as
to see if I could kill anything fit for food; and, as near as I
could, to acquaint myself with what the island produced. The
first time I went out, I presently discovered that there were
goats upon the island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but
then it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that they
were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most
difficult thing in the world to come at them: but I was not dis-
couraged at this, not doubting but I might now and then shoot
one, as it soon happened; for after] had found their haunts a
little, I laid wait in this manner for them; I observed, if they
saw me in the valleys, though the were upon the rocks, they
would run away as in a. terrible frig t: but if they were feeding
in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no notice of
me; from whence I concluded, that by the position of their
optics, their sight was so directed downward, that they did not
readily see objects that were above them: so afterwards, I took
this method--I always climbed the rocks first, to get above
them, and then had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made
among these creatures, I killed a sheagoat, which had a little kid
by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but
when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still b her, till I came
and took her up; and not only so, but when carried the old
one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the
kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have
bred it up tame; but it would not eat; so I was forced to kill it,
and eat it myself. These two supplied me with flesh a great
while, for I ate sparingly, and preserved my provisions (my
bread especially) as much as possibly I could.

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely neces-
aary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to burn; and
what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my cave, and what
conveniences I made, I shall give a full account of it in its proper
place: but I must first give some little account of myself, and
of my thoughts about living, which, it may well be supposed,
were not a few.

I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was not
cast away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a
violent storm quite out of the course of our intended voyage;
and a great way. viz. some hundreds of l ea, out of the
ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I h great reason to
consider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this desolate
place, and in this desolate manner, I should end my life. The
tears would run plentifully down my face when I made these
reflections; and sometimesI would expostulate with myself why
Providence should thus com letely ruin its creatures, and render
them so absolutely miserab e; so abandoned without help, so
entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be thank-
ful for such a life.

But something always retumed swift upon me to check these
thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly, one day walking
with my gun in my hand, by the .mside, I was very pensive
upon the subject of my present condition, when reason, as it
were, expostulated with me the other way, thus: Well, you are
in a desolate condition it is true; but, pray remember, where
are the rest of you! Did not on come eleven of you into the
boat? Where are the ten? Why were not they saved, and you
lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better to be here' or
there? And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be con-
sidered with the good that is in them, and with what worse
attends them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for
my subsistence, and what would have been my case if it had not
happened (which was a hundred thousand to one) that the ship
floated from the place where she first struck, and was driven so
near to the shore, that I had time to get all these things out of
her; what would have been my case, if I had been to have lived
in the condition in which I at first came on shore, without
necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and procure them?
Particularly, said I aloud (though to myself), what shouldI
have done without a gun, without ammuniton, without any tools
to make anything, or to work with, without clothes, bedding,
a tent, or any manner of covering? and that now I had all these
to a sullieient quantity, and was in a fair way to provide myself
in such a manner as to live without my gun, when my ammu-
nition was spent : so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting,
without any want, as long as [ lived; for I considered, from the
beginning, how I would provide for the accidents that might
happen, and for the time that was to come, not only after my
ammunition should be spent, but even after my health or
strength should decay.

I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my ammunition
being destroyed at one blast, I mean my powder being blown
up by lightning; and this made the thoughts of it so surprising
to me, when it lightened and thundered, as I observed just now.

A nd now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene
of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world
before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its
order. It was, by my account. the 30th of September, when, in
the manner as above said, 1 first set foot upon this horrid island;
when the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost
jllSt over my head : for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be

in the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the
Line.aomxsox on USOE. 49

 

SECTION VII.

ROBINSON'S MODE 0]? RECKONING TIME.--DIFFICUL'I'IES ARISING
FROM WANT OF TO0LS.---HE ARRANGES HIS HABITATION.

AFTER I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into
my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want
of books, and pen and ink, and should even forget the sabbath
days from the working days : but, to prevent this, I cut it with
my knife upon a large post, in capital letters; and making it
into a great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first landed,
viz., "I came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659."
Upon the sides of this Square post I cut every day a notch with
my knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest,
and every first day of the month as long again as that long one:
and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly
reckonino of time.

But it happened, that among the many things which I brought
out of the ship, .in the several voyages which, as above men-
tioned, I made to it, I go't several things of less value, but not
at all less useful to me, which I found, some time after, in rum-
maging the chests: as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper;
several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's
keeping; three or four compasses, some mathematical instru-
ments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation; all
of which I huddled together, whether I might want them or no.-
also I found three very good Bibles, which came to me in my
cargo from England, and which I had acked up .among my
things; some Portuguese books also, an , among them, two or
three pish prayer-books, and several other books, all which I
careful secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the
ship a cg, and two cats, of whose eminenbhistory I may have
occasion to say something, in its place: for I carried both the
cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship
himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I went on shore
with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me for many
years: I wanted nothing that he could fetch me. nor any com-
pany that he could make up to me, I only wanted to have him
talk to me, but that would not do. As I observed before, I
found pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the
utmost; and I shall show that while my ink lasted, I kept
thin very exact, but after that was gone, I could not; for I
coul not make any ink, b any means that I could devise.

And this put me in min that I wanted many things, notwith-
standing all that I had amassed together; and of these, this of
ink was one; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or
remove the earth; needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon
learned to want that without much diflicultv.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily: and
it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little
pale, or surrounded my habitation. The piles or stakes, which
were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting
and reparing in the woods, and more by far, in bringing home;
so t at I spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing
home one of those posts, and a third day in driving it into the
ground; for which purpose, I got a heavy iece of wood at
first, but at last bethought in self of one o the iron crows;
which, however, though I foun it answer, made driving these
posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what need
I have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I had to
do, seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had I any other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for food; which I did, more
or less, every ay

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the cir~
cumstance I was reduced to; and I drew up the state of my
afi'airs in writing, not so much to leave them to any that were
to come after me (for I was like to have but few heirs), as to
deliver my thoughts from dailigoring upon them, and aflicting
my mind: and as my reason gan now to master my despon-
dency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to set
the good against the evil, that I might have something to dis~
tinguish my case from worse; and I stated very impartially, like
5!

debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed against the miseries

l s'lfi'ered, thus:

sun.
1 an east upon a horrible. desolate
islsnd, void atoll hope otmovery.

I am slnglrdiout and repented. so it
were. from all the world, to be miserable.

I an: divided from mankind, s soli-
tsire; one banished from human society.

I have no clothes to cover me.

I am without any defence. or means to
resist any violence of man orbeast.

I have no soul to speak to. or relieve
me.

soon.
not] am alive; and not drowned, so
all my ship's company were.

But] an singhdout too homsllthe
ship's mmtobe spared from death; and
He that miraculously saved me from
death, can deliver mo from this condition.

But I am not starved. and polishing in
a barren place, wording no sustenance.

But I am in a hot climate. where. I! I
had clothes, 1 could hardly wear them.

ButIame-stonsnislsnd wherelsee
no wild beast to hurt me. as lssw on the
coast of Africa: and what if I had been
shipwrecked them

But God wondermlly sent the ship in
near enough to the shore, that I have got

out so many necessary things. as will
either supply my wants, or enable me to
supply myself, even as long as i live.

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there
was scarce any condition in the world so miserable, but there
was something ne ative, or something positive, to be thankful
for in it : and let t is stand as a direction. from the experience
of the most miserable of all conditions in this world, that we may
always find in it something to comfort ourselves from, and to
set, in the description of good and evil on the credit side of the
account.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition,
and given over looking out to sea, to see ifI could s y a ship; I
say, given over these things, I began to apply myse 'to accom-
modatg. my way of living, and to make things as easy to me as
l coul

I have alread described my habitation, which was a tent
under the side 0 a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts
and cables; but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a
kind of wall against it of turfs. about two feet thick on the out-
side: and alter some time (I think it was ayesr andshalf) I
raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or
covered it with boughs of trees, and such things as I could get,
to keep out the rain; which I found, at some times of the you,
very violent . .

I have already observed how I brought all m .goods into the
pale, and into the cave which I had made be me. But I
must observe, too, that at first this was a confused heap of goods,
which, as they lay in no order, so they took up all my place; I
had no room to turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cave,52 ADVENTUI! TS 0F

and work further into the earth; for it was a loose sandy rock,
which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it: and when
I found I was pretty suit as to the beasts ot'prey, I worked side-
wavs, to the right hand, into the rock, and then turning to the
right again, worked quite out, and made me a door to come out in
the outside of my pale or fortification.

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back
way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to
stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary
things as I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a
table; for without these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts
I had in the world; I could not write, or eat, or do several things
with so much pleasure, without a table: so I went to work.
And here I must needs observe, that as reason is the substance
and original of the mathematics, so by stating and squaring
everything by reason, and by making the most rational judg-
ment of things, every man may be, in time, master of every
mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my life; and yet,
in time, by labour. application, and contrivance I found at last,
that I wanted nothing but I could have made, especially if I had
bad tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without
tools; and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way before, and that with
infinite labour. For example, it' [wanted a board, I had no
other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me,
and her; it [lat on either side With my axe, till I had brought it
to he as thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze.
It is true, by this method, I could make but one board of a whole
tree; but this I had no remedy lot: but patience, any more than
I had for aprodigious deal of time and labour which it took me
up to make a plank or board: but my time or labour was little
worth, and so it was as well employed one way as another.

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed above,
in the first place; and this I did out of the short pieces of boards
that I brought on my raft from the ship. But when I wrought
out some boards, as above, I made large shelves, of the breadth
of a foot and a half, one over another, all along one side of mv
cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron work on; and, in a word,
to separate every thing at large in their places, that I might
easily come at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock,
to hang my guns, and all things that would hang up: so that
had my cave been seen, it looked like a general magazine of all
necessary things; and I had every thing so ready at my hand,
that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such
order. and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so great.

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day's
employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and
not only as to labour, but in much discomposure of mind; and
my journal would, too, have been full of many dull things: for
example, I must have said thus--" Sept. 30th. After I had got
to shore, and had escaped drowning, instead of being thankful
to God for my deliverance, having first vomited, with the great
quantity of salt water which was gotten into my stomach, and
recovering myself a little, I ran about the shore, wringing my
hands, and heating my head and face, exclaiming at my misery,
and crying out I was undone, undone! till, tired and faint, I was
forced to lie down on the ground to repose; but durst not sleep.
for fear of being devoured."

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship
and got all that I could out of her, I could not forbear getting
up to the top of a. little mountain, and looking out to sea, in
hopes of seeing a ship: then fancy that, at a vast distance, I
spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and, after look-
ing steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down
and weep like a child, and thus increase my misery by my folly.

But, having gotten over these things in some measure, and
having settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a
table and a chair. and all as handsome about me as 1 could, I
began to keep my journal: of which I shall here give you the
copy (though in it will be told all these particulars over again)
as long as it lasted; for, having no more ink, I was forced to
leave it 011'.
 

SECTION VIII.

ROBINSON'S JOURNAL--DETAILS OF HIS DOMESTIC ECONOMY AND
CONTRIVANCES.--SIIOCK OF AN EARTHQUAKE.

1

THE JOURNAL.

SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe,
being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the oiling, came
on shore on this dismal unfortunate island, which I called the
ISLAND 0F DESPAIR; all the rest of the ship's company being
drowned, and myself almost dead.

All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz. I had neither food,
house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to: and, in despair of
any relief, saw nothing but death before me; that I should either
be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to
death for want of food. At the approach of night I slept in a
tree, for fear of wild creatures; but slept soundly, though it
rained all night.

OCTOBER 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the
ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore
again much nearer the island; which, as it was some comfort
. on One hand (for seeing her sit upright, and not broken in pieces,
I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board, and get some
food and necessaries out of her for my relioef,) so, on the other
hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I
imagined, if we had all staid on board, might have saved the
ship, or, at least, that they would not have been all drowned,
as they were: and that, had the men been saved, we might per-
haps have built us a boat, out of the ruins of the ship, to have
carried us to some other part of the world. I spent great part
of this day in pe lexin myself on these things; but. at length,
seeing the ship ost , I went u on the sand as near as I
could, and then swam on board. This day also it continued
raining, though with no wind at all.

From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days entirely
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of the ship;
which I brought on shore, every tide of flood, upon rails. Much
rain also' in these days, though with some intervals of fair
weather: but, it seems, this was the rainy season.

Oct. 20. I ovemet my rail, and all the goods I had got upon
it; but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly heavy
I recovered many of them when the tide was out.

Ocr. 25. It rained all n' ht and all day, with some gusts a.
wind; during which time t e ship broke in pieces (the wind
blowing a little harder than before) and was no more to be seen,
except the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent
this day in covering and securing the goods which I had saved,
that the rain might not spoil them.

Ocr. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find out
a place to fix my habitation; greatly concerned to secure myself
from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts or men.
Towards night I fixed upon a proper place, under a rock, and
marked out a semicircle for m encampment; which I resolved
to strengthen with a work, w or fortification, made of double
piles lined within with cables, and without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in ca ' all
my goods to my new habitation, though some part of e time
it rained exceedingly hard.

The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with my
gun, to see for some food, and discover the country; when I
killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home, which I after-
wards killed also, because it would not feed.

Novnunnu l. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there
for the first night; making it as large as I could, with stakes
driven in to swing my hammock upon.

Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces of
timber which made my rafts; and with them formed a fence
round me, a little within the place I had marked out for my
fortification.

Nov. 3. I went out with my , and killed two fowls like
ducks, which were very good f In the afternoon I went to
work to make me a table. ,

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work, of
going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion;
viz. every morning I walked out with my gun for two or three
hours, if it did not rain ; then employed myself to work till about
eleven o'clock; then ate what I had to live on; and from twelve
to two I lay down to sleep, the weather being excessive hot; and
then, in the evening, to work again. The working part of this
day and the next was wholly employed in making my table, for
I was yet but a very sorry workman: though time and neces-
sity made me a complete natural mechanic soon alter, as I
believe they would any one else.

Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and dog. and
killeda wild eat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for
nothing: of every creature that I killed I took of the skins, and
preserved them. Coming back by the seashore, I saw many
sorts of seafowl which [did not understand: but was surprised,
and almost frightened, with two or three seals; which while I
was gazing at them (not well knowing what they were) got into
the sea, and escaped me for that time.

Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work with my
table Main, and finished it, though not to my liking: nor was
it longiefore I learned to mend it.

Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th,
8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday,
according to my reckonin ), I took wholly up to make me a
chair, and with much ado rought it to a tolerable shape, but
never to please me; and, even in the making, I pulled it in pieces
several times.

NOTE. I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting
my mark for them on my post, I forgot which was which.

Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceedingl ,
and cooled the earth: but it was accompanied with terrib e
thunder and lightning, which frightened me dreadfully, for fear
of my powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved to separate
my stock of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that
it might not be in danger.

Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making little
square chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or
two pounds at most, of powder: and so, putting the powder in,
I stowed it in places as secure and as remote from one another
as possible. On one of these three days I killed a large bird that
was good to eat; but I knew not what to call it.

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent, into the
rock, to make room for my farther convenience.

Nora. Three things I wanted exceedingl'yafor this work, Viz.
a pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or ket; so I desisted
from in work, and began to consider how to supply these wants,
and me e me some tools. As for a pickaxe, I made use of the
iron crows, which were proper enough, though heavy: but the
next thing was a shovel or spade; this was so absolutely necesp
sary, that, indeed, I could do nothing efl'ectually without it; but
what kind of one to make I knew not.

Nov. 18. The next day, in searchin the woods, I found a
tree of that wood, or like it, which, in e Bruin, they call the
iron tree, from its exceeding hardness : of this. with great labour,
and almostdsgoiling my are, I cut a piece; and brought it home,
too, with ' culty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The
excessive hardness of the wood, and my having no other way,
made me a long while u n this machine: for I worked it efi'ec-
tually, b little and li e, into the form of a shovel or spade;
the ban e exactly shaped like ours in England, only that the
broad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not
last me so long: however, it served well enough for the uses
which I had occasion to put it to; but never was a shovel, I
believe, made after that fashion, or so long in making.

I was still deficient; for I wanted a basket, or a wheelbarrow.
A basket I could not make by an means, having no such things
as twigs that would bend to m e wicker ware; at least, none
yet found out: and as to the wheelbarrow, I fancied I could
make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of; neither did
I know how to go about it: besides, I had no ossible way to
make iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of 0 wheel to run
in; so I gave it over: and, for carrying away the earth which
I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a bed, which the
labourers carry mortar in for the brickla ers. This was not so
difiicult to me as the makin the shov : and yetthia and the
shovel, and the attempt which I made in vain to make a wheel-
barrow, took me up no less than four days; I mean, always
excepting my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom
glnitted, and very seldom failed also bringing home something

t to eat.

N W. 23. My other work having now stood still, because of
my making these tools, when they were finished I went on; and
working every day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent
eighteen da s entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that
it might ho d my goods commodiousl .

NOTE. Duringallthis time, I wor ed to makethisroom or
cave, spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse, or
magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar. As for a lodg-
ing, I kept to the tent: except that sometimes, in the wet season
of the year, it rained so hard that I could not keep myselfdry;
which caused me afierwards to cover all my place within my
pale with long poles, and in the form of radars, leaning against
thehroeh'k, and load them with flags and large leaves of trees, like
a t a

Dumas. 10. I began now to think my cave or vault
finished; when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too )
a great quantity of earth fell down from the top andone ' ;
so much, that, in short, it fi-ightened me, and not withoutreason
too; for if I had been under it, I should never have wanted a

ve-digger. Upon this disaster, I had agreat deal of work to
o overagain, for Ihad the loose earthtoearryout; andwhich
was of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I
might be sure no more would come down.

DEC. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly; and
got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two
pieces of board across over each post: this I finished the next
day; and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week
more I had the roof secured; and the posts, standing in rows,
served me for partitions to part off my house.

DEC. 17. From this day to the 30th, I placed shelves, and
knocked up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that could
be hung up: and now I began to be in some order within doors.

DEC. 20. I carried everything into the cave, and an to
furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, ike a
dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began to be very
scarce with me: also I made me another table.

DEC. 24. Much rain all night and all day: no stirring out.

Dec. 25. Rain all day.

Dec. 26. No rain; and the earth much cooler than before,
and pleasanter.

DEC. 27. Killed a young goat; and lamed another, so that
I catched it, and led it home in a string: when I had it home,
I bound and splintered up its leg, which was broke.

N. B. I took such care of it that it lived; and the leg grew
well, and as strong as ever: but, by nursin it so long, it grew
tame, and fed upon the little green at my ear, and would not
go away. This was the first time that I entertained a thought
of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have food when
my powder and shot was all spent.

DEC. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze; so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food; this
time I spent in putting all my things in order Within doors.

JANUARY 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late
with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This even-
ing, going farther into the valleys which lay towards the centre
of the island, I found there was plenty of goats, though exceed-
ing shy, and hard to come at; however, I resolved to try if I
could not bring my dog to hunt them down. Accordingly, the
next day, I went out with my dog, and set him upon the goats:
but I was mistaken, for the all faced about upon the dog: and
he knew his danger too we , for he would not come near them.

JAN. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being still jealous
of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very
thick and strong.

N. B. This wall being described before, I purposely omit
what was said in the journal; it is suflicient to observe, that I
was no less time than from the 3rd of January to the 14th of
April, workinrr, finishing, and perfecting this wall; though it
was no more than about twenty-live yards in length, being a"EDISON CBUBOI. 59

half circle, hm one place in the rock to another place, about
twelve yards from it, the door of the cave being in the centre,
behind it.

All this time I worked very hard; the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together: but I thought I
should never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished; and
it is scarce credi lo what inexpressible labour everything was
done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods, and
driving them into the ground; for I made them much bigger
than I needed to have one. -

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced,
with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if
any mp1s were to come on shore there they would not perceive
anyt ' g like a habitation: and it was very well I did so, as
ma be observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable occasion.

nring this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game
every day, when the rain tpermitted me, and made f uent dia-
coveries, in these walks, 0 something or other to mi antage;
particularly, I found a kind of wild pigeons, who uild, not as
wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the
holes of the rocks: and, takin some {sung ones, I endeavoured
to breed them up tame, and ugd so; ut when they grew older,
the dew all away; which, perhaps, was, at first, or want of
feeding them, for I had nothing to give them; however, I fre-
quently found their nests, and got their young ones, which were
very good meat. And now, in the managing my household
affairs, I found myself wanting in man things, which I thought
at first it was impossible for me to ma 9; as indeed, as to some
of them, it was: for instance, I could never make a cask to be
hooped. I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before; but
'.-could never arrive at the capacity of making one by them,
though I spent many weeks about it: I could neither putin the
heads, nor join the staves so true to one another as to make
them hold water; so I gave that also over. In the next place,
I was at a great loss for candle; so that as soon as it was dark,
which was generally by seven o'clock, I was ob ' ed to go to
bed. I remember the lump of bees-wax with w 'ch I made
candles in my African adventure; but I had none of that now:
the onl remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat, I
saved e tallow; and with a little dish made of clay, which
I bakedin the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum,
I made me a lamp; and this gave me light, though not a clear
steady li ht like a candle. In the middle of all my labours it
happen that in rummagin my things, I found a little bag;
which, as I hinted before, ad been filled with corn, for a
feeding of poul ; not for this voyage, but before, as I'lup-
pose, when the s ip came from Lisbon. What little rununder
of corn had been in the bag was all devoured by the rats, and

P
I saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust: and being willing
to have the bag for some other use (I think it was to put pow-
der in, when 1 divided it for fear of the lightning, or some such
use), I shook the husks of corn out of it, on one side of my
fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rain just now mentioned, that
I threw this stuff away; taking no notice of anything, and not
so much as remembering that I had thrown anything there:
when, about a month after, I saw some few stalks of something
green, shooting out of the ound, which I fancied might be
some plant I had not seen; at I was surprised, and perfectly
astonished, when, after a little longer time, I saw about ten or
twelve cars come out, which were perfect green barley, of the
same kind as our EurOpean, nay, as our English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion of
my thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto acted upon no
religious foundation at all: indeed, I had very few notions of
religion in my head, nor had entertained any sense of any things
that had befallen me, otherwise than as chance, or, as we lightly
say, what pleases God; without so much as inquiring into the
end of Providence in these things, or his order in governing
events in the world. But after I saw barley grow there, in a
climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and es ecially
as I knew not how it came there, it startled me strange y; and
I began to suggest, that God had miraculously caused this grain
to grow without any help of seed sown, and that it was so
directed purely for my sustenance, on that wild miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my
eyes; and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature
should happen upon my account: and this was the more strange
to me, because I saw near it still, all along by the side of the
rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of
rice, and which I knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa,
when I was ashore there.

I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence
for my support, but, not doubting that there was more in the
place, I went over all that part of the island where I had been
before, searching in every corner, and under every rock, for
more of it; but I could not find any. At last it occurred to my
thoughts, that I had shook out a bag of chickcn's-meat in that
place, and then the wonder began to cease; and I must confess,
my religious thankfulness to God's providence began to abate
too, upon the discovering that all this was nothing but what
was common; though I ought to have been as thankful for so
strange and unforeseen a providence, as if it had been miracu-
lous: for it was really the work of Providence, as to me, that
should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should
remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest. as3031100! 630802. GI

if it had been dropped from heaven; as also. that I should throw
it out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
high rock, it mung n immediately; whereas, if I had thrown
it an here , at t time, it would have been burned up
and estroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in
their season, which was about the end of June; and, laying up
every corn, I resolved to sow them all again; hoping, to time,
to have some nancity suilicient to suppl me with bread. But
it was not till 1: e fourth year that I coul allow myself the least
grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall
show afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I sowed the first
season, by not observing the proper time; as I sowed just
before the dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least
not as it would have done; of which in its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care; and whose
use was of the same kind, or to the same purpose, vim, to make
me bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without
baking, though I did that also afier some time--But to return
to my Journal.

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get
my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up; contriving
to get into it, not by a door, but over the wall, bya ladder, that
there might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.

APRIL 16. I finished the ladder; so Iwent up with the ladder
to the top, and then pulled it up alter me, and let it down in the
Inside: this was a com lets enclosure to me; for within I had
room enough, and not ing could come at me from without,
unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next (la after this wall was finished, I had almost
all in labour overt rown at once, and myself killed- the case
was t us :--As I was busy in the inside of it, behin my tent,
just at the entrance into my cave, I was terribl frightened with
a most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for, on a sudden, I
found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my cave,
and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two of the posts
I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. was
heartily scared; but the ht nothing of what really was the
cause, only thinking that t e top of my cave was falling in, as
some of it had done before: and for fear I should be buried in
it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there
neither, I t overm wall for fear of the ieees of the hillwhich
I ex might ro down upon me. I no sooner step ed
down upon the firm ground, than I lainly saw it was a ts e
earthquake: for the ground I at on shook three times at
about eight minutes' distance, with three such shocks as would
have overturned the strongest bgilding that could be supposed

F
to have stood on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a
rock, which stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell
down with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life.
I perceived also that the very sea was put into a violent motion
by it; and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water
than on the island.

I was so much amazed with the t ' itself (having never felt
the like, nor discoursed with any one t at had) that I was like
one dead or stupified; and the motion of the earth made my
stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of
the falling of the rock awaked me, as it were; and rousing me
from the stupified condition I was in, filled me with horror, and
I thought of nothing but the hill falling upon my tent and my
household goods, and burying all at once; this sunk my very
soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some
time, I began to take courage; yet I had not heart enough to go
over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive; but sat still
upon the ground greatly cast down, and disconsolate, not know-
ing what to do. All this while I had not the least serious reli-
gious thought; nothing but the common Lord, have mercy upon
me ! and w en it was over that went away too.

WhileI sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as
if it would rain; and soon after the wind rose by little and little,
so that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurri-
cane: the sea was, all on a sudden, covered with foam and froth;
the shore was covered with a breach of the water; the trees were
torn up by the roots; and a terrible storm it was. This held
about three hours, and then began to abate; and in two hours
more it was quite calm, and began to rain very hard. All this
while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified and dejected;
when, on a sudden, it came into my thoughts that these winds
and rain being the consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake
itself was spent and over, and I might venture into my cave
again. With this thought my spirits began to revive; and the
rain also helping to persuade me, I went in, and sat down in my
tent; but the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to be
beaten down with it; and I was forced to get into my cave,
though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on
mv head. This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut
a hole through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the water
go out, which would else have drowned my cave. Afier I had
been in my cave for some time, and found no more shocks of the
earthquake follow, I began to be more composed. And now, to
sup art my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to
my 'ttle store, and took a small cup of rum; which, howevw,
I did then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I could have no
more when that was gone. It continued raining all that night
and great part of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad:
but my mind be' more composed, I began to think of what I
had best do; con udin , that ifthe island was subject to these
earthquakes, there wo d be no living for me in a cave, but I
must consider of building me some little but in an open place,
which I ' ht surround with awe", as I had done here, and so
make myse secure from wild beasts or men: forif I staid where
I was, I should certainly. one time or other, be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the
place where it now stood, being just under the hanging precipice
of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would ceru
tainly fall upon my tent. I spent the two next days, being the
19th and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove
my habitation. The fear of ' swallowed alive affected me
so, that I never slept in quiet; an yet the apprehension of lying
abroad, without any fence, was almost equal to it: but still, when
I looked about, and saw how every ' was put in order, how
pleasantl I was concealed, and how e from danger. it made
me very oath to remove. In the mean time, it occurred to me
that it would require avast deal of time for me to do this; and
that I must be contented to run the risk where I was, till I had
formed a convenient camp, and secured it so as to remove to it.
With this conclusion I composed myself for a time; and resolved
that I would go to work with all s to build me a wall with
piles and cables, &c., in a circle as fore, and set up my tent in
it when it was finished; but that I would venture to eta where
I was till it was ready, and fit to remove to. This was t a 21st.

APRIL 22. The next morning I began to consider of means to
put this measure into execution; but I was at a great loss about
the tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of hatchets
(for we carried the hatchets for trafic with the Indians); but
with much chofiping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were
all full of note es, and dull: and though I had a grindstone, I
could not turn it and grind my tools too. This caused me as
much tho ht as a. statesman would have bestowed upon a grand

oint of po 'tics, ora judge upon the life and death of a man. At
{length I contrived a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot,
that I might have both my hands at liberty.

Norm. I had never seen any such ' in land, or at least
not to take notice how itwas done, thong since have observed
it is very common there: besides that, in grindstoue was very
large and heavy. This machine cost me a week's work to bring
it to perfection.

Ann. 28. 29. These two whole da I took up in grinding m
tools, my machine for turning mygrin tone performingveryw .

Anna. 30. Having perceived that my bread had been low a
great while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one

innit-cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
 

SECTION IX.

ROBINSON OBTAINS MORE ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK.--l-IIS
ILLNESS AND AFFLICTION.

MAY 1. In the morning, looking towards the seaside, the tide
being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary,
and it looked like a cask: when I came to it, I found a small
barrel, and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which
were driven on shore by the late hurricane; and looking towards
the wreck itself, I thoughtit seemed to lie higher out of the water
than it used to do. I examined the barrel that was driven on
shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had
taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone: how-
ever, I rolled it farther on the shore for the present, and went on
upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to
look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed.
The forecastle, which lay before buried in the sand, was heaved
up at least six feet: and the stern (which was broke to pieces,
and parted from the rest, by the force of the sea, soon after I had
left rummaging of her) was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on
one side: and the sand was thrown so high on that side next her
stern, that I could now walk quite up to her when the tide was
out; whereas there was a great piece of water before, so that I
could not come within a quarter of a,mile of the wreck without
swimming. I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded
it must be done by the earthquake; and as by this violence the
ship Was more broken open than formerly, so many things came
daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and which the Winds
and water rolled by degrees to the land.BOURBON censor. . 65

This wholly diverted In thoughts from the dos' of removmg'
my habitation; and I husiyed myself mightily, may especielly,
in senrchin whether I could make any woy into the ship: but
I found no 'ngwestobeexpectedolthstkiud,foralltheinside
of the ship was choked up with sand. However, es I had learned
not to des sir ofsnything, I resolved to pull every thing to ieces
that I cou d of the ship, concluding that every thing I can get
from her would be of some use or other to me.

MAY 3. I an with my sew, end cut a piece of s beam
through, which tho ht held some of the is per pert or quer-
ter-deck together; an when I lied cut it ugh, I cleared
sway the send as well as I could from the side which ls. highest;
but the tide coming in, I was obliged togive over for that time.

MAY 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst
eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when, just going to leave
elf, I caught is young dolphin. I had made me o long line of
some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks; yet I frequently caught
fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the
sun, and etc them dry.

MAY 5. Worked on the wreck:. out another beam asunder,
and brought three greet fir planks of from the decks, which I
tied together, and mule swim on shore when the tide of flood
came on.

MAY 6. Worked on the wreck: got several iron bolts out of
her, and other pieces of iron work: worked very herd, and came
home very much tired, and lied thoughts of giv' it over.

MAY 7. Went to the wreck sgain, but not wi an intent to
work; but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down,
the beams be' cut; that several pieces of the ship seemed to
lie loose; end e inside of the hold lay so open that I could
see into it; but almost full of water and sand.

MAY 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water and
sand. I wrenched in two 'glsnks, and bro ht them on shore
also with the tide. left e iron crow in e wreck for next

ds .

{In}! 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way
into the body of the wreck, and felt several cssks, and loosened
them with the crow, but could not break them up. I felt also a
roll of English lead, and could stir it; but it was too heavy to
remove.

MAY 10 to 14. Went everymto the wreck, end gota greet
man pieces of timber, sud ho , or plank, and two or three
hundred weight of iron. _

MA! 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not out n
piece of the roll of lead, by piecing the edg'e'of one hatchet, and
driving it with the other; but as it lsy a ut_a foot end shelf
in the wster, I could not make my blow to drive the hetchet
MAY 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck'
appeared more broken by the force of the water; but I stayed
so long in the woods, to get igeons for food, that the tide pre-
vented my going to the w that day.

MAY 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at
a great distance, two miles of me, but resolved to see what they
were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for
me to bring away.

MAY 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck; and
with hard labour I loosened some things so much, with the crow,
that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of
the seamen's chests: but the wind blowing from the shore,
nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogs-
head, which had some Brazil pork in it; but the salt water and
the sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every day to the
15th of June, except the time necessary to get food; which I
always appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed
out: and by this time I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron
work, enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how:
and I also got, at several times, and in several pieces, near one
hundred weight of the sheet-lead.

JUNE 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a large tortoise,
or turtle. This was the first I had seen; which, it seems, was
on] my misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity; for
h. I ha Bened to be on the other side of the island, I mi ht
have h undreds of them every day, as I found afterwa ;
but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.

JUNE 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three-
score eggs: and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most
savoury and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life: having had
no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place.

JUNE 18. Rained all that day, and I stayed within. I thought,
at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly; which
I knew was not usual in that latitude.

ildUNE 19. Very ill, and shivering, as ifthe weather had been
co .

JUNE 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my head, and
feverish.

JUNE 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with the ap-
prehensions of m sad condition, to be sick, and no hel : prayed
to God, for the rst time since the storm ofi' Hull; ut scarce
knew what I said, or why, my thoughts bein'gfialil confused.

JUNE 22. A little better: but under drea apprehensions
of sickness.

J use 23. Very had again; cold and shivering, and then a
violent headache.

JUNE 24. Much better.
Irma 25. An ages very violent: the fit held me seven hours;
cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats alter it.

JUNE 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my
gun, but found myself very weak: however, I killed a shegoat.
and with much difllculty got it home, and broiled some of it, and
ate I would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but
had no pot. -

JUNE 27. The ague again so violent that I lay a-bed all day,
and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for thirst;
but so weak, I had not strength to stand up, or to get myself
any water to drink. Frayed to God again, but was light-headed:
and when I was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to
say: only lay and cried, Lord, look u in me! Lord, pity me!
Lord, have mercy upon me! I suppose did nothing else for two
or threehours; till the fit wearin ofl', I fell aslee , and didnot
wake till far in the night. Whenfi awoke, I than myself much
refreshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty: however, as I had
no water in m whole habitation, I was forced to lie till momin ,
and went to s esp again. In this second sleep I hadthis terrib e
dream: I thought that I was sittingon the ground, on the outside
of my wall, whereI set when the storm blew afler the earth uake,
and that I saw a man descend from a great black elou in a
bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground: he was all over
as b ' ht as a flame, so that I could but just bear to look towards
him: ' countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impos-
sible for words to describe: when he stepped upon the ground
with his feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as it had done
before in the earthquake; and all the air looked, to my appre-
hension, as if it had been filled with flashes of fire. He h no
sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved forward towards
me, with a long spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me; and
when he came to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to
me, or I heard avoice so terrible that it is impossible to express
the terror of it; all that I can say I understood, was this:
See' all these things have not brought thee to repentance,
now on shalt die; at which words, I thought he lifted up the
spear that was in his hand, to kill me. .

No one that shall ever read this account. wrll e that I
should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at ' terrible
vision; I mean, that svenwhileit was a dream, I even dreamed
of those horrors; nor is it any more possible to describe the
impression that remained upon my mind what I awaksd, and
found it was but a dream. _

I had, alas! nodivine knowledge: whatIhadrecuvedbyths
good instruction of my father was then won out, by an uninter-
rupted series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a
constant conversation with none but such as were. like myself.
wicked and profanetothe lastdegree. Idonotrsmembsrthat
I had, in all that time, one tho ht that so much as tended either
to looking upward towards G or inward towards a reflection
upon my own ways; but acertain stupidity of soul, without
desire of good, or consciousness of evil, ad entirely over--
whelmed me; and I was all that the most hardened, unthinking,
wicked creature among our common sailors, can be supposed to
be; not having the least sense. either of the fear of God, in
danger, or of thankfulness to him, in deliverancea.

in the relating'ewhat is already art of my sto , this will be
the more easily lieved, when a all add, that ugh all the
variety of miseries that had to this day befallen me, I never had
so much as one thought of its being t e hand of God, or that it
was a just punishment for my sin; either my rebellious behaviour
against my father, or my present sins, which were great; or even
as a punis ment for the general course of my wicked life. When
I was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of Africa,
I never had so much as one thought of what would become of
me; or one wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or to
keep me from the danger which apparently surrounded me, as
well from voracious creatures as cruel savages: but I was quite
thoughtless of a God or a Providence; acted like a mere brute,
from the princi les of nature, and by the dictates of common
sense only; an indeed hardly that. When I was delivered and
taken up at sea by the Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt
with justly and honourably. as well as charitably, I had not the
least thankfulness in my thoughts. When, again, I was ship~
wrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning, on this island, I
was as far from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment: 1 only
said to myself often, that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to
be always miserable.

It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found all my
ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, 1 was surprised with a
kind of ecstacy, and some transports of soul, which, had the
grace of God assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness:
but it ended where it began, in a mere common flight of joy;
or, as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the least
reflection upon the distinguished goodness of the hand which
had preserved me, and had s' led me out to be preserved
when all the rest were destroy or any in uiry why Provi-
dence had been thus merciful to me: just e same common
sort of joy which seamen enerall have, after they are got
safe ashore from a shipwrec ', whic they drown all in the next
bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over: and all
the rest of my life was like it. Even when I was, afterwards, on
due consideration, made sensible of my condition-how I was
cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out
of all hope of relief, or prospect of redem lion-as soon as I
saw but a prospect of living. and that I a cold not starve and
' h fox-hunger, all the sense ofmy amich'on woreofi, and I
m to be very :3, applied myself to the works proper for
my_ preservation supply, and was far enough from being
afiiicted at my condition, as a judgment from Heaven, or as the
band of God against me: these were thoughts which very seldom
entered into my head.

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my Journal, had,
at first, some little influence upon me, and began to sfi'ect me
with seriousness, as long as I thought it had something mira-
culous in it; but as soon as that part of the thought was re-
moved, all the im ression which was raised from it wore otl' also,
as I have noted y. Even the earthquake. though nothing
could be more terrible in its nature, or more immediately direct-
ing to the invisible Power which alone directs such thin , yet
no sooner was the fright over, but the impression it h made
went ofi' also. I had no more sense of God, or his judgments,
much less of the present afliction of my circumstances being
from his hand, than if I had been in the most rosperous con-
dition of life. But now, when I began to be sick and a leisure
view of the miseries of death came to lace itself before me;
when my spirits began to sink under e burden of a strong
distemper, and nature was exhausted with the violence of the
fever; conscience, that had slept so long, began to awake; and
l reproached myself with in past life, in which I had so evi-
dently, by uncommon wick provoked the justice of God
to lay me under uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so
vindictive a manner. These reflections oppressed me for the
second or third day of my distemper; and, in the violence as
well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience,
extorted from me some words like praying to God: though I
cannot say it was a prayer attended either with desires or with
hopes; it was rather the voice ofmere fright and distress. My
tho hts were confused; the convictions great upon my mind;
andngie horror of d ' in such a miserable condition, raised
vapours in my head wi the mere apprehension: and, in these
hurries of my soul, I knew not what my tongue might express;
but it was rather exclamation, such as, Lord, what a miserable
creature am I! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for want
of help; and what will become of me? Then the tears burst out
of my eyes, and I could say no more for a good while. In this
interval, the good advice of my father came to my mind, and
presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning of
this story, viz., that if I did take this foolish step, od would
not bless me; and I should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon
having neglected his counsel, when there might be none to assist
in my recovery. Now, said I, aloud, m dear father's words are
come to pass : God's justice has ov en me, and I have nane
to help or hear me. I rejected the voice of Providence, which
had mercifully ut me in a. station of life wherein I might have
been happy an easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor
learn from my parents to know the blessing of it. I left them
to mourn over my folly; and now I am left to mourn under the
consequences of it: I refused their help and assistance, who
would have pushed me in the world, and would have made
everything easy to me; and now I have difficulties to struggle
with, too great for even nature itself to support; and no assist-
ance, no comfort, no advice. Then I cried out, Lord, be my
help, for I am in great distress. This was the first prayer, if I
may call it so, that I had made for many years. But 1 return
to my Journal.
 

SECTION X.

HIS ancevexm--ms COMFORT IN READING THE swimwea--
MAKES AN EXCURSION INTO THE INTERIOR OF THE ISLAND.--
ronns ms "BOWER."

JUNE 28. Havintr been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had
had, and the fit being entirely 03', I got up; and though the
fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I considered
that the fit of the ague would return again the next day, and
now Was my time to get something to refresh and support my-
self When I should be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a large
square case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach
of my bed: and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the
water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed
them together. Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and
broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little. I walked about;
but was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted in
the sense of my miserable condition, dreading the return of my
distemper the next day. At night, I made my supper of three
of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we
call it, in the shell: and this was the first bit of meat I had ever
asked God's blessing to, as I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk; but found myself so weak,
that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went out without
that); so I went but a little way, and sat down upon the ground,
looking out upon the sea, which was just before me, and very
calm and smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these72 summers or

occurred to me: What is this earth and sea, of which I have
seen so much? Whence is it produced? And what am I, and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal?
Whence are we 'I Surely, we are all made by some secret power,
who formed the earth and sea, the air and sky. And who is
that? Then it followed most naturall , It is God that has made
all. Well, but then, it came on, if G has madeall these things,
he guides and governs them all, and all things that concern
them; for the power that could make all things, must certainly
have power to guide and direct them: if so, nothing can happen
in the great circuit of his works, either without his knowledge
or appointment.

And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he knows
that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition: and if nothing
happens without his appointment, he has appointed all this to
befal me. Nothing occurred to my thought, to contradict any
of these conclusions; and therefore it rested upon me with the
greatest force, that it must needs be that God had appointed all
this to beta! me; that I was brought to this miserable circum-
stance by his direction, he having the sole power, not of me only,
but of everything that happens in the world. Immediately it
followed, Why has God done this to me? What have I done to be
thus used ? My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry,
as if I had blasphemed: and methought it spoke to me like a
voice! Wretch, dost thou ask what thou hast done? Look back
upon a dreadful mispent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not
done? Ask, why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed?
Why wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads; killed in the
fight when the ship was taken by the Sallee man-of-war; de-
voured by the wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or drowned
here, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou ask
what thou hast done? I was struck dumb with these reflections,
us one astonished, and had not a word to say; no, not to answer
to myself; and, rising up pensive and sad, walked back to my
retreat, and went over my wall, as if I had been going to bed:
but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination
to sleep; so I sat down in the chair. and lighted my lamp, for it
began to be dark. Now, as the apprehension of the-return of
my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my thought,
that the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost
all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of
the chests, which was quite cured; and some also that was green,
and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt: forin this chest I found
a cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found
what I looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had
saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I men-
tioned before, and which, to this time, I had not found leisure or so
much as inclination, to look into. I say, I took it out, and
brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table. What
use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper, nor
whether it was good for it or not; but I tried several experiments
with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one wa or other. I first
took a piece of a leal; and chewed it in my mou ; which, indeed,
at first, almost stupified my brain; the tobacco being green and
strong, and such as I had not been much used to. Then I took
some and stee ed it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to
take a dose 0 it when I lay down: and lastly, I burnt some
upon a pan ofcoala, and held my nose close over the smoke of it as
long as l could bear it; as well for the heat, as almost for suffoca--
tion. In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible, and
began to read: but my head was too much disturbed by the
tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time; only, having
opened the book casually, the first words that occurred to me
were these : " Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver
thee, and thou shalt glorify me." l'hese words were very apt to
my case; and made some impression upon my thoughts at the
' time of reading them, though not so much as the did afterwards;
for, as for being delivered, the word had no so , as I may say, to
me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my apprehension
of things, that, as the children of Israel said when they were pro-
mised flesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in the wilderness?"
so I began to say, Can even God himself deliver me from this
place? And as it was not for many years that any hopes
appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts: but, how-
ever, the words made a great impression upon me, and I mused
upon them very often. It now grew late: and the tobacco had, as
I said, dosed myhead so much, that I inclined to sle : so I lefi
my lamp homing in the cave, lest I should want an ing in the
night, and went to bed. But before I lay down, I did what I
never had done in all my life: I kneeled down, and prayed to God
to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called upon him in the day
of trouble, he would deliver me. Afier my broken and imperfect
prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the
tobacco; which was so strong and rank of the tobacco, that
indeed I could scarce get it down; immediately upon this I went
to bed. I found present] the rum flew up into my head violently;
but I fell into a sound s eep. and waked no more till, by the sun,
it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon the
next day; nay, to this hour, I am artly of o inion, that I slept
all the next day and night, and ' almost t ree the day alter;
for otherwise. I know not how I should lose a day out of my
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared some years
after I had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossin
the Line. I should have lost more than one day; but certainly
lost a day in my account, and never knew which way. Be that,
however, one way or the other, when I awaked I found myself
exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful: when I
got up I was stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach
etter, for l was hungry; and, in short, I had no fit the nextday,
but continued much altered for the better. This was the 29th.

The 80th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad with
my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a seafowl or
two, something like a brand goose, and brought them home; but
was not very forward to eat them; so I ate some more of the
turtle's eggs, which were very good. This evening I renewed the
medicine, which I had supposed did me good the day before, viz.
the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so much as
before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the
smoke: however, I was not so well the next day, which was the
lst of July, as I hoped I should have been; for I had a little of
the cold fit, but it was not much.

JULY 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and dosed
myself with it as at first, and doubled the uantitylwhich I drank.

JULY 3. I missed the fit for good an% all, t ough I did not
recover my full strength for some weeks after. While I was thus
gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this
Scripture, " I will deliver thee ;" and the impossibility of my de-
liverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it:
but as I was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred
to my mind that I pored so much upon my deliverance from
the main affliction, that I disregarded the deliverance I had
received; and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such nes-
tions as these, viz. Have I not been delivered, and wonde ull ,
too, from sickness; from the most distressed condition that co d
be and that was so frightful to me? and what notice have I taken
of it? Have I done my part? God has delivered me, but I have
not glorified him; that is to say, I have not owned and been
thankful for that as a deliverance: and how can I expect a greater
deliverance? This touched my heart very much; and imme-
diately I knelt down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery
from my sickness.

J ULY 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and b ' 'ng at
the New Testament, I began seriously to read it; an imposed
upon myself to read a while every morning and eve night; not
binding in self to the number 0 chapters, but as ong as my
thoughts should engage me. It was not longi after I set seriously
to this work, that 1 found my heart more eeply and sincerely
affected with the wickedness of my past life. The impression of
my dream revived; and the words, All these thin have not
brought thee to repentance, ran seriously in my oughts. I
was earnestly begging of God to give me repentance. when it
happened Providentially, the very same day, that, reading the
scripture, came to these words, "He is exalted a Prince and:
Saviour; to give re ntance and to give remission." I threw
down the book; on with my heart as well as my hands lined up
to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of joy. I cried out aloud, Jesus,
thou son of David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour!
give me repentance! This was the first time in all mv life I could
say, in the true sense of the words, that I prayed; for now I
prayed with a sense of in condition, and with a true scripture
view of hope, founded on e encouragement of the word of God:
and from this time, I may say, I began to have hope that God
would hear me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, "Call on
me, and Iwill deliver thee," in a difierent sense from what I had
ever done before; for then I had no notion of anything being
called deliverance, but my being delivered from the captivity I was
in: for though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island
was certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the
world. But now I learned to take it in another sense: now I
looked back upon my past life with such horror, and my sins
appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothin of God but
deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down my comfort.
As for my solitary life, it was nothing; I did not so much as pray
to be delivered from it, or think of it; it was all of no consider-
ation, incom arisen with this. And I add this part here. to hint
to whoever s all read it, that whenever they come to a true sense
of things, they will find deliverance from sin a much greater
blessing than deliverance from afliicdon.

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to
my way of living, yet much easier to my mind: and my thoughts
being directed, by constantly readin the scripture and praying to
God, to things of a higher nature, had a great deal of comfort
within, which, till now, I knew nothing of; also, as my health and
strength returned, I bestirred me to furnish myself with every-
thirig that I wanted, and make my way of living as regular as I
can .

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly em loved in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a 'ttle at a
time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of
sickness : for it is hardl to be imagined how low I was, and to
what weakness I was need. The applicatiJn which I made use
of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague
before: neither can I recommend it to any one to practise, by
this experiment: and though it did carry of the fit, yet it rather
contributed to weakening me; for I had frequent convulsions in
my nerves and limbs for some time: I learned from it also this,
in particular; that beinglabroad in the rainy season was the most
pernicious thing to my ealth that could be, especially in those
rains which came attended with storms and hurricanes of wind;

for as the rain which came in the dry season was almost always
6
accompanied with such storms. so I found that this rain was much
more dangerous than the rain which fell in September and
October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months: all
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be
entirel taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human
shape ad ever set foot 11 on that place. Having secured my
habitation, as I thou ht, 1y to my mind, I had a great desire to
make a more perfect ' covery of the island. and to see what other
productions I might find, which I yet knew nothing of.

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular
survey of the island itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I
hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it
was no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh and
good: but this being the dry season, there was hardly any water
in some parts of it; at least, not any stream. 0n the banks of
this brook I found man pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain,
smooth, and covered wit grass; and on the rising parts of them,
next to the higher grounds (where the water, as it might be
supposed, never overflowed), I found a great deal of tobacco,
green, and growing to a very great and strong stalk: and there
were divers other plants, which I had no knowledge of, or under-
standing about, and that might, perhaps, have virtues of their
own, which I could not find out. I searched for the cassava root,
which the Indians, in all that climate, make their bread of ; but I
could find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not under-
stand them. I saw several sugar-canes, but wild; and, for want
of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these disco-
veries for this time'; and came back, musing with in RE what
course I might take to know the virtue and goodness ot an of the
fruits or plants which I should discover; but could bring it to no
conclusion; for, in short, I had made so little observation while
I was in the Brazils. that I knew little of the plants in the field;
at least, very little that might serve me to any purpose now in my
distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went n the same way again; and
after going somethin farther than had gone the day before, I
found the brook an the savannahs begin to cease, and the
country become more woody than before. In this part I found
different fruits; and particularly I found melons upon the ground
in great abundance, and grapes u on the trees: the vines, indeed,
had spread over the trees, and e clusters of grapes were now
just in their rime, very ripe and rich. This was a snrprisin
discovery, an I was exceedingly glad of them, but I was warn
b my experience to eat sparin 1y of them; remembering that
when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several
of our Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them into
fluxes and fevers. I found, however, an excellent use for these
grapes; and that was to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep
them as dried grapes or raisins are kept; which I thought would
he (as indeed they were) as wholesome and as agreeable to eat,
when no grapes were to be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to m habi-
tation; which, I) the way, was the first night, as I might say,
I had lain from ome. At night, I took my first contrivance,
and gotu intoatree, where! sle twell; and the next morning
proceed on my discovery, trave ' gnear four miles,as I might
Judge by the length of the valle : keeping still due north, with
a ridge of hills on the south an north sides of me. At the end
of this march I came to an opening, where the country seemed
to descend to the west; and a little spring of fresh water, which
issued out at the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that
is, due east; and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so
flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure, or flourish
of spring. that it looked like a planted garden. I descended a
little on the side of that delicious vale, surveying it with a secret
kind of pleasure (though mixed with other afllicting thoughts),
to think that this was all my own; that I was king and lord of
all this country indefensibly, and had a right of possession; and,
if I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance as completely
as any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of
cocoa-trees, and orange, lemon, and citron trees, but all wild,
and very few bearing any fruit; at least not then. However,
the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat,
but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards with
water, which made it very wholesome, and very cool and re-
freshing. I found now I had business enough, to ther and
carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as w of grapes
as limes and lemons, to furnish in self for the wet season, which
I knew was approaching. In or er to this, I gathered a great
heap of grapes in one place, a lesser heap in another place; and
a great parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking
a few of each with me, I travelled homeward; and resolved to
come again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to
carry the rest home. Accordingly, having spent three da in
this journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent an my
cave): but before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled; the rich-
ness of the fruits, and the we' ht oi the juice, having broken and
bruised them, they were g for little or nothing: as to the
limes, they were good, but I could bring onl a few. .

The next day being the 19th, I went bac having made me
two small bags to bring home my harvest; but I was surprised.
when coming to m heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine
when I gathered em, [found them all a read about, trod to
p1eces,' and dragged_ about, some gem, some ere, and abundance

G .78 auvmt ass or

eaten and devoured. Bv this I concluded there were some wild
creatures thereabouts which had done this, but what they were
I knew not. However, as I found there was no laying them up
in heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack; but that one
way they would be destroyed, and the other way they would be
crashed with their own weight; I took another course: I then
gathered a large quantity of the gra s, and hung them upon
the out-branches of the trees, that t ey might cure and dry in
the sun; and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many
back as I could well stand under.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with
great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleasant-
ness of the situation; the security from storms on that side; the
water and the wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon a
place to fix my abode in, which was by far the worst part of the
country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of removing my
habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe as where I
wins now situate; if possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the
is and.

This thought ran long in my head; and I was exceeding fond
of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me:
but when I came to a nearer View of it, I considered that I was
now by the seaside, where it was at least ossible that some-
thing might happen to my advantage, and, by the same ill-fate
that brought me hither, might bring some other unhappywretches
to the same place; and though it was scarce probable that any
such thing should ever happen. yet to enclose myself among the
hills and woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my
bondage, and to render such an affair not only improbable, but im-
possible; and that therefore I ought not by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much
of my time there for the whole remaining part of the month of
July; and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved, as above
stated, not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a bower,
and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence, being a
double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked, and filled
between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure sometimes
two or three nights together; always going over it with a ladder,
as before: so that I fancied now I had my country and my sea-

. coast house. This work took me up till the beginning of August.

1 had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my
labour, when the rains came on, and made me stick close to my
first habitation: for though I had made a tent like the other,
with a piece of sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the
shelter of a hill to keep me from atoms, nor a cave behind me
to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my
bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3d of August, I found
the apes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed were
ex lent good raisins of the sun; sol began to take them down
from the trees; and it was very ha py that I did so, as the rains '
which followed would have spoiled) them, and I should have lost
the best part of my winter food; for I had above two hundred
lugs bunches of them. No sooner had I taken them all down,
an carried most ,of them home to my cave, but it began to rain:
and from hence, which was the 14th of August, it rained, more
or less, every day till the middle of October; and sometimes so
violently, that I could not stir out of my cave for several days.

In this season, I was much surprised with the increase of my
family. lhad been concerned for the loss of one of my cats,
who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead; and L
heard no more of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home
with three kittens. This was the more strange to me, because,
about the end of August, though I had killed a wild cat, as 1
called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was quite a difi'erent kind
from our European cats: yet the oung cats were the same kind
of house-breed as the old one; and both of my cats being females,
I thought it very strange. But from these three, I afierwards
came to be so pestered with cats that I was forced to kill them
like vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my house
as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain; so that
I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet.
In this confinement, I began to be straitened for food; but ven-
turing out twice', I one day killed a goat, and the last day,
which was the 24th, found a very large tortoise, which was a
treat to me. My food was now regulated thus; I ate a bunch
of raisins for my breakfast; a iece of the goat's flesh, or of the
turtle, broiled, for my dinner ( or, to my great misfortune, I had
no vessel to boil or stew anything;) and two or three of the
turtle's eggs for m supper.

During this con ement in my cover from the rain, I worked
dail two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and by degrees
wor ed it on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the
hill; and made a door, or way out, which came beyond my fence
or wall; and so I came in and out this wuss. ut I was not
perfectly easy at lying so open: for as I h managed myself

efore, was in a pe act enclosure; whereas now, I thought I
lay exposed; and yet I could not perceive that there was any
living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had as yet seen
upon the island being a goat. _

SEPTEMBER. 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary
of my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and found I
had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept
this day as a solemn fast! setting it apart for religious cleanse,
prostrating myself on the ground with the most serious humilia-
tion, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging his righteous
judgments upon me, and fraying to him to ave mercy on me
through Jesus Christ; an having not tasted the least refresh-
ment for twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun, I
then ate a. biscuit and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finish-
ing the day as I began it. I had all this time observed no sabbath~
day; for as at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I
had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making
a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-day, and so did not
really know what any of the days were: but now having cast up
the days, as above, I found I had been there a year; so I divided
it into weeks, and set apart every seventh dav for a sabbath:
though I found, at the end of my account, I had lost a day or two
in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning to fail me,
I contented myself to use it more sparingly; and to write down
only the most remarkable events of my life, without continuing
a daily memorandum of other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear
regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for
them accordingly; but I bought all my experience before I had
it; and what I am going to relate, was one of the most dis-
couraging experiments that I had made at all.

I have mentioned that I had saved a few ears of barley, and
rice, which I had so surprisingly found sprung up, as I thought,
of themselves. I believe there were about thirty stalks of rice,
and about twenty of barley; and now I thought it a proper time
to sow it after the rains; the sun being in its southern position,
going from me. Accordingly Idug apiece of ground, as well as
I could, with my wooden spade; and dividing it into two parts,
I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to
my thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I did
not know when was the proper time for it; so I sowed about two-
thirds of the seed, leaving about a handful of each: and it was
a. great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain
of what I sowed this time came to anything; for the dry month
following, and the earth having thus had no rain after the seed
was sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and never
came up at all till the wet season had come again, and then
it grew as if it had been but newly sown. Finding my first
seed did not grow, which I easily imagined was from the
drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground to make
another trial in; and I dug up a piece of ground near my new
bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little
before the vernal equinox. This having the rainy months of
March and April to water it, sprung u very pleasantly, and
yielded a very good crop; but having 0 y part of the seed left,
and not daring to sow all that I had, I got at a small quanti
at last, my whole crop not amounting to above half a peek of
kind. But by this experiment I was made master of my business,
and knew exactly when was the proper time to saw; and that I
might expect two seed-times, and two harvests, every year.

While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery, which
was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over,
and the weather began to settle, which was about the month of
November, I made a. visit up the country to my bower; where,
though I had not been for some months, yet I found all things
just as I had left them. The circle or double hedge that I had
made was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I had
cut out of some trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot out
and grown with long branches, as much as a willow-tree usually
shoots the first year after lopping its head; but I could not tell
what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from. I was sur-
prised, and vet very well pleased, to see the young trees grow;
and l pruned them, and led them to grow as much alike as I could:
and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in
three years: so that, though the hedge made a circle of about
twenty--live yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now
call them, soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufficient
to lodge under all the dry season. This made me resolve to cut
some more stakes, and make me ahedge like this, in a semicircle
round my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which I did:
and placing the trees or stakes in a. double row, at about eight
yards distance from my first fence, they grew presently; andwere
at first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for
a defence also; as I shall observe in its order.
 

SECTION Kl.

ROBINSON MAKES A TOUR. T0 EXPLORE HIS ISLAND--EMPLOYED
' IN BASKET-MAKING.

I Fouxn now that the seasons of the year might generally be
divided, not into summer and winter as in Europe, but into the
rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were generally thus:
From the middle of February to the middle of April, rainy; the
sun being then on or near the equinox. From the middle of April
till the middle of August, dry; the sun being then north of the
Line. From the middle of August till the middle of October,
rain ; the sun being then come back to the Line. From the
mid 1e of October till the middle of February, dry; the sun being

then to the south of the Line.
The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes

shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this was the general
observation I made. After I had found, by experience, the ill
consequences of being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish
myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to
go out; and I sat within doors as much as possible during the
wet months. This time I found much employment, and very
suitable also to the time; for I found great occasion for many
things which I had no way to furnish myself with but by hard
labour and constant application: particularly, I tried many ways
to make myself a basket: but all the twigs I could get for the
purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It proved
of excellent advantage to me now. that when I was a boy,
I used to take great delight in standing at a basket--maker's in the
town where my father lived, to see them make their wicker-ware;
and being, as boys usually are, very oflicious to help, and a great
observer of the manner how they worked those things, and some-
times lending a hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the30303803 CBUBOI. 83

methods of it, so that I wanted nothin but the materials; when
it came into my mind, that the twig's oft attreefrom whence I cut
my stakes that grew might possi ly be as "till a the sallows,
Willows, and osiers, in England; and Iresolv to . Accord-
ingly, the next day, I went to my country-house," I called it; and
cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as
much as I could desire: whereupon I came the next time pre-
pared with a hatchet to out down a quantity, which I soon found,
for there was great plenty of them. These I set up to dry within
my circle or hedge: and when they were fit for use, I carried them
to my cave: and here, during the next season, I empio ed myself
in making, as well as I could, several baskets; to carry
earth, or to carry or lay up anything as I had occasion for.
Though I did not finish t em very han somely, yetI made them
suficiently serviceable for my purpose: and thus, afterwards, I
took care never to be without them; and as my wicker-ware
decayed, I mademore; especial] strong deep baskets, to place
my corn in, instead of sacks, w en I should come to have any
quantity of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of time
about it, I bestin'ed myself to see, if ossi le, how to supply
two other wants. I had no vessel to old anything that was
liquid, exce t two runlets, which were almost full of rum; and
some glass ttles, some of the common size, and others (which
were case bottles) square, for the holding of waters, spirits, &c.
I had not so much as a pot to boil anything; except a great
kettle, which I saved out of the ship, and which was too big for
such use asI desired it, viz. to make broth, and stew a bit of meet
by itself. The second thing I would fain have had, was a tobacco--

ipe; but it was impossible for me to make one; however, I
ound a contrivance for that too at last. I employed myself in
planting 3y second row of stakes or piles, and also in this wicker-
working the summer or dry season; when another-business took
me up more time than it could be imagined I could spare.

I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the whole
island; and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to
where I had built my bower, and where I had an openin quite to
the sea, on the other side of the island. I now resolv to travel
quite across-to the seashore, on that side: so taking my , a
hatchet, and my dog, and a la er quantity of powder an shot
than usual; with two biscui es, and a great bunch of raisins
in my pouch, for my store; I began my journey. When I had
passed the vale where my bower stood, as above, I came within
view of the sea, to the west; and it being a very clear day, I
fairly descried land, whether an island or continent I could not
tell; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W. S.W. at a
very great distance; by my guess, it could not be less than fitteen
or twenty leagues 0E
I could not tell what part of the world this might be; otherwise
than that I knew it must be part of America; and, as I concluded,
by all my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions;
and perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should
have landed, I had been in aworse condition than I was now. I
therefore acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence, which I
began now to own and to believe ordered everythin for the best;
I say, I uieted my mind with this, and left ofl' aeicting myself
with frui ess wishes of beipg there. Besides, after some pause
upon this affair, I consider that if this land was the Spanish
coast, 1 should certainly, one time or other, see some vessel pass
or repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the savage
coast between the Spanish country and the Brazils, whose inhabi-
tants are indeed the worst of savages ; for they are cannibals, or
men--eaters, and fail not to murder and devour all human beings
that fall into their hands.

With these considerations, walking very leisure] forward, I

found this side of the island, where I now was, muc pleasanter
than mine; the open or savannah fields sweetly adorned with
flowers and grass. and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance
of parrots; and fain would have caught one, if possible, to have
kept it to be tame, and taught it to. speak to me. I did, after
taking some pains, catch a young arrot; for I knocked it down
with a stick, and, having recover it, I brought it home; but it
was some years before I could make him speak; however, at
last I taught him to call me by my name very familiarly. But the
accident that followed, though it be a trifle, will be very diverting
in its place.
I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in the low
ounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes: but they
ffered greatly from all the other kinds I had met with ; nor
could I satisf myself to eat them, though I killed several. But
I had no ne to be venturous : for I had no want of food, and of
that which was very good too; especially these three sorts, viz.
goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise. With these, added to my
grapes, Leadenhall-market could not have furnished a table
better than I, in prOportion to the company; and though my case
was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness;
as I was not driven to any extremities for food, but had rather
plenty, even to dainties.

I never travelled on this journey above two miles outright in a
day, or thereabout; but I took so many turns and returns to see
what discoveries I could make, that I came weary enough to the
place where I resolved to sit down for the night; and then I either
reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of
stakes, set upright in the ground, either from one tree to
another, or so as no wild creature could come at me without
waking me. -
As soon as I came to the sea--shore, I was surprised to see that
I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island: for here
indwd the shore was covered with innumerable turtles; whereas.
on the other side, I had found but three in a year and a half.
Here was also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some of
which I had seen, and some of which I had not seen before, and
many of them very meat; but such as I knew not the names
of, except those ed penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of
my powder and shot; and therefore had more mind to kill a she-
goat, if I could, which I could better feed on. But, though there
were many goats here, more than on my side the island, yet it was
with much more difficulty that I could come near them; the
coun being flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than
when was upon a hill.

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than
mine; yet I had not the least inclination to remove; for as I was
fixed in my habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all
the while I was here to be as it were upon a journey, and from
home. However, I travelled along the seashore towards the
east, I suppose about twelve miles; and then setting up a great
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I would 0 home
again; and that the nextjourney I took should be on t e other
side of the island, east from my dwelling, and so round till I came
to my post again : of which in its lace.

I took another way to come bac than that I went, thinking I
could easily keep so much of the island in my view, that I could
not miss my first dwelling by viewing the country: but I found
myself mistaken; for being come about two or three miles, I
found myself descended into a very large valley, but so sur-
rounded with hills, and those hills covered with wood, that I could
not see which was my way by any direction but that of the sun,
nor even then, unless I knew very well the position of the sun at
that time of the day. And it happened to my farther misfortune,
that the weather proved hazy for three or four days while I was
in this valley; and not being able to see the sun, I wandered
about very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged to find out the
seaside, look for my post, and come back the same we I went;
and then by easy journeys I turned homeward, the west er being
exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other
things very heavy. '

<<Sh
 

SECTION X [1.

NB RETURNS TO HIS CAVE--HIS AGRICULTURAL LADOURS AND
- SUCCESS.

IN this journey, my dog surpriseda young kid, and seized upon
it: and running to take hold of it, I caught it, and saved it alive
from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could; for
I had often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a
kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply
me when my powder and shot should be all spent. I made a collar
for this little creature, and with a string which I had made
of some rope-yarn, which I always carried about me, I led him
along, though with some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and
there I enclosed him and left him; for I was very impatient to be
at home, from whence I had been absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into
my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock bed. This little
wandering journey, without a settled place of abode, had been so
unpleasant to me, that my own house, as 1 called it to myself, was
a perfect settlement to me, compared to that; and it rendered
everything about me so comfortable, that I resolved I would
never go a great way from it again, while it should be my lot to
sta on the island.

reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after
my long journey: during which, most of the time was taken up in
the weighty afl'air of making a cage for my Poll, who began now
to be more domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me.
Thellbeganto thinkofthepoorkidwhichl hadpennedwithin
my little circle, and resolved to fetch it home, or give it some food:
accordingly I went, and found it where I lefi it (for indeed it could
not get out) but was almost starved for want of food. I went and
cut boughs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could find,
and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to
lead it away; but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no
need to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog: and as I
continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle, and so
fond, that it was from that time one of my domestics also. and
would never leave me afierwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and
I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as
before, being the anniversary of my landing on the island; having
now been there two C/ynears, and no more prospect of being deli-
vered than the first y I came there. I spent the whole day in
humble and thankful acknowl cuts for the man wonderful
mercies which my solitary con ition was atten with, and
without which it might have been infinitely more miserable. I
gave humble and hearty thanks to God for having been pleased
to discover to me, that it was possible I might be more hep y
even in this solitary condition, than I should have been in t e
enjoyment of society, and in all the leasures of the world;
that he could fully make up to me the eficiencies of my solitary
state, and the want of human society, by his presence, and the
communications of his grace to my soul; supporting, comforting,
and encouraging me to depend upon his providence here, and to
hope for his eternal resence hereafter.

It was now that I sensibly to feel how much more ha py
the life I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, an
the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the sat part of my
days: and now I changed both my sorrows an my joys: my
very desires altered, my afi'ections changed their gusts, and my
delights were perfectly new from what they were at my first
coming, or indeed for the two years past. Before, as I walked
about, either on my huntin , or for viewing the country, the
anguish of my soul at my con 'tiou would break out upon me on
a sudden, and my very heart would die'within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in; and how I was a
prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean,
m an uninhabited wilderness, without redem tion. In the midst
of the greatest composures of my mind, t is would break out
n 2: me like a storm, and make me wring my hands and weep
lik: a child : sometimes it would take me in the middle of my
work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon
the ground for an hour or two together: this was still worse to
me; butifI could burst into tears, or give vent to my feelings58 ' sums-mam or

b words, it would go off; and my grief being exhausted, would
a te.

But now I began to exercise in self with new thoughts; I daily
read the word of God, and app ied all the comforts of it to my
present state. One morning, being very sad, I opened the Bible
upon these words, "I will never leave the, nor forsake thee :"
immediately it occurred that these words were to me; why else
should they be directed in such a manner, just at the moment
when l was mourning over my condition, as one forsaken of God
and man? Well then, said I, if God does not forsake me, of what
ill consequence can it be, or what matters it, though the world
should forsake me; seeing, on the other hand, if I had all the
world, and should lose the favour and blessing of God, there
would be no comparison in the loss?

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was
possible for me to be more ha py in this forsaken, solitary con-
dition, than it was probable I should ever have been in any other
particular state of the world; and with this thought I was going
to give thanks to God for bringing me to this lace. 1 know not
what it was, but something shocked my min at that thought,
and l durst not speak the words. How canst thou be such a
hypocrite, said I, even audibly, to pretend to be thankful for a
condition, which, however thou mayest endeavour to be con-
tented with, thou wouldest rather pra heartily to be delivered
from? Here I stopped; but though lcould not say I thanked
God for being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for
opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting providences, to see the
former condition of my life, and to mourn for m wickedness, and
repent. I never opened the Bible, or shut it, at my very soul
within me blessed God fordirecting my friend in England, without
any order of mine, to pack it up amon my goods; and for
assisting me afterwards to save it out of t e wreck of the ship.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year;
and though I have not given the reader the trouble of so par-
ticular an account of my works this year as the first, yet in
general it may be observed, that I was very seldom idle; but
having regularly divided my time, according to the several daily
employments that were before me; such as, first, My duty to
God, and the reading the Scri tures, which Iconstantly set apart
some time for, thrice every y: secondly. Going abroad with
my gun for food, which generally took me up three hours every
morning, when it did not rain: thirdly, Ordering, curing, pre-
serving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for my su ply;
these took up eat part of the day; also it is to be consi ered, .
that in the mi die of the day, when the sun was in the zenith,
the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that about
four hours in the evening was all the time I could be supposed
to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my
hours ofhnnting and wo ' , and went to work in the morning,
and abroad with my gun in e afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may he added
the exceeding laborionsness of my work; the many hours whichI
for want of tools, want of help, and want of shill,everythin I did
took up out of my time: for example, I was full two an forty
days making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my
cave; whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit,
would have out six of them out of the same tree in halfa day.

My case was this; it was a large tree that was to be cut down,
because my boardwas to beabroad one. This tree [was three
do a cutting down, and two more in cutting ofi' the bougbs, and

cing it to a log, or iece of timber. With inexpressible
hacking and hewing, I r need both the sides of it into chips,
till it was light enough to move; then I turned it, and made one
side of it smooth and flat as a board, from end to end; then
turning that side downward, cut the other side, till I brought the
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.
Any one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece of
work; but labour and patience carried me through that, and
many other things: I only observe this in particular, to show
the reason why so much of my time went away with so little
work, viz. that what might be a little to be done with help and
tools, was a vast labour, and required a rodigious time to do
alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding t 's, with atience and
labour 1 went through many things; and, ind , everyth'i'xifi
that my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as '
appear by what follows.

was now in the mouths of November and December, expect-
mg my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or
dug up for them was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of
each was not above the quantity of half a peck, having lost one
whole crop by sowin in the dry season: but now my crop
promised very well; w en, on a sudden,l found [was in danger
of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was
scarce possible to it from it; as, first, the goats, and wild
creatures which 1 "Higher", who, tasting the sweetness of the
blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it
so close, that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk.

I saw no remed for this, but by making an enclosure about
it with a hedge, w ich I did withagreat deal of toil; and the
more, because it ranked speed. However, as my arable land
was but small. sui to my cro , I got it tolerably well fenced
in gramme wIeeks' tins; an shootin solute oflt'he creatumr:
in e ' e, setmy ogtoguarditm eniggtying '
up to a risk"; at the gate, where he would stand and bark all
night long; so in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and

thammgrewverysuongmdwdbmdbegmtofipenapam,
But as the beasts mined me before, while my corn was in tno
blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was
in the ear; for going along by the lace to see how it throve, I
saw my little crop surrounded wit fowls, I know not of how
many sorts, who stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone.
I immediately let fly among them (for I always had in gun with
me); I had no sooner shot, but there rose up a lit e cloud of
fowls, which I had not seen at all. from among the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in afew days they
would devour all my hopes; that I should be starved, and never
be able to raise a crop at all; and what to do I could not tell:
however, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
should watch it night and day. In the first place, I went among
It, to see what damage was already done, and found they had
spoiled a good deal of it; but that as it was yet too green for
them, the loss was not so great, but that the remainder was
likely to be a. good crop, if it could be saved.

I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I could
easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if
they only waited till 1 was gone away; and the event proved it
to be so: for as I walked oil', as if gone, I was no sooner out of
their sight, than they dropped down, one by one, into the corn
again. I was so provoked, that I could not have patience to
stay till more came on, knowing that every grain they ate now
was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the consequence;
so coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them.
This was what I wished for; so I took them up, and served them
as we serve notorious thieves in England, viz. hanged them in
chains, for a terror to others. It is impossible to imagine that
this should have such an effect as it had; for the fowls not only
never came to the corn, but, in short, they forsook all that part
of the island, and I could never see a bird near the lace as long
as my scarecrows hung there. This I was very gl of, you may
be sure; and about the latter and of December, which was our
second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.

I was sadly put to it for a. scythe or sickle to cut it down: and
all I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of one of
the broad swords, or cutlasscs, which I saved among the arms
out of the ship. However, as my first crop was but small, I had
no great difficulty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way,
for I cut nothing ofi' but the ears, and carried it away in a great
basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands;
and at the end of all my harvesting, I found that out of my half
geek of seed I had near two bushels of rice, and above two

ushels and a half of barley; that is to say, by my guess, for I
had no measure.

However, this was great encouragement to me; and I foresaw
that, in time, it would please God to supply me with bread; and3031860" 030305. 9]

yet here I was perplexed again; for I neither knew how to grind,
or make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and art it;
nor if made into meal, how to make bread of it; and if ow to
make it, yet I knew not how to bake it: these things being added
to my desire of having a good quantity for store, and to secure
a constant su ply, I resolved not to taste any of this cro , but to
preserve it for seed against the next season ; and, in t e mean
time, to emploiall my study and hours of working to accomplish
this great war of providing myself with corn and bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It is
a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought
much upon, viz. the strange multitude of httle things necessary
in the providing, producing, curing, dressing, ' ,and finish-
ing this one article of bread. I, hat was redn to a mere
state of nature, found this to my daily discouragement, and was
made more sensible of it .every hour, even after I had got the
first handful of seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up unex-
pectedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or
shovel to dig it: well, this I conquered, by makin a wooden
spade, as I observed before; but this did my wor in but a
wooden manner; and though it cost me a great many days to
make it. yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the sooner,
but made my work the harder, and performed it much worse.
However, this I bore with, and was content to work it out with
patience, and bear with the badness of the performance. When
the corn was sown, I had no barrow, but was forced to go over it
myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch
it, as it may be called, rather than rake or barrow it. When it
was growing and grown, I have observed already how many
things I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure and
carry it home, thresh, part it from the chaff, and save it: then I
wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it: yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; and yet all these
things I did without, as shall be observed; and the corn was an
inestimable comfort and advan to me: all this, as I said,
made everythin laborious and 'ons to me, but that there was
no help for; neither was my time so much loss to me, because,
as I had divided it, a certain part of it was every da appointed
to these works; and as I resolved to use none of e corn for
bread till I had a greater luanti by me, I had the next six
months to a ply myself w olly, y labour and invention, to
furnish myse with utensils proper for the performing all the
operations necessary for making corn fit for my use.92 Apvr-tx'runm or

 

SECTION XI ll.

HIS MANUFACTURE OF POTTERY, AND CONTRIVANCI'} FOR BAKING
BREAD.

BUT now I was to prepare more land; for I had seed enough
to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's
work at least to make me a spade; which, when it was done,
was but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required double
labour to work with it: however, I went through that, and
sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my
house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in with
a good hedge; the stakes of which were all cut off that wood
which I had set before, and knewit would grow ; so that, in one
year's time, I knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that
would want but little repair. This work took me up full three
months; because a great part of the time was in the wet season,
when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that is, when it
rained, and I could not go out, I found employment on the
lbllowing occasions; always observing, that while I was at work,
I diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to
speak;'and I quickly taught him to know his own name, and at
last to speak it out pretty loud, Poll; which was the first word
I ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my own.
This, therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work;
for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my hands. as
follows: I had long studied, by some means or other, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted much, but
knew not where to come at them: however, considering the heat
of the climate, I (lid not doubt but if I could find out any clay, I
might botch up some such pot as might, being dried in the sun,
be hard and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold any-
thing that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was
newssary in the re aring corn, meal,&c. which was the thing I
was upon, I reso v to make some as la e as I could, and lit
only to stand like jars, to hold what shoul be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward wa s I took to raise this pastil; what odd,
misshapen, ugly things made; how many of them fell in, and
how mun fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own
weight; ow many cracked b the over violent heat of the sun,
being set out too hastily; an how many fell in pieces with only
removing, as well before as alter they were dried ; and, in a word.
how, after having laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to
temper it, to bring it home, and work it, I could not make above
two large earthen ugly things (I cannot call them jars) in about
two months' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I
lified them very gently up, and set them down again in two great
wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for them, that they
might not break; and as between the pot and the basket there
was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley
straw; and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought
would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn
was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large ots, et 1
made several smaller things with better success; on as 'ttle
round pots. flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and anything m
hand turned to; and the heat of the sun baked them very aid:

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an
earthen pot to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which none of these
could do. It happened some time after, making a pretty large
fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out after I had
done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware
vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, andred as a tile. I was
agreeably surprised to see it; and said to myself. that certainly
they might be made to burn whole, it they would burn broken.

This set me to stud how to order my fire, so as to make it
burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the posters
burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though 1 had some ead to
do it with; but I placed three large pipkins and two or three
pots in a pile, one upon another, and placed my fire-wood all
round it, with a great heap of embers un er them. I plied the fire
with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the

ate in the inside red-hot quite through, and observed that they

'd not crack at all: when I saw them clear red, I let them stand

in that heat about five or six hours, till 1 found one of them,

though it did not crack. did melt or run; for the sand which was

mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the heat, and would

'iave run into glass. if I had gonenon; so I slacked my fire gradu~
u
ally, till the ots began to abate of the red colour; and watching
them all nig t, that I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the
morning I had three very good, I will not say handsome, ipkins,
and two other earthen ots. as hard burnt as could be desired;
and one of them perfec y glazed with the running of the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of
earthenware for my use: but I must needs say, as to the shapes
of them, they were very indifferent, as any one may suppose, as
I had no way of making them but as the c ildren make dirt pies,
or as a woman would make pics that never learned to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine,
when I found I had made an earthen pot that would hear the
tire; and I had hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before
I set one on the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me some
meat. which it did admirabl well; and with a piece of a kid I
made some very good brot ; though I wanted oatmeal, and
several other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would
have had it been.

My next concern was to get a stone mortar to stamp or heat
some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving
to that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To supplv this
want I was at a great loss; for, of all trades in the world,I was
as perfectl unqualified for a stonecutter as for any whatever;
neither ha I any tools to go about it with. I spent many a day
to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow, and make fit
lor a mortar; but could find none at all, except what was in the
solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out; nor,
indeed, were the rocks in the island of sufiicient hardness, as they
were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would neither bear
the weight ot'a heavy pestle, nor would break the corn without
filling it with sand: so, after a great deal of time lost in search-
ing for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a great
block of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; and
gettimr one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and
forme it on the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then,
with the help of the fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place
in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I
made a great heavy pestle, or heater, of the wood, called iron-
wood: and this I prepared and laid by against I had my next
crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather
pound, my corn into meal. to make my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, to dress in
meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk, without whic
I did not see it possible I could have any bread. This was a
most difficult thing, even but to think on ; for I had nothing like
the necessary thing to make it; I mean fine thin canvass or
stufi', to search the meal through. Here I was ata full stop for
many months; nor did I really know what to do: linen I had
none left. but what was mere rags ; I had goats' hair, but neither
knew how to weave it nor spin it; and had I known how, here
were no tools to work it with : all the remedy I found for this
was, at last recollecting I had, among the seamen's clothes which
were saved out of the ship, some neckeloths of calico or muslin,
with some pieces of these I made three small sieves, proper
enough for the work; and thus I made sbifl: for some years:
how I did afierwards, I shall show in its place.

The baking gut was the next thing to be considered, and how
lshould make read when I came to have corn: for, first, I had no
yeast: as to that lpart, there was no supplying the want, so I did
not concern myse I much about it; but foran oven I was indeed
puzzled. At length I found out an expedient for that also, which
was this; I made some earthen vessels, very broad, but not
deep, that is to say, about two feet diameter, and not above nine
inches deep: these I burned in the fire, as I had done the other,
and laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great
fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles,
of my own makin and burning also; but I should not call them
square. When t e firewood was burned into embers, or live
coals, I drew them forward upon the hearth, so as to cover it all
over, and there let them lie till the hearth was very hot; then
sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves,
and covering them with the earthen pot, drew the embers all
round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley
loaves, and became, in a. little time, a good pastrycook into the
bargain; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the
rice; but made no pies, as Ihad nothing to put into them except
the flesh of fowls or goats.

It need not he wondered at, if all these things took me up
most part of the third year of my abode here; for, it is to be
observed, in the intervals of these things, I had my new harvest
and husbandry to manage: I reaped m com in its season, and
carried it home as well as I could, and aid it up in the ear, in
my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out; for I had no floor
to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it with.

degAnd now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted
to build my barns bigger: I wanted a place to lay it up in; for
the increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had of
the barley about twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more,
insomuch that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for my
bread had been quite no a t while: I resolved also to see
what quantity would I): an cient for me a whole year, and to
sow but once a year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and
rice were much more than I could consume in a year; so I
resolved to sow just the same quantity eve year that I sowed
the last, in hopes that such a quantity won d hilly provide me
with bread. &c.
 

SECTION XIV.

MEDI'I'ATFS HIS ESCAPE FROM THE ISLAND.--BUII.DS A CANOE.--
FAIIJJRE 0F IIIS SCHEME--RESIGNATION TO HIS CONDITION.--
MAKHS HIMSELF A NEW DRESS.

ALL the while these things were doing, you ma be sure my
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of Ian which I had
seen from the other side of' the island; and I was not without
some secret wishes that I was on shore there; fancying, that
seeing the main land, and an inhabited country,l might find
some way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at last
find some means of escape.

But all this while [made no allowance for the dangers of such
a condition, and that I might fall into the hands of savages, and
perhaps such as I might have reason to think far worse than the
lions and tigers of Africa; that if I once came in their power, I
should run a hazard of more than a. thousand to one of bei'hg
killed, and perhaps of being eaten; forI had heard that the
people of the Carribean coast were cannibals, or man-eaters;
and I knew, by the latitude, that I could not be far off from that
shore. 'I'hen supposing they were not cannibals, yet that they
might kill me, as they had many Europeans who had fallen into
their hands, even when they have been ten or twenty together;
much more I, who was but one, and could make little or no
defence; all these things, I say, which I ought to have con-
sidered well of, and did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, took
up none of my apprehensions at first; yet my head ran mightily
upon the thought of getting. over to the shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the
shoulder-of--mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand
miles on the coast of Africa: butthis was in vain: then I thought
I would go and look at our ship's boat, which, as I have said,
was blown up upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we
were first cast away. She lay nearly w ere she did at first, but
notquite; having turned, by t e force of the waves and the winds,
almost bottom upward, against a high ridge of beachy rough
sand; but no water about her, as before. If I had had hands to
have refitted her, and to have launched her into the water, the
boat would have done very well, and I might have ne back
into the Brazils with her easily enough; but I might ave fore-
seen that I could no more turn her and set her up ' ht upon her
bottom, than I could remove the island: however, went to the
woods, and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to the boat,
resolving to trywhat I could do; suggesting to myselfi that if I
could but turn her down, and repair the damage she had received,
she would be a very good boat, and I might venture to sea in her.

I spared no pains. indeed, in this iece of fruitless toil, and
spent, I think, three or four weeks a out it: at last, finde it
impossible to heave her up with my little strength, I fell to ' -
ging away the sand, to undermine her, and so as to make her
all down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide her ' ht
in the fall. But when I had done this, I was unable to stir er
up again, or to get under her, much less to move her forward
towards the water; so I was forced to give it over: and yet,
though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture
over the main increased, rather than diminished, as the means
for it seemed impossible.

At length, I began to think whether it was not possible w
make myself a canoe, or eriagua, such as the natives of those
climates make, even wi out tools, or, as Imight say, without
hands, of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thou ht
possible, but eas , and pleased myself extremely with the i es
of making it, an with my having much more convenience for it
than any of the Negroes or Indians; but not at all considering
the particular inconvenienws which I lay under more than the
Indians did, viz. the want of hands to move it into the water
when it was made, a difficulty much harder for me to surmount
than all the cons uences of want of tools could be to them: for
what could it av ' me, if; after I had chosen my tree, and with
much trouble cut it down, and might be able with my tools to
hew and dub the outside into the pro r shape of a boat, and
burn or cut out the inside to make it ollow, so as to make a
boat of it--if, after all this, I must leave it just where I found
it, and was not able to launch it into the water?

One would imagine, if I had had the least reflection u n m
mindofmycircumstances whflelwasmakmgthismagI98 anvaswass or

should have immediately thought how I was to get it into the
sea: but my thoughts were so intent upon my vo age in it, that
I never once considered how 1 should get it of the land; and it
was really, in its own nature, more easy for me to guide it over
forty-five miles of sea, than the forty-five fathoms of land,
where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever
man did, who had an of his senses awake. I pleased myself
with the design, without determinin whether I was able to
undertake it; not but that the diffic ty of launching my boat
came often into In head; but I ut a stop to my own inquiries
into it, by this foo ish answer: t us first make it; I warrant
I will find some way or other to get it along when it is done.

This was a most pre osterous method; but the eagerness of
my fancy prevailed, an to work I went. I felled a cedar tree,
and I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for
the building of the Temple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten
inches diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, where it
lessened and then parted into branches. It was not without in-
finite labour that I felled this tree; I was twenty days hacking
and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it, cut ofl': after this,
it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a pro ortion, and
to something like the bottom of a boat, that it mig t swim up-
right as it on ht to do. It cost me near three months more to
clear the insi e, and work it out so as to make an exact boat oi
it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel,
and by the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to he a very
handsome periogua, and big enough to have carried six-and-
twenty men, and consequently big enough to have carried me
and all my cargo.

When 1 had gone through this work, I was extremely delighteo
with it. The boat was really much bigger than ever I saw a
canoe or a periagua that was made of one tree, in my life. Many
a Weary stroke it had cost. you may be sure; and there remained
nothing but to et it into the water; which, had] accomplished,
i make no question butl should have begun the maddest voyage,
and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; though
they cost me inexpressihle labour too. It lay about one hundred
yards from the water, and not more; but the first inconvenience
was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this
discouragement, I resolved to di into the surface of the earth,
and so make a declivity; this I an, and it cost me a pro-
digious deal of pains; (but who grudge pains that have their
de 'verance in view?) when this was worked through, and this
difficulty managed, it was still much the same, for 1 could no
more atir'the canoe than I could the other boat. Then I measured
the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a dock, or canal, to
bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the
canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work; and when
I began to enter upon it, and calculate how deep it was to be
dug, how broad, how the stud" was to be thrown out, I found by
the number of hands I had, having none but my own, that it
must have been ten or twelve ears before I could have gone
through with it; for the shore fly so high, that at the upper
end it must have been at least twenty feet deep; this attempt,
though with great reluctancy, I was at length obliged to give
over also.

This 'eved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the
folly of ' ning a work before we count the coat, and before
we judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this
place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and
with as much comfort as before; for, by a constant study and
serious application to the word of God, and by the assistance of
his grace, I gained a different knowledge from what I had before;
I entertained different notions of things; I looked now upon the
world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no ex-
pectation from, and, indeed, no desires about: in a word, I had
nothing to do with it, nor was ever likely to have; I thought it
looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I
had lived in, but was come out of it; and well might I say, as father
Abraham to Dives, " Between me and thee is a great gulf fixed."

In the first place, I was here removed from all the wickedness of
the world; I had neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye,
nor the pride of life. I had nothing to covet, for I had all that
I was now capable of enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor;
or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over the
whole country which I had possession of ; there were no rivals; I
had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command
with me: I might have raised ship-loadings of corn, but I had
no use for it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my
occasion. I had tortoise or turtle enough, but now and then
one was as much as I could put to an use; I had timber enough
to have built a fleet of ships; and I ad grapes enough to have
made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have loaded that
fleet when it had been built.

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable: I had
enough to eat and supply my wants, and what was the rest to
me? If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat
it, or vermin; if I sowed more com than I could eat, it must be
spoiled; the trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the
ground; I could make no more use of them than for fuel, and
that I had no other occasion for but to dress my food.100 anvmuaas or

In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to
me, u on just reflection, that all the good things of this world
are 0 no farther good to us than for our use; and that whatever
we may heap up to give others, we enjoy only as much as we
can use, and no more. The most covetous griping miser in the
world would have been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he
had been in my case; for I possessed infinitely more than I knew
what to do with. I had no room for desire, except it was for
things which I had not, and they were comparatively but trifles,
though indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted before, a
parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds
sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay: I had
no manner of business for it; and l olten thought within myself,
that I would have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-
pipcs, or for a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have
given it all for sixpenny worth of turnip and carrot seed from
England, or for a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink.
As it was, I had not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it;
but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of
the cave in the wet seasons; and ifl had had the drawer full of
diamonds, it had been the same case,--they would have been of
no manner of value to me because of no use.

I had now brought my state of life to be much more com-
fortable in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my mind,
as well as to in body. I frequently sat down to meat with
tbanki'ulness, an admired the hand of God's providence, which
had thus spread my table in the wilderness: [deemed to look
more upon the bright side of my condition, and less upon the
dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed, rather than what!
wanted: and this wave me sometimes such secret comforts, that
I cannot express t em; and which I take notice of here, to put
those discontented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy com-
fortably what God has given them, because they see and covet
something that he has not given them. All our discontents
about what we want appeared to me to spring from the want of
thankfulness for what we have.

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless
would be so to any one that should {all into such distress as
mine was; and this was, to compare my present condition with
what I at first expected it would be: nay, with what it would
certainly have been, if the good providence of God had not
wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up near to the shore,
where I not only could come at her, but could bring what I got
out or her to the shore, for my relief and comfort; without which,
I had wanted for tools to work, weapons for defence, and gun-
powder and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing
to myself, in the most lively colours, how I must have acted if
I had got nothing out of the ship. I could not have so much
is got any food, except fish and turtles; and that, as it was long
before I found any oi'them. [must have perished; that I shoul
have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage; that if I
had killed a goat or a fowl, by an contrivance, I had no way
to flay or open it, or part the flesh tom the skin and the bowels,
or to cut it up, but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with
my claws, like a beast.

l'hese reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of
i'rovidence to me, and very thankful for milpresent condition.
with all its hardships and misfortunes; and t "a part also I cannot
but recommend to the reflection of those who are apt, in their
misery, to say, Is any afiliction like mine? Let them consider
how much worse the cases of some people are, and their case
might have been, if Providence had thought fit.

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort my
mind with he es ; and this was, comparing my present condition
with what I had deserved, and.had therefore reason to expect
from the hand of Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, per-
fectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of God, I had been
well instructed by my father and mother; neither had the been
wanting to me, in their endeavours to infuse an earl re ' 'ous
awe of God into my mind, a sense of my duty, an what the
nature and end of my being required of me. But, alas! falling
early into the seafaring life, which, of all lives, is the most desti-
tute of the fear of God, though his terrors are always before
them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into sea-
faring company, all that little sense of religion which I had enter-
tained was laughed out of me by my messmates; by a hardened
despising of dangers, and the views of death, which grew habitual
to me; y my long absence from all manner of opportunities to
converse with anythin but what was like myself, or to hear
anything that was go or tending towards it.

So VOId was I of everything that was good, or of the least
sense of what I was, or was to be, that in the greatest deliver-
anees I enjoyed (such as my escape from Salee, in being taken
up by the Portuguese master of a ship, m be? p ted so well
in the Brazils, my receiving the cargo m ngland, and the
like) I never had once the words, Thank God, so much as on my
mind, or in my mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I so
much as a thought to pray to him, or so much as to say, Lord,
have mercy upon me! no, nor to mention the name of God,
unless it was to swear by, and blaspheme it.

i had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months, as)
have already observed, on account of my wicked and hardened
life past; and when I looked about me, and considered what
particular providenees had attended me since my coming into
this place, and how God had dealt bountifully with Def--had not
only punished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but had
so plentifully provided for me,----this gave me at hopes that
my repentance was accepted, and that God ha yet mercies in
store for me.

With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to a
resignation to the will of God in the present disposition of my
circumstances, but even to a sincere thankfulness for my con-
dition; and that I, who was et a living man, ought not to com-
plain, seeing I had not the ue unishment of my sins; that I
enjoyed so many mercies which 1 ad no reason to have expected
in that place, that I ought never more to repine at my condition,
but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that daily bread, which
nothing but a crowd of wonders could have brought; that I
ought to consider I had been fed by a miracle, even as great as
that of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles:
and that I could hardly have named a place in the uninhabitable
part of the world where I could have been cast more to my
advantage; 8. place where, as I had no society, which was my
affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious
wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous or poisonous
creatures, which I might feed on to my hurt; no sav es, to
murder and devour me. In a word, as my life was 3 Te of
sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted
nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to make myself sensible
of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this condition;
and after I did make a just improvement of these things, I went
away, and was no more sad.

I had now been here so long, that many things which I brought
on shore for my help were either quite gone, or very much
wasted, and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all but a
very little, which I eked out with water, a little and a little, till
it was so pale, it scarce let't any appearance of black upon the
paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down the
days of the month on which any remarkable thing happened to
me: and, first, by casting up times past, I remember that there
was a strange concurrence of days in the various providences
which befell me, and which, if I had been superstitionsly inclined
to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to
have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.

First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away
from my father and my friends, and ran away to Hall, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee
man-of-war, and made a slave; the same day of the ear that I
escaped out of the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth ends. that
same day, years afterwards, I made my escape from Sallee in the
boat: and the same day of the year I was born on, viz. the 30th
of September. that same day I had my life so miraculously savedaoawsox cut-502. 103

twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore in this islanm
so that my wicked life and in solitary life began both on one day.

The next thing to my ink ing wasted, was that of my bread,
I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship: this I had
husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself but one cake of
bread a day for abovea ear; and yet I was quite without bread
for near a year before got any corn of my own; and great
reason I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it
being, as has been already observed, next to miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to linen, I had
none for a great while, except some chequered shirts which I
found in the chests of the ot er seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times [could hear no clothes on but a
shirt, and it was a very great help to me that I had, amon all
the men's clothes of the sh) , almost three dozen of shirts. cre
were also, indeed, several t 'ck watchcoats of the seamen's which
were left, but they were too hot to wear: and though it is true
that the weather was so violently hot that there was no need of
clothes, yet I could not go quite naked, no, though I had been
inclined to it, which I was not, nor could I abide the thought of
it, though I was all alone. The reason wh I could not go quite
naked was, I could not bear the heat of t e sun so well when
quite naked as with some clothes on; nay, the very heat fre-
quently blistered my skin: whereas, with a shirt on, the air
itself made some motion, and whistling under the shirt, was two-
fold cooler than without it. No more could I ever bring in self
to go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or hat; the eat
of the sun heating with such violence as it does in that place,
would give me the headach resently, by darting so directly upon
m head, without a cap or at on, so t at I could not hear it;
w ereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.

Upon these views. I began to consider about puttin the few
rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order. I ad worn
out all the Waistcoats I had, and my business was now to try if
I could not make jackets out of the great watchcoats that I had
by me, and with such other materials as I had; sol set to work
a tailoring, or rather, indeed, a botching, for I made most piteons
work of it. However, I made shift to make two or three new
waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a great while: as for
hreeches, or drawers, made but a very sorry shifi indeed, till
aiisrwards.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures
that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them up,
stretched out with sticks, in the sun, by which means some of
them were so dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others
[found very useful. Thefirstthinglmade oftheaewasa t
cap for m head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot the
rain; an this I performed so well, that aflerthis Imade mes
suit of clothes wholly of the skins, that is to say, a. waistcoat,
and hreeehes, open at the knees, and both loose; for they were
rather wanting to keep me cool than warm. I must not omit to
acknowledge that they were wretchcdly made; for if I was a bad
carpenter, I was a, worse tailor. llowever, they were such as I
made very good shift. with; and u hen I was abroad, if it hap-
pened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being uppermost,
I was kept very dry.

After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me
an umbrella: I was indeed in great want of one, and had a great
mind to make one : I had seen them made in the Brazils, where
they were very useful in the great heats which are there; and I
felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater too, being
nearer the equinox : besides, as I was obliged to be much
abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains as
the heats. I took a world of pains at it, and was a great while
before 1 could make anything likely to hold; nay, after I thought
[ had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made one to
my mind; but at last I made one that answered indifferently
well; the main difficulty I found was to make it to let down: I
could make it spread, but if it did not let down too, and draw
in, it was not portable for me any way but just over my head,
which would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one
to answer, and covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that
it cast off the rain like a pent--house, and kept off the sun So
etfeetually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather
with greater advantage than I could before in the coolest; and
when I had no need of it, could close it and carry it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely com-
posed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of his providence. This made my life
better than sociable; for when I began to regret the want of
conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing
mutually with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may say,
with even God himself, by ejaculations, was not better than the
utmost enjoyment of human society in the world?
 

Sl-ZL'T'i'iON XV.

HE MAKES A SMALLER CANOE, IN WHICH IIE ATTEMPTS T0 CRUISE

ROUND THE ISLAND--HIS PERILOUS SITUATION AT SEA ----IIE
RETURNS HOME.

I CANNOT say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary
thing happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the
same posture and lace, just as before; the chief things I was
employed in, besi es my yearly labour of planting my barley
and rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always kept up
just enough to have sufficient stock of one year's provision
beforehand: I say, besides this year] labour, and my daily
pursuit of going out with my gun, I ha one labour, to make me
a canoe, which at last I finished; so that by digging a canal to
it of six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it into the creek,
almost half a mile. As for the first, which was so vastly big, as
1 made it without considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how
I should be able to launch it, so, never being able to bring it
into the water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it
lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser the
next time: indeed, the next time, though I could not get a tree
proper for it, and was in a place where I could not get the x Mar
to it at any less distance than, as I have said, near half a mile,
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over; and
though I was near two years about it, yet I never grudged my
labour, in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the size
of it was not at all answerable to the design which I had in view
when I made the first; I mean, of venturing over to the term
firm, where it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the
smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that design, and106 mvmruuns or

now I thought no more of it. As I had a boat, my next design
was to make a cruise round the island; for as I had been on e
other side in one place, crossing, as I have already described it,
over the land, so the discoveries I made in that little journey
made me verv eager to see other arts of the coast; and now I
had a boat, I- thought of nothing at sailing round the island.

For this purpose, that I might do everything with discretion
and consideration,l fitted up a little most in my boat, and made
a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the ship's sails which lay
in store, and of which I had a great stock b me. Having fitted
my most and sail, and tried the boat, I foun she would sail very
well: then I made little lockers, or boxes, at each end of my
boat, to put provisions, necessaries, ammunition, &c. into, to be
kept drv, either from rain or the spray of the sea; and a little
long hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could
lay my n, making a flap to hang down over it, to keep it dry.

I fixe my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast, to
stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun elf me, like an
awning; and thus every now and then took a little voyage upon
the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the little creek.
At last, being eager to view the circumference of my little king-
dom, I resolved upon my cruise; and accordingly, I vietnalled
my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of loaves (cakes I
should rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot full of
parched rice (a food I ate a great deal of,) a little bottle of rum,
half a goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and two large
watchcoats, of those which, as I mentioned before. I had saved
out of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to lie upon, and
the other to cover me in the night.

It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage,
and I found it much longer than I expected; for though the
island itself was not very large, yet when I came to the east side
of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues
into the sea, some above water, some under it; and be oud that
n. shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more, so t at I was
obliged to go a eat way out to sea to double the point.

When first] 'scovered them, I was going to give over my
enterprise, and come back again, not knowin how far it might
oblige me to go out to sea, and, above a doubting how i
should get back again; so I came to an anchor; for I had made
me a kind of anchor with a piece of a broken grappling which I
got out of the shi .

.Haying securedJ my boat, I took m gun and went on shore,
climbing up on a bill, which seemed to overlook that point,
where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my Viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, Iper-
corved a strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran
to the east, and even came close to the point; and I took the
more notice of it, because I saw there might be some danger
that, when I came into it, I might be carried out to sea by the
strength of it, and not be able to make the island again: and,
indeed, had I not got first upon this hill, I believe it would have
been so; for there was the same current on the other side the
island, only that it set of at a farther distance, and I saw there
was a strong eddy under the shore: so I had nothing to do but
toidget out of the first current, and I should presently be in an
e v.

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing
pretty fresh at E. S. E., and that being just contrary to the sai
current, made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so that
it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore, for the
breach, nor to go too far 03', because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated over-
night, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a warning-
pieee again to all rash and ignorant pilots: for no sooner was I
come to the point, when I was not even in boat's length from
the shore, but I found myself in a great epth of water, and a
current like the sluice of a mill; it carried my boat along with it
with such violence, that all I could do could not keep her so
much as on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me fiarther and
farther out from the eddy, which was on m left hand. There
was no wind stirring to help me, and all could do with my
paddles signified nothing: and now I began to give myself over
for lost; for as the current was on both sides of the island, I
knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, and then
I was irrecovers 1y one; nor did I see any ssibility of
avoiding it; so that Iiad no pros ect before me ut of perish-
ing, not by the sea, for that was enough, but of starving for
hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, ashb'is
almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I
a great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen ts;
but what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, w ere,
to be sure, there was no shore, no main land or island, for a
thousand leagues at least?

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God to
make even the most miserable condition of mankind worse. Now
I looked back upon my desolate, solitary island as the most
pleasant place in the world; and all the happiness my heart
could wish for was to be but there again. I stretched out my
hands to it, with eager wishes: 0 happy desert! sand I, I sha I
never see thee more. 0 miserable creature! whither am I
going! Then I reproached myself with m. unthankful temper,
and how I had repined at my solitary .con hon; and now what
would I give to be on shore there again! Thus we never_see the
true state of our condition till it is illustrated to us by its con-

I
traries, nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want
of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was
now in, being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared
to me now to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and
in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again. However, I
worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted, and
he t my boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the
si e of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could;
when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I
felt a little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from 8.8.13.
'l'his cheered my heart a little, and especially when, in about
half an hour more, it blew a pretty gentle gale. B this time I
was got at a frightful distance from the island, and ad the least
cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another
way too ; for I had no compass on board. and should never have
known how to have steered towards the island, if I had but
once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I applied
myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to
stretch awav, I saw even by the clearness of the water some
alteration of the current was near; for where the current was
so strong, the water was foul; but perceiving the water clear,
I found the current abate; and presently I found to the east, at
about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks: these
rocks I found caused the current to part again, and as the main
stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the
north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of the rocks,
and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the north-west,
with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them
upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to
murder them. or who have been in such-like extremities, may
guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put
my boat into the stream of this edd ; and the wind also fresh- .
ening, how gladly I spread my sa' to it, running cheerfully
before the wind, and wrth a strong tide or eddy under foot. '

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again,
directly towards the island, but about two leagues more to the
northward than the current which carried me away at first: so
that when I came near the island, I found myself open to the
northern shore of it, that is to say, the other end of the island,
opposite to that which I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way by
the hel of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served
me no arther. However, I found that being between two great
currents, viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me away,
and that on the north, which lay about a league on the other
side; I say, between these two, in the wake of the island, I
found the water at least still, and running no way; and having
still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for
the island, though not making such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evenin , being then within a league
of the island, I found the point 0 the rocks which occasioned
this disaster stretchin out, as is described before, to the south-
ward, and one ' 03' t e current more southerly, had, of course,
made another dy to the north; and this I found very strong,
but not directly setting the way my course lay, which was due
west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh gale I
stretched across this eddy, slanting north-west; and, in about an
hour, came within about a mile of the shore, where, it being
smooth water, I soon got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of
my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with such
things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore, in a little
cove that I had spied under some trees, and laid me down to
sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the vo age.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home wi my
boat: I had run so much hazard, and knew too much of the case,
to think of attempting it by the way I went out; and what might
be at the other side ( mean the west side) I knew not, nor had
I any mind to run any more ventures; so I only resolved in the
morning to make my way westward along the shore, and see if
there was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so
as to have her again, if I wanted her. In about three miles, or
thereabout, coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet or
bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a very
little rivulet or brook, where I found a very convenient harbour
for my boat, and where she lafias if she had been in a little dock
made on purpose for her. ere I put in, and having stowed
my boat very safe, I went on shore, to look about me, and see
where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had
been before, when I travelled on foot to that share; so taking
nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella, for it was
exceeding hot, I began my march. The way was comfortable
enough alter such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached
my old bower in the evening, where I found everything standing
as I had lefl: it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as
said before, my country house.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest
my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep: but judge you,
if you can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be in,
when I was awaked out of matsleep by a voice, calling me by
my name several times, Robin, 2 bin, Robin Crusoe; poor Robin

I
Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where
have you been?

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or
paddlin , as it is called, the first part of the day, and with walk-
mg the Iatter part, that I did not wake thorough] ; but dozing
between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed t at somebody
spoke to me; but as the voice continued to repeat Robin Crusoe,
Robin Crusoe, at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was
at first dreadfuny frightened, and started up in the utmost con-
sternation; but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my
Poll sitting on the top of the hedge; and immediately knew it
was he that spoke to me: for just in such bemoaning language
I had used to talk to him, and teach him; and he had learned it
so perfectly, that he would sit upon in finger, and lay his bill
close to my face, and cry, Poor Robin rusoe; Where are you?
Where have you been? How came you here? and such things
as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that
indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while before I could
compose in self. First, I was amazed how the creature got
thither; an then how he should just keep about the place, and
nowhere else: but as I was well satisfied it could be nobody but
honest Poll, I got over it; and holding out my hand, and call-
ing him by his name, Poll, the sociable creature came to me,
and sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking
to me, Poor Robin Crusoe! and how did I come here? and where
had I been? just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again:
and so I carried him home along with me.

I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had
enough to do for many days to sit still, and to reflect upon the
danger I had been in. I would have been very glad to have had
my boat again on my side of the island; but I knew not how
it was practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the
island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough there was
no venturing that way; my ver heart would shrink, and my
very blood run chill, but to thin of it; and as to the other side
of the island, I did not know how it might be there; but sup-
posing the current ran with the same force against the shore at
the east as it passed by it on the other, I might run the same
risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by the island,
as I had been before of being carried away from It; so, with
these thoughts, I contented myself to be without an boat,
though it had been the product of so many months' Ia our to
make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.

In this government of my temper Iremained near a year,
lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and
my thoughts being very much composed, as to my condition,
and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of
Providence, I thought I lived really very happily in all things,
except that. of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises
which my necessities put me upon ep lying myself to; and I
believe I could, upon occasion, have m a very good carpenter,
especially considering how few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my
earthenware, and contrived well enough to make them with a
wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better; because I made
things round and shageeble, which before were filthy things
indeed to look upon. at I think I was never more vein of my
own performance, or more joyful for anything I found out, than
for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a
very ugly clumsy thing when it was done, end only burned red,
like other earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would
draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it, for I had
been always used to smoke: and there were ipes in the ship,
but I forgot them at first, not thinking that t ere was tobacco
in the island; and afterwards, when I searched the ship again,
I could not come at any pipes at all.

In my wickerware also I improved much, and made abundance
of necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed me; though
not very handsome, yet they were such as were vemmdy and
convenient for my mien? things up in, or fetching ' gs home.
For example, if ' a goat a road, I could hang it up in a
tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in
a basket; and the like by a turtle; I could cut it up, take out the

, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me,
fibfing them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me.
Also large deep baskets were the receivers of my corn, which I
always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it
in at baskets.

began now to perceive my powder abated considerably; this
was a want which it was in: ssible for me to an ply, and I
began seriousl to consider w at I must do when I s ould have
no more ow er, that is to say, how I should do to kill any
goats. I , as is observed, in the third year of my being here,

ept a young kid, and bred her 11 tame, and I was in hopes of
getting a heagoat: but I could not y an 'means bring it to pass,
till my kid w an old oat; and as could never find in my
heart to ' her, she di at last of mere age.

eh
 

SECTION XV I.

m: Iii-EARS A FLOCK or eons--ms DAIRY.------IHS DOMESTIC HABITS
AND STYLE 0F LIVING--INCREASING PROSPERITY. '

BEING now in the eleventh year of my residence, and as l have
said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art
to trap and. snare the oats, to see whether I could not catch
some of them alive; an particularly, I wanted a she-goat great
with young. For this purpose, I made snares to hamper them;
and I do believe they were more than once taken in them: but
my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I always found
them broken, and my bait devoured. At length I resolved to
try a pitfall: so I dug several large pits in the earth, in places
where I had observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits
I placed hurdles, of my own making too, with a great weight
upon them; and several times I put ears of barley and dry rice,
without setting the trap; and I could easily perceive that the
goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I could see the
marks of their feet. At length I set three traps in one night,
and going the next morning, I found them all standing, and yet
the bait eaten and gone. This was very discouraging: however,
I altered my traps; and, not to trouble you with particulars,
going one morning to see my traps, I found in one of them a
large old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a male
and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was
so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to
go about to bring him away alive. which was what I wanted. I
could have killed him, but that was not my business, nor would
it answer my end; so I even let him out, and he ran away, as if
he had been frightened out of his wits. But I had forgot then,
what I had learned afterwards, that hun er will tame a lion. If
I had let him sta there three or four ays without food, and
then have carri him some water to drink, and then a little
corn, he would have been as tame as one of the kids; for the '
are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures, where they are we
used. However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better
at that time: then I went to the three kids, and taking them one
by one, I tied them with strings together, and with some difficulty
brought them all home.

It was a good while before the would feed; but throwing
them some sweet corn, it tempt them, and they began to be
tame. And now I found that if I expected to supply In self with
goat's flesh when I had no powder or shot left, bree ' 3 some
up tame was my only way; when, perhaps, I might have them
about my house like a flock of sheep. But then it occurred to
me, that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else they would
always run wild when they grew up; and the only way for this
was, to have some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced, either
with hedge or pale, to keep them in so efi'ectually, that those
within might not break out, or those without break in.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet as I
saw there was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first work
was to find out a proper piece of ground, where there was likely
to be herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover
to keep them from the sun.

Those who understand such inclosures will think I had very
little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very proper for
all these (being a plain open piece of meadow land, or savannah,
as our people call it in the western colonies) which had two or
three little drills of fresh water in it, and at one end was ver
woody; I say, they will smile at my forecast, when I shall te 1
them, I began my enclosing this piece of ground in such a man-
ner, that my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles
about. N or was the madness of it so great as to the compass,
for if it was ten miles about, I was like to have time enough to
do it in; but I did not consider that m oats would he as wild
in so much compass as if they had he t e whole island. and I
should have so much room to chase them in, that I should never
call? this: begun d d I b l h flft

e was an carrie on, e ieve a out y
yard; when this thought occurred to me; so I presently stopped
short, and, for the first beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece
of about one hundred and titty yards in length, and one hundred
yards in breadth: which, as it would maintain as many as I
should have in any reasonable time, so, as my stock increased,
I could add more ground to my enclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with
courage. I was about three months hedging in the first piece;
and, till I had done it, I tethered the three kids in the best art
of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible, to make em
familiar; and very often I would go and carry them some ears
of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand: so
that after my enclosure was finished, and I let them loose, they
wfould follow me up and down, bleating after me for a handfirl
0 corn.

This answered m end; and in about a year and a half I had
a flock of about twe ve goats, kids and all; and in two years more,
I had three and forty, beside several that I took and killed for
my food. After that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to
feed them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them as
I wanted, and gates out of one ieee of ground into another.

But this was not all; for now not only had goat's flesh to feed
on when I pleased, but milk too; a thing which, indeed, in the
beginning, did not so much as think of, and which, when it
came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for now
I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in
a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of food to every
creature, dictates even natural] how to make use of it, so I, that
had never milked a cow, muc less a goat, or seen butter or
cheese made, only when I was a boy, after a great many essays
and miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last, and
also salt (though I found it partly made to my hand by the heat
of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea), and never wanted
it afierwards. How merciful] can our Creator treat hiscreatures,
even in those conditions in w 'ch they seemedto be overwhelmed
in destruction! How can he sweeten the bitterest providencea,
and give us cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons l What
a table was here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw
nothing, at first, but to perish for hunger!

It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my
little family sit down to dinner. There was in majesty. the
prince and lord of the whole island; I had the 'ves of all my
subjects at m absolute command; I could hang, draw, give
liberty, and ta e it away; and no rebels amo all my subjects.

Then to see how like a king 1 dined too, all one, attended by
my servants: Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the only
person ermitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now grown
very ol and crazy, and had found no species to multiply his kind
upon, sat always at my right hand; and two cats, one on one
side of the table, and one on the other, ex ting now and than
a bit from my hand, as a mark of special avOur.

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at/

/

'//// /

/.>>1/. 7' /, -/7

, /
first, for they were both of them dead, and had been interred near
my habitation by my own hand; but one of them having multi-
plied by I know not what kind of creature, these were two which
I had preserved tame; whereas the rest ran wild in the woods,
and became indeed troublesome to me at last; for they would
often come into my house, and lundcr me too, till at last I was
obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great many; at length they
left me--With this attendance, and in this plentiful manner, I
lived: neither could I be said to want anything but society; and
of that, some time after this, I was like to have too much.

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use
of my boat, though very loath to run any more hazards; and
therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about the
island, and at other times I sat myself down contented enough
without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go
down to the point of the island, where, as I have said, in my last
ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the
current set, that I might see what I had to do: this inclination
increased upon me every day, and at length I resolved to travel
thither by land, following the edge of the shore. I did so; but
had any one in England been to meet such a man as I was, it
must either have frightened him, or raised a great deal of
laughter; and as I fre uently stood still to look at myself, I
could not but smile at ihe notion of my travelling through York-
shire, with such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased
to take a sketch of my figure, as follows.

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with
a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from me as
to shoot the rain off from running into my neck; nothing being
so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon the flesh, under
the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to
about the middle of the thighs, and a air of open-kneed breaches
of the same; the hreeches were in e of the skin of an old he-
goat, whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that,
like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of my legs: stockings
and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I
scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs,
and lace on either side like spatterdashes, but of a most bar-
barous shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; and
in a kind of a frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and
dag er, hung a little saw and a hatchet; one on one side, and one
on fine other. I had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in
the same manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the
end of it, under my lefi arm. hung two pouches, both made of
goat a skin too: in one of which hung my powder, in the other
my shot. At my back I carried my basket, and on my shoulder
my gun; and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat's skin
umbrella, but which, after all, was the most necessar thing I
had about me, next to my gun. As for in face, the co our of it
was really not so mulatto-like as one inig t expect from a man
not at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten d es of
the equinox. My heard I had once suffered to grow til it was
about a quarter of a yard long; but as I had both scissars and
razors sutficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on
my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan
whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for
the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks did: of these
mustachios or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough
to hang my hat upon them, but they were of a length and shape
monstrous enough, and such as, in England, would have passed
for frightful.

But all this is by the bye; for, as to my figure, I had so few
to observe me that it was of no manner of consequence; so I say
no more to that part. In this kind of figure I went my new
journey, and was out five or six days. - I travelled first along the
seashore, directly to the lace where I first brought my boat to
an anchor, to get upon t e rocks; and having no boat now to
take care of, I went over the land, a nearer way, to the same
height that I was upon before; when looking forward to the
point of the rocks which lay out, and which I was obliged to
double with my boat, as is said above, I was surprised to see the
sea all smooth and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no current,
any more than in any other places. I was at a. strange loss to
understand this, and resolved to spend some time in the observing
it, to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it;
but I was presently convinced how it was, viz. that the tide of
ebb, setting from the west, and joining with the current of waters
from some great river on the shore: must be the occasion of this
current; and that according as the wind blew more forcibly from
the west, or from the north, this current came nearer, or went
farther from the shore: for waiting thereabouts till evening, I
went up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I
plainly saw the current again as before, only that it ran farther
ofi', being near half a league from the shore; whereas, in my case,
it set close upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe along
with it, which, at another time, it would not have done.

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to do but
to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might
very easily bring my boat about the island again: but when I
began to think of puttin it in practice, I had such a terror u on
my s irits at the remem rance of the danger I had been in, at
I co d not think of it again with any patience; but, on the con-
trary, I took up another resolution, which was more safe, though
more laborious; and this was, that I would build, or rather make
me another perisgua or canoe; and so have one for one side of
the island, and one for the other.

You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one, my little fortification or tent with
the wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind me, which,
by this time, I had enlarged into several apartments or caves,
one within another. One of these, which was the driest and
largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or fortification, that
is to say, beyond where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled
up with the large earthen pots, of which I have given an
account, and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would
hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of pro-
vision. especiall my corn, some in the ear, out ofi' short from
the straw, and t e other rubbed out with my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with lon stakes or piles.
those piles grew all like trees, and were by is time wn so
big, and spread so very much, that there was not the east ap-
pearance, to any one's view, of any habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine. but a little farther within the land,
and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn land, which
I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me
their harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for
more com, I had more land adjoining as fit as that.

r Besides this, I had my country seat; and I had now a tolerable
plantation there also: for, first, I had my little bower, as i called
it, which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which
encircled it in constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder
standing always in the inside: I kept the trees, which at first
were no more than my stakes, but were now grown very firm and
tall, always cut so, that they might spread and grow thick and
wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which they did
effectually to my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent
always standing, beirag a iece of a sail spread over poles, set up
for that pn ose, an w ich never wanted any repair or re-
newing; an under this I had made me a nab or couch, with
the skins of the creatures I had killed, and wi other soft things;
and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea bedding,
which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to cover me; and here,
whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took
up my country habitation.

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to
say, my goats; and as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains
to fence and enclose this ground,l was so anxionsto see it kept
entire, lest the goats should break through, that I never left ofi'.
till, with infinite labour, I had stuck the outside of the hedge so
full of small stakes, and so near to one another, that it was
rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a
hand through between them; which afterwards, when those
stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy season, made the
enclosure strong like a wall,--indeed, stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared
no pains to bring to pass whatever a peared necessary for my
comfortable support; for I considere the keeping up a breed
of tame creatures thus at my hand would be a living magazine
of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me as long as I lived in the
place, if it were to be forty years; and that keeping them in my
reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to
such a degree, that I might be sure of keeping them together;
which, by this method, indeed, I so effectually secured, that when
these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them so very
thick, that I was forced to pull some of them up again.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally
depended on for my winter store of raisins, and which I never
failed to preserve very carefully, as the best and most agreeable
dainty of my whole diet; and, indeed, they were not only agree-
able, but medicinal, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to.
the last degree.

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation
and the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed
and lay here in my way thither: for I used frequently to visit my
boat; and I kept all things about or belonging to her, in very
good order: sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, but
no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above
a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of
being hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents or
winds, or any other accident. But now I come to a new scene
of my life.
 

SE "I'ION XVI I.

UNEXI'I'ZCTEI) ALARM AND CAUSE FOR APPREI'IENSION.---IIIE FORT!-
FIES IIIS ABODE.

IT happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I was
exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the
shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like
one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition: I listened,
I looked round me, but I could hear nothing, nor see anything;
I went up to a rising ground, to look farther; I went up the
shore and down the shore, but it was all one; I could see no
other impression but that one. I went to it again to see if there
were any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but
there was no room for that, for there was exactly the print of a
foot, toes, heel, and every part ofa foot: how it came thither I
knew not, nor could I in the least imagine; but, after innumer-
able fluttering thoughts, like a man )crl'ectly confused and out
of myself. I came home to my forti cation, not feeling, as we
say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree; look--
ing behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush
and tree, and fancying every stump at a distance to be a man.
Nor is it possible to describe how many various shapes my
afl'rightcd imagination represented things to me in, how many
wild ideas were found every moment in my fancy, and whatstrange
unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after
this), I fled into it like one pursued; whetherl went over by
the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock,
which [had called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor cculd I re-
member the next morning; for never frightened hare fled to cover,
or fox to earth with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.

I slept none that night: the farther I was from the occasion
of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were; which Is
something contrary to the nature of such things, and especially
to the usual ractice of all creattu'es in fear; ut I was so em-
barrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed
nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even though I was
now a great way ofl" it. Sometimes I fancied it must be the
Devil, and reason joined in with me upon this supposition; for
how should any other thing in human 3 ape come into the place?
Where was the vessel that brought them? What marks were
there of any other footsteps? And how was it possible a man
should come there'.' But then to think that Satan should take
human shape upon him in such a place, where there could be no
manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind
him, and that even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure
I should see it,--this was an amusement the other way. I con-
sidered that the Devil might have found out abundance of other
ways to have terrified me than this of the single rint of a foot;
that as I lived quite on the other side of the is and, he would
never have been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where
it was ten thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not,
and in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high
wind, would have defaced entirel : all this seemed inconsistent
with the thing itself, and with al the notions we usually enter-
tain of the subtlety of the Devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of
all apprehensions of its being the Devil; and I presently con-
cluded, then, that it must be some more dangerous creature,
viz. that it must be some of the savages of the main land over
against me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and,
either driven by the currents or b contrary winds, had made
the island, and had been on shore, at were gone away again to
sea; being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate
island as i would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was
very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be
thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by
which they would have concluded that some inhabitants had
been in the place, and perha s have searched farther for me:
then terrible thoughts rack my imagination about their having
found my boat, and that there were people here; and that if
so, I should certainly have them come again in greater num-
bers, and devour me: that if it should happen so that they
should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure, destroy

all my corn, and carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I
should perish at last for mere want.
'lhus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that former
confidence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful
experience as I had had of his goodness, as if he that had fed
me by miracle hitherto could not preserve, by his pOWer, the
provision which he had made for me by his goodness. I re-
proached myself with my laziness, that would not sow any more
com one ear than wou d just serve me till the next season, as
if no acci ent would intervene to prevent m enjoying the ore
that was u on the ground; and this I thong t so just a reprooI:
that I reso ved for the future to have two or three years' corn
beforehand, so that, whatever might come, I might not perish
for want of bread.

How strange s eh oer-work of Providence is the life of man!
and by what secret fi'erent springs are the affections hurried
about, as different circumstances present! To-day we love what
to-morrow we hate; today we seek what to-morrow we shun;
today we desire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even tremble at
the apprehensions of; this was exemplified in me, at this time,
in the most lively manner im 'nable; for I, whose only afilic--
tion was that I seemed banish from human socie , that [was
alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut 0 from man-
kind, and condemned to what I called silent life; that I was as
one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among
the living, or to appear among the rest of his creatures ; thatto
have seen one of my own a ecies would have seemed to me a
raising me from death to 'e, and the greatest blessing that
Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could
bestow; I say, that I should now tremble at the very appre-
hensions of seeing a man, and was ready to sink into the ground
at but the shadow or silent appearance of a man's having set
his foot in the island.

Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afforded me a
great many curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little
recovered my first surprise. I considered that this was the
station of life the infinitely wise and good providence of God had
determined for'me; that as I could not foresee what the ends of
divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute his
sovereignty, who, as I was his creature, had an undoubted right,
by creation, to govern and dispose of me absolutel as he
thought fit; and who, as I was acreature that had ofi'en .ed him,
had likewise a judicial right to condemn me to what punishment
he thought fit; and that it was my part to submit to hear his
indignation, because I had sinned ' at him. I then reflected,
that as God, who was not only rig teous, but omnipotent, had
thought fit thus to punish and afilict me, so he was able to
deliver me; that if he did not think fit to do so, it was my
unquestioned duty to resign m elf absolutely and entirely to
his will; and, on the other has , it was my duty also to hope
in him, pra to him, and quietly to attend the dictates and
directions 0 his daily rovidence.

These thoughts too me up many hours, days, nay, I may
say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of my cogita~
tions on this occasion I cannot omit. One morning early, lying
in my bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger from the
appearances of savages, I found it disoomposed me very much;
upon which these words of the Scri ture came into my thoughts:
" Call upon me in the day of troub e, and I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me." Upon this, risin cheerfully out of my
bed, my heart was not only comforted, ut Iwas guided and
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: when I
had done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read,
the first words that presented to me were, " Wait on the Lord,
and be of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart; wait,
I say, on the Lot ." It is impossible to express the comfort
this gave me. In answer, I thankfully laid down the book, and
was no more sad, at least on that occasion.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflec-
tions, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a
mere chimera. of my own, and that this foot might be the print
of my own foot, when I came on shore from my boat: this
cheered me up a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was
all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own foot: and
why might I not come that way from the boat, as well as I was
going that way to the boat? Again, I considered also, that I
could by no means tell, for certain, where I had trod, and where
I had not; and that if, at last, this was only the rint of my own
foot, I had played the part of those fools, w 0 try to make
stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are frightened at
them more than anybody.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, forI
had not stirred out of my castle for three da 5 and nights, so
that I began to starve for revisions; for I h little or nothing
within doors but some bar ey cakes and water: then I knew that .
my goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was'my
evening diversion; and the poor creatures were in great pain
and inconvenience for want of it: and, indeed, it almost spoiled
some of them, and almost dried up their milk. Encouraging
myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but the .
print of one ofmy own feet, and that I might be truly said to '
start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went
to my country house to milk m flock: but to see with what
fear I went forward, how olten I {coked behind me, how I was
ready, every now and then, to lay down my basket, and run for
my life, it would have made any one think I was haunted with
an evil conscience, or that I had been lately most terribly
frightened; and so, indeed, I had. However, as I went down
thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I bl to be
a little bolder, and to think there was really nothing influt my
own imagination; but I could not persuade myself fully of this
till I should go down to the shore again, and see this print of a
foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there was any aimili-
tude or fitness, that I mi ht be assured it was my own foot:
but when I came to the ace, first, it appeared evidently to me,
that when I laid up my oat, I could not possilly be on shore
anywhere thereabout: secondlv, when I came to measure the
mark with my own'fool, I found my foot not so large by a great
deal. Both these things filled my head with new imaginations,
and gave me the vapoun again to the highest degree, so that I
shook with cold like one in an ague; and I went home again,
filled with the belief that some men or men had been on shore
there; or, in short, that the island was inhabited, and I might
be surprised before I was aware; and what course to take for
my security I knew not.

0 what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with
fear! It deprives them of the use of those means which reason
offers for their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was,
to throw down In enclosures, and turn all to tame cattle wild
into the woods, est the enemy should fin them, and then

uent the island in prospect of the same or the like booty:
then to the simsle thing of diggng up my two corn fields, lest
they should fin such a grain t ers, and still be prompted to
frequent the island: then to demolish my bower and tent, that
they might not see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted
to look farther, in order to find out the persons inhabiting.

These were the subject of the first night's cogitations after I
was come home again, while the apprehensions which had so
overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full of
vapours, as above. Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times
more te ' ' than danger itselfwheu apparent to the eyes;
and we fin the burden of anxiety ter, by much, than the
evil which we are anxious about : an , which was worse than all
this, I had not that relief in this trouble from the resignation I
used to practise, that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought. like
Saul, who complained not only that the Philistines were upon
him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did not now take due
ways to compose my mind, by crylifi to God in my distress, and
resting upon his providence, as I done before, for my defence
and deliverance; which, if I had done, I had at least been more
cheerfiill supported under this new surprise, and perhaps
carried through it with more resolution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night; but
in the morning I fell asleep; and having, by the amusement of
my mind, been as it were tired, and my spints exhausted, I slept
very soundly, and waked much better composed than I had ever

I
been before. And nowI began to think sedately; and, upon
the utmost debate with myself, I concluded that this island,
which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from
the main land than as I had seen, was not so entirely abandoned
as I might imagine; that although there were no stated inhabi-
tants who lived on the spot, yet that there might sometimes
come boats of from the shore, who, either with design, or per-
haps never bdt when they were driven by cross winds, might
come to this place; that I had lived here fifteen years now, and
had not met with the least shadow or figure of any people yet ;
and that if at any time they should be driven here, it was
probable they went away again as soon as ever they could,
seeing they had never thought fit to fix here upon any occasion;
that the most I could suggest any danger from, was from any
casual accidental landing of straggling people from the main,
who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here
against their wills, so they made no stay here, but went off again
with all possible speed; seldom staying one night on shore, lest
they should not have the help of the tides and day-light back
again; and that, therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider
of some safe retreat, in case I should see any savages land upon
the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large
as to bring a door through again. which door, as I said, came out
beyond where my fortification joined to the rock: upon mature] y
considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second forti-
fication, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from
my wall, just where I had lanted a double row of trees about
twelve years before, of w ich I made mention : these trees
having been planted so thick before, they wanted but few piles
to be driven between them. that they might be thicker and
stron r, and my wall would be soon finished: so that I had now
a dou le wall; and mv outer wall was thickened with pieces of
timber, old cables, and everythin I could think of, to make it
strong, having in it seven little oles about as big as I might
put my arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my wall to
about ten feet thick, with continually bringing earth out of my
cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, an walking upon it;
and through the seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of
which I took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the ship:
these I lanted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames,
that heldI them like a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven
guns in two minutes' time: this wall I was many a weary
31011111 in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was

one.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall,
for a at len h every way, as full with stakes, or sticks, of the
osier- ' e woo which I found so apt to grow, as they could well
stand; insomuch, that I believe I might act in near twenty
thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space between them
and mv wall, that I might: have room to see an enemy, and they
might have no shelter to the young trees, if they attempted to
ap roach my outer wall.

Elms, in two years' time, I had a thick ve; and in five or
six years' time had a wood before my wellin , growing so
monstrous thick and strong, that it was ind perfectly im-
passable; and no men, of what kind soevcr, would ever imagine
that there was anything beyond it, much less a habitation. As
for the way which I proposed to myself to go in and out (for l
lefi no avenue.) it was by setting two ladders, one to a part of
the rock which was low, and then broke in, and left room to
place another ladder upon that: so when the two ladders were
taken down, no man livm could come down to me without doing
himself mischief; and if e had come down, they were still on
the outside of to outer wall:

Thus I took I the measures human prudence could suggest
for my own preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that
they were not altogether without just reason, though I foresaw
not ing at that time more than my mere fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other
affairs: for I had a great concern upon me for my little erd of
goats; they were not onl a ready supply to me on every occa-
sion, and began to be an eient for me, without the expense of
powder and shot, but also without the fatigue of hunting after
the wild ones; and I was loth to lose the advantage of them,
and to have them all to nurse up over again.

For this purpose, afier long consideratan could think of but
two ways to preserve them -. one was, to find another convenient
place to ' a cave under ground, and to drive them into it every
night; an the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of
land, remote from one another, and as much concealed as I could,
where I might keep about half a dozen young goats in each

lace: so at if any disaster happened to the flock in general,

might be able to raise them again with little trouble and time;
and this, though it would require a great deal of time and labour,
I thought was the most rational design.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired
parts of the island; and I pitched n 11 one, which was as
private, indeed, as my heart could wish or: it was a little damp
pica of ground, in the middle of the hollow and thick woods,
where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once before, endea-
vouring to come back that way from the eastern part of the
island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, ao
surrounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure by
nature; at least, it did not want nearso much labourto maker!
so as the other pieces ofground I had worked so hard at.

K 2
 

SECTION XVIII.

PRECAUTIONS AGAINST SURPRISE--ROBINSON DISCOVERS THAT
HIS ISLAND HAS BEEN VlSI'l'I-JI) BY CANNIBALS.

l IMMEDIATELY went to work with this piece of ground, and in
less than a month's time I had so fenced it round, that my flock,
o: herd, call it which you please, who were not so wild now as
at first they might be supposed to he, were well enough secured
in it: so, without any further delay, I removed ten young she--
goats and two he--goats to this piece; and when they were there,
I continued to perfect the fence, till I had made it as secure as
the other, which, however, I did at more leisure, and it took me
up more time by a great deal. All this labour I was at the ex-
pense of purely from my apprehensions on the account of the
print of a man's foot which I had seen; for, as yet, I never saw
' any human creature come near the island; and I had now lived
two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my life
much less comfortable than it was before, as may be well ima-
gined by any who knows what it is to live in the constant
snare of the fear of man. And this I must observe, with grief
too, that the discomposure of my mind had too great impressions
also upon the religious part of my thoughts: for the dread and
terror of falling into the hands of savages and cannibals lay so
upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due temper for
application to my Maker, at least not with the sedate calmness
and resignation of soul which I was wont to do : I rather prayed
to God as under great affliction and pressure of mind, surrounded
with danger, and in expectation ev night of being murdered
and devoured before morning; and? must testify from my ex-
perience. that a temper of peace, thankfulneas, love and afiection.
is much the more proper frame for prayer than that of terror
and discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief im-
pending, a man is no more fit for a comforting performance of
the duty of praying to God, than he is for a repentance on a sick-
bed; for these discomposures affect the mind, as the others do
the body; and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily
be as great a disability as that of the body, and much greater:
paying to God being properly so act of the mind. not of the
y.

But to c on : afler I had thus secured one part of my little
living stoc , I went about the whole island, searching for another
private place to make such another deposit; when, wandering
more to the west point of the island than I had ever done yet,
and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at
a great distance. i had found a perspective glass or two in one
of the seamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship, but I had
it not about me; and this was so remote, that I could not tell
what to make of it. thou h I looked at it till my eyes were not
able to hold to look an longer: whether it was a boat or not,
I do not know, but as descended from the hill 1 could see no
more of it; so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more out
without a perspective less in my ket. When I was come
down the hill to the en of the islan , where, indeed, I had never
been before, I was presently convinced that the seeing the tint
of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the islan as I
imagined: and, but that it was a special providence that I was
cast I: on the side of the island where the savages never came, I
shoul easily have known that nothing was more frequent than
for the canoes ficm the main, when they be pened to be a little
too far out at sea, to shoot over to that si e of the island for
harbour: likewise, as they often met and fought in their canoes.
the victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring them over
to this shore, where, according to their dreadful customs, being
all cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of which herealter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above.
be' the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly eon-
foun ed and amazed; nor is it possible for me to ex ress the
horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with ak hands,
feet, and other bones of uman bodies; "mm-r1 , 1
observed a place where there had been a fire e, and a circle
dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman castings upon t e
bodies of their fellowcreatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I miter-
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it foralong
while: all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of
such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of the
degenerac of human nature, which, though I had heard of it
often, yet never had so near aview of before: in short, 1 turned
away my face from the horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick,
and I was just at the point of fainting, when nature discharged
the disorder from my stomach: and having vomited with uncom-
mon violence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear to sta

in the place a moment; so I got me :39 the hill again wit

all the speedl could, and walked on tow my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood
still awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked up
with the utmost affection of m soul, and, with a flood of tears
in my eyes, gave God thanks, t at had cast my first lot in a part
of the world where I was distin ished from such dreadful
creatures as these; and that, thong I had esteemed my present
condition very miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in
it, that I had still more to give thanks for than to complain of:
and this, above all, that I had, even in this miserable condition,
been comforted with the knowledge of Himself; and the hope of
His blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficiently equi-
valent to all the misery which I had suffered or could suffer.

In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to m castle, and
began to be much easier now, as to the safety 0 my circum-
stances, than ever I was before: for I observed that these
wretches never came to this island in search of what they could
get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any-
thing here, and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered
woo y part of it, without finding anything to their purpose. I
knew I had been here now almost eighteen years, and never saw
the least footsteps of human creature there before; and 1 might
be eighteen years more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I
did not discover myself to them, which I had no manner of occa-
sion to do; it being my only business to keep myself entirely
concealed where l was, unless I found a better aim of creatures
than cannibals to make myself known to. Yet I entertained
such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that I have been
speaking of, and of the wretched inhuman custom of their
devouring and eating one another up, that I continued pensive
and sad, and kept close within my own_ circle, for almost two
years afier this; when I say my own circle, I mean by it my
three plantations, viz. my castle, my country seat, which I called
my bower, and my enclosure in the woods: nor did I look after
this for any other use than as an enclosure for my goats; for
the aversion which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was
such, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the Devil
himself. I did not so much as go.to look after my boat all this
time, but began rather to think of making me another; for I3031118010 03.0803. 129

could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the
other boat round the island to me, lest I should meet with some
ofthese creatures at sea: in which if I had he pened to have
fallen into their hands,I knew what would have n my lot.

Time, pmerfid thrgdsgtisfia'ction I last! that l was in no
dangero "g ' ove y esepeo e,begantowearofl'
my uneasiness about them; and I began if) live just in the same
composed manner as before, only with this difieience, that I used
more caution, and kept my eyes more about me, than I did before,
lest I should happen to be seen by any of them; and particularly,
1 was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of them being on
the island should happen to hear it. It was therefore a very
good providence to me that I had furnished myself with a tame
breed of goats, and that I had no need to hunt any more about
the woods, or shoot at them; and if I did catch any of them after
this, it was by traps and snares, as I had done before: so that
for two ears after this, I believe I never fired my gun once off,
though I never went out without it; and, which was more, as I
had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out
with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat's-skin
belt. I also furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had
out of the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also; so that
I was now a most formidable fellow to look at when I went
abroad, if you add to the former description of myself, the par-
ticnlar of two pistols, and a great broadsword hanging at my
side in a belt, but without a scahbard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed,
excepting these cautions, to be reduwd to my former calm sedate
way of living. All these things tended to show me, more and
more, how far my condition was from being miserable, compared
to some others; nay, to many other particulars of life, which it
might have pleased God to have made is lot. It put me u on
reflectin how little repining there woul be among mankin at
any condition of life, if people would rather compare their con-
dition with those that were worse, in order to be thankful, than
be always comparing them with those which are better, to assist
their murmurings and complainings. .

As in my present condition there were not really many things
which I wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the fright: I had been
in about these savage wretches, and the concern I had been in
for my own preservation, had taken 08' the edge of my invention
for my own conveniences; and I had dropped a good design,
which I had once bent my thoughts too much upon, and that
was, to try if I could not make some of my barley into malt, and
then try to brew myself some beer. This was really a whimamal
thought, and I reproved in self often for the simplicity of it; for
l presently saw there wo he the. want of several chm neces-
sary to the making my beer, that it would be impossi for me
to supply; as, first, casks to preserve it in, which was a thing
that, as I had observed already, I could never compass; no,
though I spent not only many days, but weeks, nay, months.
in attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next place, I had no
hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or
kettle to make it boil; and yet, with all these things wanting, I
verily believe, had not the frights and terrors I was in about the
savages intervened, I had un ertaken it, and perhaps brought it
to pass too; for I seldom gave anything 'over without accom--
plishing it, when once I had it in my head to begin it. But my
invention now ran quite another way; for, night and day, I could
think of nothing but how I might destroy some of these monsters
in their cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the
victim they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a
larger volume than this whole work is intended to he, to set down
all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon, in my
thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least fri hten-
ing them so as to prevent their coming hither any more; ut all
this was abortive; nothing could be possible to take effect, un-
less I was to be there to do it In sell"; and what could one man
do among them, when perhaps t ere might be twenty or thirty
of them together, with their darts, or t eir bows and arrows,
with which they could shoot as true to a mark as I could with my
gun 2

Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where
they made their fire, and putting in five or six pounds of gun-
powder, which, when they kindled their fire, would consezluently
take fire, and blow up all that was near it; but as, in e first
place, I should be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them,
my store being now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither
could I be sure of its going off at any certain time. when it might
surprise them: and, at best, that it would do little more than
just blow the fire about their ears and fright them, but not
sufficient to make them forsake the place: so I laid it aside;
and then pro osed that I would place m self in ambush in some
convenient p ace, with my three guns a double-loaded, and, in
the middle of their bloody ceremon , let fly at them, when I
should he sure to kill or wound per aps two or three at every
shot: and then falling in upon them with my three pistols, and
my sword, I made no doubt but that if there were twenty I
should kill them all. This fancy leased my thoughts for some
weeks; and I was so full of it, t at I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes thatl was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I
went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed miself
several days to find out proper places to put myself in am as-
cade, as I said, to watch for them; and I went frequently to the
place itself, which was now wn more familiar to me: but
while my mind was thus fill with thoughts of revenge, and a
blood utting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I ma

call issue horror I had at the place, and at the signals of tbz
barbarous wretches devouring one another, abetted my malice.
Well, at len , I found a place in the side of the hill, where l
was satisfi I mi ht securely wait till I saw any of their boats
coming; and mig t then, even before they would be ready to
come on shore, convey myself, unseen, into some thickets of trees.
in one of which there was a hollow large enough to conceal me
entirely ; and there 1 might sit and observe all their bloody doings,
and take my full aim at their heads, when they were so close
together, as that it would be next to impossible that I should miss
my shot, or that I could fail wounding three or four of them at
the first shot. In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design;
and, accordingly, I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowl-
inflfiece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace of sin each,
an four or five smaller bullets, about the size of pistol-- ullets;
and the fowlingpiece I loaded with near a handful of swan-shot,
of the is t size: I also loaded my pistols with about four
bullets eac ; and in this posture, well rovided with ammunition
for a second and third charge, I prepa myselffor my ex edition.

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my
imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my tour every
morning up to the top of the bill, which was from my castle, as
I called it, about three miles, or more, to see if I could observe
any boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standin over
towards it: but I began to tire of this hard duty, after? had,
for two or three months, constantly kept my watch, but came
always back without any discovery: there having not, in all that
time, been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore,
but on the whole ocean, izo far as my eyes or glasses could reach
every way.

As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long
also I he t up the vigour of m design, and my'spirits seemed
to be all t e while in a suitable cm for so outrageous an execu-
tion as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an ofi'ence,
which I had not at all entered into a discussion of in m thoughts,
any further than my passions were at first fired by e horror I
conceived at the unnatural custom of the people of that country ;
who, it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in his wise dis-
position of the world, to have no other guide than that of their
own abominable and vin'ated passions; and, consequently, were
led, and perhaps had been so for some ages, to act such horrid
things, and reeeiVe such dreadful customs, as nothing but nature,
entirely abandoned by Heaven, and actuated by some hellish
degeneracy, could have run them into. But now, when, asI
have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion, which
I had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so m
opinion of the action itself began to alter; and I began, wi
cooler and calmer thoughts, to consider what I was going to en-
gage in: what authority or call I had to pretend to be judge and
executioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had
thought fit, for so many ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on,
and to be, as it were, the executioners of his judgments one
upon another. How far these people were ofi'enders against me,
and what right I had to engage in t e quarrel of that blood which
they shed promiscuously one upon another, I debated this ver
often with myself, thus: How do I know what God himse f
judges in this particular case? It is certain these people do not
commit this as a crime; it is not against their own consciences
reproving, or their light reproaching them; they do not know it
to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance of divine justice,
as we do in almost all the sins we commit. They think it no more
a crime to kill a captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox;
nor to eat human flesh, than we do to eat mutton.

When I considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I
was certainly in the wrong in it; that these people were not
murderers in the sense that I had before condemned them in my
thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers who
often put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or more fre-
quently, u on many occasions, put whole troops of men to the
sword, wit out giving quarter, though they threw down their
arms and submitted. In the next place, it occurred to me. that
although the usage they gave one another was thus brutish and
inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me; these people had done
me no injury: that if they attempted me, or I saw it necessary,
for my immediate preservation, to fall upon them, somethin
might be said for it; but that I was yet out of their power, an
they really had no knowledge of me, and consequently no design
upon me; and therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon
them : that this would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all
their barbarities practised in America, where they destroyed
millions of these people : who, however they were idolaters and
barbarians, and had several bloody and barbarous rites in their
customs, such as sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were
yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent people; and that the
rooting them out of the country is spoken of with the utmost
abhorrence and detestation by even the Spaniards themselves at
this time, and by all other Christian nations in Europe, as a mere
butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable
either to God or man, and for whic the very name of a Spaniard
is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity,
or of Christian compassion,--as if the kingdom of Spain were
particularly eminent for the produce of a race of men who were
without princi les of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity
to the misem le, which is reckoned to be a mark of generous

temper in the mind.noamson (:svsos. 183

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind
of a full stop; and I began, by little and little, to be off my design,
and to conclude I had taken wrong measures in my resolution
to attack the sa'v'fiee; and that it was not my business to med-
dle with them, ess they first attacked me; and that it was
my business, if possible, to prevent; but that if I were discovered
and attacked by them, I knew rmduty. 0n the other hand, I
argued with myself, that this y was the way not to deliver
myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy m ; for unless I was
sure to kill every one that not only s onld be on shore at
that time, but that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but
one of them esca ed to tell their country-people what had he
pened, the woul come over sin by thousands to revenge t a
death of t eir fellows, and I s ould only brin upon myself a
certain destruction, which, at present, I h no manner of
occasion for. Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in
principle nor in policy I ought, one way or other, to concern
myselfin this afi'air : that my usiness was. by all possible means,
to conceal myself from them, and not to leave the least signal
to them to guess by that there were any living creatures upon
the island, I mean of human shape. Religion joined in with this
prudential resolution, and I was convinced now, many ways,
that I was perfectly out of my dut when I was laying all my
bloody schemes for the destruction 0 innocent creatures, I mean
innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of towards
one another, Ihad nothing to do with them; they were national.
and I ought to leave them to the justice of God, who is the
governor of nations, and knows how, by national punishments,
to make a just retribution for national offences, and to bring
public judgments upon those who ofl'end in a public manner, by
such ways as best please him. This appeared so clear to me
now, that nothing was a greater satisfaction to me than that I
had not been suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much
reason to believe would have been no less a sin than that of
Wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most humble
thanks on my knees to God, that had thus delivered me from
blood-guiltiness; beseeching him to t me the protection 0:
his providence, that I might not fall into the hands of the bar-
barians, or that I mi ht not lay my hands upon them, unless I
had a more clear cell from Heaven to do it, in defence of my

own life.
 

SECTION XIX.

ROBINSON DISCOVERS A CAVE. WHICH SERVES HIM AS A RI-ZTRl-IAT
AGAINST THE SAVAGES.

IN this disposition I continued for near a year after this; and
so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these
wretches, that in all that time I never once went up the hill to
see whether there were any of them in sight, or to know whether
any of them had been on shore there or not, that I might not be
tempted to renew any of my contrivances against them, or he
provoked, by any advantage which might present itself, to fall
upon them: only this I did, I went and removed my boat, which
I had on the other side of the island, and carried it down to the
east end of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove,
which I found under some high rocks, and where I knew, by
reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would not,
come with their boats, upon any account whatever. With my
boat I carried away every thing that I had left there belonging
to her, though not necessary for the bare going thither, viz. a
mast and sail which I had made for her, and a thing like an
anchor, but which, indeed, could not be called either anchor or
grapnel; however, it was the best I could make of its kind: all
these lremoved, that there might not be the least shadow of
any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any human
habitation, upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I
said, more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other
than upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my she--goats,
and manage my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite
on the other part of the island, was quite out of danger; for
certain it is. that these savage people, who sometimes haunted
this island, never came with any thoughts of finding any thing
here, end canseqnently never wendered 08 from the onset; end
I doubt not but they might have been severel times on shore
after my epprehensione of them had made me cautious, as well
es before. Indeed, I looked beck with some horror upon the
thoughts of whet my condition would have been if I hed popped
upon them and been discovered before thet, when, neked end
unarmed, except with one gun, end thet loaded often only with
smell shot, I welhed everywhere, peeping end peering about the
islend to see what I could get; what is surprise should I have
been in, if, when I discovered the print of e men's foot, I bed,
instesd of that, seen fifieen or twenty savages, end found them
ursning me, end by the swil'tness of their running, no possibi-
lity of my escaping them? The thoughts of this sometimes sunk
my very soul within me, end distressed my mind so much, that
I could not soon recover it, to think what I should have done,
and how I should not 022' have been unable to resist them, but
even should not have h resence of mind enough to do what
Imight hsve done, much ess what now, elter so much con-
sideration and prepsretion, I might be able to do. Indeed, alter
serious thinking on these things, I would be very melenchol ,
and sometimes It would lest e greet while; but I resolved it ell,
st Inst, into thsnhfnlness to that Providence which had delivered
me from so many unseen dangers, end bed kept from me those
mischiefs which I could have no webeeen the agent in deliver-
ing myself from, because I had not t e leest notion of eny such
thing depending, or the least supposition of its being possible.
This renewed n contemplation which often hsd come to my
thoughts in former time, when first I began to see the merciful
dispositions of Heeven, in the dengers we run through in this
life; how wonderfully we are delivered when we know nothing
of it; how, when we are in (a. quandary, es we call it) e doubt
or hesitation, whether to this way, or that we , e secret hint
shell direct us this wey, w en we intended to go at wey: nay,
when sense, our own inclination, end perhaps business, has
celled to go the other we , yet a strenge impression upon the
mind, from we know not w et springs, end it we know not whet
power, shell overrule us to go this wey; s it shell efierwerds
eppeer, that had we gone that wey which we should heve
end even to our imagination ought to have gone. we should ve
been ruined end lost. Upon these, and many like reflections, I
slterwerds mede it e certain rule with me, that whenever I found
those secret hints or pressings of mind, to doing or not doing
en thing that resented, or going this we or thet wey, I never
l' ' ed to obey t e secretdictnte; though] ow no other meson
foritthenthet snehepressnre, or suchehinghungu .n my
mind. I could give many exemples of the succeseof con.
duct in the course of my life, but more eepeaelly in the letter
pert ofmyinhehitingthie unheppyulend; bendeemenyoeeesione
which it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if I had seen
with the same eyes then that I see with now. But it is never too
late to be wise; and I cannot but advise all considering men,
whose lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as
mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such
secret intimations of Providence, let them come from what in-
visible intelligence they will. That I shall not discuss, and per-

haps cannot account for; but certainly they are a proof of the

converse of s irits, and a secret communication between those

embodied an those unembodied, and such a proof as can never

be withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some very
remarkable instances in the remainder of my solitary residence
in this dismal place.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I con-
fess that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and
the concern that was now upon me, IiIdmt an end to all invention,
and to all the contrivances that I h laid for my future accom-
modations and conveniences. I had the care of m safety more
now upon my hands than that of my food. I ca not to drive
a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I might
make should be heard; much less would I fire a gun, for the
same reason: and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making
any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in
the day, should betray me. For this reason I removed that part
of my business which required fire, such as burning of pots and
pipes, &e. into my new a artment in the woods; where, after
I had been some time, I ound, to my unspeakable consolation,
a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and
where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it,
would be so hardy as to venture in: nor, indeed, would any
man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a
safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock,
where by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see abundant
reason to ascribe all such thin now to Providence) I was
cutting down some thick branc es of trees to make charcoal;
and, before I go on, I must observe the reason of my making
this charcoal, which was thus: I was afraid of making a smoke
about my habitation, as I said before; and yet I could not live
there without baking my bread, making my meat, &c.; so I con-
trived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in England,
under turf, till it became shark, or dry coal: and then putting
the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and perform the
other services for which fire was wanting, without danger of
smoke. But this is by the by. While I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch of low
hrushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of hollow place: I
was curious to lookinit, and getting with difliculty into the mouth
of it, I found it was pretty large: that is to say, suficient for me
to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me: but I must
confess to you that I made more haste out than I did in, when,
looking farther into the place, and which was perfectly dark, I
saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether devil or
man I knew not, which twinkled like two stars. the dim light
from the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making the re-
flection. However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and
began to call myself a thousand fools, and to think, that he that
was afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty years in an
island all alone; and that I might well think there was nothing
in this cave that was more frightful than myself. Upon this.
plucking up my courage, I took up a firebrand, and in Irushed
again, with the stick flaming in my hand: I had not gone three
steps in, but I was almost as much frightened as I was before;
for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some pain,
and it was followed by a broken noise, as of words half expressed,
and then adeep sigh again. I stepped back, and was indeed
struck with such a surprise, that it put me into a cold sweat;
and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer for it, that
my hair might not have lifted it off. But still plucking up In
spirits as well as I could, and encouraging in self a little wit
considerin that the powerand presence of Go was every where,
and was a le to protect me, upon this I stepped forward again,
and by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my
head, I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous, fi'ightful, old
hevgoat, just making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and
dyin , indeed, of mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I
could get him out, and he essayed to get up, but was not able
to raise himself; and I thought with myself he might even lie
there; for if he had frightened me, so he would certainly fright
any of the savages, ifsny of them should be so hardy as to come
in there while he had any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round
me, when I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it
might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape,
neither round nor square, no hands having ever been employed
in making it but those of mere Nature. I observed also that
there was a place at the hrther side of it that went in further,
but was so low that it uired me to creeupon my hands and
knees to go into it, and w 'ther it went I ew not: so having
no candle, I gave it over for that time; but resolved to come

in the next day, rovided with candles and a tindervbox, which
I ad made of the ock of one of the muskets, with some wild-
fire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large
candles of my own making (for I made very good candle now
of goat's tallow, but was hard set for candle-Wick. using some-
times rags or rope-yarn, and sometimes the dried rind of a weed
like nettles); and going into this low place, I was obliged to
creep upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by
the way, I thought was a venture bold enough, considering that
I knew not how far it might go, nor what was beyond it.
When I had got through the strait. I found the root" rose higher
up, I believe near twenty feet; but never was such a glorious
sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the
sides and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected a hundred
thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it was in the
rock. whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or gold,
which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not. The place I was in
was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could be ex-
pected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and had
asort of asmall loose gravel upon it, so that there was no nauseous
or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any damp or
wet on the sides or roof: the only difficulty in it was the entrance;
which, however, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat
as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so that I was
really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay,
to bring some of those things which I was most anxious about
to this place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my maga-
zine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling- ieoes,
for I had three in all, and three muskets, for of them I h eight
in all: so I kept at my castle only five, which stood ready
mounted like pieces of cannon, on my outmost fence, and were
ready also to take out upon any expedition. Upon this occasion
of removing my ammunition, I happened to open the barrel of
powder which I took up out of the sea, and which had been wet;
and I found that the water had penetrated about three or four
inches into the powder on every side, which caking and growing
hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in the shell; so that
I had near sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of the
cash : this was a very agreeable discovery to me at that time;
so I carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three
pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of
any kind: I also carried thither all the lead I had leR for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were
said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could
come at them; for l persuaded myself; while I was here, that if
five hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find me
out; or, if they did, they would not venture to attack me here.
The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the month of the
cave the next day after I made this discovery: and I found it
much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him in and cover
him with earth, than to drag him out; so I interred him there.
to prevent offence to my nose.
was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this
island; and was so naturalized to the place, and the manner of
living, that could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no
savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could have
been content to have capitulated for s ending the rest of my
time there, even to the last moment, till had laid me down and
died, like the old at in the cave. I had also arrived to some
little diversions an amusements, which made the time pass a
great deal more pleasantl with me than it did before: as, first,
had taught my Poll, as noted before, to a ak; and he did it
so familiarly, and talked so articulatel an plain, that it was
very pleasant to me: for I believe no ird ever spoke plainer;
and he lived with me no less than six--and-twenty years: how
long he might have lived afterwards I know not, though I
know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred
years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving companion to
me for no ess than sixteen years of my time, and then died of
mere old age. As for my cats, they multi lied, as I have observed.
to that degree, that I was obliged to a cot several of them at
first, to keep them from devouring me and all I had; but, at
length, when the two old ones I brought with me were gone,
and after some time continually driving them from me, and letting
them have no provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods,
except two or three favourites, which I kept tame, and whose
young, when they had an , I always drowned; and these were
part of my family. Bfii es these, I always kept two or three
ousehold kids about me, whom I ta ht to feed out of in hand;
and I had two more parrots, which ed pretty well, an would
all cell Robin Crusoe, but none like my first; nor, indeed, did I
take the pains with any of them that I had done with him. I
had also several tame seafowls, whose names I knew not, that
I caught upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little
stakes which I had planted before my castle wall being now
grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among
these low trees, and bred there. which was very agreeable to me:
so that, as I said above, I an to be very well contented with
the life I led, if I could have en secured from the dread of the
savages. But it was otherwise directed; and it may not beauties
for all people who shall meet with my story, to make this just
observation from it, viz. How frequently, in the course of our
lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and which,
when we are fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is ohent'nnes
the very means or door of our deliverance, by which alone we
can be raised again ii-om the affliction we are fallen into. I could
five many examples of this in the course of my unaccountable
' e, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in
tlae circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this
is an

L
 

SECTION XX.

ANOTHER VISIT OF THE SAVAGES.---ROBINSON SEES THEM DANCING.
----PEB.CEIVES THE WRECK OF A VESSEL.

IT was now the month of December, as I said above, in my
twenty-third year; and this being the southern solstice (for
winter I cannot call it), was the particular time of my harvest,
and required my being pretty much abroad in the fields; when
going out pretty early in the morning, even before it was thorough
daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some tire upon
the shore, at a distance from me of about two miles, towards the
end of the island where I had observed some savages had been,
as before; and not on the other side, but, to my great affliction,
it was on my side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short
within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised;
and yet I had no more peace within, from the apprehensions I
had that if these savages, in rambling over the island, should
find my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improve-
ments, they would immediately conclude that there were people
in the place, and would then never give over till they had found
me out. In this extremity, I went back directly to my castle,
pulled up the ladder after me, and made all things without look
as wild and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture or
defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is to say,
my muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortification,
and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last
gasp; not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the divine
protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the
hands of the barbarians. I continued in this posture about two
hours; and began to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad,
for I had no a ies to send out. After sitting awhile longer, and
musing what should do in this, I was not able to bear sitting
in i orance an longer; so setting up in ladder to the side of
thegill, where are was a flat place, as observed before, and
then pulling the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and mounted
to the top of the hill; and pulling out my perspective lass,
which I had taken on purpose, I laid'me down flat on myfiielly
on the ground, and began to look for the place. I presently
found there were no less than nine naked saw/ages, sitting round
a small fire they had made, not to warm them, for they had no
need of that, the weather beingnerxtremely hot, but, as I an
posed, to dress some of their barons diet of human fies ,
whichlfhey had brought with them, whether alive or dead I could
not te .

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up
upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to
me to wait for the return of the dead to go away again. It is
not easy to imagine what confusion this slit put me into,
esp ' y seeing them come. on my side of e island, and so
near me too; but when I considered their coming must be
always with the current of the ebb, I began, afterwards, to be
more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad
with safety all the time of the tide of flood. if the were not on
shore before; and having made this observation, went abroad
about my harvest work with the more composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to
the westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as
we call it) away. I should have observed, that for an hour or.
more before they went ofi', a? went a dancing; and I could
easily discern their postures gestures by my glass. I could
not perceive, b my nicest observation, but that the were stark
naked, and not the least covering upon them; ut whether
they were men or women, I could not distinguish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and my great
sword by my side, without a scabbard, and with all the speed I
was able to make, went away to the hill where I had discovered
the first appearance of all; and as soon as I got thither, which
was not in less than two hours (for I could not mpaee, being
so loaden with arms as I was), I perceived there. been three
canoes more of savages at that place; and looking out farther,
I saw they were all at sea together, making over for the main.
This was adreadfiilsighttome,especiallyas,goingdowntoths
shore, I could see the marks of horror, which the dismal work
th had been about had led behind it, via. the blood, the bones,
an part of the flesh, of human bodies, eaten and devoured'z
those wretchsa with merriment sizid sport I was so filled '

I.
indignation at the sight, that I now began to premeditate the
destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be whom
or how many soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits
which they made thus to this island were not very frequent, for
it was above fifteen months before any more of them came on
shore there again; that is to say, I neither saw them, nor any
footsteps or signals of them, in all that time; for, as to the rainy
seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at least not so
far: yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the
constant apprehensions of their coming upon me by surprise:
from whence I observe, that the ex ectation of evil is more bitter
than the suffering, especially if t ere is no room to shake 011'
that expectation, or those apprehensions.

During all this time I was in the murdering humour, and took
up most of my hours. which should have been better employed,
in contriving how to circumvent and fall upon them. the vet next
time I should see them; especially if they should be divi ed, as
they were the last time, into two parties: nor did I consider at
all, that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was still
the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and so another,
even ad infinitum, till I should be at length no less a murderer
than they were in being man-eaters, and perhaps much more so.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind,
expecting that I should, one day or other, fall into the hands of
these merciless creatures; an if I did at any time venture
abroad, it was not without looking round me with the greatest
care and caution imaginable. And now I found, to my great
comfort, how happy it was that I provided for a tame flock or
herd of goats: for I durst not, upon any account, fire my gun,
especially near that side of the island, where they usually came,
lest I should alarm the savages; and if they had fled from me
now, I was sure to have them come again, with perhaps two or
three hundred canoes with them, in a few days, and then I knew
what to expect. However, I wore out a year and three months
more before I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I
found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true, they
might have been there once or twice, but either they made no
stay, or at least I did not see them: but in the month of May,
as near as I could calculate, and in my four-and--twentieth ear,
I had a very strange encounter with them; of which in its p e.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen
months'interval, was very great; I slept unquiet, dreamed always
frightful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night:
in the day, great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the
night, I dreamed ofien of killing the savages, and of the reasons
why I might justify the doing of it. But to waive all this for a
while--It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I
think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I
marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the sixteenth of
May that it blew a ve great storm of wind all da , with a great
deal of lightning and t under, and a very foul ' ht it was alter
it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of it, but as I
was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very serious thoughts
about in resent condition, I was surprised with the noise ofa
gun, as ought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure. a surprise
quite of a different nature from any I had met with before; for the
notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind.
I started up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice,
clapped my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it
after me; and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the
hill the very moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second
gun, which accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and, by
the sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where I
was driven down the current in my boat. I immediately con--
sidered that this must be some ship in distress, and that they had
some comrade, or some other ship in company, and fired these guns
for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had the presence of
mind, at that minute, to think that though I could not help them,
it might be they might help me: so I brought together all the
dry wood I could get at han , and making a good handsome pile,
I set it on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed
freely; and though the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly
out: so that I was certain, if there was any such thing as a ship,
they must needs see it; and no doubt they did; for as soon as
ever my fire blazed up I heard another gun, and afier that several
others, all from the same quarter. I plied in fire all night long,
till daybreak; and when it was broad day, an the air cleared up,
I saw something at a great distance at sea, full east of the island,
whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not with my

less; the distance was so great, and the weather still something

y also; at least it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that
it did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at
anchor; and being eager. on may be sure. to be satisfied, I took
my gun in my hand, and, ran towards the south side of the
island, to the rocks where I had formerly been carried away with
the current; and gettin up there, the weather by this time being
perfectly clear, I coul plainly see, to my great sorrow, the
wreck of a ship, cast away in the night upon those concealed
rocks which I found when I was out in my boat; and which
rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream, and made a
kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my
recovering from the most desperate, hopeless condition that
ever I had been in, in all my life. Thus, what is one man's
safety is another man's destruction; for it seems these men,
whoever they were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven upon them in the
night, the wind blowing hard at E. N. E. Had the seen the
island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not, t e must,
as I thou ht, have endeavoured to have saved themse ves on
shore by e help of their boat; but their firin of s for help,
especially when they saw, as I imagined, my , lled me with
many thoughts: First, I imagined that upon seeing my light,
they might have put themselves into their boat, and endeavoured
to make the shore; but that the sea going ver high, they might
have been cast away: other times I imagin that they might
have lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways; as
particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which
many times obliges men to stave, or take in 'eces, their boat,
and sometimes to throw it overboard with {heir own hands:
other times I imagined they had some other ship or ships in
company, who, upon the signals of distress they had made, had
taken them up and carried them 03': other times I fancied they
were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by
the current that I had been formerly in, were carried out into
the great ocean, where there was nothing but misery and perish-
ing; and that perhaps, they might by this time be starving, and
in a condition to think of eating one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the condition
I was in, I could do no more than look on uppn the misery of the
poor men, and pity them; which had still t 's good efi'ect on in
side, that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks to God:
who had so happily and comfortabl provided for me in my
desolate condition; and that of two 3 ip's companies who were
now cast away upon this part of the world, not one life should
be spared but mine. I learned here again to observe, that it is
very rare that the providence of God casts us into any condition
of life so low, or any misery so great, but we may see something
or other to be thankful for, and may see others in worse circum-
stances than our own. Such certainly was the case of these
men, of whom I could not so much as see room to suppose any
of them were saved; nothing could make it rational so much as
to wish or expect that they did not all perish there, except the
possibility only of their being taken up y another ship in com-
any; and this was but mere possibility indeed. forI saw not the
east sign or appearance of any such thing. I cannot. explain, by
any possible energ of words, what a strange lo or ban-
kering of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight, ranking out
sometimes thus--0 that there had been but one or two, nay, or
but one soul saved out of this ship, to have escaped to me, that
I might but have had one companion, one fellow-creature to have
spoken to me, and to have conversed with! In all the time of my
solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire alter the

society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep at regret at the want of it.nonmsox CRUSOE. 145

 

SECTION XX].

lIl': VISITS THE WRECK AND OBTAINS MANY STORES FROM IT.--
AGAIN THINKS 0F QUITTING TIIE ISLAND.--HAS A REMARKABLE
DREAM.

THERE are some secret moving springs in the afi'ections, which,
when they are set a going by some object in View, or, though not
in view, at rendered present to the mind by the power of imagi~
nation, t at motion carries out the soul, by its impetuosity, to
such violent, eager embracings of the object, that the absence of
it is insupportable. Such were these earnest wishings that but
one man had been saved. I believe I repeated the words, " ()
that it had been but one!" a thousand times; and my desires
were so moved b it, that when I spoke the words my hands
would clinch toget ier, and my fingers would press the palms of
my hands so, that if I had had any soft thing in my hand it would
have crushed it involuntarily; and the teeth in my head would
strike together, and set against one another so strong, that for
some time I could not part them again. Let the naturalists
explain these things, and the reason and manner of them: all I
can say to them is, to describe the fact, which was even surprising
to me, when I found it, though I knew not from whence it pro-
ceeded: it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong
ideas formed in my mind, realising the comfort which the con.
versation of one of my fellow--Christians would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their fate or mine, or both, forbade
it: for till the last year of my being on this island, I never knew
whether any were saved out of that ship or no ; and had only the
affliction, some days after, to see the corpse of a. drowned boy
come on shore at the end of the island which was next the ship-
wreck. He had no clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat. a pair
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing
to direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of: he had
nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eight and a tobacco

pipe :--the last was to me of ten times more value than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my
boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on
board that might be useful to me: but that did not altogether

ress me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some
iving creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but
might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree.
And this thought clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet
night or da , but I must venture out in my boat on board this
wreck; an committing the rest to God's providence, I thought
the impression was so strong upon-my mind that it could not be
resisted, that it must come from some invisible direction. and that
I should be wanting to myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my
castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of
bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle
of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), and a basket of
raisins; and thus loading myself with ever thing necessary, I
went down to my boat, got the water out of her, put her afloat,
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again for more.
My second cargo was a great bag ofrice. the umbrella to set up
over my head for a shade, another large pot of fresh water, and
about two dozen of my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than
before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a cheese: all which, with
great labour and sweat, I carried to my boat; and praying to
God to direct my voyage, I put out; and rowing, or paddling,
the canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost point of
the island on the north-east side. And now I was to launch out
into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture. I looked
on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the
island at a distance, and which were very terrible to me, from the
remembrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my heart
began to fail me: for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of
those currents, I should be carried a great way out to sea, and
perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island again; and that,
then, as my boat was but smal , if any little gale of wind should
rise, I should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind. that I began to give
over my enterprise; and having hauled my boat into a little
creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat me down upon a rising
bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire,
about my voyage: when, as I was musing, I could perceive that
the tide was turned, and the flood come on; upon which my
going was impracticable for so many hours. Lpon this, pro-
mtly, it occurred to me that I should go up to the highest piece
of ground I could find, and observe, if 1 could, how the sets of
the tide, or currents, lay when the flood came in, that I might
judge whether, ifl was driven one we out, I might not expect
to be driven another way home, with e same rapidness of the
currents. This thought was no sooner in my head than I cast
my eye upon a little hill, which sufliciently overlooked the sea
both ways, and from whenm I had a clear view of the currents,
or sets of the tide, and which we. I was to guide myselfiu my
return. Here 1 found, that as e current of the ebb set out
close by the south point of the island, so the current of the flood
set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had
nothing to do but to keep to the north side of the island in my
return, and I should do well enough.

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next morn-
ing, to set out with the first of the tide; and reposing myself for
the night in my canoe, under the great watehcoat I mentioned,
I launched out. I first made a little out to see, full north, till I
began to feel the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and
which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so hurry me
as the current on the south side had done before, so as to take
from me all government of the boat; but having a strong steer-
age with my paddle, I went at agreat rate directly for the wreck,
and in less than two hours 1 came up to it. It was a dismal
sight to look at: the ship, which, by its building, was Spanish,
stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks; all the stern and
quarter of her were beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her
forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great
violence, her mainmast and foremost were brought by the board,
that is to say, broken short of; but her bowsprit was sound,
and the head and bow ap cared firm. When came close to
her, a dog appeared upon er, who, seeing me coming, yelped,
and cried; and as soon as I called him jumped into the sea to
come to me. I took him into the boat, but found him almost
dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread,
and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving
a fortnight in the snow. A I then ve the oor creature some
fresh water, with which, ifI woul have let in, he would have
burst himself. Alter this, I went on board; but the first eight
I met with was two men drowned in the cook room, or forecastle
of the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded.
as is indeed probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a
storm, the sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that
the men were not able to hear it, and were strangled with the
constant rushing in of the water. as much as if they had been
under water. Besides the d . there was nothing left in the ship
that had life; nor any that I could see, but what were
spoiled by the water. There were some cash of liquor, whathu
wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and
which, the water being ebhed out. I could see; but they were
too big to meddle with. I saw several chests, which I believed
belonged to some of the seamen; and I got two of them into
the boat, without examining what was in them. Had the stern
of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken off, I am per-
suaded I might have made a good voyage: for, by what I found
in these two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great
deal of wealth on board; and, if I may ess from the course
she steered, she must have been houn gm Buenos Ayrer, or
the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of America, beyond the
Brazils, to the Havanna, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps
to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no
use, at that time, to anybody; and what became of her crew, I
then knew not.

I found, besides these chests. a little cask full of liquor, of
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin. and a great
powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it: as for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took
the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted
extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper ot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron: and with this cargo, an the dog, I
came away, the tide beginning to make home ' ; and the
same evening, about an hour within night, I reac ed the island
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that
night in the boat; and in the morning I resolved to harbour
what I had got in my new cave, and not carry it home to my
castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and
began to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found
to be a kind of rum, but not such aswe had at the Brazils, and,
in a word, not at all good; but when I came to open the chests,
I found several things of great use to me: for exam le, I found
in one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kin and filled
with cordial waters, fine and ver good; the bottles held about
three pints each, and were tipp with silver. I found two pots
of very good suocades or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the
top, that the salt water had not hurt them; and two more of the
same, which the water had spoiled. I found some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a dozen and
a half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckclotbs; the
former were also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to
wipe my face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to the
till in the chest, I found there three great hagsof ieces-of eight,
which held about eleven hundred ieces in all); and in one
of them, wrapped up in a paper, six oubloons of 1d and some
small bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they might all weigh
near a pound. In the other chests were some clothes. but
of little value; but, by the circumstances, it must have belonged
to the gunner's mate; though there was no powder in it, except
two pounds of fine glazed powder, in three small flasks, lie t, I
suppose, for charging their fowling-pieees on- occasion. pen
the whole, I got very little I) this voyage that was of any use
to me: for, as to the money, had no manner of occasion for it;
it was to me as the dirt under my feet; and I would have given
it all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings, which
were things I great! wanted, but had none on my feet for man
years. I had indeed got two air of shoes now, which I too
off the feet of the two drowns men whom I saw in the wreck,
and I found two pair more in one of the--chests, which were very
welcome to me; but they were not like our English shoes, either
for ease or service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes.
I found in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces-of--eight in rials,
but no gold: I suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the
other, which seemed to belong to some officer. Well, however,
I lugged this money home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had
done that before which I brought from our own ship: but it was
a great pity, as I said, that the other part of this shi had not
come to my share; for] am satisfied I might have oadcd my
canoe several times over with money; and, thought I, if I ever
escape to England, it might lie here safe enough till Imay come
again and fetch it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them,
I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore,
to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best of my
way to in old habitation, where I found every thing safe and
quiet. I egau now to repose myself, live after my old fashion,
and take care of my family aifairs; and, for a while, I lived
easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than I used to
be, looked, out ofiener, and did not 0 abroad so much; and
if at any time I did stir with an free om, it was always to the
east part of the island, where I was retty well satisfied the
savages never came, and where I co (I go without so many
precautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition as I
always carried with me if I went the other we . I lived in this
condition near two years more; but my unlu y head, that was
always to let.me know it was born to make my body miserable,
was all these two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it
were possible, I might get away from this island: for sometimes
I was for making another voyage to the wreck, thou my reason
told me that there was noth left there worth the of my
voyage; sometimes for a wiggle one way, sometimes another;
and I believe verily, if I had hadthe boat that I went from Sallee
in, I should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I knew not
whither. I have been, in all mycircumstances, am" to those
who are touched with the general olsgue of mankind. whence,
for ought I know, one-half of their miseries flow; I mean that
of not being satisfied with the station wherein God and nature
hath placed them: for, not to look back u on my primitive con-
dition, and the excellent. advice of my fa er, the opposition to
which was, as I may call it, my original sin, my subsequent mis-
takes of the same kind had been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for had that Providence, which so
happily seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with
confined desires, and I could have been contented to have gone
on gradually, I might have been, by this time, I mean in the
time of my being in this island, one of the most considerable
planters in the Brazils; nay, I am persuaded, that by the im-
provements I had made in that little time I lived there, and the
increase I should probably have made if I had remained, 1 might
have been worth a hundred thousand moidorea. And what
business had I to leave a settled fortune, swell-stocked planta-
tion, improving and increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea to
fetch negroes, when atience and time would have so increased
our stock at home, t at we could have bought them at our own
door from those whose business it was to fetch them; and though
it had cost us something more. yet the difference of that price
was by no means worth saving at so teat a hazard? But as
this is usually the fate of young hea . so reflection upon the
folly of it is as commonly the exercise of more ears, or of the
dear-bought experience of time: so it was wit me now; and
yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper, that!
could not satisfy myself in my station, but was continually poring
upon the means and possibility of my escape from this place.
And that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring
on the remaining part of my story, it may not be improper to
give some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this
foolish scheme for my escape, and how, and upon what founda-
tion, I acted.

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my late
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under water,
as usual, and my condition restored to what it was before; I had
more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the
richer: for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had
before the Spaniards came there.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the
four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island
of solitude, I was lying in my bed, or hammock. awake; very
well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body,
nor any uneasiness of mind, more than ordinary, but could I)
no means close in eyes, that is, so as to slee : no, not a wi
all night long, ot erwise than as follows :-- tie impossibleto
set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts thatwhirled through
that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's
time: I ran over the whole history of my life in miniature, or
by abridgment, as I may call it, to my coming to this island,
and also of that part of my life since I came to this island. In
my reflections upon the state of my case since I came on shore
on this island, I was com aring the happy posture of my afi'airs
in the first years of my ahitation here. compared to the life
of anxiety, fear, and care which I had lived in. ever since I had
seen the print of a foot in the sand : not that I did not believe
the savages had frequented the island even all the while, and
might have been several hundreds of them at times on shore
there; but I had never known it, and was incapable of any
apprehensions about it; my satisfaction was perfect, though my
danger was the same, and l was as happy in not knowing my
danger, as if I had never really been exposed to it. This fur-
nished my thoughts with many ve profitable reflections, and
particularly this one: How infinite y good that Providence is,
which has rovided, in its government of mankind, such narrow
bounds to 's sight and knowledge of things; and though he
walks in the midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight
of which, if discovered to him, would distract his mind and sink
his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by havin the events
of things bid from his eyes, and knowing nothing 0 the dangers
which surround him.

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I came
to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been in for so
many years in this very island, and how I had walked about in
the greatest security, and with all possible tranquillity. even
when perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or
the casual approach of, night, had been between me and the
worst kind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands of
oannibals and savages, who would have seized on me with the
same view as I would on a goat or a turtle, and have thought
it no more a crime to kill and devour me, than I did a pigeon
or curlew. I would unjustly slander myself, if I should say I
was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose
singular protection I acknowledged, with great humility, all
these unknown deliveranees were due, and without which I must
inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time
taken up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures,
I mean the savages, and how it came to pass in the world, that
the wise Governor of all things should give up any of his crea-
tures to such inhumanity, nay, to something so much below
even brutality itself, as to devour its own kind; but as this
ended in some (at that time) fruitless speculations, it occurred
to me to inquire what part of the world these wretches lived
in! how far all the coast was born whence they came? what
they ventured over so far than home fort what kind of boats
they had? and why I might not order urge]! and my business
so, that I might be as able to go over the: as they were to

come to me.
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should

do with myself when I went thither, what would become of me,
if I fell into the hands of the savages; or how I should escape
from them, if they attacked me: no, nor so much as how it was
possible for me to reach the coast, and not be attacked by some
or other of them, without any possibility of delivering in self;
and if I should not fall into their hands, what I should do for
provision, or whither I should bend my course: none of these
thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way; but my mind was
wholly beut u on the notion of my passing over in my boat to
the main Ian I looked upon my present condition as the
most miserable that could possibly be; that I was not able to
throw myself into any thing, but death, that could be called
worse; and if I reached the shore of the main, 1 might perhaps
meet with relief, or I might coast along. as I did on the African
shore, till I came to some inhabited country, and where I might
find some relief; and after all, perhaps, I might fall in With
some Christian ship that might take me in; and if the worst
came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an end to
all these miseries at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a
disturbed mind, an impatient temper, made desperate, as it
were, by the long continuance of my troubles, and the disap-
pointments I had met in the wreck I had been on board of, and
where I had been so near obtaining what I so earnestly Ion ed
for, viz. somebody to speak to, and to learn some knowledge
from them of the place where I was, and of the probable means
of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly by t ese thoughts;
all my calm of mind, in my resignation to Providence, and
waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be
suspended; and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thou hts
to any thing but to the project of a voya e to the main, w ich
came u on me with such force, and sue an impetuoaity of
desire, t at it was not to be resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more,
with such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment,
and my pulse beat as if I had been in a fever, merely with the
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it, nature, as if I had
been fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw
me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should
have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything relating to
it: but I dreamed that as I was going out in the morning. as
usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and
eleven savages coming to land, and that they brought with them
another savage, whom they were goin to kill, in order to eat
him; when, on a sudden, the savage t they were going to
kill jumped away. and ran for his life; and l thouggiet, in my
sleep, that he came runningfinto my little thick grove fore my
fortification, to hide himse ; and that I, seeing him alone, and
not perceiving that the others sought him that way, showed
myself to him, and smiling upon him, encouraged him: that he
kneeled down to me, seemin to pm me to assist him; upon
which I showed him my 1 tier, e him go u , and carried
him into my cave, and he became my servant: an that as soon
as I had got this man, I said to myself, Now I may certainly
venture to the main land; for this fellow will serve me as a
pilot, and will tell me what to do. and whither to go for pro-
visions, and whither not to go for fear of bein devoured; what
places to venture into, and what to shun. waked with this
thought; and was under such inexpressible impressions of joy
at the pros ect of my escape in my dream, that the disaptgoint-
ments whi I felt u on coming to myself, and findin at it
was no more than a ream, were equal y extravagant e other
way, and threw me into a ve great dejection of s irits.

Upon this, however, I 0 this conclusion: t my only
way to go about to attempt an escape was, if possible, to get a
savage into my possession; and, if possible, it should be one of
their risoners whom the had condemned to be eaten, and
should, b ' hither to ' . But these thoughts still were
attended wi this ditllculty, that it was impossible to efi'ect this
without attacking a whole caravan of them, and killin them
all: and this was not only a very desperate attempt, an might
miscarry: but, on the other hand. I had greatly scrupled the
lawfulness of it to in self, and my heart trembled at the thought
of shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliverance.
I need not repeat the argumnts which occurred to me against
this, they being the same mentioned before: but though I had
other reasonsto ofler now, viz. that those men were enemies to
my life, and would devour me if they could; that it was self-
sreservation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself from this

eath of a life, and was acting in my own defence as much as if
they were actually assaulting me, and the like; I say, though
these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human
blood for my deliverance were very terrible to me, and such as
I could by no means reconcile myself to for a great while.
However, at last, afier many secret ' utes with myself; and
afier great perplexities about it (for these arguments, one
way and another, suxigled in my head a long time), the eager
prevailing desire of 'veranes at length mastered all the rest;
and I resolved, if possible, to Mget one of those savages into my
hands, cost what it would. ynext thing was to contrive how
to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to resolve on: but as
I could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I resolved to
put myself upon the watch, to see them when they came on
shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as
the opportunity should present, let what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the
scout as often as possible, and indeed so often, that l was heartily
tired of it; for it was above a year and a half that I waited;
and for great part of that time went out to the west end, and
to the south-west corner, of the island, almost every day, to
look for canoes, but none appeared. This was very discouraging,
and began to trouble me much, though I cannot say that it did
in this case (as it had done some time before) wear off the edge
of my desire to the thing; but the longer it seemed to be de-
layed, the more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at first
so careful to shun the sight of these savages, and avoid being
seen by them, as I was now eager to be upon them. Besides,
I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two orthree savages.
if I had them, so as to make them entirely slaves to me, to do
whatever I should direct them, and to prevent their being able
at any time to do me any hurt. It was a great while that I
pleased myself with this afi'air; but nothing still presented; all
my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no savages came
near me for a great while.
 

SECTION XXII.

ROBINSON RESCUES ONE OF THEIR CAP'I'IVES FROM THE SAVAGES,
WHOM HE NAMES FRIDAY, AND MAKES I-IIS SERVANT.

ABOUT 21 year and a. half after I entertained these notions (and
by long musing had, as it were, resolved them all into nothing,
for want of an occasion to put them into execution), I was sur-
prised, one morning early, with seeing no less than five canoes
all on shore together on my side the island, and the people who
belonged to them all landed, and out of my sight. The number
of them broke all my measures ; for seeing so many, and know-
ing that they always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a
boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my
measures, to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed ; so lag:
still in my castle. perplexed and (liscomiorted: however, I put
myself into all the same postures for an attack that I had for-
merly provided, and was just ready for action, if anything had
presented. Having waited a good while, listening to hear if
they made any noise, at length, being very impatient, I set my
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambcrcd up to the top of
the hill, by my two stages, as usual; standing so, however, that
my head did not appear above the hill, so that they could not
perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the help of
my perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty in
num er; that they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat
dressed. How the had cooked it I knew not, or what it was ;
but they were all ancing, in I know not how many barbarous
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.
M
While I was thus looking on them, I erceived, by my per-
spective, two miserable wretches dragged rain the boats, where,
it seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out for the
slau hter. I perceived one of them immediately fall, being
knoc ed down, I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for
that was their way, and two or three others were at work im-
mediately, cutting him open for their cooke , while the other
victim was left standing by himself, till they a ould be ready for
him. In that very moment, this poor wretch seeing himself a
little at liberty, and unbound, nature inspired him with hopes of
life, and he started away from them, and ran with incredible
swiftness along the sands, directly towards me, I mean towards
that part of the coast where my habitation was. I was dread-
fully frightened, I must acknowledge, when I perceived him run
my way, and especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued
by the whole body: and now I expected that part of my dream
was coming to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter in
my grove; but I could not depend, by any means, upon my
dream for the rest of it, viz. that the other savages would not
pursue him thither, and find him there. However, I kept my
station, and my spirits began to recover. when [found that there
was not above three men that followed him; and still more was
I encouraged when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly
in running. and gained ground of them, so that if he could but
hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away
from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I
mentioned often in the first part of my story, where I landed
my cargoes out of the ship ; and this I saw plainly he must ne-
cessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there:
but when the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of
it, though the tide was then up; but plungingin, swam through
in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with
exceeding strength and swiftness. When the three ersons
came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim, ut the
third could not, and that, standing on the other side, he looked
at the others, but went no farther, and soon after went softly
back again; which, as it happened, was very well for him in the
end. I observed, that the two who swam were yet more than
twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that
fled from them. It came now very warmly upon my thoughts,
and indeed irresistibly, that now was the time to et me a ser-
vant, and perhaps a companion or assistant, an that I was
called plainly by Providence to save this poor creature's life.
I immediately ran down the ladders with all possible expedition,
fetched my two guns, for they were both at the foot of the lad-
ders, as I observed above, and tting u again, with the same
haste, to the top of the hill, cross toward the sea, and
having a very short cut, and all downhill, laced myself in the
way between the pursuers and the pursu , hallooing aloud to
him that fled, who. looking back, was at first, perhaps, as much
frightened at me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to
him to come back; and, in the meantime. I slowly advanced to-
wards the two that followed: then rushing at once upon the
foremost, I knocked him down with the stock of my iece.
I was 10th to fire, because I would not have the rest ear;
though, at that distance, it would not have been easily heard,
and being out of sight of the smoke too, they would not have
easily known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow
down, the other who pursued him stopped, as if he had been
frightened, and I advanced space towards him: but as I came
nearer, I perceived pmsently he had a bow and arrow, and was
fitting it to shoot at me: so I was then necessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor
savage who fled but had stopped. though he saw both his
enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened
with the fire and noise of my piece, that he stood stock still,
and neither came forward nor went backward, though he seemed
rather inclined still to fly than to come on. I hallooed again to
him, and made sigps to come forward, which he easily under-
stood, and came a 'ttle way; then stopped again, and then a
little farther, and stopped again; and I could then perceive that
he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had
just been to be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned to
him again to come to me, and gave him all the signs of encourage-
ment that I could think of ; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknow-
ledgment for saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked plea-
santly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer: at length he
came close to me; and then he kneeled down again. kissed the
ground, and laid his head upon the ground, and taking me by
the foot, set my footupon his head: this, it seems, was in token
of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made
much of him, and encouraged him all I could. But there was
more work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom I
knocked down was not killed but stunned with the blow, and
began to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him
the savage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke some
words to me, and though I could: not understand them, yet
I thought they were pleasant to hear; for they were the first
sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for
above twenty-five years. But there was no time for such re.
flections now; the savage who was knocked down recovered
himself so far as to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that
my savage began to be afi-aid; but when I saw that, I presented
my other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him: upon this
x 2158 ADVi-zx'rumas or

my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend
him my sword which hung naked in a belt by my side, which
I did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and, at
one blow, cut oll' his head so cleverly, no executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I thought
very strange for one who, I had reason to believe. never saw a
sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords: how-
ever, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they
will cut oil heads even with them, a and arms, and that at one
blow too. When he had done this, ie comes laughing to me, in
sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and with
abundance of gestures, which I did not understand, laid it down,
with the head of the savage that he had killed, just before me.
But that which astonished him most was to know how I killed
the other Indian so liir oll': so pointing to him, he made signs
to me to let him go to him ; so I bade him go, as wellasl could.
When he came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at
him, turning him first on one side, then on the other, looked at
the wound the bullet had made, which, it seems, was just in his
hrcast where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood
had followed, but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead.
He took up his bow and arrows, and came back ; so I tumed to
go away, and beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him
that more might come after them. Upon this, he made signs to
me that he should bury them with sand, that they might not be
seen by the rest, if thcy followed; and so I made signs to him
again to do so. He fell to work; and, in an instant, he had
scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough to bury
the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered him; and
did so by the other also: l believe he had buried them both in
a quarter of an hour. 'l'hcn calling him away, I carried him,
not to my ~astle, but quite away, to my cave, on the farther
part of the island: so 1 did not let my dream come to pass in
that part, viz. that he came into my grove for shelter. Here
I gave him bread and ahuncb of raisins to eat, and a draught of
water, which I found he was indeed in great distress for, by his
running; and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go
and lie down to sleep, showing him a place where Iliad laid
some rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep
upon myself sometimcs;'so the poor creature lay down, and
went to sleep.

lle was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with
straight, strong: limbs, not too large, tall, and well-shaped, and,
as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had avcry
good countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect; but seemed to
have something very manly in his face; and yet he had all the
sweetness and softness of an European in his countenance too,P, .
// /

, ,1/ ,1 xx.
// ////,IofilNBON 030803. 159

especially when he smiled His hair was long and black, not
curled like wool; his forehead very high and ; and a great
vivacity and sparkling sharpan in his eyes. ecolour of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet not an ugly,
yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and Virginians, and
other natives of America are, but of abright kindof I dun olive.
colour, that had in it something very agreeable, though not very
easy to describe. His face was round and. plum ; his nose
small, not flat like the Negroes; a very good man thin lips,
and his fine teeth well set, and as white as ivory.

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour
he awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been
milking my goats, which I had in the enclosure just b : when he
espied me, he came running to me, laying himself own again
upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an humble, thank-
ful disposition, making a t many antic gestures to show it.
At last, he lays his head t upon the ground, close to my foot,
and sets my other foot upon his head, as he had done before; and
after this made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and
submission imaginable, to let me know how he would serve me
as long as he lived. I understood him in man things, and let
him know I was very well pleased with him. n a little time I
began to speak to him and teach him to speak to me; and, first,
I let him know his name should be FRIDAY, which was the day
I saved his life: I called him so for the memory of the time. I
likewise taught him to say Master: and then let him know that
was to be my name: I likewise taught him to say Yes and No,
and to know the meaning of them. I ve him some milk in an
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop m
bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, whic
he (Luickly comphed with, and made signs that it was very good
for im. I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as
it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and-let him know
I would give him some clothes: at which he seemed ve glad,
for he was stark naked. As we went by the place where e had
buried the two men, he pointed exact] to the place, and showed
me the marks that he had made to fin them again, making signs
to me that we should dig them up again, and eat them. At this I
appeared very angry, expressed my abhonenee of it, made as if
I would vomit at the the hts of it, and beckoned with my hand
to him to come awa , whifi: he did immediately, with great sub-
mission. I then him mo the top of the hill, to see if his
enemies were gone; and ' g out my glass, I looked, and saw
plainly the place where ey had been, but no appearance of them
or their canoes: so that it was mu that they were gone, and
hale? their two comrades be ' them, without any search

em.

But I was not content with this discovery; but having now160 AMEN-roars or

more courage, and consequently more c"riosity, I took my man
Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow
and arrows at his back, which I found he could use very dexter-
ously, making him carry one gun for me, and I two for myself ;
and away we marched to the place where these creatures had
been, for I had a mind now to get some fuller intelligence of them.
When I came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins,
and my heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spectacle:
indeed, it was a dreadlul sight, at least it was so to me, though
Friday made nothing of it. The lace was covered with human
bones, the ground dyed with their loud, and great pieces of flesh
lelt here and there, half--eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in
short, all the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been
making there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw three
scnlls. tive hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet,
and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his
signs, made me understand that they brought over four prisoners
to feast upon; that three of them were eaten up, and that he,
pointing to himself, was the fourth; that there had been a great
battle between them and their next king, whose subjects, it seems,
he had been one of, and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners; all which were carried to several places b those who
had taken them in the fight. in order to feast upon t em, as was
done here by these wretchcs upon those they brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather up all the sculls, bones, flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make
a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday
had still a hankering stomach alter some of the flesh, and was
still a, cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much abhor-
rence, at the very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of
it. that he durst not discover it: for I had, by some means, let
him know that I would kill him if he offered it.

When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and there
I fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, I gave him a
pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest
I mentioned which I found in the wreck; and which, with a
little alteration, titted him very well, and then I made him a
jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow (for l was
now grown a tolerable good tailor); and I ave him a cap. which
I made of here's skin, very convenient and fashionable enOngh;
and thus he was clothed for the present. tolerably well, and was
mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as
his master. It is true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at
first: wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and the
sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders, and the inside of
his arms; but after a little easing them where he com lained
they hurt him, and using himself to them, he took to t cm at
length very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I began
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well
for him, and yet be erfectly easy myself, I Inadea little tent for
him in the vacant p between my two fortifications, in the
inside of the last and in the outside of the first As there was a
door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed
doorcase, and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage,
a little within the entrance; and causing the door to open in the
inside, I barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so
that Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my inner-
most well, without makin so much noise in getting over that it
must needs waken me: or my first wall had now acomplete
roof over it of long oles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to
the side of the hill; w ich was again laid across with smaller sticks,
instead of latbs, and then thatc ed over a great thickness with the
rice-straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or place
which was left to go in or out b the ladder, I had placed a kind
of trap door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside.
would not have opened at all, but would have fallen down, and
mode a great noise: as to weapons, I took them all into my
side every night. But I needed none of all this precaution; for
never man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday
was to me; without passions, sullenness, or desi ns, perfectly
obliged and engaged--his very afi'ections were ti to me, like
those of a child to a father; and I dare say, he would have sacri-
ficed his life for the saving mine upon any occasion whatsoever:
the many testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and
soon convinced me that I needed to use no precautions, as to my
safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with
wonder, that however it had pleased God, in his providence, and
in the government of the works of his hands, to take from so
great a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that
he has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason,
the same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and obli-
gation, the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same
sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of
doing cod. and receiving ood, that e has given to us; and that
when e pleases to offer em occasions of exerting these, they
are as read , nay, more read , to apply them to the right uses
for which ey were bestow than we are. This made me very
melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions pre-
sented, how mean a use we make of all these, even though we
have these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction,
the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of his word added to our
understanding; and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving
knowledge from so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge
by this poor savage, would make a much better use of it than we
did. From hence, I sometimes was led too far, to invade the
sovereignty of Providence, and as it were arraign the justice of
so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that light
from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect alike duty
from both; but I shut it up, and checked my thoughts with this
conclusion: first, That we did not know by what light and law
these should be condemned: but that as God was necessarily, and,
by the nature of his being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not
be, but if these creatures were all sentenced to absence from him--
self, it was on account of sinning against that light, which, as the
Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by such rules as
their consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the
foundation was not discovered to us; and, secondly, That still,
as we all are the clay in the hand of the potter, no vessel could
say to him, Why hast thou formed me thus?

But to return to my new companion :--I was greatly delighted
with him, and made it my business to teach him everything that
was proper to make him useful, handy, and helpful; but especially
to make him speak, and understand me when I spoke: and he
was the aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was so
merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but
understand me, or make me understand him, that it was very
pleasant to me to talk to him. Now my life began to be so easy,
that I began to say to myself, that could I but have been safe
from more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the
place where I lived.
 

SECTION XXIII.

ROBINSON INS'I'RUC'I'S AND CIVILIZES HIS MAN FRIDAY.---ENDEA-
OURS TO GIVE HIM AN IDEA 01" CHRISTIANITY.

AFTER I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I
thought that, in Older to b1ing Friday off from his honid way
of feeding, and from the relish of a cannibal' s stomach, I ought
to let him taste other flesh; so I took him out with me one
morning to thewoods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out
of my own flock, and bring it home and d1 css it; but as I was
going, I saw a she-goat lying do11n 1n the shade, and two voung
kids sitting by her. Icatched hold of F11dav,--Hold said I;
stand still; and made signs to him not to stir. - immediately I
presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids. 'I he poor
creature, 11 ho had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage,
his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine, how it was
done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook, and looked
so amazed, that I thought he 11ou1d have sunk do11'11.IIe did
not see the kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped
11p his waistcoat, to feel whether he was not wounded, and, as I
found presently, thoughtI was resolved to kill him: for he came
and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees, said a great
many things I did not understand; but I could easily see the
meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a 11 av to convince him that I would do him no
harm ; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid much I had killed, beckoned to him to run
and fetch it, 11 h1ch he did, and while he was 11 andermg, and
looking to see how the creatmewas killed, I loaded my gun again.
By and by, I saw a gieat fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a tree,
within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little what I would

.
do, I called him to Inc again, pointed at the fowl, which was
indeed a parrot, thou-Vb I thought it had been a haw';k I 5213,
pointing- to the parrot, and to my <<run, and to the Ivround under
the pairot, to let him see I would make it fallf I made him
understand that I would shoot and kill that bird: accordinglyJ
fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall.
He stood like one lrightcncd ag Iin, notwithstanding all I had
said to him , and I found he was the more amazed, because he
did not see. me put any thing into the gun, but thought that
there must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in
that thing, able to kill man, beast, or bird. or any thing near or
flu oil'; and the astonishment this created III him was such. as
could not wear oil fora long time; and Ibelicve. if I would lime
let him. he would have worshipped Inc and my gun. As for the
gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for .I'eral days
after; but he would speak to it. and talk to it, as If it had an-
sw'ered him, when he was by himself; which, as I allcrw'ai'ds
learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him. Well. after his
astonishment was a little. over at this, I pointed to him to run
and fetch the bird 1 had shot. which he did, but stayed some
time; for the parrot, not being: quite. dead, had fluttered away a
good distance from the place where she fell: however, he found
her, took her up, and brought her to me ; and as I had perceived
his ignorance about the gun befoIc, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that I
might be ready for any other mark that IIIiL'lIt present; but no-
thine: more olli- 'lt'lI (u that time. so I broiII'lIt home the kid. and
the same eI eIIiIIIr 1 took the skin oil', and cut it out as well as I
Could : and having a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the HI sh, and made someIer good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I "me some to m3 man, who seemed Iner3
I.'l:id oi it, and liked It I'c13' well: but that w hieh was stranIrest
to him. II as to see me cat salt with it. He made a sign to3 me
that the salt was not good to ca and putting a little into his
month. he. seemed to nauscatc it, and would spit and sputter at
it, IIaslIinIr his mouth with fresh water alter it: on the other
hand I took some meat into m3 month without salt, and I pre-
tended to spit and sputter for want 0! salt, as fast as he had done
at the salt; but It would not do; he would never care for salt
with his meat or in his broth; at least, not for a greatwhile, and
then but very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, [was resolved
to feast him the ne\t da3 with roasting II piece of the kid: this
I did, by hanging it before the fire on a string, as I had seen
many people do In linIrland, setting two poles up, one on each
side of the tire, and one across on the top, and t3ing the string
to the cross stick, lettinI' the meat turn continually. I'his Friday
admired Iery much: but when he came to taste the flesh, he took
so man ' ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could not
but an erstand him; and at last he told me, as well as he could,
he would never eat man's Ilcsh any more, which I was very glad
to hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and
sitting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and
he soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he
had seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make
bread of it : for after that I let him see me make my bread. and
bake it too; and in a little time l-riday was able to do all the
work for me, as well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider, that halving two mouths to feed instead
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and flaunt a
larger quantity of corn than I used to do: sol marke out a
larger piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as
belbre, in which Fridav worked not only very willingly and very
hard, but did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was for;
that it was for corn to make more bread, because he was mm
with me, and that I might have enough for him and myself too,
He appeared very sensible of that part, and let me know that
he thougth had much more labour upon me on his account
than I had for myself; and that he would work the harder forum,
if! would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasanu-st year of all the life I led in this plm'C.
Friday began to talk prvllv well, and understand the names
of almost every thing I had occasion to call for. and of every
place I had to send him to, and talked a great deal to me; so
that, in short, I began now to have some use for my tongue again,
which, indeed,l hadmry little occasion for before, that is to say,
about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a
singular satisfaction in the fellow himself: his simple, unt'eigned
honesty appeared to me more and more every (lay, and I began
really to love the creature; and, on his side. I believe he loved
me more than it was possible for him ever to love any thing
before.

I had a. mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination
to his own country again; and having taught him English so
well that he could answer Inc almost any question. I asked him
whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in bat~
tle? At which he smiled, and said, Yes, yes, we always tight the
better: that is, he meant, always get the better in light; and so
we began the following discourse :--

MASTER. You always fight the better? how came you to be
taken prisoner then, Friday?

FRIDAY. My nation beat much, for all that.

MASTER. How beat? If your nation beat them, how came you

to be taken?
FRIDAY. They more many than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overheat
them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation
take one, two. great thousand.

MASTER. But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?

FRIDAY. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.

MASTER. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do With
the men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them. as
these did?

FRIDAY. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.

MASTER. Where do they carry them?

FRIDAY. Go to other place, where they think.

Masren. Do they come hither?

FRIDAY. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.

MASTER. Have you been here with them?

FRIDAY. Yes, I have been here; (points to the raw. side of the
island, which, it seems, was their side.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been
among the savages who used to come on shore on the farther
part of the island, on the same man-eating occasions he was
now brought for: and some time after, when I took the courage
to carry him to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned,
he presently knew the place, and told me he was there once
when they eat up twenty men. two women, and one child: he
could not tell twenty in English, but be numbered them, by
laying so many stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them
over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows;
that after I had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it
was from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were
not often lost. He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever
lost; but that, after a little way out to sea, there was a current
and wind. always one way in the morning. the other in the after-
noon. This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide,
as going out or coming in; but I afterwards understood it was
occasioned by the great draft and reflux of the might river
Droonoko, in the mouth or gulf of which river. as I foun after-
wards, our island lay; and that this land which I perceived to
the w. and N. w. was the great island Trinidad, on the north point
of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand questions
about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what
nations were near: he told me all he knew, with the greatest
openness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several
nations of his sort of people, but could get no other name than
Caribs: from whence I easily understood, that these were the
Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guiana, and
onwards to St. Martha. He told me that u a great way beyond
the moon, that was, beyond the settin of e moon. which must
be west from their country, there dwe t white bearded men, like
me, and pointed to m great whiskers, which I mentioned before;
and that they had ' ed much mans, that was his word: by all
which I understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in
America had been spread over the whole country, and were re-
membered by all the nations, from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this island
and get among those white men: he told me, Yes, es, you may
go in two canoe. I could not understand what e meant, or
make him describe to me what he meant b two canoe; till, at
last, with great dimculty, I found he meant it must be in a large
boat, as b' as two canoes. This part of Friday's discourse
began to r ' h with me very well; and from this time I enter-
tained some ho ea that, one time or other, I m' ht find an op-
portunity to ma e my escape from this place, an that this poor
savage might be a means to help me.

Durin the long time that Friday had now been with me, and
that he an to speak to me, and understand me, I was not
wanticnlf'to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind:
parti rly I asked him, one time, who made him? The poor
creature did not understand me at all, but thought I had asked
him who was his father; but I took it up by another handle,
and asked him who made the sea, the ground we walked on. and
the hills and woods? He told me. it was one old Benamuckee,
that lived beyond all; he could describe nothing of this great
person, but that he was very old, much older, he said, than the
sea or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him then,
if this old person had made all things, why did not all things
worship him? He looked very grave, and with a erfect look
of innocence said. All things say 0 to him. I ask him if the

eople who die in his country went away any where? He said,
gee; they all went to Benamuckee: then I asked him whether
these they ate up went thither too? He said, Yes.

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge
of the true God: I told him that the great Maker of all things
lived up there, pointing up towards heaven; that he overned
the world by the same power and providence by which e made
it; that he was omnipotent, and could do every thing for us,

've everything to us, take every thing from us; and thus, by
Eefirees, opened his eyes. He listened With t attention,
received with pleasure the notion of Jesus C ' t being sent

to redeem us, and of the manner of making our prayers to God.
and his being able to hear us, even in heaven. He told me one
day. that if our God could hear us up beyond the sun, he must
needs be a ter God than their Benamnekee,who lived but a
littlewayofi'nd yet could not hear tilltheywentnp tothe
great mountains where he dwelt to speak to him. I asked him
if ever he went thither to speak to him! He said, No; they
never went that were young men: none went thither but the
old men. whom he called their Oowokaltee; that is, as I made
him explain it to me. their religious, or clergy; and that they
went to say 0 (so he called saying prayers), and then came
back, and told them what Benamuckee said. By this I ob-
served, that there is priestcralt even among the most blinded,
ignorant pagans in the world: and the policy of makings. secret
of religion, in order to preserve the veneration of the people to
the elergv, is not only to be found in the Roman, but perhaps
among all religions in the world, even among the most hrutish
and barbarous savages.

l endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and
told him, that the pretence of their old men going up to the
mountains to say 0 to their god Benamnekee was a cheat; and
their brim::ingr word from thence what he said was much more
so; that if they met with any answer, or spake with any one
there, it must be with an evil spirit; and then I entered into a
long discourse with him about the devil, the original of him, his
rebellion against God, his enmity to man. the reason of it, his
setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be wor-
shipped instead ot' God, and as God, and the many stratagems
he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a
St'l'l'el access to our passions and to our affections, and to adapt
his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our
own tem ters, and run upon our destruction by our own choice.

I foun it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind
about the devil, as it was about the being of a God: nature as-
sisted all my arguments to evidence to him even the necessity of
a great First Cause. and overruling, governing Power, a secret,
directing Providence, and of the equitv and justice of payin
homage to him that made us, and the liite; but there appea
nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit; of his ori-
ginal, his being, his nature, and, above all, of his inclination to
do evil. and to draw as in to do so too: and the poor creature
puzzled me once in such a manner, by a question merely natural
and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him. I had
been talking a great deal to him of the power of God, his om-
nipotence, his aversion to sin, his being a consuming fire to the
workers of iniquity; how, as he had made us all, he could
destroy us and all the world in a moment; and he listened with
great seriousness to me all the while. After this, 1 had been
telling him how the devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men,
and used all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of
Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and
the like. Well, says Friday, but you sav God is so strong, so
great; is he not. much strong, much might as the devil f--Yes,
yes, says I. Friday, God is stronger than the devil: God is
above the devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him
down under our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations,
and quench his fiery darts. But, says he again, if God much
stronger, much mig t as the devil, why God no kill the devil, so
make him no more do wicked? I was strangely surprised at
this question; and, after all, though I was now an old man, yet
I was but a young doctor, and Ill qualified for a casulst, or a
solver of difficulties; and, at first, I could not tell what to say;
so I pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he said; but
he was too earnest for an answer, to forget his question, so that
he repeated it in the very snme broken words as above. By
this time I had recovered myself a little. and I said, God will at
last Knish him severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and
is to cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting
tire. This did not satisfy Friday; but he returns upon me, re-
peating my words, Reserve a! last.- me no understand; but why
not kill the devil now; not kill great ago 'f--You may as wel
ask me, said I, why God does not kill you and me, when we do
wicked things here that offend him We are preserved to
repent and be pardoned. He mused some time on this. Well,
well, says he, mighty afi'eetionntely, that well: so you, I, devil,
all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all. Here I was
run down again b him to the last degm; and it was a testi~
mony to me, how t e mere notions of nature, though the will
guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, an of a
worship or homage due to the supreme eing of God, as the
consequence of our nature, yet nothing but divine revelation can
form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of redem tion pur-
chased for us, of a Mediator of the new covenant, an of an In-
tercessor at the footstool of God's throne: I say, nothin but a
revelation from Heaven can form these in the soul; an that,
therefore, the gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ,
I mean the Word of God. and the Spirit of God, romised for
the guide and sanctifier of his people, are the ahso utely neces-
sary instructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of
God, and the means of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my
man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden owasion of going
out: then sending himfor something a good way on; I seriously
prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct savingly this
poor savage; assisting, by his Spirit, the heart of the poor igno-
33:. creature to refsive tlllile ' ft oatheesowledge of God in

'st,reeoncilmg" imto 'm ,an wo guide' metospeak
so to him item the word of God, as his conscience might be con-
vineed,his e es opened. and his soul saved. When he came
again to me, entered into along discourse with him upon the
subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of the world,
and of the doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven, viz. ot'
repentance towards (Bod, and faith in our hlessed Lord Jesus.
I then explained to him. as well as I could, why our blessed
Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels, but the seed of
Abraham; and how, for that reason. the fallen angels had no
share in the redemption; that he came only to the lost sheep of
the house of Israel, and the like.

I had, (iod knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction. and must
acknowledge. what I believe all that act upon the same principle
will find. that in laying things open to him, I really Informed
and instructed myself in many things that either I did not know,
or had not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally
to my mind upon searching into them, for the information of
this poor savage; and I had more all'eetiou in my inquiry after
things upon this occasion than ever I felt before : so that.
whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no. I had
great reason to be thankful that ever he came to me; my grit-t
sat lighter upon me; my habitation grew comfortable to me be-
yond measure; and when I reflected, that in this solitary life
which l had been confined to. I had not only been moved to look
up to Heaven myself, and to seek to the hand that had brought
me here, but was now to be made an instrument, under Pro-
vidence, to save the life, and, for ought l knew, the soul, of a
poor savage, and bring' him to the true knowledge of religion,
and ol'the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus,
in whom is life eternal; I say, when I teller-ted upon all these
things, a secret joy ran through every part. of my soul. and
l li'culteutly rejoiced that ever i was brought to this place, which
1 had so often thought the most dreadful of all alllictions that
could possibly have hefallen me.

I continued in th'-; thankful l'ramc all the remainder ofmy time:
and the conversation which employed the hours between Friday
and me was such, as made the three years which we lived there
together perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing as
complete happiness can he formed in a sublunarv state. This
savage was now a good Christian, a much better than I ', though
I have reason to hope. and bless God for it, that we were equally
penitent, and comforted. restored penitents. We had here the
Word of God to read. and no farther oll' from his Spirit to instruct,
than it' we had been in England. I always up lied myself, in
reading the Scriptures, to let. him know, as wel as 1 could, the
meaning of what I read; and he again. by his serious inquiries
and questionings, made me, as I said before. a much better
scholar in the Seriptureknowledge than I should ever have been
by my own mere private reading. Another thing I cannot refrain
from observing here also. from experience in this retired part of
my life, viz. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that
the knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ
Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the word of God, so easy to be
received and understood, that, as the, bare reading the Scripture
made me capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry
me direct] on to the great work of sincere repentance for my
sins, and {aying hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a
stated reformation in practice, and obedience to all God's com-
mands, and this without any teacher or instructor, I mean human;
so, the same plain instruction sufficiently served to the enlighten-
ing this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian,
as I have known few equal to him in my life.

As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention, which
have happened in the world a out religion, whether nicctics in
doctrines, or schemes of church government, they were all per-
fectly useless to us, and for aught I can yet see, they have been
so to the rest of the world. We had the sure guide to heaven,
viz. the word of God; and we had, blessed be God, comfortable
views of the Spirit of God teaching and instructing us by his
word, leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and
obedient to the instruction of his word. And I cannot see the
least use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points of
religion, which have made such confusions in the world, would
have been to us, if we could have obtained it.--But I must go on
with the historical part of things, and take every part in its order.
?_

iv."
a fix
*4

"'5. <<,4 u.

 

SECTION XXIV.

ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A CANOE TO CARRY THEM TO
FRIDAY'S COUNTRY.--THEIR SCHEME PREVENTED BY THE AR-
RIVAL OF A PARTY OF SAVAGES.

Am'ER Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that
he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak pretty
fluently, though in broken English. to me. I acquainted him with
my own history, or at least so much of it as related to my coming
to this place; how I had lived here, and how long: I let him into
the mystery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and
taught him how to shoot. I ave him a knife, which he was
wonderfully delighted with; an I made him a belt with a frog
hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the
frog, instead ofa hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only
as good a weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon
other occasions. V

I described to him the country of Europe, particularly England,
which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how
we behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all
parts of the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which
I had been on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the
place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and
gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when
we escaped, and which I could not stir with in whole strength
then; but was now fallen almost all to pieces. pon seeing this
boat, F ridny stood musing a wreat while, and said nothing. I
asked him what it was he studied upon? At last, says he, Me
see such boat like come to place at my nation. I did notunder-
stand him agood while; but, at last, when I had examined farther
into it, I understood by him, that a boat, such as that had been,
came on shore upon the country where he lived; that is, as he
explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have chn cast sway
upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and drive ashore:
but was so dull, that I never once thought of men making their
escape from a wreck thither, much less whence they might come.
so I only inquired alter a description of the heat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me
better to understand him when he added, with some warmth, We
save the white mans from droun. Then I presently asked him,
if there were any white mans, as he called them, in the boat:
Yes, he said; the boat full of white mans. I asked him how many':
He told upon his lingers seventeen. I asked him then what he-
uuue of them? He told me, They li\e, they dwell at my nation.

This put new thoughts into my head; for l presently imagined
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast
away in the sightot' my island. as I now called it; and who, after
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost,
had saved themselves in their boat. and were landed u on that
wild shore among the savages. Upon this, I inquires of him
more critically what was become of them; he assured me they
lived still there; that they had been there about four years; that
the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live on.
I asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them. and eat
them? He said, No, they make brother with them; that is, as I
understood him, a truce; and then he added. They no eat mans
but when make the war fight; that is to say, they never eat
Buy lmen but such us come to tight with them, and are taken in

Mt c.

It was after this some considerable time, that, being upon the
top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I
have said. I had, in a clear day, discovered the main or continent
ol'Americn, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very
earnestly towards the main land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls out to tne, for I was at some
distance from him. I asked him what was the matter'.' 0 jo
says he: 0 glad! there see my country, there my nation! I o -
served an extraordinary sense of pleasure a )pesred in his face,
and his eyes sparkled. and his countenance iscovered a strange
eagerness, as if he had a mind to he in his own country again.
This observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me,
which made me at first not so eas about my new man, Fridav,
as I was before; and I made no ouht but that il' Friday could

'ct back to his own nation again, he would not only forget all
his religion, but all his obligation to me, and would he forward
enough to give his countrymen an account of me, and come back
perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon
me, at which he might be as men- as he used to be with those

of his enemies, when they were t: en in war. But I wronged
N ..
the poor honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, and held me
some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar
and kind to him as before: in which I was certainly in the wrong
too; the honest, grateful creature having no thought about it,
but what consisted with the best principles, both as a religious
Christian, and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my
full satisfaction.

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every
day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new
thoughts which I suspected were in him: but I found everything
he said was so honest and so innocent, that I could find nothing
to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he
made me at last entirely his own again; nor did he, in the least,
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect

im of deceit.

One clay, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy
at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to him,
and said, Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own country,
your own nation ?---Yes, he said, I be much 0 glad to be at my
own nation.--What would you do there? said I: would you turn
wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be a savage, as you were
before? He looked full of concern, and shaking his head, said,
No, no; Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray God,
tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man in.--
Why then, said I to him, they will kill ou. He look grave
at that, and then said, No, no; they no kl me, they willing love
learn. He meant by this, they would be willing to learn. He
added, they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the
boat. Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He
smiled at that, and told me that he could not swim so far. I told
him, I would make a canoe for him. He told me he would go,
if I would go with him. I go? says 1; why, they will eat me,
if I come there--No, no, says he; me make they no eat you; me
make they much love you. He meant, he would tell them how
I had killed his enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make
them love me. Then he told me, as well as he could, how kind
they were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he called
them, who came on shore there in distress.

From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture over, and
see if I could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I made
no doubt, were Spaniards and Portuguese: not doubting but if I
could, we might find some method to escape from thence, bein
upon the continent, and a good com an together, better than
could from an island forty miles ofl' e s are, and alone, without
help. So, afier some days, Itook Friday to work again, by we
of discourse; and told him I would 've him a boat to go buzz
to his own nation: and accordingly carried him to my frigate,
which lay on the other side of the island, and having cleared it
of water (for I always kept it sunk in water) I brought it out,
showed it him. and we both went into it. I found he was a most
dexterous fellow at managing it, and would make it almost
as swifi again as I could. So when he was in, I sai to him,
Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation? He looked very
dull at my sayin so; which. it seems, was because he thought
the boat too arm to go so far; I then told him I had a bigger;
so the next day I went to the lace where the first boat In which
I had made, but which I cox d not et into the water. e said
that was big enough: but then, as had taken no care of it, and
it had lain two or three-and-twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me
such a boat would do very well, and would carry much enough
vittle, drink, bread; that was his way of talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, that I to] him we would
go and make one as big as that, and he should go home in it.
He answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I
asked him what was the matter with him? He asked me again,
Why you angry mad with Friday? What me done? I asked
him what he meant? I told him I was not angry with him at
all. No angr '1 says he, repeating the words several times;
Why send Fri ay home awa to my nation ?--Why, says I, Fri-
day, did not you say you wis ed on were there 2--Yes, es, sa
he, wish be both there ; no wish riday there, no master 1: ere. u
a word, he would not think of going there without me. I go
there, Friday! says I; what shall I do there? He returned very
quick upon me at this: You do at deal much good, says he;

ou teach wild mans be good, so er, tame mans; you tell them
ow God, pray God, and live new life.--Alasl Friday, says
I, thou knowest notwhat thou sayest; lam but an ignorant man
myselfi--Yes, yes, says he, you teaches me ood, yon teachee
them good--No, no, Friday, says I, you sha without me
leave me here to live b myself, as I did before. e looked con-
fused ' at that word); and running to one of the hatchets which
he us to wear, he takes it up but y, and gives it to me. What
must I do with this? says I to him. You take kill Friday, says
he. What must I kill on for? said I again. He returns very
quick, What you send efiday away for? Take kill Friday, no
send Friday away. This he sticks so earnestly, that I saw tears
stand in his eyes: in a word, so plainly discovered the utmost
afi'ection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I told
him then, and often after, that I would never send him away
from me, if he was willing to stay with me. .

Upon the whole, as I found, byI all his discourse, a settled

afi'ection to me, and that nothing s ould part him from me, so 1

bond all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country
was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my
doing them good; a thing, which, as I had no notion of myself,
so I had not the least thought, or intention, or desire, of under-
taking it. But still I found a strong inclination to my attempting
an escape, as above, founded on the supposition gathered from
the discourse, viz. that there were seventeen bearded men there:
and, therefore, without any more delay, I went to work with
Friday. to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large
periagna. or canine, to undertake the voyage. There were trees
enough in the island to have. built a little fleet, notof periaguas,
or canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the main thing I
looked at was, to get one so near the water that we might launch
it when it was made. to amid the mistake I committed at first.
At last. Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he knew much
better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can I tell,
to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, except that
it was very like the tree. we call t'ustic. or between that and the
N icaragna wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to
make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it with tools;
which, after I had showed him how to use. he did very handily:
and in about a month's hard labour we finished it, and made it
\ery handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I showed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true
shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us nearafor'tnight's
time to get her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers,
into the water: but when she was in, she would have carried
twenty men with great. case.

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my man
Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along. So I
asked him if he would, and it' we might, venture over in her.
Yes, he said; we venture over in her very well, though great
blow wind. However, I had a further design, that he knew
nothing of, and that was to make a mast and a sail, and to fit
her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough
to get: so I pitched upon a straight young cedar tree, which I
fimnd near the place, and which there were great plenty of in
the island; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave
him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the sail,
that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails, or rather
pieces of old sails, enough; but as I had had them now six-and-
twenty years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve
them, not imagining that 1 should ever have this kind of use for
them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten, and, indeed, most
of them were so. However, I found two pieces, which appeared
pretty good, and with these I went to work; and with a great
deal of pains, and awkward stitching, you may be sure, for wantka. 5

4 .4,
A<< .akat. .

 

 

' um .u,

-/ - 4f, ' / ' 4 , A
,r /y/, y" /7///// ,'"//'//,////;/ /"///.'// /7Z Z // 'Z/Z'Z/ .
,,

, 7'
of needles, I, at length; made a three-cornered ly thing, like
what we cell in Eng d a shouldeboi'omutton ' , to go with a
boom at bottom, and e little short a rit at the top, such as usually
our ship's long-boots sail with, an such as I best knew how to
manage, as itwas such a one I had to the hoatinwhich I made
my escape from Barbary, as related in the first pert of my
sto .

[fives near two months performing this last work, via. ' ' g
and fitting my mast and sails; for I nished them very complete,
making e small ste , end a sail, or foreseil, to it, toassist, ifwe
should turn to win ward; end, which was more than all, I fixed
9. rudder to the stern of her to steer with. I was but a bungling
shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and even necessity
of such e thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it,
that at lest l brou ht it to pass; though, considering the many
dull contrivances 1 ed for it that failed, I think it cost me almost
as much labour as meking the boet.

After ellthiswas done, I hadm manFridaytoteachasto
whet belonged to the nevi tion 0 my boat; for, though he
knew very well how to pad e a canoe, he knew nothin what
belonged to a sail and e rudder; and was the most emu when
he saw me work the host to end again in the sea by the rudder,
end how the sail gibbed, and filled this way, or that we , es the
course we sailed changed; I say, when he sew this, e stood
like one astonished en amazed. However, with a little use, I
made all these things familiar to him, and he became en expert
sailor, exce t that, as to the compess I could make him under-
stend very 'ttle of that. On the other hand, as there was very
little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in those
parts, there was the less occasion for a compass. seeing the stars
were always to be seen by night, and the shore by day, exceptin
the reiny seasons, and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either
by lend or sea.

I was now entered on the seven-end-twentieth year of my
captivity in this place; though the three last years that I had
this creature with me ought rather to he lett out of the mount,
my hebitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest
of the time. I kept the anniversary of my landing here with
the same thankfulness toGodforhis mercies as at first; and if!
had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so
now, having such additional testimonies of the care of Providence
over me, and the great ho es I hadofbeing efioctnally and
:peedily delivered; for I h an invincible impression u n my

onghte that my deliverance was at hend, and-that should
not his anotieyr year in this lpill-.00. I Kept on, howeve'h'witlli
my usben ;diggmg' ' ,p tin,an encing,esns
figured and cured mygrapes, so did everyneeesaery things-

re. , -
The rainy season was, in the mean time, u on me. when I kept
more within doors than at other times. Ve had stowed our
own vessel as secure as we could, brin 'ng her up into the creek,
where, as I said in the beginning, I anded my rafts from the
ship; and hauling her up to the shore, at highmater mark, I
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold
her, and just dee ) enough to give her water enough to float in;
and then, when 1 re tide was out, we made a strong dam across
the end of it, to keep the water out; and so she la dry,as to the
tide. from the sea: and to keep the rain oil', we lai a great many
houghs of trees, so thick, that she was as well thatched as a
house; and thus we waited for the months of November and
December, in which I designed to make my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought
of my design returned with the fair weather, I was pre aring daily
for the voyage, and the first thing I did was to lay y a certain
quantity of provisions, being the stores for our voyage; and
intended, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon something
of this kind, when I called to F riday. and bid him go to the sea-
shore, and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which
we generally got once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as
the flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came running
back, and tlew over my outer wall, or fence, like one that feltnot
the ground, or the steps he set his feet on ; and before I had time
to speak to him, he cries out to me, 0 master! 0 master! 0
sorrow! 0 had l--What's the matter, Friday? says I. 0 yonder.
there, says he, one, two, three canoe : one, two, three! By this
way of speaking, I concluded there were six; but, on in uiry, I
found it was but three. Well, Friday, says I, do not be frig tened!
So I heartened him up as well as I could: however, I saw the
poor fellow was most terribly seared: for nothing ran in his head
but that they were come to look for him, and would cut him in
pieces, and eat him; and the poor fellow trembled so, that I
scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I
could. and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. But, says I, Friday, we must
resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday 'i--Me shoot, says
he ; but there come many great number.--No matter for that,
said I, again; our guns will fright them that we do not kill. So
I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would
defend me, and stand by me; and do just as] bid him. He said.
Me die, when you bid die, master. So I went and fetched a
dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he drank it, I
made him take the two feuding-pieces, which we always carried,
and loaded them with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-
bullots; then 1 took four muskets, and loaded them with two
sh: , and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded
wi a brace of bullets each; I hung my great sword, as usual,
naked by my side; and gave Friday his hatchet. When I had
thus pre ared myself, I took my perspective glass, and went up
to the si e of the hill, to see what I could discover; and I found

uickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty savages,
t we prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole business
seemed to be the triumphant bmuet upon these three human
bodies; a barbarous feast ind .' but nothing more than,
as I had observed, was usual with them. I observed also, that
they were landed, not where they had done when Friday made
his escape, but nearer to my creek: where the shore was low,
and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea.
This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches
came about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down
again to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to them
and kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by me. He
had now t over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised
with the am I had 'ven him, he was very cheerful, and told
me, as before, he won d die when I bid die.

In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which I had
charged, as before, between us; I gave Frida one pistol to stick
in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoul er; and I took one
pistol, and the other three guns myself; and in this posture we
marched out. Itook a small bottle of rum in in pocket, and
gave Pride a large bag with more powder and b ets; and, as
to orders, charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir.
or shoot, or do 'anything, till I bid him; and, in the mean time,
not to speak a word. In this posture, I fetched a compass to my
right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get
into the wood, so that I might come within shot of them before
I should be discovered, which I had seen, by my glass, it was
eas to do.

ilel was making this march, my former thoughts returning.
I began to abate my resolution : I do not mean that I entertained
any fear of their number; for, as they were naked, unarmed
wretches, it is certain I was superior to them; nay, though I had
been alone. But it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what
occasion, much less what necessity I was in, to go and dip my
hands in blood, to attack eople who had neither done nor in-
tended me any wrong? W o, as to me, were innocent, and whose
barbarous customs were their own disaster; being, in them, a
token indeed of God's having left them, with the other nations
of that part of the world, to such stupidity, and to such inhuman
courses; but did not call me to take u 11 me to be aj e of
their actions, much less an executioner 0 his justice; that, w en-
ever he thought fit, he would take the cause into his own hands,
and, by national vengeance, punish them, as a people, for national
crimes; but that, in the mean time, it was none of my business;
that, it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a de.
elated enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular
people, and it was lawful for him to attack them; but I could
not say the same with respect to myself. These things were so
warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that!
resolved I would only go and place myself near them, that I might
observe their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God
should direct: but that, unless something offered that was more
a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.

With this resolution I entered the wood; and, with all ossible
wariuess and silence, Friday following close at my eels, I
marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which
was next to them, only that one corner of the wood lay between
me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him
a great tree, which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade
him no to the tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainl
whofthey were doing. He did so; and came immediately bac
to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners,
and that another lay bound upon the send, a little from them,
which, he said, they would kill next, and which fired all the very
soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but
one of the bearded men he had told me of, that came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming
the white bearded man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly, b
my glass, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, wit
his hands and his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and
that he was an European, and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about
fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which, b
going a little we about, I saw I mi ht come at undiscovered:
and that then I s ould be within hal a shot of them; so I with-
held my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest
degree; and going back about twenty paces, I got behind some
bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other tree; and
then came to a little rising ground, which gave me a full view
of them, at the distance of about eighty yards.

silt
%
 

SEC'l'IO N XXV.

ROBINSON RELEASES A SPANIARD.--FRIDAY,DISCOVERS HIS FATHER.
--ACCOMM()I)ATION PROVEDED FOR. THESE NE" GUESTS--WHO
ARE AFI'EIHV'ARDS SENT TO LIBERATE THE OTHER. Sl'ANIARDS.---
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH VESSEL.

i HAD now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled together, and
had just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and
bring- him, perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire; and. they were
stomping down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday
--Now, Friday, said I, do as I bid thee. Friday said he would.
Then, Friday, says I, do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing.
So I set down one of the muskots and the fowling--piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the like by his; and with the other musket
I took my aim at the savages, bidding him to do the like: then
asking him if he was ready, he said, Yes. Then fire at them,
said I ; and the same moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side
that he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three more; and
on my side, I killed one, and wounded two. They were, you
may be sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all of them who
were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not immediately
know which way to run, or which way to look, for they knew
not from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes
close upon me that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I
did; so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the
piece, and took up the fowling--piece, and Friday did the like: he
saw me cock and present; he did the same again. Are you ready,
Friday? said I. Yes, sa s be. Let fly, then. says I, in the name
of God! And with that, fired again among the amazed wretches,
and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with what
I called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found only two
drop, but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and most of them
miserably wounded, whereof three more fell quickly after, though
not quite dead.

Now, Friday, says I, laying down the discha pieces, and
taking up the mus et which was yet loaden, fol ow me; which
he (lid. with a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out
of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot.
As soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could,
and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I could, which,
by the way, was not very fast, being loaded with arms as I was,
I made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said,
lying upon the beach, or shore, between the place where they
sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were just going to work
with him, had left him at the surprise of our first fire. and tied
in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe.
and three more of the rest made the same way. I turned to
Friday, and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; he under-
stood me immediately, and running about forty ards, to be
nearer them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them
all, for I saw them all fall ot'a heap into the boat. though I saw
two of them up again quickly: however. he killed two of them,
and Wounded the third, 80 that he lay down in the bottom of the
boot as ifhe had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife,
and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his
hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese
tongue, what he was. He answered in Latin, Christianus; but
was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I
took my bottle out of mv pocket, and gave it him, making signs
that he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of
bread, which he ate. Then I asked him what countryman he
was: and he said, Espagniole; and being a little recovered, let
me know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much he
was in my debt for his deliverance. Si or, said I, with as
much Spanish as I could make up, we wil talk afierwarda, but
we must fight now: if you have any strength left, take this istol
and sword, and la about you. He took them very than ally;
and no sooner h he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had
put new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury,
and had cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is,
as the whole was a su rise to them, so the poor creatures were
so much frightened wi the noise of our pieces, that they fell
down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to
attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot:
and that was the case of those five that Frida shot at in the
boat; ibr as three of them fell with the hurt ey received, so
the other two fell with the fri ht.

I kept my iece in my han still without firing, being willing
to keep my c arge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my
pistol and sword: so I called to Pride. , and bade him run up to
the tree from whence we first fired, an fetch the arms which lay
there that had been discharged, which he did with great swift-
ness; and then givin him in musket, I sat down In self to load
all the rest again, an bade em come to me when t ey wanted.
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce en-
gagement between the Spaniard and one o the sav , who
made at him with one of their great wooden swords, e same-
like weapon that was to have killed him before, if I had not
Krevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as could

e imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian a good while,
and had cut him two twounds on his head; but the savage
being a stout, lusty fe low, closing in with him, had thrown him
down, being faint, and was wringing my sword out of 'his hand;
when the Spaniard, though undemost, wisely quitting the sword,
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the sav a through the
body, and killed him upon the spot, before I, w 0 was running
to liel him, could come near him.

Fri ay being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and wit
that he dispatched those three. who, as I said before, were
wounded at first. and fallen, and all the lest he could come up
with: and the Spaniard coming to me for a , I ve him one
of the fowlin -pieces. with which he pursu two 0 the sav s,
and wounde them both; but, as he was not able to run, ey
both got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them,
and killed one of them, but the other was too nimble for him;
and though he was wounded, yet had lunged himself into the
sea, and swam, with all his might, o to those two who were
left in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one wounded,
that we knew not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands of one-and-twenty. The account of the whole is as
follows : three killed at our first shot from the tree; two killed
at the next shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; .two killed
by Frids of those at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the
wood; t ree killed by the Spaniard; four killed, being found
dropped here and there of their wounds, or killed by "$5 in
his chase of them; four escaped in the boat, whereol'onewo ed,
if not dead.----Twenty-one in all. '

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of fun-
shot, and though Fn'day made two or three ah: .s at them, did
not find that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had
me take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed, [was
very anxious about their escape, lest, carrying the news home
to their people, they should come back haps with two or three
hundred of the canoes, and devour us y mere multitude; so I
consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one of their
canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me; but when I was
in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie
there,bound hand and foot,as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter,
and almost dead with fear, not knowing what was the matter;
for he had not been able to look up over the side of' the boat, he
was tied so hard neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that
he had really but little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could
not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it
, seems. still, that he was only unbound in order to he killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell
him of his deliverance; and, pulling out my bottle, made him
give the poor wretch a dram; which, with the news of his being
delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when
Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his face, it would
have moved any one into tears to have seen how Friday kissed
him. embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, 'umped
about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his han s, beat
his own face and head; and then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could
make him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter ; but when
he came a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what
ecstasy and filial affection had Worked in this poor savage at the
sight of his father, and or his being delivered from death; nor,
indeed, can I describe half the extravagancies of his affection after
this; for he went into the boat, and out of the boat, a great many
times: when he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open
his breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom for many
minutes together. to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles,
which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed and
rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what the case
was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with. which
did them a great deal of cod.

This affair put an en to our pursuit of the canoe with the
other savages, who were got now almost out of sight; and it was
happy for us that we did not. for it blew so hard within two hours
after, and before they could be got a quarter of their way, and
continued blowing so hard all n' ht, and that from the north-
west, which was against them, at I could not suppose their
boat could live, or that they ever reached their own coast.

But, to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father.
that I could not find in my heart to take him of! for some time:
but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called him to
me, and he came jumping and laughing, and pleased to the
highest extreme; then I asked him if he had given his father
any bread. He shook his head, and said, None; ugly d eat
all up self. I then gave him a sake of bread, out of a 'ttle

ouch I carried on purpose: I also gave hima dram for himself;
hut he would not taste it, but carried it to his father. I had in
my oeket two or three bunches of raisins, so I gave him a
ban 1 of them for his father. He had no sooner 'ven his
father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the at, and
run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a rate;
for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that ever I saw: I say,
he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it were, in an
instant; and though I called, and hallooed out too, after him, it
was all one, away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I saw
him come back again, though not so fast as he went; and as he
came nearer, [found his pace slacker, because he had something
in his hand. When he came up to me. Ifound he had been

ulte home for an earthen jug, or pot. to bring his father some
resh water, and that he had two more cakes or loaves of bread;
the bread he gave me, but the water he carried to his father;
however, as I was ver thirsty too, I took a little sup of it.
The water revived his ather more than all the rum or spirits
I had given him, for he was just fainting with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there
was any water left: he said, Yes; and I bade him give it to the
poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father:
and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to the S aniard
too, who was indeed very weak, and was reposing him upon
a green place under the shade of a tree; and whose limbs were
also very stiff, and ver much swelled with the rude bandage he
had been tied with. hen I saw that, upon Friday's coming to
him with the water, he sat up and drank, and took the bread,
and began to eat, lwent to him and gave him a handful of
raisins: he looked upin my face with all the tokens of gratitude
and thankfulnesa that could appear in any countenance; but
was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the
fight, that he could not stand u upon his feet; he tried to do it
two or three times, but was y not able, his ankles were so
swelled and so ainful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused
Frida to rub 's ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had
done is father's.

I observed the or afl'eetionate creature, every two minutes,
or perha a less, the while he was here, turn his head about
to see if Ins father was in the same lace and posture as he lefi
him sitting: and at last he found e was not to be seen; at
which he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew withlSG ADVI-IN'I'K'Rl-Ls ()l-'

that sniftncss III him, that one could scarce pIIreIIiIe his feet to
touch the ground as he \III III' . but \IhIIII he IIIIIIIII, IIII only found
he had lIIiII lInIIxI lI don II to case his limbs, so l-'ridaI came
back III nIII pI-IIsIInIIII . and then l spoke to the Spaniard to let
1" riIlIII' help him up, it he could, and lead him to the boat, and
then he should earn him to our (l\\('lllll:_", "here I would take
care III him: but. 1- I'idaII, a lusty strong IIIllIIII, took the
5p: Iniard quite up upon his bIIIk, and carried him an III to the
boat, and set him down sol'IlI upon the side or gIIIIIII-l of the
canoe \IiIlI his IIIIIt. III the inside ot it; and then, lilting him
quite in, III: set hiIIIsclI close to his father; and presently step-
pan.' out again. launched the boat oil, and padIllI-Il it aloIII.r the
slIoI-III faster than I could "alk, though the "ind lllt'." pretty
hard too: so he brought thI III both sale into our IIl-IIIIIe , and
lt'tfilll': them in thIlI boat, ran IIIIIII' Io IIIII'h the other I-I.InIII-
As he passed Inc, lspoke III him, and asked him II hIIhIIII he
III-III. He told me, Go fetch more boat: so ay he \\ eat. like
the IIiIId, for sure neIer man or horse run like him; and he had
the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got. II: it hI'
land: so III: IIIItIIIIl me our and then III-III to help our new
gIIIsIs out 01 the boat. IIhiIIh he did; but. they were neither III
IhI III able to II .IllI so that poor l'riday knew not "hat to do.

'lo rIIIIIIIdI' this, I II cut to II Mk III IIII thought, and calling to
II' rid: I_I III hid them sit doIIII IIII the batik II lIIlII he e: one to me,
I soon made a kind III a hand-barrow to lIII them (III, and Fri-
day and I carried them both up together upon it, betII ceII us.
llut "'lu'u Ive got. them III the outside of our wall, or fortifica-
tion. III: were III. II worse loss than before, for it. was impossible
to get them over, and l "as resolved not II) break it down: so
i set to IIork again; and Friday and l, in about. tIIo hours'
time, made It I'III'I' handsoIIIe tent IIIIIIIred IIiIh old sails. and
:IlIoIII that aim bonehs of trees. III-ing' III the espaee II Ithout our
outIIIIrIl fence, and hI.t II IIeII that. and the grove of young II' 00d
IIlIiIIh 1 had planted; and here "0 made them two beds of such
things as 1 had, In. of good riIc straw, IIith blankets laid upon
it, to lie on, and another to <<Her them, on each bed.

"I island "as no" peopled. and I thought. myself rich in
subjects: and it "as a merry reflection. II inch [frequently made,
hon like a king] looked. l-'irst III all, the whole country was
my on II mere properII, so that I had an undoubted rivht of do-
minion. ScI-ondlI. my people new perfectlv subjected; I was
absoluIIlI' lord zIIidlIluI-ru er; they all oIch their lives to me,
and new rI-IIdI' III lIII' IleIIn their lives, if there had beeIi
occasion for it for me. It II as remarkable, too, I had but three
subjects. and IhI-I \IIIre ot three ditl'ercnt: reliI'iIIns: my man
FridaI "as II From III, his father "as a. Pagan and a cannibal,
and the Spaniard II a: II l'apist: however, I allowed liberty of
conscience throuWhout my dIIIninions.--But this Is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two \veak rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter, and a place to rest them 11 on, I began
to think of making some provision for them: and t e first thin
I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and
a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut off
the hinder quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday
to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a very good dish.
l assure you, of flesh and broth, having put some barley and
rice also into the broth: and as I cooked it without doors, for I
made no fire within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new
tent, and having set a table therefor them, I sat down. and ate
my dinner also with them, and, as well as I could, cheered them,
and encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter, especially to
his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard
'spoko the language of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather an ped, I ordered Friday to take
one of the canoes, and go and l'etc our muskets and other fire-
arms, which, for want of time, we had left u on the lace oi'hattle:
and, the next day.) ordered him to go and bur e dead bodies
of the savages, which lay open to the sun. an would presently
be offensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains
of their barbarous feast, which I knew were pretty much,
and which I could not think of doing in self; as , I could not
bear to see them, it] went that way; all which e punctually
performed, and effaced the very appearance of the savages being
there; so that when I went again, I could scarce know where it
wlas, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to the

see.

p I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two
new subjects: and, first, I set Friday to in uire of his father what
he thought of the escape of the savages in t at canoe, and whether
we might expect a return of them, with a power too great for us
to resist. His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat
could never live out the storm which blew that night they wentotf,
but must of necessity be drowned. or driven south to those other
shores. where they were as sure to be devoured as they were to
be drowned, if they were cast sway : but, as to what they would
do, if they came safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it was
his opinion, that they were so dreadfufly frightened with the
manner of their being attacked. the noise, and the fire, that he
believed they would tell the people they were all killed by thunder
and lightning, not by the hand of man; and that the two which
appeared, viz. Friday and I, were two heavenl spirits, or furies,
come down to destroy them, and not men wi weapons. This,
he said, he knew: because he heard them all cry out so, in their
langu one to another; for it was impossible for them to con-
eeive t at a man could dart fire. and speak thunder, and kill at
a distance, without lifting up the ban , as was done now: and
- o
this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood since,
by other hands, the savages ne1cr attempted to go over to the
island afterwards, thcv were so tc rrilicd with the accounts given
by those four men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea), that
they believed 11 hoe1cr went to that. enchanted island would be
destroyedby fire from the gods. This, how e1 er, 1 knew not; and
tlicretore was under continual apprehensions for a good while,
and kept alums upon my guard, with all my. army: for, as there
were now four of 11s, I would have ventured upon a hundred of
themI f 111-11 in the open field. at any time.

In a little time, ho11e1er, no more canoes appearing, the fear
ol' their coating 11 ore oil; and I began to take my former thoughts
ofa 1' 01 age to the main into consideration: being likew 1se assdrcd,
by Friday's father, that I might depend upon good usage lrom
tlieir nation, 011 his account, it' I would go. But my thoughts were
a little suspended 1v hen I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and when I understood that there were sixteen more of his
countrymen and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the
savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed
for life I asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and
found they were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la l'lata.
to the 11m anna, being directed to leave their loading there, which
was chielly hides and silver, and to bring back what European
goods they could meet with there; that they had five Portuguese
seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreck; that
five of their own men were drowned, when first the ship was lost,
and that these escaped through infinite dangers and hazards, and
arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast, where they ex-
pected to have been devoured every moment. He told me they
had some arms with them, but thev 11 ere perfectly useless, for
that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of the sea.
having spoiled all their powder, but a little, which they used at
their hrst landing, to provide themselves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and
if they had formed no design of making 11111 escape. He said
they hyad many consultations about it; but that having neither
vessel, nor tools to build one, nor r01 1310113 of any kind, their
councils always ended in tears an despair. I asked him how
an: thought they would receive a proposal from me, which might
tend towards an escape, and whether, if they were all here, it

might not be done. I told him, with freedom, I feared mostly
their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life' 1n their hands,
for that gratitude was no uinherent virtue in the nature of man,
nor did men alw ay square their dealings by the obligations they
had received, so much as they did by the advantages they ex-
pected. I told him it would be very hard that I should be the
instrument at their deliverance, and 'that they should afterwards
make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was
certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what accident
soever brought him thither; and that I had rather he delivered
up to the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the
merciless claws of the priests. and be carried into the Inqui-
sition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded, if they were
all here, we might, with so many hands, build a bark large
enough to carry us all away, either to the Brazils, southward,
or to the islands, or Spanish coast, northward; but that if,
in requital, they should, when I had put weapons into their
hands, carry me by force among their own people, I might
be ill used for my kindness to them, and make my case worse
than it was before.

He answered with a great deal of candour and ingenuousness,
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible
of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought of using any
man unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; and
that. ifI pleased, he would go to them with the old man, and
discourse with them about it, and return again. and bring me
their answer; that he would make conditions with them upon
their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under my
leading, as their commander and captain; and that they should
swear, upon the holy sacraments and gospel, to be true to me.
and go to such Christian country as that 1 should agree to, and
no other, and to he directed wholly and absolutely by my orders.
till they were landed safely in such country as I intended; and
that he would bring a contract from them, under their hands, for
that purpose. Then he told me he would first swear to me him-
self, that he would never stir from me as long as he lived, till I
gave him orders; and that he would take my side to the last
drop of his blood, if there should happen the least breach of faith
among his countrymen. He told me they were all of them very
civil, honest men, and they were under the greatest distress
imaginable, having neither weapons, nor clothes, nor any food,
but at the mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all hopes
ot'evcr returning to their own country; and that he was sure,
if I would undertake their relief, they would live and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them,
if possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to
them to treat. But when we had got all things in readiness to
go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much
prudence in it, on one hand, and so much sincerity, on the other

and, that I could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by

his advice, put ofi' the deliverance of his comrades for at least

half a year. The case was thus: He had been with us now about

a month, during which time I had let him see in what manner I

had provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my sup art;

and e saw evidently what stockzof corn and rice I had uni up;
0
which, though it was more than sufficient for myself, yet it was
not sullicient, without good husbandry, for my family, now it was
increased to four; but much less would it be sufiicient if his
countrymen. who were, as he said. sixteen, still alive, should
come over; and least of all would it be sutlicient to victual our
vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage to any of the
Christian colonies of America; so he told me he thought it
would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig and
cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow,
and that we should wait another harvest, that we might have a
supply of corn for his countrymen, when they should come; for
want might be. a temptation to thetn to disagree, or not to think
themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one dilliculty into
another. You know, says he, the children of lsrael, though they
rejoiced at first for their being: delivered out of Egypt, yet rev
belled even against (iotl himself, that delivered them, when they
came. to want bread in the Wilderness.

llis caution "as so seasonablc, and his advice so good, that I
could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as
l was satistied with his fidelity 2 so we fell to digging all four of
its. as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted;
and in about a months time, by the end of which it was SCL'tl"
time, we had got as much land cured and trimmed up as we
sowed two :tnd twenty bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of
rice; which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare: nor,
indeed, did we leave ourselves barley sullicicnt for our own food,
for the six months that we had to expect our crop; that is to
say. reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sowing;
for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in
that country. .

Having now society enough, antl our number being sullieicnt
to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless
their number had been very great, we went freely all over the
island, whenever we found occasion: and as here we had our
escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it: was impossible, at
least for me, to have the means of it out of mine. For this pur-
pose, I marked out several trees which Ithought fit. for our
work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting them down;
and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thought
on that. flair, to oversee and direct their work. I showed them
with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single
planks, and 1 caused them to do the like, till they had made
about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to four inches thick:
what prodigious labour it took it , any one may imagine.

At the same time, I contrive to increase my little flock of
tame goats as much as I could: and, for this purpose, I made
Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with
Friday the next day (for we took our turns), and by this means
we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the rest; for
whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them
to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing the grapes
coming on, I caused such a. prodigious quantity to be hung up
in the sun, that, I believe, had we been at Alicnnt, where the
raisins of the sun are cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty
barrels; and these, with our breed, was a great part of our food,
and was very good living, too, I assure you, for it is exceedingly
nourishing.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not
the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, how-
ever, it wns enough to answer our end; for from twenty-two
bushels of barley we brought. in and threshed out above two
hundred and twenty bushels. and the like in proportion of the
rice; which was store enough for our food to the next harvest,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or
if we had been ready for a voyage, it would very plentit'ully have
vietualled our ship to have carried us to any part of the world.
that is to say, any part of America. When we had thus housed
and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make more
wickerware, viz. great baskets, in which we kept it; and the
Spaniard was very handy and dextcrous at this part, and often
b amed me that I did not make some things for defence of this
kind of work; but I saw no need of it.

And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests l ex-
pected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main. to see
what he could do with those he had left behind him there.
I gave him a strict charge not to bring any man with him who
would not first swear. in the presence of himself and the old
savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or attack the
person he should find in the island, who was so kind as to send
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they would
stand by him, and defend him against all such attempts, and
wherever they went, would be entirely under and subjected to
his command; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed with their hands. How they were to have done this,
when I knew they had neither pen nor ink, was a question
which we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard
and the old savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of
the canoes which they might be said to come in, or rather were
brought in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the
savages. I gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it,
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to
be very good husbands of both, and not to use either of them
but upon urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by
me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and
some days. I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried
grapes, sntlicient for themselves for many days, and sufficient for
all the Spaniards for about eight days' time; and wishing them
a good voyage, 1 saw them go; agreeing with them about a sig-
nal they should hang out at their return, by which I should
know them again, when they came back, at a distance, before
they came on shore. They went away with a fair gale, on the
day that the moon was at full, by my account in the month of
October; but as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had once
lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I kept even the
number of years so punctually as to be sure I was right; though,
as it proved, when l afterwards examined my account, I found
I had kept a true reckoning of years.

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has
not perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my
hutch one morning, when my man Friday came running in to
me, and called aloud, Master, master, they are come, they are
come! I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as
soon as [could get my clothes on, through my little grove,
which, by the way, was by this time grown to be a very thick
wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went without my arms,
which it was not my custom to do; but I was surprised, when
turning mv eyes to the sea,l presently saw a boat about a
league and a. half distance, standing in for the shore, with a
shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing
pretty fair to bring them in: also I observed presently, that they
did not come from that side which the shore lay on, but from
the southernmost end of the island. Upon this, I called Friday
in, and bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looked
for, and that we might not know yet whether they were friends
or enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them; and having taken the
ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do
when I was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view the
plainer without being discovered. I had scarce set my foot upon
the bill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor,
at about two leagues and a half distance from me, S.S.E., but
not above a league and a half from the shore. By my obser-
vation, it appeared plainly to he an English ship, and the boat
appeared to be an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as
I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts hang about
me--I cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon
my guard. in the first place, it occurred to me to consider what
business an English ship could have in that part of the world,
since it was not the way to or from any part of the world where
the English had any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms
to drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they were
really En lish, it was most probable that they were here u on
no good esign; and that I ad better continue as I was, an
fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger,
which sometimes are given him when he may think there is no
possibility of its being real. That such hints and notices are
given us, I believe few that have made any observations of things
can deny; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible world,
and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the tendency
of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we not
suppose they are from some friendly agent (whether supreme, or
inferior and subordinate, is not the question), and that they are

given for our good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of

this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by this secret
admonition, come it from whence it will, I had been undone in-
evitably, and in a far worse condition than before, as you will see
presently. I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek
to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however, as they
did not come quite far enough, the did not see the little inlet
where I formerly landed my rafts, ut run their boat on shore
upon the beach, at about half a mile from me, which was
very happy for me; for otherwise they would have landed just
at my door, as I may say, and would soon have beaten me out
of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I bad: When
they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were Englishmen,
at least most of them; one or two I thought were Dutch, but it
did not prove so; there were in all eleven men, whereof three
of them I found were unarmed, and, as I thou ht, bound; and
when the first four or five of them were jumpe on shore,-they
took those three out of the boat, as prisoners; one of the three
I could perceive using the most meionate gestures of entreaty,
afiiiction, and despair, even to a ' d of extravagance; the other
two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and ap--
eared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.
was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knewmot what the
meaninty of it should be. Friday cal ed out to me in English, as
,well aszhe could, 0 master! you see English mans eat prisoner
as well as savage mans--Why, Friday, says I, do you think they
are going to eat them then t--Yes, says Ifriday, $13le cat
them--No, no, says 1, Friday; I am afraid they murder
them, indeed, but on may be sure they will not eat them.
All this while I no thought of what the matter really was,
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting eve
moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once
saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as
the seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and
I expected to see him fall every moment; at which all the blood
in my body seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily
now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him,
or that I had any way to have come undiscovered within shot
of them, that I might have rescued the three men, for I saw no
fire-arms they had among them: but it fell out to my mind
another way. After I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run
scattering about the island, as if the wanted to see the country.
I observed that the three other men ad liberty to go also where
they pleased; but they sat down all three upon the ground,
very pensive, and looked like men in despair. This put me in
mind of the first time when I came on shore, and began to look
about me: how I gave myself over for lost; how wildly I looked
around me; what dreadful apprehensions I had; and how I
lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild
beasts. As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to
receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the land
by the storms and tide, by which I have since been so long
nourished and supported; so these three poor desolate men
know nothing how certain of deliverance and supply they were,
how near it was to them, and how effectually and really they
were in a condition of safety, at the same time that they thought
themselves lost, and their case desperate. So little do we see
before us in the world, and so much reason have we to depend
cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that he does not
leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst
circumstances, they have always something to be thankful for,
and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they imagine,
nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the means by
which they seem to be brought to their destruction
 

SECTION XXVI.

ROBINSON DISCOVERS HIMSELF TO THE ENGLISH CAPTAIN.--ASSlSTS
IIlEI IN IU-IDUCIXG HIS MUTINOUS CREW,--WIIO SUBMIT T0 HIM.

IT was just at the top of high water when these people came on
shore; and partly while they rambled about to see what kind
of a place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide
was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving
their boat aground. They had left two men in the boat, who, as
I found afterwards, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell
asleep; however, one of them waking a little sooner than the
other, and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it,
halloocd out for the rest, who were straggling about; upon which
they all soon came to the hoati but it was past all their strength
to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the shore on that
side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quicksand. In this
condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps the least of all man-
kind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away they
strolled about the country again; and I heard one of them say
aloud to another, calling them off from the boat, Why, let her
alone, Jack, can't you? she'll float next tide: by which I was
fully confirmed in the fnain inquiry of what countrymen they
were. All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of obser--
vation, near the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think
how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less than ten hours
before the boat could float again. and by that time it would be
dark, and I might be at more .iberty to see their motions, and
to hear their discourse, if they had any. In the mean time, I
titted myself up for a battle, as before, though with more caution,
knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had
at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took my-
self two lbwliugpieces, and I gave him three muskets. My figure,
indeed. was very fierce; I had my formidable ts' skin coat .on,
with the great cap 1 have mentioned, a nak sword by my side,
two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was m design, as I said above, not to have made any
attempt till it was dark: but about two o'clock, being the heat
of the day, 1 found that, in short, they were all gone straggling
into the woods, and as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three
poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get any
sleep, were, however, sat down under the shelter of a great tree,
at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of
sight of any ot'the rest. Upon this I resolved to discover mv-
self to them. and learn something of their condition; immediately
l marched in the figure as above, my man Friday at a good
distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not
making uite so storing a spectre-like figure as I did. I came
as near em undiscovered as I could, and then, before any of
them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, What are ye,
gentlemen? They started up at the noise; but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that
I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived
them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English:
Gentlemen, said I, do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may
have a friend near, when you did not expect it.--He must be
sent directly from Heaven then, said one of them very gravely
to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to me; for our
condition is past the help of mam--All help is from Heaven, sir,
said I: But can you put a stranger in the way how to help you?
for on seem to be in some great distress. I saw you when you
lan ed; and when you seemed to make supplication to the
brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword
to kill you. -

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trem-
bling, looking like one astonished, returned. Am I talkingto
God or man? Is it a real man or an angelf--Be in no fear about
that, sir, said I; if God had sent an angel to relieve you. he
would have come better clothed, and armed otter another manner
than you see me: pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an
Englishman, and disposed to assist you: you see I have one
servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can
we serve you? What is your ease?--0ur case, said he, sir, is
too leng to tell you, while our murderers are so near us; but, in
short, sir, I was commander of that ship, my men have mutinied
against me; they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder
me; and at last ave set me on shore in this desolate place, with
these two men with me, one my mate, the other a passenger,
where we expected to perish, believing the place to be unin-
habited, and know not yet what to think of it.----Where are these
brutes, your enemies? said I : Do you know where they are gone?
--There the lie, sir, said he, pointing to a thicket 0 trees; my
heart tremb es for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak;
if they have, they will certainly murder us alL--Have they any
tire-arms? said 1. He answered they had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat. Well then, said I, leave the rest
to me; i see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing to kill them
all: but shall we rather take them prisoners? He told me there
were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe
to show any mercy to; but if the were secured, he believed all
the rest would return to their uty. I asked him which the
were? He told me he could not at that distance distinguis
them, but he would obey my orders in anything I would direct.
Well, says I, let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they
awake, and we will resolve further. So they willingly went bac
with me, till the woods covered us from them.

Look you, sir, said I, if! venture upon your deliverance, are
you willing to make two conditions with me? Be anticipated
my pro osals, by telling me, that both he and the ship, if re-
cove should be wholl directed and commanded by me in
every thing; and, if the 5 ip was not recovered, he would live
and die with me in what part of the world soever i would send
him; and the two other men said the same. Well, says I, my
conditions are but two: first, That while you stay in this island
with me, you will not pretend to any authority here; and if I
put arms in your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them
up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island;.
and, in the mean time, be governed by my orders: secondly.
That ifthe ship is, or may be recovered, you will carry me and
my man to England passage free.

He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of
man could devise, that he would comply with these most reason-
able demands; and, besides, woul owe his life to me, and
acknoivl it upon all occasions, as long as he lived. Well
then, said , here are three muskets for you, with powder and
ball: tell me next what you think is proper to be done. He
showed me all the testimonies of his gratitude that he was able,
but ofi'ered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it
was hard venturing any thing; but the best method I could think
of was to fire upon them at once, as they lay, and if any was not
killed at the first volley, and ofi'ered to submit, we might save
them, and so put it wholly upon God's providence to direct the
shot. He said very modestly that he was loath to kill them, if
he could help it: but that thoset ItI'o II ere incorrigible villains,
and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if
tIII-I escaped, we should be undone still; for they would go on
board and bring.II the II hole ship' s company, and destroy [Is all.
Well then, saI's I, necessity Icgitimates my advice, for it is the
only "In" to sane our lives. HoweI er. seeing him still cautious
ot shedding: blood, I told him theI should go themselves and
man Ige as they found convenient.

III the middle of this discourse Ive heard some of them awake.
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him
if either of them were the heads of the mutiny. ' He said no. Well
then. said I, you may let them escape; and l'rmidence seems to
lI:II e awakened them on purpose to sm c themselves. Now, says
I if the rest escape you, it is Iour fault. Animated with this,
he took the musket I had given him In his hand, and a pistol In
his belt, and his two comrades II ith him. with each a piece in his
hand; the two men who II ere with him going first, made some
noise. at II Inch one of the seamen II ho was awake turned about,
and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too
late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; I mean the
two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had
so II ell aimed their shot at the men they knew. that one of them
was killed on the spot, and the other Iery much wounded; but
not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for
help to the others; but the captain stepping to him, told him It
II as too late to crv for help. he should call upon God to forgive
his I illany; and II ith that word knocked him dow II II Ith the stock
of his musket. so that he uev er spoke more; there were three
more in the company, and one of them was also slightl II minded.
By this time l "us come; and when they saw their danger, and
that It II as in vain to resist thev begged for mercy. The captain
.told them he II ould spare their liI es, if they would give him any
assurance of their abhorrent-e of the treachery they had been
Irnihv of. and II ould swear to be taithl'ul to him In recovering the
ship, and after" ards In earrv ing her back to Jamaica, from II hence
thev came. They IzaImehim all the protestations of their sincerity
that could be desired, and he was II illing to believe them, and
spare their IlV es, II IIIeh I was not against. only that I obliI'ed
him to keep them bound hand and foot Ivhile thev II ere on the
island.

" hile this II as doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate
to the boat, with orders to secure her. and bring an av the ours
and sails. which thev did: and by and by three straggling men,
that were (happilv for them) parted from the rest, came back
upon hearing the guns fired and seeing: the captain, who before
"as their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be
bound also; and so our victory "as complete.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into
one another's cin'umstances: I began first, and told him my
whole history, which he heard with an attention even to amaze-
ment; and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being
furnished with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my
story is a whole collection of wonders, it all'ccted him deeply.
But when he rellected from thence upon himself, and how I
seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to save his life,
the tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a word more.
After this comnnmiuttion was at an end, I carried him and his
two men into my apartment, leading them in just where I came
out, viz. at the top of the house, where I reti'cshcd them with
such provisions as 1 bad, and showed them all the contrivances
I had made, during my long, long inhabiting that place.

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing;
but, above all. the captain admired my fortification, and how
perfectly I had concealed my rctr 'at with a grove of trees, which,
having been now planted near twenty years, and the trees grow-
ing much taster than in England, was become a little wood, and
so thick, that it was impassable in any part ol'it, but at that one
side where I had reserved my little winding passage into it. l
told him this was my castle and my residence, but that 1 had a
seat in the country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat
upon occasion, and I would show him that too another time; but
at present our business was to consider how to recover the ship.
Ile agreed with me as to that; but told me he was perfectly at a
loss what measures to take, for that there were still six-and-
twenty hands on board, who having entered into a cursed con-
spiracy, bv which they had all forfeited their lives to the law,
would be hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry it
on, knowing that, if they were subdued, they would be brought
to the gallows, as soon as they came to England, or to any of
the English colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no at-
tacking them with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and fimnd it
was a very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, something
was to be resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on board
into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing
upon us, and destroying us. Upon this, it presently occurred to
me, that in a little while the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come
on shore in their other boat, to look for them; and that then,
perhaps, they might come armed, and be too stron for us: this

e allowed to be rational. Upon fins, I told him t e first thing
we had to do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach,
so that they might not carry her off; and taking every thing out
of her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim: accord-
ingly we went on board, took the arms which were left on board
out of her, and whatever else we found there, which was a bottle
of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of
powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvass (the sugar
was live or six pounds); all which was very welcome to me,
especially the brandy and sugar, of which 1 had none left for
many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast,
sail and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as above),
We knocked it great hole in her bottom, that if they had come
strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat.
Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could be able
to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they went awa
without the boat, I did not much qustion to make her fit again
to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the
Spaniards in my way; for I had them still in my thou hts.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and h first, by
main strength, heaved the bout u on the beach so high, that the
tide would not float her off at big -water mark, and besides, had
broke a hole in her bottom too hi to be quickly stopped, and
were set down musing what we 8 ould do, we heard the ship
fire a gun, and saw her make a wait with her ensign as a signal
for the boat to come on board: but no boat stirred; and they
tired several times, making other signals for the boat. At last,
when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and they found
the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses,
hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and we found,
as they approached, that there were no less than ten men in her,
and that they had fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a
full view of them as the came, and a plain si ht even of their
times; because the tide aving set them a lit e to the east of
the other boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same
place where the other had landed, and where the boat lay; by
this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the captain
knew the persons and characters of all the men in the boat, of
whom, he said, there were three very honest fellows, who, he
was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being over-
powered and frightened; but that as for the boatswam, who, it
seems, was the chief oflicer among them, and all the rest, they
were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and .were no doubt
made desperate in their new enterprise; and tembly apprehen-
sive he was that they would be too powerful for us. I smiled
at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were past
the operation of fear; that'seeing almost every condition that
could be was better than that which we were supposed to be in,
we ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life,
would be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought
of the circumstances of my life, and whether a dehveranee were
not worth venturing for? And where, sir, said I, is our belief
of my being preserved here on purpose to save our 'fe, which
elevated you a little while ago; for my part, sai I, there seems
to me but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it. What is that?
says he. Wh , says I, it is, that as you say there are three or
four honest fe ows among them, which should be spared, had
they been all of the wicked art of the crew, I should have thought
God's providence had sing ed them out to deliver them into your
hands; for, deplend upon it, eve man that comes ashore are
our own, and s all die or live as t ey behave to us. As I spoke
this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found it
greatly encouraged him; so we set vigorously to our business.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from
the ship, considered of separating our prisoners; and we had,
indeed, secured them effectually. Two of them, of whom the
captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and
one of the three delivered men, to my cave, where they were
remote enough, and out of dan er of being heard or discovered.
or'of finding their way out of t e woods if the could have de-
livered themselves: here they left them boun but gave them
provisions; and promised them if they continued there uietly,
to give them their liberty in a day or two; but that if ey at-
tempted their escape, they should be put to death without mercy.
They promised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good us e as to
have provisions and light left them; for Friday gave t em can-
dles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they did
not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were kept
pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them;
ut the other two were taken into my service, upon the captain's
recommendation, and upon their so emnly engaging to live and
die with us; so with them and the three honest men we were
seven men well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able
to deal well enou h with the ten that were coming, considering
that the captain ad said that there were three or four honest
men among them also. As soon as they got to the lace where
their other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beac , and came
on shore, haulin the boat up after them, which I was glad to
see; for I was agraid they would rather have left the boat at an
anchor, some distance from the shore, with some bands in her
to guard her, and so we should not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their
other boat; and it was easy to see they were under a great aur-
prise to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a
great hole in her bottom. After they had mused awhile upon
this, they set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all
their might, to try if they could make their companions heal"
but all was to no purpose: then they came all close in a ring,
and tired it volley of their small arms. which, indeed, we hea ,
and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was all one: those
in the care we were sure could not hear; and those in our keep-
>>ing, though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer
to them. They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that,
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again
to their ship. and let them know that the men were all murdered,
and-the long-boat stared ; accordingly, they immediately launched
their hoot ngzun, and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail,
giving their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose
the ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but
he was (prickly as much frightened the other way.

They ad not been long put oil' with the boat, but we per-
ceivcd them all coming on shore again; but with this new
measure in their conduct, which it seems they consulted toga
ther upon. viz.'to leave three men in the boat, and the rest to'go
on shore, and go up into the country to look for their fellows.
This was In great disappointment to us, for now we were at a loss
what to do; as our seizing those seven men on shore would be
no advantage to us, if we let the boat escape; because they would
then row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would be
sure to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would
be lost. However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what
the issue of things might present. The seven men came on shore,
and the three who remained in the boat put her off to a good
distance from the shore. and came to an anchor to wait for them:
so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching towards
the top oi' the little hill under which my' habitation lay; and we
could see them plainly, though they could not perceive us. We
could have been very glad they would have come nearer to us,
so that we might have fired at them, or that the would have
gone farther oil", that we might have come abro . But when
they were come to the brow of the hill, where they could see a
great way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the
north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted
and hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to
venture far from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat
down together under a tree, to consider of it. Had they thought
fit to have gone to sleep there,'as the other part of them had
done, they had done the job for us; but they were too full of
apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, thou h they
could not tell what the danger was they had to fear nottger.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this con-
sultation of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would all fire a volley
main, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, and that we should
sally upon them, 'ust at the juncture when their pieces were
all discharged, and t ey would certainly yield, and we should
have them without bloodshed. I liked this proposal, provided
it was done while we were near enough to come up to them
before they could lead their pieces again. But this even did not
happen; and we lay still a long time, very irresolute what
course to take. At ength I told them there would be nothing
done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if they did not return
to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the .
boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though
very impatient for their removing; and were very uneas , when,
after long consultations, we saw them all start up, an march
down towards the sea: it seems the had such dreadful ap re-
hensions upon them of the danger of t e place, that they reached
to go on board the ship again, give their companions over for
lost, and so go on with their intended voyage with the shi .

As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, imao
gined it to be, as it really was, that they had given over their
search, and were for going back again; and the captain, as soon
as I told him m thoughts, was read to sink at the apprehen-
sions of it: but {presently thought 0 a stratagem to fetch them
back again, and which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered
Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little creek west-
ward, towards the place where the savages came on shore when
Friday was rescue , and as soon as they came to a little rising
ground, at about hali'a mile distance, I bade them halloo out, as
loud as they could, and wait till the found the seamen heard
them; that as soon as ever they hes the seamen answer them,
they should return it again; and then keeping out of sight, take
a round, always answering when the others hallooed, to draw
them as far into the island, and among the woods, as possible,
and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I directed
them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed: and they presently heard them, and answering, run
along the shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when
they were presently stopped by the creek, where the water being
up, they could not get over, and called for the boat to come up
and set them over; as, indeed, I ex ected. When they had set
themselves over, I observed that t e boat being $39 a good
way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour wi ' the land,
they took one of the three men out of her, to go alon with
them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened er to
the stamp of a little tree on the shore. This was what I wished
for; and immediate! leaving Friday and the captain's mate to
their business, I too the rest with me, and crossing the creek
1'
out of their sight, we surprised the two men before they were
aware; one of them lying on the shore, and the other being in
the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking,
and going to start up ; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon
him, and knocked him down; and then called out to him in the
boat to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few
arguments to persuade a single man to 'eld, when he saw five
men upon him, and his comrade knocked own; besides, this was,
it seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny
as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not
only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely with us. In
the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed
their business with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing
and answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood to
another, till they not only heartily tired them, but left them
where they were very sure they could not reach back to the boat
before it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired them-
selves also, by the time they came back to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark,
and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It
was several hours after Friday came back to me before they came
back to their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them, long
before they came quite up, calling to those behind to come along;
and could also hear them answer, and complain how lame and
tired they were, and not able to come any faster, which was very
welcome news to us. At length they came up to the boat: but
it is impossible to express their confusion when they found the
boat fast aground in the creek, the title ebbed out, and their two
men gone. We could hear them call to one another in a most
lamentable manner, telling one another they were got into an
enchanted island: that either there were inhabitants in it, and
they should all be murdered, or else there were devils and spirits
in it, and they should be all carried away and devoured. They
hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their names a
great mauv times; but no answer. After some time, we could
see them, by the little light there was, run about, wringing their
hands like men in despair; and that sometimes they would go
and sit down in the boat, to rest themselves; then come ashore
again, and walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would l'ain have had me give them leave to fall upon
them at once in the dark ; but I was willing to take them at some
advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could;
and especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our
men, knowing the others were very well armed. I resolved to
wait, to see it' they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure
of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and
the captain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the
ground as they could, that they might not be discovered, and
getfi as near them as they could possibly, before they offered
to re.

They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain,
who was the principal rin leader of the mutitig, and had now
shown himself the most ejected and dispiri of all the rest,
came walking towards them, with two more of the crew: the
captain was so eager at having this principal rogue so much in
his power, that he could hardly have tience to let him come so
near as to be sure of him, for they on y heard his tongue before:
but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up
on their feet, et fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon
the spot; the next man was shot in the body, and tell just by
him, tho it he did not die till an hour or two afier; and the
third ran or it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz. myself,
generahssimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captain and

is two men, and the three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted
with arms. We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that
they could not see our number; and I made the man they had
left in the boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name,
to try if] could bring them to a parley, and so m' ht perhaps
reduce them to terms; which fell out just as we esired: for,
indeed, it was easy to think, as their condition then was, they
would be willing to capitulate. So he calls out, as loud as he
could, to one of them, Tom Smith! Tom Smith! Tom Smith
answered immediately, Is that Robinson? For it seems, he knew
the voice. The other anwered, Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom
Smith, throw down your arms and 'eld, or you are all dead men
this moment--Who must we yie d to? Where are they? says
Smith again. Here they are, says he; here's our captain and
fifty men with him, have been hunting on these two hours: the
boatswain is killed, Will Fry is woun ed, and I am a prisoner;
and if you do not 'eld, you are all lost--Will they give us
quarter then? says om Smith, and we will yield.-I will go ask,
if you promise to yield, says Robinson: so he asked the ca tain;
and the captain himself then calls out, You, Smith, you ow
my voice; if you lay down our arms immediately, and submit,
you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins.
 

SECTION XXV".

ATKINS ENTREATS THE CAPTAIN T0 SPARE HIS LIFE--THE LATTICE
RECOVERS HIS VESSEL FROM THE MUTlNEERS,--AND ROBINSON_
LEAVES THE ISLAND.

UPON this Will Atkins cried out, For God's sake, captain, give
me quarter, what have I done? They have all been as bad as
I : which, by the way, was not true neither; for, it seems, this
Will Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the captain when
they first mutinicd, and used him barbarously, in tying his hands,
and giving him injurious language. However, the captain told
him he must lay down his arms at diserction, and trust to the
governor's mercy: by which he meant me, for they all called me
governor. In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged
their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them.
and two more, who bound them all; and then my great army of
lift men, which particularly with those three, were in all but
. eig t, came up and seized upon them, and upon their boat; only
that I kept myself and one more out of sight for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing
the ship: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley
with them, he cxpostulated with them upon the villany of their
practices with him, and at length upon the further wickedness
of their design, and how certainly it must bring them to misery
and distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows. They all
appeared very pcnitent, and begged hard for their lives. As for
that, he told them they were none of his prisoners, but the com--
manderls oi' the island; that they thought they had set him on
shore on a barren, uninhabited island; but it had pleased God
so to direct them, that it was inhabited, and that the governor
was an Englishman; that he might hang them all there, if he
pleased; but as he had given them all uarter, he supposed he
would send them to England, to be dedlt with there as justice
required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded b5 the gover-
nor to advise to prepare for death, for that he woul be hanged
in the morning.

Though all this was but a fiction of his own, et it had its
desired efi'ect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg t e captain to
intercede with the governor for his life; and all the rest begged
of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.

it now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance was
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these
fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I re-
tired in the dark from them, that they might not see what kind
ofa governor they had, and called the captain to me: when l
called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak
again, and say to the captain, Captain, the commander calls for
you; and presentl the captain replied, Tell his excellenc I am
just a-coming. T is more erfcctly amused them, and t ey all
believed that the command)" was just b'y with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's comin to me, I to] him my project for
seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved
to put it in execution the next morning. But, in order to execute
it with more heart, and to be secure of success, I told him we
must divide the prisoners, and that he should 0 and take Atkins
and two more of the worst of them, and sen them pinioned w
the care where the others lay. This was committed to Friday
and the two men who came on shore with the captain. They
couvc ed them to the cave as to a prison: and it was, indwd, a
dism place, especially to men in their condition. The others
I ordered to my bower, as 1 called it, of which I have given a
full description: and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the
place was secure enough, considering they were upon their

ehaviour.

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter
into a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me
whether he thought they might be trusted or no to go on board
and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury done
him, of the condition they were brought to, and that though'the
governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the resent
action, yet that if the were sent to England, they woul all be
hanged in chains, to sure; but that if they would join in so
Just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have the
governor's engageth for their pardon.

A3 one may guess how readily such a roposal would be ac-
cep by men in their condition; they fel down on their knees
to the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations, that
they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they
should owe their lives to him, and would go with him all over
. the world; that they would own him as a father as long as they
lived. Well, says the captain, I must go and tell the governor
what you say, and see what I can do to bring him to consent to
it. So he brought me an account of the temper he found them
in, and that he verily believed thev would be faithful. However,
that we might be very secure, I told him he should go back again
and choose out those five, and tell them, that they might see he
did not want men, that he would take out those five to be his
assistants, and that the governor would keep the other two, and
the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as
hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved
unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged
in chains alive on the shore. This looked severe, and convinced
them that the governor was in earnest: however, they had no
way left them but to accept it; and it was now the business of
the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other
five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first,
the captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the two prisoners
of the first gang, to whom, having their character from the
captain, I had given their liberty, and trusted them with arms :
third, the other two that I had kept till now in my bower pinioned,
but, on the captain's motion, had now released: fourth, these five
released at last; so that they were twelve in all, besides five we
kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these
hands on board the ship: but as for me and my man Friday, I
did not think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men lefi:
behind; and it was employment enough for us to keep them
asunder, and supply them with victuals. As to the five in the
cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but Friday went in twice a
day to them, to supply them with necessaries; and I made the
other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday
was to take it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the
captain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered
to look after them; and that it was the governor's pleasure the
should not stir any where but by my direction; that if they di ,
they would be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons: so
that as we never suffered them to see me as a governor, I now
appeared as another person, and spoke of the governor, the gar-
rison, the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish
his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made
his passenger captain of one, with four of the men; and himself,
his mate, and five more, went in the other; and they contrived
their business very well, for they came :31", the ship about mid-
night. As soon as they came within of the ship, he made
Robinson hail them, and tell them they had brought off the men
and the boat, but that it was a long time before they had found
them, and the like, holding them in a chat till they came to the '
ship's side; when the captain and the mate entering first, with
their arms, immediately nocked down the second mate and car-
penter with the butt end of their muskets, being very faithfully
seconded by their men; they secured all the rest that were upon
the main and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to
keep them down that were below ; when the other boat and their
men entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship,
and the scuttle which went down into the cook-room, making
three men they found there prisoners. When this was done, and
all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three men,
to break mto the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay,
who having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men and
a boy had got fire arms in their hands; and when the mate, with
a crow, split 0 en the door, the new captain and his men fired
boldl among t em, and wounded the mate with a musket ball,
whic broke his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but
killed nobody. The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into
the round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot
the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at his
mouth, and came out again behind one of his ears, so that he
never Spoke a word more: upon which the rest yielded, and the
ship was taken effectually, without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me
to give me notice of his success, which you may be sure I was
very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till
near two o'clock in the morning; Having thus heard the signal
plainly, I laid me down; and it aving been a day of great fatigue
to me, I slept very sound, till I was something su rised with
the noise of a gun; and presentl starting up, I hea a man call
me by the name of Governor, overnor, and presently I knew
the captain's voice; when climbing up to the top of the hill, there
he stood, and'pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms.
My dear frien and deliverer, as a he, there's your ship, for she
is all yours, and so are we, an all that belong to her. I cast
my eyes to the ship, and there she rode within little more than
half a mile of the shore; for they had weighed her anchor as
soon as they were masters of her, and the weather being fair,
had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little
creek; and the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace
in near the lace where I at first landed my rafts. and so landed
just at my ear. I was at first ready to sink down with the
surprise; for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my
hands, all thin easy, and a large ship just re y to carry me
away whither pleased to go. At first, for some time, I Was
not able to answer him one word: but as he had taken me in

, his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately ulls a bottle out of
his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had brought
on purpose for me. After I had drank it, I sat down upon the
ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good
while before I could speak a word to him. All this time the
poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only not under any
surprise, as I was; and he said a thousand kind and tender things
to me, to compose and bring me to myself: but such was the
flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits into confusion;
at last it broke out into tears; and in a little while 'atter I re-
covered my speech. I then took my turn, and embraced him as
my deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked
upon him as a man sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the
whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such
things as these were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of
providence governing the world. and an evidence that the eye of an
infinite owcr could search into the remotest corner of the world,
and sen help to the miserable whenever he pleased. I forgot not
to lift up my heart in thankl'ulness to Heaven; and what heart
could forbear to bless him, who had not only in a miraculous
manner provided for me in such a wilderness, and in such a
desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must always
be acknowledged to roceed?

When we had taked a while, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded.
and such as the wretches that had been so lon his masters had
not plundered him of. Upon this he called a oud to the boat,
and bade his men bring the things ashore that were for the
governor; and, indeed, it was a resent as if I had been one that
was not to be carried away wit them, but as if I had been to
dwell upon the island still. First, he had brought me a case of
bottles full of excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira
wine (the bottles held two quarts each), two pounds of excellent
good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces
of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hundred weight of his-
cuit: he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag
full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and abundance of
other things. But, besides these, and what was a thousand times
more useful to me, he brought me six new clean shirts, six very
good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and
one air of stockings, with a ver good suit of clothes of his own,
which had been worn but very 'ttle; in a word, he clothed me
from head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as
any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
any thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and
uneasy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at first.
After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
were brou ht into my little apartment, we began to consult what
was to be one with the prisoners we had; for it was worth con-
sidering whether we might venture to take them away with us
or no, especially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refractory to the last degree; and the ca tain said he knew
they were such rogues, that there was no ob igiug them; and if
he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to
be delivered over to justice at the first English colony he could
come at; and I foun that the ca tain himself was very anxious
about it. Upon this I told him, t at if he desired it, I would un-
dertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own
request that he should leave them upon the island. I should be
very glad of that, says the captain, with all my heart.--Well,
says I, I will send for them up, and talk with them for you. So
I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were now dis-
charged, their comrades having performed their promise; I say,
I caused them to o to the cave, and bring up the five men, pinioned
as they were, to t ebower, and keep them there till I came. After
some time, I came thither dressed in my new habit; and now I
was called overnor again. Being all met, and the captain with
me, I caused the men to be brought before. me, and I told them I
had at a full account of their villanous behaviour to the captain,
and ow they had run away with the ship, and were preparing
to commit farther robberies, but that Providence had ensnared
them in their own we a, and that they were fallen into the pit
which the had dug or others. I let them know that by my
direction the ship had been seized; that she lay now in the road;
and the might see, b and by, that their new captain had re-
ceived t ie reward of is villany, and that they would see him
hanging at the yard-arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what
the had to say why I should not execute them as pirates, taken
in t e fact, as y my commission they could not doubt but I had
authority so to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain
gromised them their lives. and they humbly implored my mercy.

ut I told them I knew not what mercy to show them; for as
for myself, I had resolved to quit the island with all m men,
and had taken passage with the captain to go for Englan ; and
as for the captain, he could not carry them to England other
than as prisoners, in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running
away with the ship; the consequence of which, they must needs
know, would be the gallows; so that I could not tell what was
best for them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in the
island: if they desired that, as I had libe to leave the island,
I had some inclination to give them their ivcs, if they thought
they could shift on shore. They seemed very thankful for it, and
said the would much rather venture to stay there than be cor-
ricd to England to be hanged: so I let! it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as
if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little
angry with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners,
not his; and seeing that I had ottered them so much favour, I
would he as good as my word; and that if he did not. think fit to
consent to it, I would set them at liberty, as I found them; and
it' he did not like it, he might take them again if he could catch
them. Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly
set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods to the
place whence they came, and I would leave them some fire-arms.
some ammunition, and some directions how they should live very
well. it' they thought lit. Upon this I pre ared to go on board the
ship; but told the captain I would stay at night to prepare my
things, and desired him to go on board, in the mean time, and keep
all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore next day for me;
ordering him, at all events, to cause the new captain, who was
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to
my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them on
their circumstances. I told them I thought they had made a
right choice; that it" the captain had carried them away, they
would certainly be hanged. I showed them the new captain
hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had
nothing less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to sta , I then
told them I would let them into the story of my living t ere, and
mt them into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly,
i gave them the whole history of the lace, and of my coming to
it; showed them my fortifications, t e way I made In bread,
planted my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a word, all t at was
necessary to make them easy. I told them the story also of the
seventeen Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom I lett a
letter, and made them promise to treat them in common with
themselves. Here it may he noted, that the captain had ink on
hoard. who was greatly surprised that I never hit upon a way
of making ink of charcoal and water, or of something else, as I
had done things much more difficult. ,

I left them my tire-arms. viz. five muskets. three fowling-pieces,
and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder
left; for after the first year or two I used but little, and wasted
none. I gave them a description of the way I managed the goats,
and directions to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter
and cheese: in a word. I gave them every part of my own story,
and told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them
two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which
I told them I would have been very glad of: also I gave them
the bag of eas which the captain had brought me to eat, and
bade them lie sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on board
the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that
night. The next morning early, two of the five men came swim-
ming to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable complaint
of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for God's
sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the captain to take
them on board, though he hanged them immediately. Upon this,
the captain pretended to have no power without me; but after
some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of amendment,
they were taken on board, and were some time after soundly
whipped and pickled: after which they proved very honest and
quiet fellows.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men; to which the
captain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be
added, which they took, and were very thankful for. I also en-
couraged them, by telling them that if it lay in my power to send
any vessel to take them in, I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island. I carried on board, for reliques,
the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of my
parrots; also I forgot not to take the money I formerly men-
tioned, which had laid by me so long useless, that it was grown
rusty or tarnished, and could hardly ass for silver, till it had
been a little rubbed and handled; as a so the money I found in
the wreck of the Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the
19th of December, as I found by the ship's account, in the year
1686, after I had been upon it eight-and--twenty years, two months,
and nineteen days; being delivered from this second captivity the
same day of the' month that I first made my escape in the long-
boat, from among the Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a
long voyage, I arrived in England the llth of June, in the year
1687, having been thirty-five years absent.
 

SEC l'lON XXVIII.

ROBINSON GOES TO LISBON, WHERE IIE FINDS THE PORTUGUESE
CAPTAIN, WIIO RENDERS IIIM AN ACCOUNT OF HIS PROPER IT IN
THE BRAZILS.--SETS OUT ON HIS RETURN TO ENGLAND BY LAND.

WHEN I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the
world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and
faithful steward, whom I had left my money in trust with, was
alive, but had had great misfortunes in the world; was become
a widow the second time, and very low in the world. I made her
very easy as to what she owed me, assurin her I would give her
no trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitu c for former care and
faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little stock would afford;
which, at that time, would indeed allow me to do but little for
her; but I assured her I would never forget her former kindness
to me; nor did I forget her when I had sufficient to help her, as
shall be observed in its proper place. I went down afterwards into
Yorkshire: but my father and mother were dead, and all the
family extinct, except that I found two sisters, and two of the
children of one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago given
over for dead, there had been no provision made for me: so that,
in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that the
little money I had would not do much for me as to settling in
the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not ex-
pect; and this was, that the master of the ship whom I had so
appily dclivered, and by the same means saved the ship and
cargo, having given a very handsome account to the owners of
the manner how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship,
they invited me to meet them, and some other merchants con-
cerned, and all together made me a very handsome compliment
upolt: the subject, and a present of almost two hundred pounds
ster 'n .

But getter making several reflections upon the circumstances of
my life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in
the world, I resolved to to Lisbon, and see if I might not come
by some information of e state of my plantation in the Brasils,
and of what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to
suppose. had some years past given me over for dead. Withtbis
view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April follow-
ing; my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all these
ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my par-
ticular satisfaction, m old friend the captain of the ship who first
took me up at sea 0 the shore of Africa. He was now grown
old. and had left of going to sea, having put his son, who was
far from a youn man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil
trade. The 0 man did not know me: and, indeed, I hardly
knew him: but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as
goon brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him who

was.

Alter some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance
between us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and
my partner. The old man told me he had not been in the Brazil:
for about nine years; but that he could assure me that when he
came awe my partner was living; but the trustees, whom I had
joined wi him to take cognizance of my part, were both dead:
that, however, he believed I would have a very good account of
the improvement of the plantation; for that upon the general
belief of my being cast away and drowned, m trustees had given
in the account 0 the produce of my part of the plantation to the
procuraton-fiseal, who had appropriated it. in case I never came
to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-thirds to the monastery
of St. Augustine, to be ex tied for the benefit of the poor, and
for the conversion of the ndians to the Catholic faith; but that
if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it would
be restored; on] that the improvement, or annual production,
being distribnt to charitable uses, could not be restored: but
he assured me that the steward of the king's revenue fi'om lands,
and the proviedore, or steward of the monastery, had taken great
care all along that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave
every year a faithful account of the produce, of which they had
duly received my moiety. I asked him if he knew to what height
of improvement he had brought the plantation, and whether he
thong t it might be worth looking after; or whether, on my going
thither, I should meet with any obstruction to my possessing my
just right in the moiety. He told me he could not tell exactly
to what degree the plantation was_improVed, but th'n he knew,

that my partner was grown exuedrng rich upon the enjoying his
, part of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he had heard
that the king's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted
away to some other monastery or religious house, amounted to
above two hundred moidoree a-year: that as to my being
restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no question to be
made of that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and my
name bein also enrolled in the register of the country: also he
told me, t at the survivors of my two trustees were very fair
honest people, and very wealthy : and he believed I would not
on] have their assistance for putting me in possession, but would
fin a very considerable sum of money in their hands for my
account, bein the produce of the farm while their fathers held
the trust, an before it was given up," above; which, as he
remembered, was for about twelve years.

I showed myself alittle concerned and uneasy at this account,
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the
trustees should thus dis ass of my ell'ects, when he knew that I
had made in will, and ad made him, the Portuguese captain,
my universe heir, &c.

He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof of
my being dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain
account should come of my death; and, besides, he was not
willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote: that it was true
he had registered my will, and put in his claim; and could he
have given any account of in being dead or alive, he would
have acted by procuration, an taken possession of the ingenio
(so they called the sugar-house), and have given his son, who was
now at the Bmzils, orders to do it. But, says the old man, I
have one piece of news to tell you, which, perhaps, may not be so
acceptable to you as the rest; and that is, believing on were
lost, and all the world believing so also, your partner an trustees
did otl'er to account with me, in your name, for six or eight of
the first years' profits, which I received. There being at that
time great disbursements for increasing the works, building an
higcnio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much
as afterwards it produced: however, says the old man, I shall
give you a true account of what I have received in all, and how
I have disposed of it.

After a few days' further conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my plan-
tation, signed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being
always delivered in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in
chests, besides rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence ol'a
sugar-work; and I found, by this account, that every year the
income considerably increased; but, as above, the disbursements
being large, the sum at first was small: however, the old man
let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and seventy
moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double303111808 C3030!- 217

rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship; he havingbeen
shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years utter
my leaving the place. The man then began to complain of
hismisfortunes, and how he ad been obliged to make use of my
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new ship.
However, my old fiend, says he, you shall not want a supply In
your necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you shall be fully
satisfied. Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and 'ves me one
hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold; In giving the
writings of his title to the ship. which his son was gone to the
Brazils in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and his son
another, he puts them both into my an , for security of the
rest. -

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the
poor man to be able to bear this; and remembering what he had
done for me, how he had taken me u at sea, and how generously
he had used me on all occasions, ans articularly how sincere a
friend he was now to me, I could hard refi-ain weeping at what
he had said to me; therefore I asked ' if his circumstances
admitted'him to spare so much money at that time, and if it
would not straiten him? He told me he could not say but it
might straiten him a little; but, however, it was my money, and
I might want it more than he.

Every thing the good man said was full of afl'ection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one
hundred of the moidores, and called for a and ink to give him
a recei t for them: then I returned him e rest, and told him if
ever I possession of the plantation, I would return the other
tohim also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and that as to the bill
of sale of his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by any
means : but t at if I wanted the money, I found he was honest
enough to pay me; and if I did not, but came to receive what he
gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny more
from him.

When this was past, the old man asked me if he should put
me into a method to make my claim to my plantation? I told
him I the ht to go over to it myself. He said I might do so, if
I pleased; ut that if I did not, there were ways enough to
secure my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to
my use: and as there were shi s in the river of Lisbon just ready
to go away to Brazil, he in e me enter in name in a public
register, with his afidavit, aflirm' ,upon oath, that I was alive,
and that I was the same personlaio took up the land for the

lanting the said plantation at first. This Wfly attested

ya notary, and a procuratiou affixed, he ' me to send it,
with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at
the place; and then proposed my staying with himtill an account
came of the return.
Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings
upon this procuration; for in less than seven months I received
a large packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants.
for whose account I went to sea, in which were the following
particular letters and papers enclosed.

first, There was the account-current of the produce of my
farm or plantation. from the year when their fathers had balanced
with my old Portugal captain. being for six years: the balance
appeared to he one thousand one hundred and seventy-four
moidores in my l'avonr.

Secondly. There was the mount of four years more, while they
kept the ctl'ects in their hands, before the 'government claimed
the tulministration, as being the ell'eets of a person not to be
found, which they called civil death; and the balance of this, the
value of the plantation increasing. amounted to nineteen thou-
sand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes, being about three
thousand two hundred and forty moidores.

'l'hirdly, There was the prior of Augustine's account. who had
received the rofits for above fourteen years; but not being to
account for w lat was disposed of by the hospital, very honestly
declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account: as to the
king's part. that refunded nothing.

'l'bere was a letter of my partner's. congratulating me very
ntl'eelionately upon my being alive. giving me an account how the
estate was improved. and what it produced a year; with n ur-
ticular ol' the number ol'sqnsrcs or acres that it contained, iow
planted, how many slaves there were upon it. and making two
and twenty crosses for blessings. told me he had said so many Arc
Marius to thank the blessed Virgin that l was alive; inviting me
verv passionately to come over and take possession of my own;
and, in the mean time. to give him orders to whom he should
deliver my cll'eets, if I did not come myscll'; concluding with a
hearty tender of his friendship. and that of his family ; and. sent
me, as a present, seven tine leopards' skins, which he had, it
seems. received from Africa, by some other ship that he had sent
thither. and who. it seems. had made a better voyage than I.
He sent me also live chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hun-
dred pieces of gold uncoined, notqnite so large as moidores. By
the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me one thou-
sand two hundrcd chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of tobacco,

and the rest of the whole account in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was

hotter than the beginning. It is impossible to ex ress the flut~
tcrings of my very heart. when I found all my wen th about me;
for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets. the same ships which
brought my letters brought my goods: and the 01?th were safe
in the river before the letters came to my hand. in a word, I
turned pale and w sick; and bed not the old man run end
fetched me e co 'el, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had
overset nature, and I had died upon the spot: nay, after that,
I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till e physician
being sent for, and something of the reel cause of m illness being
known, he ordered me to be let blood; afier whi I had reliet;
end grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not been eeeed by s.
vent given in'that manner to the spirits, I should have died.

I was now master, ell on a sudden, of ebove five thousand
pounds ster ' in money, and had an estate, as I might well cell
it, in the B ' , of above a thousand pounds a ear, as sure es
an estate of lends in England; and, in a word, was in a con-
dition which I scarce knew how to understend, or how to compose
myself for the enjoyment of it. The first thing I did was to re-
compense my original benefactor, my good old captain. who had
been first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in my be-
ginning, end honest to me at the end. I showed him all that
wes sent to me ; I told him, that next to the providence of Heaven,
which disposed all things, it was owing to him; and that it now
lay on me to rewerd him, which I would do a hundred-fold: so
I first returned to him the hundred moidores, I had reeeived of
him; then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up a
general release or discharge from the four hundred and seventy
moidorss, which he bed acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest
and flrmest manner possible. Alter which I caused a procuration
to bfie drafwn, empowering ham to be my receiver of the annual
pro ta 0 my p antatton, en ep tnting In er to account
with him. endmeke the returns Kathe usual sets to him in my
name; and a clause in the end, ' egrent of one hundred
moidores a year to him during his life, out of the efl'ects, end
tifiy moidores a year to his son after him, for his life: and thus
I requited my old men.

I was now to consider which way to steer m course next, and
what to do with the estate that Providence b thus put into my
hands; and, indeed. I had more care upon my head now than I
I had in my silent state of life in the islend, where I wanted
nothing but what I had. end had nothing but whet I wanted;
whereas I had now e greet charge upon me, and my business was
how to secure it. I had never e eeve now to hide my money in, or
a place where it might lie without lock or kg, till it w monldy
end tarnished, betbre any body would to die wi it; on the
contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it.
M old patron, the captain. indeed, was honest, and that was the
o yrefuge I had. In the next lece,myintu~estinthe Brazil:
seemed to summon me thither; ut now I could not tell how to
think of going thither till 1 had settled my affairs, and let! my
etl'ects in some safe hands behind me. At first I the t of my
old friend the widow, who I knew we honest, and we be just

a220 am suwans or

to me; but then she was in years, and but oer, and, for sught
I knew, might be in debt: so that, in a wo , I had no way but
to go back to England myself, and take my efforts with me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this;
and, therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to
his satistiiction, who had been my former benefactor, so I began
to think of my poor widow, whose husband had been my first
benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my tlfithful steward
and instruetor. So the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon
to write to his correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill,
but to go lind her out. and carry herin money a hundred pounds
for me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in icr poverty, by
telling her she should, if! lived. have a further supply: at the
same time I sent my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds
each, they being, though not in want, yet not in very good cir-
cumstances; one having been married and left a widow; and the
other having a husband not so kind to her as he should be. But
amongall my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch upon
one to whom I dnrst commit the gross of my stock, that I might
go away to the llrazils, and leave things safe behind me; and
this greatly perplexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have set-
tled myself there: for I was, as it were, naturalized to the place;
but I had some little scruple in my mind about religion. which
insensibly drew me back. However, it was not religion that kept
me from going there for the present; and as I had made no scruple
of being openly of the religion of the country all the while I was
among them, so neither did 1 yet; only that, now and then,
having of late thought more of it than formerly, when l heganto
think of living and dying among them, [began to regret my
having professed myself a papist, and thought it might not be
the best religion to die with.

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me
from going to the Brazils, but that really I did not know with
whom to leave my effects behind me: so I resolved, at last, to
go to England with it, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should
make some acquaintance, or find some relations that would be
faithful to me; and, accordingly, I prepared to go to England
with all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first, the
Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved to give answers
suitable to the just and faithful account of things I had from
thence; and, first, to the prior of St. Augustine I wrote a letter
full of thanks for their just dealings, and the offer of the eight
hundred and seventy-two moidoree which were undisposed of,
which I desired might be given, five hundred to the monastery,
and three hundred and sevent -two to the poor, as the rior
should direct; desiring the goodpsdre's prayers for me, an the
like. I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with
all the acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty called
for; as for sending them any present, they were far above having
any occasion for it. Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledg-
ing his industrv in the improving the plantation, and his integrity
in increasing the stock of the works; giving him instructions for
his future government of my part, according to the powers I had
left with my old patron, to whom [desired him to send whatever
became due to me, till he should hear from me more particularly;
assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to him,
but to settle myself there for the remainder of my life. To this
I added a wry handsome present of some Italian silks for his
wife and two daughters. for such the captain '3 son informed me
he had; with two pieces of fine English broad cloth, the best I
could get in Lisbon, live pieces of black baize, and some Flanders
lace ot'a good value.

llaving_r thus settled my all'airs, sold my cargo, and tumed all
my ell'ects into good bills of exchange, my next dilliculty was,
which way to go to England: I had been accustomed enough to
the sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to England by
sea at that time; and though I could give no reason for it, yet
the dillicult y increased upon me so much, that though I had once
shipped my baggage, in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and
that not once. but two or three times.

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might
be some of the reasons; but let no man slight the strong impulses
of his own thoughts in cases of such moment: two of the ships
which I had singled out to go in, I mean more particularly singled
out than any other, having put my things on board one of them,
and in the other to have agreed with the captain; [ say, two of
these ships miscarried, viz. one was taken by the Algertncs. and
the other was cast away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the
people drowned, except three; so that in either of these vessels
1 had been made miserable.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to
whom I communicated every thing, pressed me earnestly not to
go by sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne (Corunna), and
cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was
but an easy and safe journey b land to Paris, and so to Calais
and Dover; or to go up to M rid, and so all the way by land
through France. In a word, I was so prepossessed inst my
going by sea at all, exec t from Calais to Dover, that resolved
to travel all the way by hand; which, as I was not in haste, and
did not value the charge, was by much the pleasenter way: and
to make it more so, my old captain brought an English gentle-
man, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel
with me; after which we picked up two more English merchants
also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to

0 2
Paris only; so that in all there were six of us, and five servants,
the. two merchants and the two Portuguese contenting themselves
with one servant between two, to save the charge; and as for me,
I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides
my luau Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of
supplying the place ol'a servant on the road.

In this inannerl set out from Lisbon ; and our company being
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof
they did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I was
the oldest man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed. was
the original of the whole journey.

As i have troubled you with none of my sea journals. so I
shall trouble you now with none of my land journal; but some
adventures that happened to us in this tedious and dillieult
journey I must not omit.

When we came to Madrid. we being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and to
see what was worth observing; but it being the latter part ol'the
summer, we hastened away. and set out from Madrid about the
middle of October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre,
we were alarmed, at several towns on the way, with an account
that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the moun-
tains, that several travellers were obliged to come back to Pam-
peluua. after having attempted. at an extreme hazard, to pass on.

When we came to l'ampelnna itself, we found it so, indeed; and
to me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and toconntries
where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insuffer-
able: nor. indeed, was it more painful than an rising, to come
but ten days betore out of Old Castile, where t e weather was
not only warm. but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind
from the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as
to be intolerable, and to endanger the beuumbing and perishing
of our ling *rs and toes.

l'oor Fridav was really frightened when he saw the mountains
all covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never
seen or felt before in his life. To mend the matter, when we
came to l'ampeluna. it continued snowing with so much violence,
and so long, that the people said winter was come before its
time; and the roads, which were dillicult before, were now quite
impassable; for, in a word, the snow lav in some places too
thick for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as is the case
in the northern countries. there was no going without. being in
danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no less than
twenty days at. Pampeluna; when seeing the wmter coming on,
and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the severest Winter
all over Europethat had been known in the memory of man, I pro-
posed that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there take
shipping for Batu-deans, which was a very little voyage. But
while I was considering this, there came in four French gentle-
men, who having been stopped on the French side of the passes,
as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who, traversing
the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought them over
the mountains by such ways, that they were not much incom-
moded with the snow; for where they met with snow in any

uantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them and
t teir horses. We sent for this guide, who told us he would un-
dertake to carry us the saute way with no hazard from the snow,
provided we were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from
wild beasts; for, he said, upon these great snows it was frequent
for some wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains.
being made ravenous for want of food, the ground bein covered
with snow. We told him we were well enough prepare for such
creatures as they were, if he would insure us from a kind of two-
legged wolves, which, we were told, we were in most danger
from, especially on the French side of the mountains. He satis-
tied us that there was no danger of that kind in the way that we
were to go : so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve
other gentlemen, with their servants, some French, some Spanish,
n ho, as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come
back again.

Accordingly, we set out from l'ampeluna, with our guide. on
the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead
of going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road
that we came from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having
passed two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country was
pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden turning to

is left, he approached the mountains another way : and though
it is true the hills and precipice: looked dreadful, yet he made so
many tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding ways,
that we insensibly passed the height of the mountains without
being much incumbered with the snow; and, all on a sudden, he
showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and
Uascony, all green and flourishing, though, indeed, at agreat
distance, and we had some rough way to pass still.

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed
one whole day and a night so fast, that we could not travel; but
he bid us be easy; we should soon be past it all: we found, indeed,
that we began to descend every day, and to come more north than
before; and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.

.A-\
.1
 

SECTION XXIX.

FRIDAY'S ENCOUNTER WITH A BEAR.--ROBINSON AND HIS FELLOW
TRAVELLERS A'I'TACKED BY A FLOCK 0F WOLVI-ls.---IIIS ARRANGE-
MENT OI." lIlS AFFAIRS, AND MARRIAGE AFTER HIS RETURN TO
ENGLAND.

IT was about two hours before night, when our guide being some-
thing before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous
wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to
a thick wood; two of the wolves made at the guide, and had he
been far before us, he would have been devoured before we could
have helped him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the
other attacked the man with that violence, that he had not time,
or presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and
cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday being next me, I
bade him ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon as
Friday came in sight of the man, he halloocd out as loud as the
other, 0 master! 0 master! but, like a boldifellow, rode directly
up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the wolf, that at-
tacked him, in the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday;
for he having been used to such creatures in his country, he had
no fear respecting them, but went close up to him and shot him,
as above; whereas any other of us would have fired at a greater
distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered
shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a holder man than I; and,
indeed, it alarmed all our compan , when, with the noise of
Frida 's pistol, we heard on both si es the most dismal howling
of wo res; and the noise, redoubled by the echo of the mountains,
appeared to us as if there had been a prodigious number of them;
and, perhaps, there was not such a few as that we had no cause
of apprehensions: however, as Friday had killed this wolf, the
other that had fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and
fled, without doing him any damage, having happily fastened
upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his
teeth. But the man was most hurt; for the raging creature had
hit him twice, once in the arm, and the other time a little above
his knee; and though he had made some defence, he was just as
it were tumbling down by the disorder of his horse, when Friday
came up and shot the wolf.

lt is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all

mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
difficult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As
soon as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we
saw clearly what had been the ease, and how Frida had disen-
gaged the poor guide, though we did not presently ' cem what
kind of creature it was he had killed.

But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a sur-
rising manner, as that which followed, between Friday and the
ear, which gave us all, though at first we were surprised and

afraid for him, the greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear
is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
who is swift and light, so he has two particular qualities, which
generally are the rule of his actions: first, as to men, who are
not his proper prey (he does not usually attempt them, except
they first attack him, unless he be excessively hungry, which it
is probable might now be the case, the ground being covered
with snow), if you do not meddle with him, he will not meddle
with you: but then you must take care to be very civil to him,
and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentleman; he will
not go a step out of his way for a prince; nay, if you are really
afraid, your best wa is to look another way, and keep going
on; for sometimes it you stop, and stand still, and look stead-
fastl at him, he takes it for an affront; but if you throw or toss
any ' at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of
stick as ig as your finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all
other business aside to pursue his revenge, and will have satis-
faction in point of honour;--this is his first quality: the next is,
if he be once afi'ronted, he will never leave on, night nor day,
till he has his revenge, but follows, at a round rate. till he
overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came

up to him, he was helping him ofi' from his horse, for the man
was both hurt and frightened, when, on a sudden, we espied the226 seven-runes or

hear come. out of the wood, and a vast, monstrous one it was,
the biggest by far that everl saw. We were all a little surprised
when we saw him; but when Friday saw him. it was easy to see
joy and courage in the fellow 's muntenauee; 0, U, 0! says Friday.
three times. pointing to him; 0 master! you give. me to leave.
me. shakee te hand with him; me makee you good laugh.

I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: You fool,
says I, he will eat you np.--l".atee me up! eatee. me up! says
l-'riilay. twiee over again; me eatee him up; me makee you good
laugh: you all saw here, we show you good laugh. So down he
sits. and gets all his boots in a moment, and nuts on a pair of
pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear, an whit-h he .Iad iu
iis pot-ken, gives my other servant his horse, and With his gun
away he flew, swilt like the wind.

The hear was walking sol'lly on, and tillered to meddle with
nohody. till Friday coming )retty near, calls to him. as if the
bear eould understand him. lllark ye, hark ye, says Friday, me
speakee with you. We followed at a distance; for now being
come down on the (laseonv side of the mountains, we were en-
tered a, vast great forest, where the. country was flair: and pretty
open. though it had quny lrees in it seatte here and there.
l-'riday. who had. as we say. the heels ut'the hear. came up with
him uniekly. and takes up a great stone and throws it at him,
and hit him just on the head, but did him no more harm than if
he had thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday's end.
for the rogue. was so void of fear that he did it purely to make
the bear follow him. and show us some laugh as he called it. As
soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, he turns about, and
eomes after him, taking devilish long strides. and shutlling on at
a strange rate. such as would have put a home to a middling
gallop; away runs Friday. and takes his course as it' he run towards
us for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear. and
deliver my man; though 1 was angry at him heartily for bring-
ing the bear hark upon us, when he was going about his own
business another way; and especially 1 was angr that he had
turned the. bear upon us, and then run away; an I called out,
You dog, is this your making us laugh? Come away, and take
your horse, that we may shoot the creature. He heard me. and
cried out. No shoot, no shoot; stand still. and you get much
laugh; and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the bear's one.
he turned on a sudden, on one side of us, and seeing a great oak
tree {it for his purpose, he. beckoned to us to follow; and doub-
ling his pace, he gets nimhly up the tree, laying his an down
upon the ground, at about five or six yards from the ottom of
the tree. The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a
distance: the first thing he did, he stopped at the gun. smelt to
it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree. climbing like
1 cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly,
as i thought it, of my man, and could not for m life see anv
thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up t ie tree, we all
rode near to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Frida got out to the
small end of a large branch, and the bear got u )out halfway to
him. As soon as the hear put out to that part where the limb
of the tree was weaker,-- la! says he to us, now you see me
teachee the hour dance: so he falls a jumping and shaking the
hough. at which the hear began to totter, but stood still, and
he ran to look behind him, to see how he should get back; then,
in eed, we did lau h heartily. But Frida had not done with
him by a great dea ; when secin him stan still. he calls out to
him again, as if he had suppose the bear could speak English,
What, you come no farther? pray you come further: so he left
jumping and shaking the tree; and the bear, just as if he under-
stood what he said, did come a little farther; then he fell a
jumping main, and the bear stopped again. We thought now
was a goot time to knock him on the head, and called to Friday
to stand still, and we would shoot the bear: but he cried out
earnestly, () pra ! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then; he
would have sai by and h . However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, an the bear stood so tieklish. that we
had laughing enough. hut still could not imagine what the fellow
would do: for first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear
oil'; and we found the hear was too cunning for that too; for he
would not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast
with his great broad claws and feet, so that we could not ima ine
what would he the end of it, and what the jest would he at set.
liut Friday puts us out of doubt quickly: for seeing the bear
cling fast to the hough. and that he would not be persuaded to
come any further, Well, well, says Friday, you no come farther,
me go; you no come to me. me come to you: and upon this, he
goes out to the smaller end of the hough, where it would bend
with his weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down
the bough, till he came near enough to jam down on his feet,
and away he runs to his gun, takes it up, an stands still. Well,
said I to him. Friday, what will on do now? Why don't you
shoot himT--No shoot, says Fri y, no yet; me no shoot now,
me no kill; me stay, rive you one more laugh; and, indeed. so
he did, as you will see presently: for when the bear saw his
enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where he stood, but
did it mighty cautiously, lookin behin him every step, and
coming backward till he got into t e body of the tree; then, with
the same hinder-end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it
with his claws, and movie one feet at a time, very leisurely.
At this juncture, and just efore he could set his hind-foot on
the ground, l-'rida stepped up close to him, clap ed the meals
ot'his piece into is car, and shot him deed. hen the rogue
turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw we
were pleased, by our looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud.
So we kill bear in my country, says l-'riday. So you kill them?
says [2 why you have no guns--No, says he. no gun, but shoot
great much long arrow. This was a good diversion to us; but
we were still in a \\ ild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew: the. bowling of wolves run much in
my head; and, indeed, except the noise 1 once heard on the shore.
of Africa, of which I have said something already, 1 never heard
any thing that tilled me with so nmeh horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called us all, or else,
as Friday would have had us. we should certainly have taken
the skin of this monstrous creature ml, which was worth saving;
but we had near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us,
so we left him, and went forward on our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep
and dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures,
as we heard afterwards, were come down into the forest and plain
eonntrv. )ressed by hunger. to seek for food, and had done a
great deal of mischief in the villages, where they surprised the
country people. killed a great many of their sheep and horses.
and some people too. We had one dangerous place to pass, of
which our guide told us, if there were more wolves in the country
we should find them there; and this was a small plain, sur-
rounded with woods on every side, and a long narrow detile, or
lane, which we were to pass to get through the wood, and then
we should come to the village where we were to lodge. It was
within half an hour of sunset when we entered the first wood,
and a little alter sunset when we came into the plain. We met
with nothing in the first wood, except that, in a little plain within
the wood, which was not above two furlongs over, we saw five
great wolves cross the road. full speed one after another, as if
thev had been in chase of some prey, and had it in view; they
took no notice of us. and were gone out of sight in a few moments.
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted
fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there were
more wolves a-eoining. We kept our arms ready, and our e es
about us; but we saw no more wolves till we came through t at
wood, which was near half a league, and entered the plain. As
soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough to look
about us: the first object we met with was a dead horse, that is
to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and at least a
dozen of them at work, we could not say eating of him, but pick-
ing ol'his bones rather: for they had eaten up all the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast; neither did
they take much notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them,
but I would not sull'er him by any means; for I found we were
like to have more business upon our hands than we were aware
of. We were not gone halfover the plain, when we began to hear
the wolves howl in the Wood on our left in a frightful manner,
and presently after we saw about a lmndred coming on directly
towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly
as an army drawn up by an experienced ollicer. I scarce knew
in what manner to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in
a close line was the only way: so we lbrmed in a moment: but
that. we might not have too much interval, I ordered that only
every other man should tire, and that the others who had not
til-ed should stand ready to give them a second volley immediately,
if they continued to advance upon us; and then that those who
had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusecs again,
but stand ready every one with a pistol, for we were all armed
with a fusce and a pair of pistols each man: so we were, by this
method. able to tire six volleys, half of us at a time. However,
at present we had no necessity: for upon firing the first volle ,
the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the noise
as with the tire; four of them, being shot in the head, dropped;
several others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could
see by the snow. I found they stop red, but did not immediately
retreat; whereupon, remembering that I had been told that the
fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused
all the company to halloo as loud as we could; and I found the
notion not altogether mistaken; for upon our shout, they began
to retire, and turn about. I then ordered a. second volley to he
fired in their rear, which put them to the gallo , and away they
went to the woods. This ve us leisure to c arge our pieces
again; and that we might use no time, we kept going; but we
had but little more than loaded our homes, and put ourselves in
readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the some wood, on
our left, only that it was farther onward, the same way we were
to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky,
which made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing. we
could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling of those
hellish creatures; and on a sudden we watched two or three
troops of wolves, one on our left, one be ind us, and one in our
front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with them: however,
as they did not fall upon us, we ke t our way forward, as fast as
we could make our horses go, whic , the way being very rough,
was only a good hard trot. In this manner we came in view of
the entrance of the wood, through which we were to pass, at the
farther side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised, when,
coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused number of
wolves standing just at the entrance. On a sudden, at another
opening of a wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking
that way out rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him,
flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him.
thll speed; indeed, the horse had the heels of them, but as we
supposed that he could not hold it at that rate. we doubted not
but thev would get up with him at last; no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcasses of
another horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous crea-
tures; and one of the men was no doubt the same whom we heard
lire the gun, for there lay a gun just by him tired oil'; but as to
the man, his head and the up )er part of his body were eaten up.
This tilled us with horror. and we knew not what course to take;
but the creatures resolved us soon' for they gathered about us
presently, in hopes ot'prey; and l verily believe there were three

tnndred of them. It happened very much to our advantage, that.
at the entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay
some large timber trees. which had been cut down the sunnner
lit-litre. and I suppose lay there for carriage. I drew m little
troop in among those trees, and lacing ourselves in a line eltind
one long tree, I advised thetn alrto alight, and keeping that tree
before us for a hreastworlt, to stand in a triangle or three tronts
t'ln'losiug our horses in the centre. We did so, and it was well
u e did; for never was a more furious charge than the creatures
made upon us in this place. They came on with a growlin
kind of noise, and mounted the piece ol'timber, which, as I sai ,
was our breastwork. as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this tiny ol'theirs, it seems, was prinei ally occasioned
)y their seeing our horses behind us. I ordere our men to tire
as bl'libl't'. every other man: and they took their aim so sure, that
they killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was
a necessity to keep a continual tiring. for they came on like devils,
those behind pushing on those before.

When we had tircd asccond volley of our fueecs, we thought
they stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone otl'; but.
it was but a tnoment, for others came forward again: so we fired
two vollevs of our pistols; and I believe in these four firings we
had killed seventeen) or eighteen of them, and lametl twice as
many. yet they came on again. I was loth to s end our shot
too hastily; so 1 called my servant, not at man lli'riday, for he
was better employed. for. with the greatest exterity imaginable.
he had eha 'd my fusee and his own while we were engaged:
but as l sai , I called my other man. and giving him a horn of

owder, l bade him lay a train all alon the iece of timber, and
list it he a large train. He did so: an had at just time to get
away, when the wolves came up to it, and some at upon it, when
l, snap ing an uncharged piste close to the pow er, set it on fire:
those t at were upon the timber were scorched with it; and six
or seven of them fell or rather jum ed in among us, with the
force and fright of the fire: we dispat ed these in an instant, and
the rest were so frightened with the light, which the night, for
it was now very near dark, made more terrible. that they drew
back a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired
off in one volley, and afier that we gave a shout: upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty
lame ones, that we found stru ling on thteground, and fell a
cutting them with our swords, w ich answe our expectation;
for the crying and howling the made was better understood by
their fellows; so that they all ed and let! us.

We had, first and last, lulled about threeseore of them; and had
it been dayl' ht, we had killed men more. The field of battle
being thus c esred, we made forwa again, for we had still near
a league to go. We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell
in the woods as we went, several times, and sometimes we fancied
we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were
not certain: in about an hour more we came to the town where
we were to lodge, which we found in a terrible flight, and all in
nrms; for, it seems, the night before. the wolves and some beers
had broke into the village, and int them in such terror, that they
were obliged to hoe guard nig t and da , but especially in the
night, to preserve eir cattle, and, inde , their people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled
so much with the raukling of his two wounds, that he could go
no further; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go
to Thoulouse, where we found a warm climate, a fiuitful pleasant
country, and no snow, no wolves, nor anything like them; but
when we told our sto at Thoulouse, they told us it was nothing
but what what was 0 'nary in the great forest at the foot of the
mountains, especially when the snow lay on the ground; but
they inquired much what kind of a guide we had got, who would
venture to bring us that way in such a severe season; and told
us it wu surprising we were not all devoured. When we told
them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in the middle, they
blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty to one but we had
been all destroyed; for it was the sight of the horses which made
the wolves so furious, seeing their prey: and that, at other
times, they are really afraid of a gun; but being excessive hun-
gry. and ragin on that account, the eagerness to come at the
horses had m e them senseless of dan r; and that if we had
not, by the continued fire, and at last y the stratagem of the
train of owder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that
we had it torn to 'eees: whereas, had we been content to
have sat still on horse'hack, and tired as horsemen, they would
not have taken the horses so much for their own, when men were
on their backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that, at
last, if we had stood altogether, and left our horses, they would
have been so eager to have devoured them, that we might have
come ofl' safe, especially having our fire-arms in our hands, and
being so many in number. For my part, I was never so sensible
of danger in my life; for seeing above three hundred devils come
roaring aml open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to
shelter us. or retreat. to. I gave myself over for lost; and. as it
was. I believe I shall never eure to cross those mountains again:
I think I uould mueh rather go a thousand leagues by sea.
though I was sure to meet with a storm ouee a week.

I have nothing; uuenunnon to take notiee nt' in my passage
through l-'ranee. nothing: but. what other travellers have given an
aeennnt nl'. uith mueh more ndutntage than I ean. I travelled
from 'l'houloase to Paris. and without any ennside 'ahle stay came
to Calais. and landed safe at. Dover. the "lb of January, after
having a severe enld season to travel ill.

I was Ilt)\\' enme tn the eeutre ol' my travels. and had inn little
time all my new diseoveretl estate sale about me; the bills of
exehange whirh 1 brought "Ill! me having been very t'nt'renlly
paid.

My prineipal guide and privy counsellor was my good aueient
widow; uho. in gratitude for the money I had sent her. thought
no pains too mueh. nor eare too great. to employ for me; and
I trusted her so entirely with everything. that l was perfectly
easy as to the seeurity ot' my etl'eets: and, indeed. I was very
happy from the. beginning. and now to the end, in the unspotted
integrity nt'this good gentleuoman.

I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the liraziht. il'l
enuhl tintl means. Forthis purpose. I wrote to my old friend at
Lisbon. who having otl'ered it to the two merchants. the survivors
of my trustees. who lived in the llrazils. they acet- fled the oll'er.
and remitted thirty-three thousand pieees ol' eigit to a enrre-
spomleat ot' theirs at Lisbon. tn pay for it. Having signed the
instrument ot'sale. and sent it tn my old friend, he remitted Int-
bills of exehauge t'or thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieees of
eight for the estate. reserving the payment of a hundred tnoidnres
a year tn himself during his life, and litlv Innitlores allcnvards to
his son for life. which I had promised them.

Though I had sold my estate in the llrazils. yet. I could not
keep the enuntrv out of my head; nor could I resist the strong
inelinalinn I had to see. my island. My true friend. the widow,
earnestly dissuaded me from it. and so far prevailed with me. that.
for almost seven vears, she prevented my running abroad; during
whieh time I toolt my two nephews, the children of one of my
hmthers. into my earn: the eldest having something of his own,
I bred up as a gentleman. and gave him a settlement of some
addition to his estate, utter my decease. The other I put out to
a captain ol'a ship; and after five years, finding him a sensible,
bold. enterprising young fellow, I put him into a nod ship. and
sent him to sea: and this young fellow sflerwsrd's drew me in,
old as l was, to further adventures myself.

In the mean time. I in part settled myself here; for, first of all,
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfac-
tion, and had three children, two sons and one daughter; but my
wife dying. and my nephew coming home with good sneeess from
a voyage. to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his impor-
tuuit y prevailed. and engaged me to go in his ship as a private
trader to the East Indies: this was in the year ltitl-I.

lint these. things, with some. very surprising incidents in some
new adventures ot' my own, for ten years more, I shall give a
further aeeount all

That homely proverb used on so many occasions in England.
viz. " 'l'hat "hat is bred in the bone will not go out of the. tlesh."
was never more verified than in the story of my me. Any one
would think that. after thirty-live years' atllietion. and a variety
of unhappy eireumstatu'es. which few men, it' ally, ever went
through before. and after near seven years of name and enjoy-
ment in the. fullness of all things, grown old, ant when. it' ever, it
might be allowed me to have had experience of every state of
middle lii'e, atul to know whieh was most adapted to make a man
eompletely happy; I say. after all this, any one would have
thought that the native propensity to rambling, whieh I gave an
ueeouut of in my first setting out in the world to have been so
predominant in my thoughts, should be. worn out, the \olatile
part. be fully evaeuated. or at least condensed. and I might, at
sixty-one years of age. have been a little inclined to stay at home,
and have done venturing life and fortune any more.

Nay. further. the common motive. of tin-eign adventures was
taken away in me; for I laid no fortune to make; I had nothing
to seek: it' I had gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no
rieher; for I had already snllieient for me, and for those I had to
leave it to; and that I had was visibly int-reaming; for having no
great tiunily. l eould not. spend the ineome of what I had, unless
I would set up for an expensive way of living. sueh as a great
family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and the like. whieh were
things I had no notion of, or inclination to; so that I had nothing
indeed to do but to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and
see it increase daily n It)" my hands. Yet all these. things had no
etl'eet upon me. or at east not enough to resist the strong ineli-
nation 1 had to go abroad again, which hung about me like a
chronieal distemper. In particular, the desire of seeing my new
)lautation in the island. and the colony I left there, ran in my
head matinually. I dreamed of it all night. and my imagination
run upon it all day; it. was uppermost. in all my thoughts; and
my fancy worked so steadily and stronglv upon it, that I talked
of it in my sleep; in short, nothing could remove it out of m
mind: it even broke so violently into all my discourses. that it
made mv conversation tiresome, for i could talk of nothing else:
all my discourse ran into it, even to impertinence; and I saw it
in myself.ATW'I-'NTUR I-ZS OF

13
a:

 

SECTION XXX.

HE IS SEIZED WITH A DESIRE TO REVISIT HIS ISLAND--1.05158
HIS WIFE--IS TEMPTED TO GO TO SEA AGAIN--TAKES OUT A
CARGO FOR HIS COLONY.

I HAVE often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the
stir people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is
owing to the strength of imagination, and the powerful operation
of fancy in their minds ; that there is no such thing as a spirit
appearing, or a ghost walking, and the like : that people's poring
affectionately upon the past conversation of their deceased
friends, so realises it to them, that they are capable of fane ing,
upon some extraordinary circumstances, that they see t em,
talk to them, and are answered by them, when, in truth, there is
nothing but shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really
know nothing of the matter.

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any
such things as real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people
after they are dead: or whether there is anything in the stovies
they tell us of that kind, more than the product of vapours, sick
minds, and wandering fancies: but this I know, that my imagi-
nation worked up to such a height, and brought me into such
excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that I actually

. supposed myself often upon the spot, at my old castle, behind
the trees; saw my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the repro-
bate sailors I left upon the island; nay, I fancied I talked with
them, and looked at them steadily, though I was broad awake,
as at persons just before me: and this I did till I often frightened3.0me "0903. 235

myself with the images my thney re resented to me. One time,
in my sleep, I had the villany of the res irate sailors so lively
related to me by the first Spaniard and riday'a father, that It
was surprising: they told me how they barbarously attempted
to murder all the S ' , and that they set fire to the pro-
visions they had lai up, on purpose to distress and starve them;
things that I had never heard oil-and that indeed were never all
of them true in fact ; but it was so warm in my imagination, and
so realised to me, that, to the hour I saw them, I could not be
persuaded but that it was. or would be, true: also how I resented
It, when the Spaniard complained to me; and how I brought
them to justice, tried them before me, and ordered them all three
to he hanged. What these was really in this shall be seen in its
place: for however I came to form such things in my dream,
and what secret converse of spirits iniected it, yet there was, I as ,
much of it true. I own, that this dream had nothing in it lite y
and specifically true; but the general part was so true, the base
villanous behaviour of these three hardened rogues was such,
and had been so much. worse than all I can describe, that the
dream had too much similitude of the fact; and as I would after-
wards have punished them severely, so, if I had han them
all, I had been much in the right, and even should have en jus.
titled both by the laws of God and man. But to return to my
story. In this kind of temper I lived some years; I had no en-
joyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion,
but what had somethin or other of this in it; so that my wife,
who saw my mind who ly bent upon it, told me very seriously
one night, that she believed there was some secret powerful
impulse of Providence upon me, which had determined me to go
thither again; and that she found nothing hindered my going.
but my beiu on to a wife and children. She told me, that
it was true s a cos d not think of parting with me; but as she
was assured, that if she was dead it would be the first thing I
would do, so. as it seemed to her that the thing was determined
above, she would not be the only obstruction; for, if I thought
tit, and resolved to go--l-lere she found me very intent upon
her words, and that I looked very earnest! at her, so that it a
little disordered her, and she stopped. I as ed her, why she did
not go on, and say out what she was going to say? But I per-
ceived that her heart was too hill. an some tears stood in her
e es. Speak out, my dear, said I 3 are you willing I should go?

0, says she, very affectionately, I am far from willing; but if
you are resolved to go, says she, and rather than Iwould be the
only hinderanee, I Will go with you: for the h I think it a most
preposterous thing for one of your years. an in your condition,
yet, if it.must be, said she, again weeping, I would not leave
you; for if it be of Heaven, you must do it; there is no resisting
it: and if Heaven make it your duty to go, he will also make it

B
mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I may not
obstruct it.

This ail'ectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me alittle out
of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing: I
corrected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with myself
sedatcl . what business I ha , alter threeecore years, and alter
such a life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so
happy and easy a. manner; I say, what business had I to rush
into new hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit only for
youth and poverty to run into?

With those thoughts I considered my new engagement; that I
had a wife. one child born, and my wife then great with child of
another; that I had all the world could give me, and had no need
to seek hazard for rain; that I was declinin in years, and ought
to think rather of caving what I had gaine , than of seeking to
increase it; that as to what my wife had said of its being an im-
pulse from lleaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had
no notion of that: so, alter many of these cogltations, I struggled
with the power of my imagination, reasoned m 'scll'ont of it, as
I believe people may always do in like cases i the will: end,
in a word. [conquered it; composed myself with we I arguments
as occurred to my thoughts, and which my present condition
liirnished me plentifully with; and particularly, as the most
ell'eclual method, I resolved to divert myself with other things,
and to engage in some business that might eil'eetuall tie me up
from any more excursions of this kind; for l foun that thing
return u ion me chielly when l was idle, and had nothing to do,
nor anyt ring of moment immediately before me. To this purpose
l bought a little limit in the count y of Bedl'ord. and resolved to
remove myself thither. I had a little convenient house upon it;
and the land about it, I found, was capable of great improvement;
and it was many ways suited to my inclination, which delighted
in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving of land; and
particularly. being an inland countr , l was removed from con-
versing among sailors, and things re sting to the remote parts of
the world.

In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought
me ploughs, barrows, a cart, Waggon, horses, cows, and sheep,
and setting seriously to work, became, in one half year, a mere
country gentleman: my thoughts were entirely taken u in
managing my servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, 1p ent-
ing, &c.; and I lived, as 1 thought, the most agreeable ie that
nature was capable of directing, or that a man always bred to
mislortunes was capable of retreatiu to.

I farmed upon my own land; I h no rent to s . was limited
by no articles; I could pull up or cut down as rpieased; what
I planted was for myself, and what lim roved was for my famil ;
and having thus left 011' the thoughts a? wondering, I had not 0
east discomfort in any part of life as to this world. Now i
thought indeed that I enjoyed the middle state of life which my
father so earnestly recommended to me, and lived a kind of
heavenly life, something like what is described by the poet, upon
the subyect of a country life--

"--thmmmframcare,
Aphuaopaln. andyouthnesnare."

But, in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unseen
Providence unhinged me at once; and not only made a breech
upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its conse-
quences, into a deep relapse of the wandering disposition, which,
as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon recovered its
hold of me, and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came on
with an irresistible force upon me, so that nothing could make
any more impression upon me. This blow was the loss of my
wife. It is not my business here to write an ele y upon my
wife, give a character of her particular virtues, an make my
court to the sex by the flatter of a funeral sermon. She was,
in a few words. the stay of my atl'airs, the centre of all my
enterprises, the engine that, by her prudence. reduced me to that
happy compass l was in, from the most extrav at and ruinous
project that fluttered in my head, as above, and ' more to guide
my rambling genius than a mother's tears, a father's instructions,
a friend's counsel. or all my own reasoning owers, could do. I
was happy in listening to her tears, and in sing moved by her
entreaties; and to the last degree desolate and dislocawd in
the world by the loss of her.'

When she was gone, the world looked awkward] round me.
I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as was in the
Braeils, when I first went on shore there; and as much alone,
except as to the assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I
knew neither what to think nor what to do. i saw the world
busy around me: one part labouring for bread, another part
squandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures. equally mis-
erable, because the end the proposed still fled from them: for
the men of pleasure every ay surfeited of their vice, and heaped
up work for sorrow and repentance ; and the men of labour spent
their strength in daily at ling for bread to maintain the vital
strength they laboured Jigs: so living in a daily circulation 0|
sorrow, living but to work, and working but to live, as if daily
bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a wearisome life
the only occasion of daily bread.

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the
island; where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I die
not want it, and bred no more goats, because I had no more use
for them; where the money lay in the drawer till it grew monldy,
and had scares the favour to be looked upon in twenty years.

n 2
All these things, had 1 improved thetn as I ought to have

done, and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would have
taught me to search further than human ct 'oyments for a mu
felicity; and that there was something whic I certainly was the
relish)" and end of life, so )erior to all these things, and which
n as either to he. possessed, or at least hoped for, on this side the
'l'll\'l'..
k But to sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without
a pilot, t not could only run afore the wind: my thoughts ran all
away again into the old all'air; my head was t nite turned with
the whimsies of foreign adventures, and all t to pleasant, inno-
cent. amusements ol' my farm, my garden, my cattle, and my
litmily. which before I'lltfl't'ly possessed me. were nothing to me,
had no relish, and were like music to one that has no ear, or
t'oml to one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved to leave otl'
housekeepimt, let my farm, and return to lamdon; and in a few
months alter I did so.

When I came to London. I was still as uneasy as I was before;
1 had no relish for the ilace, no tsuploymont in it, notbin to do
but to saunter about li e an idle penxolnof whom it may to said
he is perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one far-
thing's matter to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or
alive. This also was the thing which, of all circumstances of
life, was the most my aversion, who had been all my days used
to an active life; and I would olten say to mvselt': A state of
idleness is the very drcgs of life; and indeed l thought I was
much more suitably employed when l was twenty-six days
making me a deal board.

It was now the beginning of the year 1593, when my nephew,
whom, as I have observed before, I had brought u to the sea,
and had made him commander ot' a ship. was come tome from a
short voyage to llilhoa, being the first he had made. He came
to me, and told me that some merchants of his uaintanee had
been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to to East Indies
and to China, as private traders.--And now, uncle, says he, if
you will go to sea with me, I will engage to land you upon your
old habitation in the island; for we are to touch at the Bmils.

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, and
of the existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of
sueond causes with the ideas of things which we form in our
minpg, perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the
wer .

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering
was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in
his thought to say, when that very morning, before he came to
me, I had. in a great deal ol'conmsion of thought, and revolving
every part of my circumstances in my mind, come to this reso-
lution, vim. that I would go to Lisbon. and consult with my old
sea-captain; and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would 0
and see the island again, and see what was become of my peep e
there. I had pleased m self with the thoughts of peopling the
place, and carrying inha itants from hence. getting a atcnt for
the possession, an I knew not what; when, in the mi dle of all
this, incomes my nephew, as I have said, with his project of
carrying me thit nor in his way to the East Indies.

I paused awhile at his words, and, looking steadily at him,
What devil, said I, sent you on this unlucky errand? My nephew
stared, as if he had been frightened, at first; but perceivin that
I was not much displeased with the roposal, he rccove him-
self. I hope it may not be an unlucliy proposal, sir, says he; I
dare say you would be pleased to see your new colony there,
where you once reigned with more felicity than most of your
brother-monarchs in the world. '

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my tem er, that is
to say, the prepossessiou I was under, and of which have said
so much, that told him, in a few words. if he agreed with the
merchants I would go with him: but I told him I would not pro-
mise to go any fart i 'r than my own island. Why, sir, says he,
you don't want to he left there again, I hope? Why, said I,
can vou not take me up again on your return? He told me it
would not he possible to do so; that the merchants would never
allow him to come that wa with a laden ship of such value, it
being a month's sail out of his way, and might be three or four.
Besides, air. if I should miscarr , said he. and not return at all. then
you would be just reduced to e condition you were in before.

This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for it;
which was to carry a framed sleep on board the ship, which being
taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, might by the help
of some carpenters. whom we a to carry wit us, be set up
again in the island, and finish , fit to go to sea, in a few days.

I was not long resolvin ; for indeed the importunities of my
nephew joined so efl'ectuglly with my inclination, that nothirgg
could oppose me: on the other hand, my wife being dead, I h
nobody concerning themselves so much for me as to ersuade me
to one way or the other, except my ancient dfrien the widow,
who earnestly stru led wit me to consi er my years, my eas
circumstances, and t e needless hazards of a long voyage; an ,
above all, my young children. But it was all to no purpose ;--
I had an irresistible desire to the voyage; and I told her I thought
there was something so uncommon in the impressions I had u n
my mind for the vo age, that it would be a kind of resistin
vidence if I shoul attempt to ate at home: aher whic she
ceased her expostulations, andjoin with me, not only in making
orovision for my voyage, but also in settling my famil .afl'airs
for my absence. and providing for the education of my c ildren. '

In order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had
in such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that
I was perfectly easy and satisfied the would have justice done
them, whatever mi ht befall me; an for their education, I left
it wholly to the wi ow,with a sufficient maintenance to herself
for her care: all which she richly deserved, for no mother could
have taken more care in their education, or understood it better;
and as she lived till i came home, I also lived to thank her for it.

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January
1694--5; and l, with my man Friday, went. on board in the Downs
the 8th; having, besides that sloop which I mentioned above, avery
considerable cargo of all kinds ol'necessary things for my colony;
which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to leave so.

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I proposed to
place there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there, upon
my account, while I stayed, and either to leave them there. or
carry them ibrward, as they would apgear willing: particularly,
I carried two carpenters, a smith, on a very handy, ingenious
fellow, who was a cooper by trade, and was also a general
mechanic: for he was dextcrous at making wheels, and handcmills
to grind corn, was a good tumor, and a good pot-maker; he also
made any thing that was proper to make of earth, or of wood;
in a word, we called him our Jack of all trades. With these I
carried a tailor, who had oll'cred himself to go a passenger to the
East Indies with my nephew, but atterwards consented to stay
on our new plantation; and proved it most necessary, handy fellow
as could be desired, in many other businesses besides that of his
trade: for, as 1 observed formerly, necessity arms us for all em-
ployments.

My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I had not kept account
of the particulars, consisted of a siillicicnt quantity of linen, and
seine English thin stufl's, for clolliin the Spaniards that 1 ex-
pected to find there; and enough ol't em. as, by my calculation,
might comfortabl supply them for seven years: if] remember
right, the mnteria s I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats,
shoes, stockings, and all such things as they could want forwear-
ing, amounted to above two hundred pounds, including some
beds, bedding, and household stutf, particularly kitchen utensils,
with pots. kettles, pewter, brass. &c. and near a hundred pounds
more in iron work, nails. tools of every kind, staples, hooks,
hinges, and every necessnr thing I could think 0!.

1 carried also a hundrc spare arms, muskets, and fusees;
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes,
three or four tons of lead, and two pieces of brass caution; and
because I knew not what time and what extremities I was pro-
viding for, I carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides swords,
cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberds: so that,
in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores: and I
made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns morethan he
wanted for his ship, to leave behind if there was occasion; that,
when we came there, we might build a fort, and man it against
all sorts of enemies; and, indeed, I at first thought there would
be need enough for all, andvmueh more, if we hoped to maintain
our possession of the island; as shall be seen in the course of that
stor .

I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to
meet with; and therefore shall have theless occasion to interrupt
the reader, who perhaps may be impatient to hear how matters
went with my colony: yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and
bad weather, happened on this first setting out, which made the
voyage longer than I expected it at first: and I, who had never
made but one voyage, viz. my first voyage to Guinea, in which
I might be said to come back again as the voyage was at first
designed, began to think the same ill fate attended me; and that
I was born to be never contented with being on shore, and yet
to be always unfortunate at sea.

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland, where we lay wind-
hound two--and-twenty days ; but we had this satisfaction with
the disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in
the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here, we never touched
the ship's stores, but rather added to them. Here, also, I took
in several live hogs, and two cows, with their calves; which I
resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore in my island;
but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.[Q
A
la

ADVENTURES OF

 

SECTION XXXI.

ROBINSON'S SHIP RELIEVES THE CREW OF A FRENCH VESSEL THAT
HAD CAUGHT FIRE.

WE set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might be about
the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the mate, havingr
the watch, came into the round--house, and told us he saw a flash
of fire, and heard a gun fired; and while he was telling us of it,
a boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This
made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while,
we heard nothing; but in a few minutes we saw a very great light,
and found that there was some very terrible fire at a distance:
immediately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which we all
agreed that there could be no land that way in which the fire
showed itself, no, not for five hundred leagues, for it up cared
at W.N.W. Upon this we concluded it must be some 5 ip on
fire at sea; and as, by our hearing the noise of guns just before,
we concluded that it could not be far off, we stood directly
towards it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it,
because, the farther we sailed, the greater the light appeared;
though, the weather being hazy, we could not perceive anything
but the light for a while. In about half an hour's sailing, the
wind being fair for us, though not much of it, and the weather
clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a great

ship on fire, in the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at
all aequainted with the persons engaged in It: I rcsently recol-
leeted my former ciremnstanees. and in what com ittou l was in.
u hen taken up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more
deplorable the circumstances of the poor ereatmes belonging to
that ship must he, it' they had no other ship in company with
them. Upon this, I immediately ordered that fire guns should
be tired, one soon after another; that, it' possible, we might give
notice. to them that there was help for them at hand, and that
they might endeavour to save themselves in their boat: for
though we could see the flames of the ship, yet they, it being
night, could see nothing (this.

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning
ship drove. trailing t'or daylight; when. on a sudden, to our great
terror. though we. had reason to e\peet it, the ship blew up in
the air; and immediately, that is to say, in a the minutes. all
the tire. was out. that is to say, the rest of the ship sunk. This
was a terrible and indeed nu alllieting sight tor the sake of the
poor Int-u; who, I concluded. must be either all destroyed in
the ship, or he in the utmost distress in their boat, in the middle
of the ocean; whit-h. at present, by reason it was dark. I could
not see. However, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out. in all the. parts ot'the ship where. we could,
and which we had lanterns for. and kept tiring guns all the
night long; letting them know, by this. that there was a ship
out titt' otl'.

About eight o'eloek in the morning we discovered the. ship's
boats by the help of our perspective glasses; lbuud there were
two ot'tbem, both thronged with people, and deep in the water.
We perceived they rowed. the wind being against them; that
they saw our ship, and did their utmost to make us see them.

We immediately spread our under", to let them know we saw
them, and hung a wall out, as a signal for them to come on
hoard; and then made more sail, standing directly to them. In
little more than half an hour we came up with them ; and, in a
word, took them all in, being no less than sixty-four men,
women, and children; for there were a great many passengers.

Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant-ship of
three hundred tons, home-bound from Quebec, in the river of
Canada. The master gave us a long account of the distress of
his ship; how the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence
of the steersman ; but on his crying out for hel , was, as every
body thought, entirely put out; but they soon tound that some
sparks ot' the first fire had gotten into some part of the ship so
difficult to come at, that they could not elfcctually quench it;
and afterwards getting in between the timbers, and within the
ceiling of the ship. it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all
the skill and all the application they were able to exert.

They had no more to do then, but to get into their boats,
which, to their great comfort. were pretty large: being their
long-boat. and a great sltallop, besides a small skill'. which was
of no great service to thetn, other tltatt to get some fresh water
and provisions into her. after they had secured their lives from
tlte ltre. They had, indeed. small hope of their lives by getting
into these boats. at that distance from any land; only, as they
said well, that they were escaped from tlte tire, and a possibility
that sonte shi ) might ltappett to be at sea, and might take them
itt. They had sails, ours, and a compass; and were preparing
to tnake the best of their way back to Newtbundland, the wind
blowing pretty fair, for it bletv an easy gale at S. E. by 1'). They
had as much provision atnl water as, with sparing it so as to be
next door to starving. tnigltt sttpport them about twelve days;
in which, if thev had no bad weather, uttd no contrary winds,
tlte captain said he hoped lte tnigltt get to the Banks of New-
foundland, and might perhaps take sonte lislt, to sustain them
till they might go on shore. But there Were so tnnny chances
against them in all these cases. such as storms. to overset and
founder them; rains atul cold. to benumb and terish their limbs;
contrary winds. to keep them out nttd starve dicta; that. it must.
have been next to miraculous if they had escaped.

ln tlte tttidst of their consternation, every one being hopeless
and ready to despair. the captain, with tears itt his eyes, told
me they were on a sudden surprised with tlte joy of hearing a
gun tire, and after that. four more: these were the live guns
nhich I caused to be tired at first seeing the light. This revived
their hearts, atul gave them tlte notice, whiclt, as above, I desired
it shottld, viz. tltnt there was a ship at ltattd for their help. It was
upon the hearing of these guns that they took down their masts
and sails: the sottnd cottting from the windward. they resolved
to lie br till morning. Some time alter tltis. hearing no more
guns. tltev lircd three. ntnskcts. one a considerable while alter
another; but these. the wind being contrary. we never heard.

Some time after that again. they were still tnore agreeably
surprised with seeing ottr lights. and hearing the guns which, as
l have said. I caused to be tired all the rest of the night: this
set tltem to work with their ours, to keep their boats ahead, at
least. that we might the sooner come up with them; attd, at last,
to their inexpressiblejoy, they found we saw them.

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the
strange ecstasies, the variety of pestures, which these poor
delivered people run into. to express the joy of their souls at so
unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described;
sighs, tears, groans, and a very few tnottons ol' the head and
bands. make up the sum of its variety ; bttt an excess of Joy, a
surprise of joy, has it tltottsand otttravaganees itt it: there were
some in tears; some raging and tearing themselves. as if they
had been in the greatest ugenies of sorrow ; some stark raving,
and downright lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping with
their feet, others wringing their hands; some were dancing,
some singing, some laughing, more or ing; malty quite dumh,
not able to t!)e||k a word; others sic and vomiting: several
swooning, an ready to faint; and a few were crossing them-
selves, and giving God thanks.

I would not wrong them neither; there might be many that
were thankful afterwards, hat the passion was too strong for
them at first, and they were not able to master it: they were
thrown into eestusies, and a kind of frenzy; and it was but a
verv few that Were composed and serious in their joy.

Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition to it from the
particular circumstance of that nation they belonged to: I mean
the French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile, more
passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than
in other nations. 1 M" not philosopher enough to determine the
cause; but nothing I had ever seen before came it to it. The
ecslnsitEs poor Friday. my trusty savage, was in, w ien he found
his father in the heat, came the nearest to it; and the surprise
of the master and his two com anions, whom i delivered from
the villains that set them on s ore in the island, came a little
way towards it; but nothing was to compare to this, either that
I saw in Friday, or any where else in my life.

It is further observable, that these extravagances did not
show themselves, in that ditl'erent manner I have mentioned, in
difl'erent persons only; but all the variety would appear, in a
short succession of moments, in one and the same person. A
man that we saw this minute dumb, and as it were stupid and
confounded, would the next minute be dancing and hallooing
like an antic; and the next moment be tearing his hair, or pulling
his clothes to pieces, and stem ing them under his feet, like a
madman; in a few moments a r that, we would have him all
in tears, then sick, swimming, and, had not immediate help been
had, he would in a few moments have been dead; and thus it
was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the greatest
part of them: and if I remember right, our surgeon was obliged
to let blood of about-thirty of them.

There were two priests among them, one an old man, and the
other a young man; and that which was strangest was, the
oldest man was the worst. As soon as he set his foot on board
our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped down stone-dead. to
all appearance; not the least sign of life could be perceived in
him: our surgeon immediately applied proper remedies to re-
cover him, and was the onlv man in the ship that believed he
was not dead. At length he opened a vein in his am, having
first chafed and rubbed the art, so as to warm it as much as
possible: upon this blood, it ich only dropped at first, flowing
freely, in three minutes after the man opened his eyes; ands7'

246 ADVENTURES OF

nurter of an hour utter that he spoke. grew better, and in a
little time uite well. After the blood was stopped, he walked
about; tolt us he was perfectly well; took a dram of cordial
wbieh the surgeon gave him. and was what we called come to
himself. About a quarter of an hour alter this. they came run-
ning into the eabin to the surgeon. who was bleeding a French
woman that had fainted. and told him the riest was gone stark
mad. it seems he had begun to revolve tie change of his cir-
enmstanees in his mind. and again this put him into an ecstasy
ot' joy; his spirits whirled about faster than the vessels eould
convey them. the blood grew hot and feverish. and the man was
as tit t'or Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it: the surgeon
would not. bleed him again in that condition. but gave him
something to doze and mt him to sleep. which. alter some. time.
operated upon him, tlllt he awoke next morning perfectly com-
posed and well.

The younger priest. behaved with great command of his
passions. and was really an example ot'a serious, well governed
mind: at his first coming on board the. ship. he threw himself
tlat on his face. irostrating himselt' in thankfulness for his de-
liverauee. in w llt'll l unha 1in and nnseasonably disturbed
him. really thinking he hat )t't'll in a swoon; but he spoke
calmly. thanked me. told me he was giving (iod thanks for his
deliverance: begged me. to leave him a few moments, and that,
next to his Maker, he would give me. thanks also.

I was heartily sorry that l disturbed him. and not only left
him. but kept others from interrupting him also. He continued
in that posture about three minutes, or little more, after i left
him; then came to me. as he had said he would, and. with a
great deal of seriousness and all'eetion. but with tears in his
eyes. thanked me, that had. under God. given him, and so many
miserable creatures. their lives. i told him I had no room to
move him to thank God for it. rather than me, for I had seen
that he had done that already; but. I added, that it was nothing
but what reason and humanity dictated to all men; and that we
had as much reason as he to give thanks to God. who had
blessed us so far. as to make us the instruments of his mercy
to so many of his creatures.

Alter this, the young priest applied himself to his country-
folks; laboured to compose them; persuaded, entreated. argued.
reasoned with them. and did his utmost to kee them within the
exercise of their reason; and with some he. ha success, though
others were for a time out of all government of themselves.

I cannot help committing this to writing. as perhaps it may
be useful to those into whose hands it may tall, for the guiding
themselves in all the extravagances of their iassions; for if an
excess of joy can carry men out to such a ength beyond the
reach of their reason. what will not the extravagance: of anger,-----------------w--'u A, W.,.. .,

ROBINSON 030803. 247

rage, and a provoked mind, on us to? And, indeed, here I
saw reason for keeping an exec 'ng watch over our passions
of every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction, as those of
sorrow and anger.

We were something disordered. by these extravagances among
our new ests, for the first day; but when they had been
retired, lodgings provided for them as well as our ship would
allow, and they had slept heartily--as most of them did, being
fatigued and frightened--they were quite another sort of people
the next day.

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the
kindness shown them, was wanting; the French, it is known,
are naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain and
one of the priests came to me the next day, and desired to speak
with me and my nephew : the commander began to consult with
us what should be done with them; and first, they told us that
we had saved their lives, so all they had was little enough for a
return to us for that kindness received. The captain said they
had saved some money, and some things of value, in their heats,
catched hastily out of the flames, and if we would acce t it, they
were ordered to make an oti'er of it all to us: they on y desired
to be set on shore somewhere in our wa , where, if possible,
they might get a passage to France. Iy ne hew was for
accepting their money at first word, and to consi er what to do
with them afterwards; but I overruled him in that part, for I
knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange country: and
it' the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had served me
so, and took all I had for my deliverance, I must have starved,
or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at
Barbary, the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted; and
perhaps a Portuguese is not a much better master than a Turk,
if not, in some cases, much worse.

I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them up
in their distress, it was true, but that it was our dut to do so,
as we were fellow-creatures; and we would desire to so deli-
vered, if we were in the like, or any other extremity; that we had
done nothing for them but what we believed they would have
done for us. if we had been in their case, and the in ours; but
that we took them up to save them. not to lun or them; and
it would he a most barbarous thing to take at little thorn them
which they had saved out of the fire, and then set them on shore
and leave them; that this would be first to save them from death.
and then kill them ourselves; save them than: drowning, and
abandon them to starving; and therefore I would not let the
least thing be taken from them. As to setting them on shore, I
told them, indeed, that was an exceeding difllcnlt to us, for that
.ne ship was bound to the East Indies; and ough we were
driven out of our course to the westward a very great way, and

O
perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for their deliver-
ance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our voyage
on their particular account; nor could my nephew, the captain,
answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under charter-
party to pursue his voyC/ 0'e by the way of Brazil: and all I knew
we could do for them, was to put ourselves in the way of meeting
with other ships homeward bound from the West Indies, and get
them a passage, if possible, to England or France.

The first part of the roposal was so generous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a very
great consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of
being carried away to the East Indies : they then entrcated me,
that seeing I was driven so far to the westward before I met with
them, I would at least keep on the same course to the Banks of
Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet with some

ship or sloop that they might hire to carry them back to Canada,
from whence they came.

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and
therefore I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considered, that
to carry this whole company to the East Indies, would not only
be an intolerable severity upon the poor people, but would be
ruining our whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions; so I
thought it no breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen
accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one
could say we were to blame; for the laws of God and nature
would have forbid that we should refuse to take up two boats'
full of people in such a distressed condition; and the nature of
the thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged
us to set them on shore somewhere or other for their deliver-
ance: so I consented that we would carry them to Newfound-
land. if wind and weather would permit; and if not, that I would
carry them to Martinico, in the West Indies.
 

SECTION XXXII.

RELIEVES 'l'IIE CREW OF A BRISTOL SHIP, WHO ARE STARVING--
ARRIVES AT HIS ISLAND.

THE wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good ,
and as the winds had continued in the points between N.E. and
8.1-). a long time, we missed several 0 )portunities of sending
them to France; for we met several ships bound to Europe,
whereof two were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had
been so long heating up against the wind, that they durst take
in no passengers, for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage,
as well for themselves as for those they should take in; so we
were obliged to go on. It was about a week after this that we
made the Banks of Newfoundland; where, to shorten my story,
we put all our French people on board a bark, which they hired
at sea there, to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them
to France, if they could get provisions to vietual themselves with.
When I say all the French went on shore, I should remember,
that the young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the
East Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on
shore on the coast of Coromandel; which I readily agreed to,
for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason, as
will appear afterwards: also four of the seamen entered them
selves on our ship, and proved very useful fellows.

From hence we directed our course to the West Indies, steering
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes
little or no wind at all ; when we met with another subject for
our humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes
north, on the 19th dav of March, 1694--5, when we spied a sail,
our course 8.1%. and by 8.: we soon perceived it was a large
vessel, and that she bore up to us, but could not at first know
what to make of her, till, alter coming a little nearer, we found
she had lost her main topmast, foremost, and bowsprit; and
presently she fired a gun, as a signal of distress: the weather
was pretty good, wind at N.N.W., a fresh gale, and we soon came
to speak with her.

We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes,'
but. had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few da s
before she was ready to sail, b a terrible hurricane, while t e
captain and chief mate were hot gone on shore; so that, besides
the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent case for good
artists to_bring the ship home. They had been already nine
weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible storm, after the
hurricane was over, which had blown them quite out of their
knowledge to the westward, and in which they lost their masts, as
above. They told us they expected to have seen the Bahama
islands, but were then driven away again to the south-east, by a
strong gale of wind at N.N.W., the same that blew now: and
having no sails to work the ship with but a maincourse, and a
kind of st uare sail upon a jury i'oremnst, which they had set up,
they eoul not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to stand
away for the Canaries. '

But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost
starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigucs they had
undergone: their bread and flesh were quite gone ; they had not
one ounce left in the ship, and had none for eleven days. The
only relief the had was, their water was not all spent, and they
had about ha] a barrel of flour lett; they had sugar enough;
some suceadcs, or sweetmeats, they had at first, but they were
devoured; and they had seven tasks of rum.

There were a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on
board, who were goin passengers, and thinking the ship was
ready to sail, unhappi y came on board the evening before the
hurricane began; and having no provisions of their own left,
they were in a more deplorable condition than the rest: for the
seamen, being reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves.
had no compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers;
and they were, indeed, in a condition, that their misery is very
hard to describe.

I had erhaps not known this art, if m curiosity had not
led me (the weather being fair, an the win abated) to go on
board the ship. The second mate, who, upon this occasion,
commanded the shi , had been on board our ship, and he told
me, indeed, they ha three passengers in the great cabin. that
were in a deplorable condition: Nay, says he,I believe they are
dead, for I have heard nothin of them for above two days; and
l was afraid to inquire other t em, said he, for I had, nothing to
relieve them with.

We immediately a plied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and, in eed, I had so far overruled things with my
nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had gone
away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to
have supplied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.

But now they were in s new danger; for they were afraid of
eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate or
commander brought six men with him in his boat; but these poor
wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak, that they could
hardly sit to their oars. The mate himself was very ill, and half-
starved: for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men,
and went share and share alike with them in every bit they ate.

I cautioned him to eat sparingly. but set meat before him im-
mediately; and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began
to be sick, and out of order; so he stop ed awhile, and our surgeon
mixed him up something with some roth, which he said would
be to him both food and physio; and after he had taken it, he
grew better. In the mean time, i forgot not the men; I ordered
victuals to be given them; and the poor creatures rather devoured
than ate it: they were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a
kind ravenous, and had no command of themselves; and two of
them ate with so much greediness, that they were in danger ol
their lives the next morning.

The sight of these eople's distress was very moving to me, and
brought to mind what I had a terrible respect of at my first
coming on shore in my island. where I h never the least mouth-
ful of food. or an pros t of procuring any; besides the hourly
apprehensions 1 ad 0 being made the food of other creatures.
But all the while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable
condition of the ship's company, I could not put out of my thought
the story he had told me of the three oor creatures in the great
cabin, "2., the mother, her son, and e maid-servant, whom he
had heard nothing of for two or three days. and whom, he seemed
to confess, they had wholly neglected, their own extremities being
so great: by which I understood that they had really given them
no food at all, and that therefore they must be perished, and be
all lying dead, perhaps, on the floor or deck of the cabin.

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on
board with his men, to refresh them, so i also forgot not the
starving crew that were left on board; but ordered in own boat
to go on board the ship, and, with my mate and twe ve men. to
carry theme sack of bread, and four or five ieces of beef to boil.
Our surgeon charged the men to cause t e meat to be boiled
while they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room to pre-
vent the men taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot

s
before it was well boiled. and then to give every man but a very
tittle at a time: and by this caution be preserved the men, who
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very food that
was given them on purpose to save their lives.

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great
cabin, and see what contlition the poor passengers were in; and
if they were alive, to comfort them. and give them what refresh-
ment was proper: anti the all con gave him a large pitcher,
with some of the prepared brot I which he had given the mate
that was on board, and which he did not question would restore
them gradually.

l was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above, having a
great mind to see the scene of misery which 1 know the ship itself
would present me with, in u. more lively manner than I could have
it by report. i took the ca tain of the ship, as we now called him,
with me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat.

I foumi the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the
virtuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate
observed his orders, and kc t a good guard at the cook-room
door; and the man he place there. atter using all possible per-
suasion to have patience, kept them oil' by force: however, be
caused some biscuit-cakes to be dipped in the 0t, and softened
with the liquor ol' the meat, which they called rewis, and gave
them every one some. to stay their stomachs, and told them it
was for their own safety that he was obliged to Irive them but
little at a time. But it was all in vain; and had not come on
board. and their own commander and officers with me, and with
good words, and some threats also of iving them no more, 1
believe they would have broken into t to cook--room by force,
and torn the meat out of the furnace; for words are indeed of
very small force to a hungry belly: however, we pacified them,
and fed them gradually and cautiously for the first, and the next
time gave them more, and at last tilled their bellies, and the men
did well enough.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of
another nature, and far beyond the rest; for as the shi 's com-
muy had so little for themselves, it was but too true t at they
laid at first kept them very low, and at last totally n lectcd
them; so that for six or seven davs it might be said they ha really
no food at all, and for several days before very little. The poor
mother, who. as the men re orted, was a woman of sense and
good breeding. had spared a1 she could so affectionately for her
son, that at last site entirely sunk under it; and when the mate
of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her back
up against the sides, between two chairs, which were lashed fast,
and her head sunk between her shoulders, like a corpse, though
not quite dead. My mate said all he could to revive and en-
courage her, and with a spoon put some broth into her mouth.
She opened her lips, and lined up one hand, but could not speak;
yet she understood what he said, and made si s to him, inti-
mating that it was too late for her, but points to her child, as
if she would have said they should take care of him, However.
the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the si ht, endeavoured
to get some of the broth into her mouth, and, as e said, got two
or three spoonfuls down; though 1 question whether he could
be sure of it or not: but it was too late, and she died the same
iii ht.

Ittl'he youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affec-
tionate mother's life, was not so far one: yet he lay in a cabin-
hed, as one stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He
had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the
rest of it: however, being young, and having more strength than
his mother. the mate got something down his throat, and he
began sensibly to revive; though b giving him, some time after,
but two or three spoonfuls extrao 'nary, he was very sick, and
brought it up again.

But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along uplon
the deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one that ha fa en
down with an apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her limbs were
distorted; one of her hands was clasped round the frame of a
chair, and she griped it so hard, that we could not easily make
her let it go: her other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay
both to ether, set fast against the frame of the cabin-table: in
short. s e lay just like one in the agonies of death, and yet she
was alive too.

The foo;- creature was not only starved with hunger, and
terrific with the thoughts of death, but, as the men tbld us
afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw
dying for two or three days before, and whom she loved most
tenderly.

We knew not what to do with this poor ' l; for when our
surgeon, who was a man of very great know-l gs and experience,
had with t application recovered her as to life, he had her
upon his ands as to her senses; for she was little less than dis-
tracted for a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to
consider. that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country,
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place:
our business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not
lie by for them; and though they were willing to steer the same
course with us for some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep

ace with a ship that had no masts: however, as their captain

gged of us to help him to set up a main topmast, and a kind

of a topmast to his Jury foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him

for three or four days; and then havin given him five barrels

of beef, 3 barrel of pork, two hogshea of biscuit, and a pro-

portion of peas, flour, and what other things we could spare;
a 2254 Aim-2s 'UIII' II ()P

and taking IIII'I'I' rush of sugur. sIIIIII- nun. and some pieces oI
('I"III. II'IIIII IIII-III I'IIr sIIIiinIIIIiIIII. "'I' lIII't IIIIIIII; IILIIIII" IIII IIIIIII'II
II'IIII us. M. "Mr I'IIIII IIIIrIIIIst I-I-qIII-sl, IIIII _IIIIilII IIIIII the maid,
and IIII IIII-ir <<'IIIIIIs.

'IIIII. \IHIII" lIIIl was about sI-IIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII's III' IIgII; II pnIIIy,
II IIII IIrI-II IIIIIIIIIsI. nIIIl sIIIIsilIIII IIIIIIII. ng-Iuly III JI I' IIIII IIIIII the
III." III his IIIIIIhIIr. IIIIII. us it sIIIIIIIs, IIIIII IIIsI his IiIIIIcr IIIII. ll I'IIII'
IIIIIIIIIIs III- IIIIrII. III IIIIrIIIIIIIIII. III- III-ggI-II III IhII surgI-IIII III sIIIIIIk
III IIIII III II'IIII' him III" III' IIIII ship: far he said IIII- I'I'IICI I'I-IIIIIIs
IIIIII uIIIIIIIIrI-II his IIIOIIII'I" . I|I|II. iIIIIIIIIII. so "my IIIIII. IIIIIL is III
sIII. IIIIssiIIIII. . I'IIr IIIII_I might IIIII II spun-II II sIIIIIlI susIItIIIIIII'I:
III "III IIIIIIII IIIIIIIII-ss II IIIIIII IIIIII mighl hIII II prII. I'l'\I'(I III-r IIIII.
IhIIzigh iI IIIIII IIIIIIII IIIII just I'IIIIII"II III IIIIIIp III-r IIIiI II: IIIII. hunger
IIIIIIIis IIII I'riIIIIII. IIII rIIIuIiIIII. IIIIjuinI-II. IIII ri-ghl; IIIIII IIIIIrIIIIIrIt
is rIIIIIIIrsII IIIss. IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII III IIII IIIIIIIIIIIssiIIII.

'IhII sIIrI'IIIIII IIIIII hiIII IIIIII IiIr II I' II no going. uIIII "fill it IIIIIIIII
IIIIrI'I IIiIII IIIIIIy I'rIIm IIII his I'riII Ink. and put him IIII rhups '1: us
IIIIII IiI-~IIIIIsIIIIIIII-s :IIIIIIIst us IIIIIsI- II I' I'IIIIIIII him III. Ihut Is III
suy. shining in IhII. \VIII'III. III- s.IIII it IIIIIIIIIrIIII IIIII. II'hiIIIIIr III:
IIIIIII. iI' IIII "us but IIIIIiI'III'IIII I'I'IIIII IIIII II'I'I'IIIII'. I'rIIII' IIIIII. IIII II'IIs
IIIIIIIug; IIIIII. IIIII IIIIpIIIiII (II_I' II IIIIIII IIII. IIIIIIIIII IIIII. IIII' IIII ('UIIIII
IIIIIIII HUIIIIIIII III III_I IIIIpIIIIII) IIIIII sIIIIIII his III'II, IIIIII III' IIIIs surII
IIIIIIIII IIIII IIIII'I lIiIiI; IIIIII us Im the IIIIIiII. IIII IIIIs sure. iI sIII:
-:IIIIII III III-I'sIIIIZ SIII' \I'IIIIIII III: \'I'l'_\' IIIIIIIIII'III I'III- iI. IIII. us curry
IIIIIIII II how "I II'IIIIIII. 'I'hII sIIrgIIIIII rIIprIIsI-IIIIIII IIIII I-IIsI- sII
IIII'IIIIIiIIIIIIIIIIy III IIIII. that I I'iIIlIIIIII. and \H' IIIIIk IIIIIIII IIIIIII
IIn IIIIIIrII, \\ iIh :IIl IIIIIiII gIIIIIIs. ('XI'I'PI IIIIII'IIII IIIIgsIIIIuIIs III' sugar.
"'IIII'II IIIIIIIII IIIII IIII I'I'IIIIWI'II IIr IIIIIIIII III : IIIIII us lhII IIIIIIII IIIIII
II III" III'laIliIIg I'IIr IIII-III. I III:IIIII his IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-r sicru II II riIiIIg.
IIIIII- "3.: IIiuIsIIII III gII. us- sIIIm us IIII I'IIIIIII III IIrislIIl III IIIII'
Mr. IIIIgI-I's . u IIIII'II-IIIIIII IIII'I'I' III IIhIIIII IIIII IIIIIIIIs 'IIIII III II us
rI- IIIIIIII. IIIIII III Ih- IiII' r II II III-r IIIIIII II I \I run- In him. IIIIII :III IIII:
gIIIIIIs IIII IIIIII IIIIIIIIIgIIIg III IIN' IIIII ' sIIII IIiIIIIII'I . II'IIiI' II I suppose
IIIIs IIIII IIIIIIII. for I I'IMIIII IIIII'IIr IIIIIrII IIuII IIIII ship :IIIIIII III
IIrIsIIII IIIII was. as is must 'M'UIIIIbII'. 10st at sI-II; living in so.
IIisIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIiliIIII. and so far IIIIIII IIIII IIIuII. that I um "I
IIIIIIIIIIII IIII' IirsI sIIIrIII sIuI IIIIII IIiIII IIIIIIrIIurIls shI- IIIII'III. IIIIIIIIII r
in IhII III-II; for she was IIIIIII) IIIIII IIIIII IhuIIIIgII III IIIII' IIIIIII. "III II
"'I' IIIIII "'iIII III-r.

I was IIIIII iII IhI- IIIIilIIIIII III' IIIIII'II'I'II IIIIngII-s IhirIy-III'II
IIIiIuIIIIs. IIIIII IIIIII IIiIhIIIIIII II IIIlIIrIIIIIII I'IIIIIgIe us III II'IIIIIIIIII'.
though. "I Iirsl. IIII? II'iIIIIs IIIIII IIIIIIII column)". I shall IrIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIII)' IIiIh IIII: IIIIII' iIII'iIIIIIIIs III' IIiIIII. \\'('IIIIII'.I'. IIIIrrI-IIIs. I\"
IIII IIII- rI-sI III'IIur IIIIIIgII; IIIII III sIIIIrlI-II III_I story. I'm the sake
of IIInII Is III I'IIIIIIII'. shull IIIIsIII-III. IIIIII I IIIIIIIII III IIII' IIIII hIIIIi-
IIIIiIIII, IIIII isIIIIIII. IIII IIIII IOIII III April. IISII It "Ils II'iiII IIIIsIIIIIII
IIIIIiIIIIIII' IIIIII l I'IIIIIIII IIIII [)IIII'I'; I'm as I came III it, and III-III
II'IIIII II IIIII'IIrII IIII IIIC sIIIIIhIIIIII east side III the Island. us coming
from the Brnzils, so now, coming in bcIIIceII the mum and the
island, and having no chart for the coast, nor any landmark, I
did not know it when I saw it, or know whether I saw it or not.

We heat about a great while, and went on shore on several
islands in the mouth of the great river Oronoco, but none for my
purpose; only this I learned by my coasting the shore, that I
was under one great mistake before, viz. that the continent which
I thought I saw from the island I lived in, was really no conti-
nent, but a long island, or rather a. ridge of islands, reaching
from one to the other side of the extended mouth of that great
river; and that the savages who came to my island were not

roperly those which we call Caribbees, but islanders, and other
garbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something nearer to
our side than the rest.

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose; some
I found were inhabited, and some were not: on one of them I
found some Spaniards, and thought they had lived there; but
speaking with them, found they had a sloop lay in a small creek
hard by, and came thither to make salt and to catch some pearl
muscles, if they could; but that they belonged to the Isle de
Trinidad, which lay farther north, in the latitude of ten and
eleven degrees.

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the
ship, sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallop, which we had
found a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with their ver
good will, at length I came fair on the south side of my islan ,
and presently knew the very countenance of the place: 501
brought the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the little
creek where my old habitation was.
 

SECTION XXXIII.

ROBINSON AND FRIDAY GO ASHORE.--THE LA'I'TER. MEETS WITH
HIS FATIII'ZIL--ACCOUNT OF WHAT PASSED ON THE ISLAND AFTER.
BOBINSON'S QUITTING IT.

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him
if he knew where he was; he looked about a little, and presently
clapping his hands, cried, 0 vcs, 0 there, 0 yes, 0 there, pointimr
to our old habitation, and fell dancing and capering like a ma(
fellow; and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the
sea, to swim ashore to the place.

Well, Friday, says I, do you think we shall find any body here
or no? and do you think we shall see your father? The fellow
stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his father,
the poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could see
the tears run down his face very plentifully. What is the matter,
Friday? says I; are you troubled because you may see your
father? No, no, says he, shaking his head, no see him more:
no, never more see him again. Why so, said I, Friday? how do
you know that? 0 no, 0 no, says Friday; be long ago die, long
ago; be much old man. Well, well, says I, Friday, you don't
know ; but shall we see any one else, then? The fellow, it seems,
had better eyes than I, and he points to the hill just above my
old house; and though we lay half a league off, he cries out,
We see, we see, yes, yes, we see much man there, and there, and
there. I looked, but I saw nobody, no, not with a perspective
glass, which was, I suppose, because I could not hit the place;
for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day;
and there were five or six men all together, who stood to look
at the ship, not knowing what to think of us.

As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice
we were friends ; and in about half a quarter of an hour after,
we perceived a smoke arise than: the side of the creek; so I
immediately ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me; and
hanging out a white 11 , or a flag of truce, i went directly on
shore, taking with ms t e young friar I mentioned, to whom I
had told the story of my livil t ere, and the manner of it, and
every particular oth of myse f and those I left there; and who
was, on that account, extremely desirous to go with me. We
had besides about sixteen men well armed. if we had found any
new guests there which we did not know of; but we had no
need of weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water,
we rowed directly into the creek; and the first man 1 fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I
knew by his face perfectly well: as to his habit, I shall describe
it afterwards. I ordered nohod to go on shore at first but my~
self; but there was no keeping riday in the boat, for the affec-
tionate creature had spied his father at a distance, a good way
off the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him; and if
they had not let him go ashore, he would have jumped into the
sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father,
like an arrow out of a how. It would have made any man shed
tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the first
trans orts of this oor fellow's joy when he came to his father:
how e embraced im, kissed him. stroked his face, took him up
in his arms, set him down upon a tree. and in down by him;
then stood and looked at him, as any one would ook at a stran e
picture, for a quarter of an hour to ether; then lay down on the
ground, and stroked his legs, and issed them, and then got up
again. and stared at him; one would have the ht the fellow
hewitched. But it would have made a dog laug the next day
to see how his passion ran out another way; in the morning he
walked along the shore, to and again, with his father several
hours, always leading him by the hand. as if he had boena lady;
and every now and then he would come to the boat to fetch
something or other for him, either a lump of sugar, a dram, a
biscuit-cake, or something or other that was good. In the after-
noon his fi-olics ran another way; for then he would set the old
man down upon the ground and dance about him, and make a
thousand antic ostnres and gestures; and all the while he did
tins, he would e talking to him, and telling him one etc or
other of his travels, and ofwhat had happened to him abros to
divert .him. In short, if the same filial affection was to be found
in Chnsn'aus to their parents in our rt of the world, one would
be tempted to say, there would h y have been any need of the
fifth commandment.

But this is a digression: i return to my landing. It would be258 Itm'HNTum-'s or

needless to tnke notice. of all the eeremonies uml civilities thnt
the Spnninrds received one with. The first Spnninrd. who. as I
said. I knew vc y well, wns he whose life I hnd snved: he cnme
towards the boat. nltended by one more, cnrrving n ting ol' truce
nlso: nnd he not only did not know me nt first. but. he hntl no
thoughts. no notion ot' its being me. thnt was eome. till I spoke
to him. Seuhor. snid l. in Portuguese, do you not know me?
.\t n hu-h he spoke not n word. but. giving his musket to the man
thnt nns with him. threw his nrms nbrond. saying something in
Spanish thnt I did not. perfectly henr, enme t'orwnrd nntl embnwed
me ; telling.r me he. wns inexcusable not to know thnt t'nee ngnin.
that he hnd once seen us it' no nugel t'rom Ilenven sent. to save
his life: he snid nbnndnnee oI' vcry hundsome things. as a well-
bred Spaniard nlwnys knows her; nml then beckoning.r to the
person that ntteiulcd him. bnde him go nud enll out his com-
rudes. He then nskcd me it' I would walk to my old hnbitntiou,
where he would give me possession: of my own house ngniu. nod
where I should see they hnd nuule but menu improvements: so
l wnllaed uloug with him; but, nlnsl I could no more find the
place ngnin thun if I had never been there; for they hnd planted
so mnny trees. and placed theln in such n posture, so thick nnd
close to one nuothcr. mnl in ten ycnrs' time they were grown so
big. thnt, in short. the place was intu-m-ssihle, except by sueh
windings mul blind ways as they themselves only, who made
them. could lind.

I uskcd them whnt put them upon nll these firrtitientious: he
told me I would sny there was need enough ot 't, when they hnd
given me nu necount how they Inul pintsed their time since their
arrivingr in the islmnl, especially utter they hnd the. misfortune
to find thnt I was gone. He told me he eould not but. hnve some
sutisliu'tion in my good fortune. when he hennl thnt. I n as gone
in it good ship, nnd to my sutist'm'tion; und thnt he hnd onen-
times it strong persuasion thnt, one time or other. he should s e
me :tgnin; but nothing thnt ever het'el him in his life, he said.
wus so surprising: mnl nlllicting to him nt first. us the disappoint-
Incnt he wns under when he came bnek to the island and found I
was not there.

As to the three bnrbnrinns (so he cnlletl them) thnt. were lcfl.
behindt nnd ot'whom. he said. he hnd n long story to tell me, the
Spnninrds all thought themselves nmch better union}: the su-
vnges. only thnt their number was so small: nud. says he, hnd
they been strong enough. we hnd been all longngo in purgntory;
end with thnt he crossed himself on the brcnst. lint. sir. snys
he. I hope you will not be displensed when I shall tell you how.
forced by ncccs t y. we were obliged. for our own preservation,
to disnrm them. nnd make them our subjects. who would not be
content with being.r Iuodcrntely our masters. but. would be. our
murderers. I answered I was heartily nti'nid of it when I left/ //', r', ' '
/ 4, _// /./'// IV,

I
them there, and nothing troubled me at my parting from the
island but that they were not eome haek, that. 1 might have put
them in possession of everything first, and left the others in a
state of subjection, as they deserved; but if they had reduced
them to it. I was very glad, and should he very litr from finding
any timlt with it; for I knew they were a pareel of refractory,
nngoverned villains, and were lit for any manner of mischief.

While l was thus saying this, the man eame whom he had
sent lmek, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they
were in, it. was impossible to guess u but nation they were of;
but he made all elear, both to them aml to me. First. he turned
to me, and pointing to them, said, These, sir. are some of the
gentlemen who owe their Ii ,s to you; and then turning to
them, and pointing to me. he let them know who I was; upon
"'llit'll thev all came a ), one by one, not as if they had been
sailors and ordinary fel ows, and the like, but. really as if they
had been ambassadors of noblemen, aml I a monarch or great
conqueror: their behaviour was to the last degree obliging and
eourteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which
very well beeame them; and, in short, they had so much more
manners than I. that l searee knew how to receive their eivili
ties, mueh less how to return them in kind.

The history of their eoming to, and conduct in, the island. after
my going away, is so very remarkable, and has so many inci-
dents, whieh the former part of In relation will help to under-
stand, and which will. in most ol the particulars, refer to the
net-omit l have already given, that I cannot but eonnnit them,
with great delight. to the reading of those that (<<nine after me.

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first
person, which will put Inc to the expense of ten thousand mid
I It, and Sail] he's. and [it (old me'x, and I loll! Iii/"'3. and the like;
but I shall eolleet the facts historically, as near as 1 can gather
them out of my memory. from what they related to me, and from
what I met with in my conversing with them and with the place.

In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligihly as I can, I
must go back to the circumstances in which I left the island,
and in whieh the persons were of whom I Inn to speak. And
first, it is necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's
father and the Spaniard (the two whose lives I had rescued from
the savages) in a larg' eanoe, to the main. as I then thought it,
to feteh over the Spaniard's com nations that he. left. behind him,
in order to save them from the like calamity that he had been
in. and in order to sueeour them for the present; and that, if
possible, we might together that some way for our deliverance
afterwards.

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of. or
the least room to hope for, my own deliverance. any more than
1 had twenty years before, much less had I any tbrekaowlcdge
of what afterwards happened. I inean. of an English ship coming
on shore there to l'eteh me. otl'; and it eonld not but be a very
great surprise to them. when they came back. not only to find
that! was gone. but to find three strangers left. on the s tot,
possessed of all tlmt I had left. behind me, which would ot ter-
wise have been their own.

The tirst thing. however. which I inquired into. that I might.
begin where I left otl'. was of their own part; and I desired he
would give me a partienlar aeeonnt of his voyage bark to his
eonntrymen with the boat. when I sent him to fetch them over.
lle told me there was little variety in that part. for nothing
remarkable. happened to them on the. way. haying had very eahn
weather and a smooth see. As for his eonntrymen. it eould not.
be doubted. he said. but that they were overjoyed to see him (it.
seems he was the prinei ml man among them. the captain ol' the
vessel they had been a iipwreeked in having been dead some
time): they were. he said. the more surprised to see. him. laseanse
they knew that he was fallen into the hands of the savages. who.
they were satisfied. would devour him. as they did all the rest
of their prisoners : that when he told them the story of his de-
livernuee. aml in what manner he was furnished for earrying
them away. it was like a dream to them. and their astonishment,
he said. was somewhat. like that of Joseph's brethren. when he
told them who he was. and told them the story ot'his exaltntion
in Pharaoh's eonrt; but when he shoned thetn the arms. the
powder. the ball. and provisions. that he brought them for their
journey or voyage. they were restored to themselves. took a just.
share of the joy of their deliveratu'e. and immediately prepared
to eolne away with him.

'l'heir tirst business was to get eanoes: and in this they were
obliged not to stiek so ntueh upon the. honest part of it. but. to
trespass upon their friendly savages. and to borrow two large
eanoes. or )eriagnas. on pretenee ot' going out n tishing. or for
pleasure. n these they eaine away the next morning. It seems
they wanted no time to get themselves ready; for they had no
baggage, neither elothes nor provisions. nor any thing in the
world but what. they had on them. and a. few roots to eat. of
whieh they used to make their bread.

They were in all three weeks absent: and in that time, an-
lnekily for them. I had the tu'ettsion oll'ered for my eseape. as
I mentioned in my other part. and to get otl' from the island.
leaving three of the most. impndent. hardened. ungo ' -rned. dis-
agreeable villains behind tne. that any man eould de. ire to meet
with; to the poor Spaniards' great grief and disaplmintment,
you may be sure.

The only just thing the rogues did was. that when the Spa-
niards eante ashore. they gave tnv letter to them. and gave them
provisions. and other relief. as i had ordered them to do: also<<masses cnesor" 261

the gave them the long paper of directions which I had lett
wit. 1 them, containing the partieular methods which I took for
managing every part of my life there; the way how I halted my
bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my eorn; how I enretl
my grapes. made my pots, and, in a word. everything 1 did; all
this being written down, they gave to the Spaniards (two of them
understood English well enough) : nor did they refuse to tu'eom-
modate the Spaniards with any thing else, for they agreed very
well for some time. They gave them an equal admi. ion into
the house, or eave, and they hegan to live ver soeiahly; and the
head Spaniard, who had seen pretty'mneh ot my methods. and
Friday's father together, managed all their allitirs: but as for the
l-anlislunen. they (lid nothing but ramble about the island. shoot
parrots, and eateh tortoises: and when they (mine home at night,
the Spaniards provided their suppers for them.

The Spaniards would have been satisl d with this. had the
others hnt. let them alone; wltieh, however, they eonld not (ind
in their hearts to do long, but. like the dog in the manger, they
would not eat themm-lves. neither would they let the others eat.
The dilli'renees, nevertheless, were at first hut trivial, and sueh
as are not worth relating, hut, at last it hroke. out into open
war: and it began with all the rudeness and insolenee that run
he inutgined, without reason, without provoeation, eontrary to
nature. and, indeed. to eonttnon sense: and though. it is true.
the lirst relation of it eame. from the Spaniards themselves.
whom I may call the aeensers. yet when l eame to examine the
fellows, they eould not deny a word of it.

ltut het'ore l eotne to the part ienlars of this part. i must. supply
a defect in my former relation; and this was, I forgot to set
down. among the rest. that just as o e were weighing the nnehor
to set sail. there. happened a little quarrel on hoard of our ship,
which l was onee. afraid would have turned to a seeond mutiny;
nor was it appeased till the raptain, rousing up his courage. and
taking us all to his assistanee. parted them by force, and making
two of the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in
irons: and as they had been aetive in the former disorders. and
let I'all some ugly. dangerous words. the second time he threat-
ened to carry them in irons to England, and have them hanged
there for matinv. and running away with the ship. This, it
seems. though the eaptain did not intend to do it, frightened
some other men in the ship; and some of them had mt it into
the heads of the rest that the eaptain only gave ttem good
words for the present. till they stonldeome to some English
port. and that then they should he all put into gnol, and tried
for their lives. The mate got intelligence of this. and acquainted
as with it; upon which it was desired that I. who still passed
tor a great man among them. should go down with the mate,
and satisfy the men, and tell them that they might be assured,
if they behaved well the rest of the voyage, all they had done
for the time past should be pardoned. So I went, and after
passing my honour's word to them. they appeared easy, and the
more so when l eansed the two men that were in irons to he
released and forgiven.

But. this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night;
the wind also falling ealm next morning, we found that our two
men who had been laid in irons had stole each of them amusket,
and some other weapons (what powder or shot they had we
knew not), and had taken the. ship's pinnace, whieh was not yet
baled up. and run away wiflt her to their companions in roguery
on shore. As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on
shore. with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to
seek the rogues; but they eould neither find them or any of the
rest, for they all fled into the woods when thev saw the boat
eomiug on shore. The mate was once resolved, in justice to
their roguery. to have destroyed their plantations, burned all
their household-stutl' and furniture, and left them to shift with-
out it ; but having no orders. he let it all alone, left. every thing
as he found it, and bringing the pinnaee away, came on board
without them. 'l'hese two men made their number live; but the
other three villains were so nun-ll more \vieked than they, that
after they had been two or three days together, they turned the
two new eomem out of doors to shill for themselves, and would
have nothing to do with them; nor eould they, fora good while,
be. persuaded to give. them any food: as for the Spaniards, they
were not yet. come.

When the Spaniards rame lirst on shore, the business began
to go tiirward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the three
English brutes to have taken in their two eonntrymen again,
that. as they said, they might be. all one family; but they would
not hear of it : so the two poor fellows lived by themselves; and
finding nothing but industry and applieation would make them
live eomt'ortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of
the island, but a little more to the. west, to be out of danger of
the. smug 3s, \\ ho always landed on the east parts of the island.

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in. and the other
to lay up their magazines and stores in: and the Spaniards
having ghen them some corn for seed, and espeeinlly some of
the peas whieh 1 had left them, they dug, planted, and enclosed,
after the pattern I had set for them all, and began to live pretty
well. 'l'heir tirst crop of corn was on the ground; and though it
"as but a little hit of land whieh they had dug up at first, having
had but a little time. vet it was enough to relieve them, and find
them with bread and other eatables; and one of the fellows,
being the eook's mate of the ship, was very ready at tanking
soup, puddings, and sneh other preparations as the rice and the
milk, and such little tlesh as they got, furnished him to do.
 

SECTION XXXlV.

TH 1'} ACCOUNT CONTINUED.--QUAltltl-}LS BETWEEN THE ENGLISHMEN.
---A BATTLE BETWEEN TWO PARTIES 0F SAVAGBS WHO VISIT THE
ISLAND.--FRESH MUTINY AMONG THE SETTLERS.

THEY were going on in this little thriving posture, when the
three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere
humour, and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told
them the island was theirs; that the governor, meaning me, had
given them the possession of it, and nobody else had any right
to it; and thatthey should build no houses upon their ground,
unless they would pay rent for them.

The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, asked them
to come in and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that
they had built, and to tell them what rent they demanded; and
one of them merrily said, if they were the round-landlords, he
hoped, if they built tenements upon their and, and made im-
provements, they would, according to the custom of landlords,
grant along lease; and desired they would get a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the three, cursing and raging, told
them they should see they were not in jest; and going to a little

lace at a. distance, where the honest men had made a fire to
ress their victuals, he takes a firebrnnd, and claps it to the out-
side of their hut, and very fairly set it on fire; and it would have
been burned all down in a few minutes, if one of the two had not
run to the II III)", thrust. him IIIIIII'. IIIIII trod the tire out with
his feet t. and that not IIithIIut smIII- dilliIIultI'I IIIII.

'lhI- I'IIIIIII "as in such II rage at the honest man's <<thrusting
him .III III that IIII rI-turuI-d upIIII hiIII. IIilh II IIIIIII he had III his
hand, and had IIIII IIIII man III IIIIIIIII the New IIIrI' IIiIIIhII', and
run iIItII the hut. IIII had ended his IIIIIs at IIIII-II. Ills I-IIIiIrtIIIc.
seeing the danger they II ere bath in. ran in after him, and Im--
IIII- IliatIIlI' the IIIIIIIII IIIItII out II IIII their muskets, and the man
that II as first struck at II Ith the pole IIIIIIIIII ed the. t'ellIIII' down
that had III-I'IIII the quarrel II IIII the SlUl' k III his musket and that
III-IIII-II the other tII II ('Ollltl mine to help him; and then sI-I-iIII'
IhII l't'Sl IIIIIIIII at them, they stood tugether, and presenting the
ether I IIIIs III their pieces tII IhIIIu. IIIIIIII them stand (III.

The others had lire-anus "'Illl IIIIIIII ten; but one III' the two
IIIIIIIIsI IIIIIII, IIIIIIIIII' than his ('Ollll'tllIt'. and made desperate In his
d: \lIL't'l'. lUItI them. it they IItl'IIrIIIl III IIIIIIII hand III' that. lIl('_\ III-re
III-ad men, and huldly IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIII III lay (II)\\II tIII Ir arms.
"lhI-I did not, iIIIIIII-Il. IIII IIIIII II their arms but seeing him an
rI'sIIIIIIII. II hrIIIII_.IlIt them III II parley . and they consented to IIIIIII
their IIIIIIIIIlIIII IIIIIII IIith them and he u'tlllt'; and. indeed it seems
IIIII lIIllIIII IIas IIIIIIIIIIIIII sulIiI'iIIutlI \Iith the Man. llII\\",e\I'r
tIII-I' III rII IIIIIII II III the II rung. siIII-I- IIIt' I had the IIIIIaIItII-ge that
IIIIII did not disarm IIIIIIII IIIIIII' IIIIIIII. :Is thIII IIIiI.'ht IuIII- IIIIIIe.
and II. '|\'t' I.IIIIII' iIIIIIIIIIIiIItIIII III the Sp: lIIiaIds. aIIIl I.IiII-II them an
account him the rogues had treated the III . IIII' the thrIIeIiIIIIiIIs
sIuIIiI Il thing but rI-II llgt'. and IIIIIr_I IIaI' gaIc them some in-
IiIIIIItiIIII that they did sII,

IlIII IIIII III I read this part \Iith tlll III-count (If the lesser part
III the IIIgIIeIiI-s. such as It" I:I|'III_I.r IIIIIIII their IIIIrII; shunting
three young kids and a she goat. '\\IIII'I| the IIIIIII' "It'll had got
to lined up tInIIII l'IIr their suture; and, in a "uni, plaguing them
night and II. II' in this manner; it IIII'I'IIII the III II men In such It
III-slum IIiIIn. that they resulII'Il tII ti-.rht them all three. the tin-It
tiuIII IIII-_I had a lair IIppIIrtunitI'. Ill IIrIIer II) this. thIII resIIlI IIII
III -.:II III the IastIII as the I' called it (that "as. IIII IIIII dII'IIIIiIIL'),
IIIIIIII the three rngues IIiIII IhI- 'Iipaniards all IiIIIII together at
that time, iIItIIIIIIiiII; III II l\t' :It'air battle. and the Spaniards
should stand I)\' to see lair III. sII III I gut III) in the .IIIIrIIiIIIv
IIIII'III'I- Ila). and II nine III the place, and I'iIIIIId the] I'IIII'lishIIIeII III
IIII Ir names. telling: a Spaniard that ansaercd that they "much
to speak \Iith them.

[I happened that the day before. Inn of the. Spaniards having
heeu III the II IIIIIls. had seen one III the tIII) Englishmen. IIhImI,
tIIr Ilistiuctiuu. I called the. lamest men, and he. had made II and
complaint. to the Spaniards ol' the barbarous usage they had met
IIiIII from their three I-IIIuItI-IIIIIIII. and Iain they IIIIII ruined
thI-Ir plantation. and IlestrIIIIIIl their IIIIrII that they had Iahuured
so hard to brill" tiIrIIarIl, Ima killed the IIIiIcII goat and tIIeiI
three kids, which was all they had provided for their sustenance;
and that it' he and his friends, "waning the Spaniards, did not
assist them again, they should be starved. When the Spaniards
came home at night, and they were all at supper, one of them
took the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen, though in very
gentle and mannerly terms, and asked them how they could he
so cruel, they being harmless, inoll'ensivc follows; that they were
putting themselves in a way to subsist by their labour, and that
ll. had Cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to such
perfection as they were then in.

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What had they
to do there! that they came on shore without. leave; and that
they should not plant or build upon the island; it was none of
their ground. Why. says the Spaniard, very calmly, Senhor
lnglt-se, they must not some The Englislnnan replied, like a
rough-hewn tarpauling, They might starve and he d--d; they
should not plant nor build in that place. But what must they
do then, senhor? said the Spaniard. Another of the brutcs re-
turned, l)o? d--n them, they should be servants, and work
for them. But how can you expect that of them? says the
Spaniard; they are not bought with your money: you have no
right to make them servants. 'l'hc l-lnglislnnan answered, The.
island was theirs; the governor had given it to them, and no
man had anything to do there but themselves; and with that
swore by his Maker that they would go and burn all their new
huts; they should build none ttpon their land. Why. senhor,
says the Spaniard, bv the same rule, we must be your servants
tou.--.-\y, snvs the bold dog. and so you shall too, before we
have done with you; (mixing,r two or three G--d d--n me's in
the proper intervals of his speech.) The Spaniard only smiled
at that, and made him no answer. However, this little discourse
had heated them; and. starting up, one says to the other, I think
it was he they called Will Atkins, Come, Jack, let's go, and have
t'other brush with 'em; we'll demolish their castle, l'll warrant
you ; they shall plant no colony in our dominions.

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun,
a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among
themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too. when
opportunity olfcrcd; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so
perfectly understand them as to know all the particulars, only
that, in general, they threatened them hard for taking the two
Englishmen's part.

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that
evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they
wandered about the country part of the night, and then lying
down in the place which I used to call my bower, they were
weary, and overslept themselves. The case was this; they had
resolved to stay till midnight, and so take the two poor men when
they were asleep, and, as they acknowledged afierwards, intended
to set fire to their huts while they were in them, and either burn
them there, or murder them as they came out; as malice seldom
sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have
been kept awake.

However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I
have said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and
murdering, it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they
were up, and gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came
to their huts.

When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who,
it seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade, Ha,
Jack, here's the nest, but, d--n them, the birds are flown.
They mused awhile, to think what should be the occasion of
their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested resently that the
Spaniards had given them notice of it; and wit that they shook
hands, and swore to one another that they would be revenged
of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made this bloody bargain,
they fell to work with the poor men's habitation: they did not
set fire, indeed, to anything, but the pulled down both their
houses, and pulled them so limb from ' b, that they led: not the
least stick standing, or scarce anv sign on the ground where they
stood ; they tore all their little collected household-stufi' in pieces,
and threw every thing about in such amanner, that the poor
men afterwards found some of their things a mile off their habi-
tation. When they had done this, they pulled up all the oung
trees which the poor men had planted; pulled up an enc osure
they had made to secure their cattle and their corn; and, in a

word, sacked and plundered every thing as completely as a horde
of Tartars would have done.

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them out,
and had resolved to fight them wherever the had been, though
they were but two to three; so that, had t ey met, there cer-
tainly would have been bloodshed among them; for they were
all very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than
they themselves could do to meet: for, as if they had dogged
one another, when the three were gone thither, the two were
here; and afterwards, when the two went back to find them, the
three were come to the old habitation again: we shall see their
different conduct presently. When the three came back like
furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they had
been about had' put them into, they came 11 to the S aniards,
and told them what they had done, by way otPscofi' and ravado;
and one of them, stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they
had been a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it was
upon his head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in his face,
says to him, And you, Senhor Jack Spaniard, shall have the same
sauce, if you do not mend your manners. The Spaniard, who,
though a quiet civil man, was as brave a man as could be, and
withal a strong, well-made man, looked at him for a good while,
and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to
him, and with one blow of his fist knocked him down, as an or
is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the rogues, as insolent
as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard immediately: he
missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but
one of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled retty much.
The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more art than he
really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he acted
all in a perfect calm; but now resolving to go through with his
work, he stooped, and took the fellow's musket whom he had
knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man who had
fired at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave,
came out, and calling to him not to shoot, the stepped in,
secured the other two, and took their arms from t em.

When the were thus disarmed, and found they had made all
the S ania s their enemies, as well as their own countrymen,
they gen to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words,
would have their arms ' ; but the S iards. considering the
feud that was between t em and the ot er two Englishmen, and
that it would be the best method they could take to keep them
from killing one another, told them they would do them no harm,
and if they would live eaoeably, they would be very will" to
assist and associate wit them as they did before; but that t ey
could not think of giving them their arms again, while they
appeared so resolve to do mischief with them to their own
countrymen, and had even threatened them all to make them
their servants.

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to
act with reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving
away, and raging like madmen, threatening what they would do,
though they had no fire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising their
threatening, told them they should take care how they ofi'ered
any injury to their plantation or cattle, for if they did, they
would shoot them as they would ravenous beasts, wherever they
found them; and if they fell into their hands alive, they should
certainly be hanged. However, this was far from cooling them,
but away they went, raging and swearing like fitries of hell. As
soon as they were one, the two men came back, in passion and
rage enough also, t ough of another kind; for hanng been at
their plantation, and finding it all demolished and destroyed, as
above, it will easily be supposed the had provocation enough.
they could amrce have room to te their tale, the Spaniards
were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to
find that three men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no
punishment at all.

1'
The Spaniards. indeed, despised them. and especially. ham;
thus disarmed them, made light of their threstenings; but the
two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them,
what pains soever it cost to find them out. But t e S anierds
interposed here too, and told them, that as they had isarmed
them, they could not consent that they (the two) should pursue
them with tire-arms, and perhaps kill them. But, said the grave
Spaniard, who was their governor, we will endeavour to make
them do you justieo, if you will leave it to us; for there is no
doubt but they will come to us again, when their passion is over,
being not able to subsist without our assistance: we promise
you to make no peace with them, without having a full satisfac-
tion for you ; and upon this condition we hope you will )romise
to use no violence with them, other than in your own el'enee.
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and with
great reluctance; but the S )aniards rotested that they did it
only to keep them from bloo shed, on to make all easy at last.
For, said they, we are not so many of us; here is room enou 'h
for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good frien 5.
At length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some days with the Spaniards; for their own habita-
tion was destroyed.

In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with wan-
dering, and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on
turtles' eggs all that while, came back to the grove; and finding
my Spaniard, who, as l have said, was the governor, and two
more with him walking by the side of the creek, they came up
in a very submissive, lnIIn ile monitor, and begged to he received
again into the famil . The Spaniards used them civilly, but told
them they had aetet so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so
very grossly by them (the Spaniards), that they could not come
to any conclusion without consulting the two Englishmen and
the rest; but, however, they would go to them, and discourse
about it, and they should know in half an hour. It may be
guessed that they were very hard put to it: for, it seems, as
they were to wait this half-hour for an answer, they begged they
would send them out some bread in the mean time, which they
did; sending, at the same time, a large piece of goat's flesh, and
a boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were
hungry enough.

At'ter half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a.
long debate ensued; their two countrymen charging them with
the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them; all
which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now.
Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderator between
them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt.
the three while they were naked and unarmed, so they now
obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one
to he of the same. and the other of larger dimensions, than they
were before; to [once their ground again where they had pulled
up their fences, plant trees In the room of those pulled u , dig
up the land m for planting corn where they had spoi ed it,
and, in a we , to restore every thing in the same state as they
found it, as near as the could; for entirely it could not be, the
season for the corn, an the growth of the trees and hedges, not
being oasible to be recovered.

Wei , they submitted to all this ; and as they had plenty of
provisions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and
the whole society began to live pleasantly and agreeably together
again; only, that these three fellows could never be persuaded
to work, i mean for themselves. except now and then a little,
just as they pleased: however, the Spaniards told them plainly,
that if they would but live sociahly and friendly together, and
study the good of the whole plantation, they would be content.
to work for them, and let them walk about and be as idle as
they pleased: and thus having lived pretty well together for a
mont or two, the Spaniards gave them arms again, and gave
them liberty to go abroad with them as before.

it was not above a week alter they had these arms, and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to be as insoleut and
troublesome as before: but, however, an accident happened
presently upon this. which endangered the safety of them all ;
and they were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look
to the preservation of their lives.

It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as i call
him, that is to any, the Spaniard whose lil'e [ had saved. who
was now the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found
himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any
sleep: he was perfectly well in body. as he told me the story,
only found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men
lighting and killing of one another, but he was broad awake, and
could not by any means get any sleep: in shortLhe lay a great
while; but growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise.
As they lay, being so many of them, upon oats' skins laid thick
upon such couches and pads as they in e for themselves, and
not in hammocks and ship beds, as I did, who was but one. so
they had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but to get
'up upon their feet, and perhaps put on a coat, such as it was,
and their maps. and they were ready for going any way that
their thong ts guided them. Being thus got up, he looked out:
but, being dark, he could see little or nothing; and besides, the
trees which I had planted, as in my former account is described.
and which were now grown tall, intercepted his sight,_so that he
could only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight night"
and hearing no noise, he returned and laid him down again: at
it was all one; he could not sleep. nor could he compose himself

'1' 2
to anything like rest ; but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and he ltnew not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, goitt
out and coming in. another of them waited. and calling. ask
who it was that was up. The governor told him how it. had been
with him. Say you so? says the other Spaniard; such things
are not to be slightcd. I assure you; there is certainly some
mischief working near us: and presently he aslted him, Where
are the Englishmen 't--Jl'hey are all in their huts, says be, safe
enough. It seems the Spaniards had he t possession of the
main apartment, and had made a place for t to three Englishmen,
who. since their last mutiny, were always quartered by them-
selves, and could not come at the rest. Well. says the Spaniard,
there is something in it,l am persuaded. from my own experience.
1 am satisfied our spirits embodied have a converse with, and
receive intelligence front. the spirits nnetnbodied, and inhabiting
the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given for our
advantage, if we knew how to make use of it. Come. says he,
let us go and look abroad; and if we tlnd nothing at all in it to
justify the trouble, I'll tell you a story to the purpose, that shall
convince you of the justice of my proposing it.

In a word. they went out, to go up to the top of the hill
where I used to go; but they being strong. and a good company,
not alone, as l was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the
ladder, and pulling it tip alter them, to go up a second stage to
tits top, but were going round through the grove, unconcemed
and unwary. when they were surprised with seeing a light as of
tire, a very little way (ill from them, and hearing the voices of
men. not one or two, but ofn great number.

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on
the island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the
least discovery of there being any inhabitant upon the place; and
when by any occasion they came to know it, they felt it so etl'ect-
unlly, that they that got away were scarce able to give any
account of it ;' for we disappeared as soon as possible; nor did
ever any that had seen me escape to tell any one else. except it
was the three sava res in our last encounter, who jumped into
the boat; of whom mentioned. I was afraid they should go
home and bring more help. Whether it was tlte consequence of
the escape of those men that so great a number came now to-
gether. or whether they came ignorantly. and by accident, on
their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not, it seems,
understand; but whatever it was. it had been their business
either to have concealed themselves, or not to have seen them
at all, much less to have let the savages have seen that there
were any inhabitants in the place: or to have. fallen upon them
so t'lli't'luttll ', as that not a man of them should have escaped.
which could only have been by getting in between them end
their hosts: but this presence of mind wee wentin to them,
which wss the ruin of their tranquillity for e greet w ile.

We need not doubt but that the governor end the men with
him. surprised with this sight, rsn beck immediately, and raised
their fellows, giving them on account of the imminent den or
they were all in, end they min as resdily took the Alarm; ut
it was impossible to persuade them to stay close within. where
the were. but they must all run out to see how things stood.

\zhile it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they
had on ortunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the
light 0 three tires they had made at 1 distance thorn one number;
what they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves
they knew not. For. first, the enemy were too many; end,
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided into
several parties. and were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no smsll consternation st this sight;
and when they found that the fellows rsn struggling all over the
shore, they mnde no doubt but, first or lsst, some of them would
chop in upon their habitstion. or upon some other piece where
they won d see the token of inhabitants; and they were in rent
Ezrplexit also for fear of their flock of goats, which would nave

en litte less than starving them, if they should have been
destroyed: so the first thing they resolved upon was to des etch
three men swny before it was light, two Spaniards and) one
Englishmen, to drive all the goats away to the great valley
where the cove was, end, if need were, to drive them into the
very cove itself. Could they have seen the savages all together
in one bed . and et a distance from their mess, the resolved,
if there h been A hundred of them. to have sttsched them;
but that could not be ohtsined; for they were some of them two
miles off from the other ; end. as it sppcered'nflerwsrds, were
of two difl'erent nations.

After hsving mused s great while on the course they should
take, and beating their brains in considering their resent cir-
cumstances. they resolved, at last, while it was stil dark, to
send the old savage. Fridsy's father, out as n spy, to learn, it
possible, somethizig concerning them; as what they came for.
what the intend to do, end the like. The old men readily
undertoo it; end stripping himself uite naked. es most of the
ssvsges were. swsy he went. Afler e had been gone an hour
or two, he brings word that he had been among them undis-
covered; that he found they were two parties. and of two several
notions. who had war with one (mother. and had n at battle
in their own countr : and that both sides hsvin sd several
prisoners taken in t e fight, they were. by more c once, Indeed
all on the same island, for the devouring their prisoners and
making merrv. but their coming so by chance to the some place
ltld spoiled ell their mirth; that they were in s greet regs st
one another. and were so near. that he believed they would fight
again as soon as daylight began to appear: but he did not or
eeive that they had any notion of any body being on the is ad
but themselves. He had hardly made an end of telling his story.
when they could perceive, by the unusual notse they made, that
the two little armies were engaged in a bloody fight.

Friday's t'ather used all the arguments he could to persuade
our people to lie close, and not be seen: he told them their safety
consisted in it, and thiit they had nothing to do but lie still, and
the savages would kill one another to their hands, and then the
rest would go away; and it was so to e. tittle. But it was impos-
sible to prevail. especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity
was so importunate upon their prudentials, that they must run
out aiul see the battle: however. they used some caution too,
viz. they did not go openly, just by their own dwelling, but
went tlirther into the woods, and ilaced themselves to advantage,
where they might securely see t em manage the tight. and, as
they thought, not be seen liv them; but it scents the savages
did see them, as we shall find hereafter.

The. battle was very fierce; and. it' I might believe the English-
men. one of them said he could perceive that some of them were
men of great bravery. of invincible spirits, and of great ioliey
in guiding the tight. The battle. they said. held two tours
before they could guess which party would be beaten; biit then.
ilnit party which was nearest our people's habitation began to
appear weakest. and. after some time more, seine of them began
to tly; and this tit our men again into a great consternation,
lest any one of t iose that that should run into the grove before
their dwelling for shelter. and thereby itivoliuitarily discover the
place; and that, by conseipieuee, the pursuers would do the like
in search of them. Upon this they resolved that they would
stand armed within the wall. and whoever came into the grove,
they resolved to snllv out over the wall ntid kill them: so that,
it' possible. not one should return to give an account of it: they
ordered also that it should be done with their swords, or by
knoeking them down with the stocks of their muskets, but not
by shooting them. for fear of raising an alarm by the noise.

As they expected. it tell out: three of the rented army tied
for life. and crossing the creek, not directly iiite the place, not
in the least knowing whither they went, but running as into it
thick wood for shelter. The scent they kept to look abroad
gave notice of this within, with this addition, to our men's rest
satistiiction, viz. that the conquerors had not pursued t em.
or seen which way they were gone; upon this, the S snisrd
governor. a man of humanity, would not sutl'er them to ill the
three fugitives, but sending three men out by the top of the hill,
ordered them to go round, come in behind them. and surprise
and Like tneni prisoners; which was done. The residue of the
conquered people fled to their canoes, and got 08 to sea; the
victors retired. made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing
themselves into a body together, gave two great screaming
shouts, which they supposed was y way of triumph, and so
the fight ended: and the same day, about three o'clock in the
afternoon, they also marched to their canoes. And thus the
Spaniards had their island again free to themselves, their fright
was over, and they saw no savages in several years after.

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den,
and viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty
men dead on the spot: some were killed with great long arrows,
some of which were found sticking in their bodies; but most of
them were killed with great wooden swords, sixteen or seven-
teen of which they found on the field of battle, and as many
bows, with a meet many arrows. These swords were strange,
great, unwiel y things, and they must be ver stron men that
used them: most of those men that were ki led wit them had
their heads mashed to ieces, as we may say, or, as we call it
in English, their brains necked out, and several their arms and
legs broken; so that it is evident they fight with inexpressible
rage and fury. We found not one man that was not stone-dead,
for either they stay by their chem till they have quite killed
him, or they carry all the woundcdvmcn that are not quite dead
awav with them.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared
terrible to the last degree, es ecially u on supposing that some
time or other they should fair into the hands of those creatures,
who would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food.
as we kill our cattle; and they professed to me, that the thoughts
of being eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was supposed
it was not to he till the were dead, had something in it so
horrible, that it nsnseate their very stomachs. made them sick
when they thought of it, and filled their minds with such unusual
terror, that they were not themselves for some weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes I have
been speaking of, and, for a great while alter, they were tract-
able, aud went about the common business of the whole societ
well enough; planted. sowed, reaped, and began to be a l
naturalised to the country. But some time after this. they fell
into such simple measures again, as brought them into a great
deal of trouble.

They had taken three prisoners, as I observed; and these
three being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants,
and taught them to war for them; and, as slaves, they did well
enough; but they did not take their measures with them as
I did by my man Friday. viz. to begin with them upon the
principle of having saved their lives, and then instruct them in
the. rational principles of life; much less of religion, civiliriug,
and redueim:~ them by kind usage and atl'wtionate awnings; but
as they gave them their food every day. so they gave them their
Work too. and kept them fully employed in drudgery enough;
but they failed in this by it, that they never had them to assist
them. and tight for them. as I had my man Friday. who was no
true to me as the very tlcsh upon mv bones.

But to come to the family not. ileiug all now ood friends,
for common danger. as l said above. had etl'ectual y reconciled
them. they began to consider their general circumstances; and
the first thing that. came. under their consideration was. whether,
seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the island.
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it equally
adapted to their way of living. and manifestly to their advan-
tage. they should not rather move their habitation, and plant in
some more )roper place for their safety, and especially for the
security ot't teir cattle and corn.

Upon this. after long debate. it. was concluded that they would
not remove their habitation ; because that. some. time or other,
they thought they might hear from their governor again. mean-
ing me; and it' I should send any one to seek them, I should he
sure to direct them to that. side; where. it' they should find the
place demolished. they would conclude the savages had killed
us all. and we were gone; and so our supply wou (I go too. But
as to their corn and cattle. they agreed to remove. them into the.
valley where my cave was. where the land was as proper for
both, and where. indeed. there was laud enough: however. upon
second thoughts, they altered one. part of their resolution too,
and resolved only to remove part of their cattle thither, and
plant mrt ot' their corn there; and so if one. part was destroyed.
the ot lt'l' might be saved. And one part of prudence they used.
which it. was very well they did. viz. that they never trusted
those three savages. which they had prisoners. with knowing
anything ot' the plantation they had made in that valley, or of
any cattle they had there. much less of the cave there, which
they kept. in case of necessity, as a safe retreat ; and thither
they carried also the two barrels of powder which I had sent
them at my coming away. But. however they resolved not to
clumge their habitation. vet they agreed. that as I had carefully
covered it first with a wall or fortification, and then with a eve
of trees. so scrim.r their safety consisted entirely in their cing
concealed. of which they were now fully convinced, they set to
work to cover and conceal the place yet more etl'eetually than
before. For this purpose. as I planted trees. or rather thrust
in stakes. which in time all grew up to he. trees. for some good
distance before the entrance into my apartments. they went on
in the same manner. and filled up the rest of that whole a see
"ground. from the trees I had set, quite down to the si e at
the creek, where, as i said, I landed my floats. and even into
the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any
place to land, or any sign that there had been any landing there-
about: these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow,
as l have noted l'ormerly, they took care to have them nerally
much larger and taller than those which I had plantar:e and as
they grew space, so they planted them so very thick and close
together, that when they had been three or {our years grown,
there was no piercing with the eye an considerable way into
the plantation: and. as for that part which I had planted, the
trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh, and among them
they placed so many other short ones, and so thick, that, in a
word, it stood like a palisade a quarter of a mile thick, and it
was next to impossible to penetrate it. but with a little army to
cut it all down; for a little dog could hardly get hctween the
trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all; for they did the same by all the ground
to the ri ht hand and to the left, and round even to the top of
the hill, caving no way, not so much as for themselves to come
out, but by the ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then
lifted up, anti placed again from the first stage up to the top;
and when the ladder was taken down, nothing but what had
wings, or witchcraft to assist it, could come at them. This was
excellently well contrived; nor was it less than what they alter-
wards found occasion for; which served to convince me, that as
human )rntlenee has the authority of Providence to justify it, so
it. has oubtless the direction of Providence to set it to work;
and if we listened carefully to the voice of it, I am persuaded
we might prevent many of the disasters which our lives are now,
by our own negligence, subjected to: but this by the way.

1 return to the story.--'l'hey lived two years after this in er-
i'ect retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They
had indeed an alarm given them one morning, which ut them
into a great consternation; for some of the Spaniards ing out
early one morning on the west side, or rather end. of the island
(which was that end where I never went, for fear of being dis-
covered), they were surprised with seeing above twenty canoes
of Indians just coming on shore. They made the best of their
way home, in hurrv enough; and giving the alarm to their com-
rades, they kept close all that day and the next, going out onl
at night to ma e their observation: but they had the good lnc
to be mistaken; for wherever the savages went, the did not
land that time on the island, but pursued some other esign.

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen;
one of whom, a most tnrhnlent fellow, being in a at one of
the three slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, anse the
fellow had not done something right which he hid him do, and
seemed a little untraetable in his showing him, drew a hatchet
out III II frog-belt. m whieh he "ore it by his side, and fell upon
the poor sIII nge. not to correct him, hut. to kill him. One of the
Spaniards. "he met hy. s eing him give the fellow II hurhIIroIts
('lll \Iith the hIItelII-I II lIiIIlI he. aimed at his head, but strIIIIlI
into his slIoItlIlI- rs. so that he thought IIe had cut the poor ereII-
tIIrII s IIrnI oll'. run to him. and IIIItreItIiIIg him not to tIIIIrIlIIr the
poor IIIIIII, phIt'I-d lIinIsIIlI lIIItIIIIIIII him end the sIIIIIgII to pre-
unit the IIIIsI-h' II. The I'eIIoII- heing enraged the more III. this.
sIrIIIIk III the pIIIIiIIrIl II Ith his liIIIeIIIII I. and swore he IIoIIld
.II-I-I II him as he intended tosIIrI II the IIIIIII'II; which the Spaniard

l'l't' IIiIiIII' III'oiIIIIIl the blow, and IIitlI II shovel II hII'h he had III
his hand tl'or IhI'I' \\ ere all "white: III the field about. their eorn-
lxunl) kIIoIIkIIIl the. brute don II Another of the Englishmen
running Ill. the shine time to help his IIoIIIrIIdII, knocked the
Sp: IniIIrIl IloIIu; end then tIIo SpIIIIiIIrds more came in to help
their IIIIIII. and II third lI' IIglislInIIuI I'ell III upon them. They hIId
none ol them nnv tirII-Itrms or IIII_\ other It IIIIpoIIs hut htttehets
IIIIIl other tools ' III-pt this third lI. IIglislnIIttn ' he had one III
my rusty ettllzI. . with which IIII. IIIIIIIII III the two Inst.
SpIIIIiIIrIls, and wounded them hoth. 'l'his I'rIIy set the "little
Iinnily in nu uproar. and more help routing in. they took IIIII
three. lIlIIglishIIII-n prisoners. The next question WIIS, -II'hIIt
should he done with them I They had been so ol'ten IIIIIIiIIotIs,
IIIIIl \\ IIIIII so \ery I'Itrions. so IlIIspe role. and so itlle II'.itlIIIl they
kIIIIII not IIlIIIt course to tIIke. with them. for they were mis-
IIhiI-Ions to the highest degree and IIIlued not "hot. lIIIrt they
did to .Iny man; so tlIIIt. III short. it has not sufe to liIe eIIitlI
the III.

The SpIuIiIII-Il II he "as governortoltl them. III so many holds
that it they hIIIl heen ot his oII II country. he \Ionld htII'e hIInI'ed
thI-III; Ior Itll lens and all I'oIIIrIIors were to pre. IIrI II .Ioeie ty.
and those uho \I ere dangerous to the soeiety ought to he II\-
pelled out (II it; but us they new lI. glishnteii. Ittitl that it II III
to the generous kindness of IIII Englishman that they all I)\\'('tl
their preservation IIIIIl Ih liIIIrIInIIII. he IIoIIIIl use them IIith IIll
pusxiltlt' lIIIIitI'. and would lIIIIIII them to the judgment In the
other two F nwlislnnett. \\ ho \\ ere their countrymen.

()ne III the the honest l-.n<<__-:lislunen stood up, and snid they
desired it might not he leIt to them: For. says he, l mu sItrII IIe
ought to sentence them to the gnllnn's. . IIIId IIitlI that he I'II III
on are ouIIt lIOW Will Atkins, one of the three had proposed to
h.II II It" the live Englishmen join together, and murder all the
Spaniards II hen they were in their sleep.

\\ hen the SpIIIIish IvoIIernoIIlII-urtl this. hccnlls to Will Atkins,
lloII. Senhor Atkins, would you murder Its all. " W hut have you
to say to diet. ' "lhe hIIrIlIIIiIItl IillIIin II'IIs so for from IleltpziIII'
it. that IIII .Inid it II III true. . IIIIIl, (i--Il Il--n him. they would do
it still. before they had done nith them. \\' ell, but Senhot
Atkins, says the Spaniard, what have we done to you. that you
will kill us.' And what would you get by killing us? And what
must no do to preIent your killing.I us? Must Ire kill you, Or
you kill us? Why will you put us to the necessit of this,
Scnhor Atkins? saIs the Spaniard very calmly an smiling.
SI-nhor Atkins II as in such a rage at the Spanhird' 3 making 3
(Int. of it, that, had he not been held by three men, and IIithal
had no II eapou near him, It II as thought he. II ould have attempted
to haI II killed the Spaniard III the. middle oI all the compan. This
hairhrain carriage ohliI'eIl them to consider seriousl Iat "as
to he. done: the two lauglishmen. and the SpaniarI who saved
the poor saIaI'e, were oI the opinion that they should hang one
of the three. Ior an e\ample to the rest; and that particularly it
should he he that had to Ice attempted to commit murder with
his hatchet; and, indeed, there "as some reason to believe he
had done it, for the poor satage nas in such a miserable con-
dition "ith the \Iound he had reIIIIiI ed that it II as thought he
could not liI e. lint the gIIII-rnor Spaniard still said Mr , it was
an l-'nglishman that had run ed all their liI' es, and he II ould never
conse at to put an lunglishman to death. though he had murdered
hnlI oI them ; IIaI. he said, N he had been killed himself by an
l-Iuglishman, and had time left to speak, it should be that they
should pardon him.

"lhis was so positiI' insisted on by the governor Spaniard,
that there "as no gainsa in" it; and as merciful counsels are
most. apt to prevail. where they are so earnestly pressed so they
all came into it . hut 'lhen it "as to he. considered what should
he. done to keep them from doing the mischief they designed;
Ior all aI'reI-d. goIcrnor and all, that means were to he used for
prI-sIII-Iing the soc ietI' lrom IlaIIIrer. After along debate, it was
agreed. first, that tluII should he disarmed, and not permitted to
haIe either gun. ponder. shot sword or any II':;eIpIm and
should he turned out III the societv, and left to "III II here they
II ould and hoII they "fluid, by thenIselIes; but that none of
the rest. either Spaniards or English, should an" crse IIiIh them,

sII-alI with them. or have anything to do \I ith them: that they
:liould he. forbid to come IIithin a certain distance of the place
"here the rest dwelt; and if they ofl'ered to commit any dis-
order. so as to spoil burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn,
plantings, huildiIII's, fences. or cattle belongiiig to the society,
they should die. without mereI , and they II ould shoot them II' her-
ever they could find them.

The governor. a man of great humanity, musing upon the
sentence considercdalittlc upon it; and turning to the two
honest lI.IIglislIIIIeII, said, llold' , Iou must reflect that it will be
long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own. and they
must not starve , II II must therefore allow them provisions: so
be caused to be added, that tth should lane a proportion of
corn given them to last them eiI'ht months, and for seed to so",
in which time they Illi"llt be supposed to raise some of their
own; that they should lltl\' e six milch- goats, t'oIIr lIe-gonts, and
six kids given them, as well for present subsistence as for II
store; and that they should have tools giIen them for their
work In the lields. inIIlI as six lIIItIIhets. an ndze, II saw, and the
like: but they should lInIe none of these tools or provisions,
unless they II ould me our solemnly that theI' Would not hurt or
injure any at the Spaniards II ith them, or of their fellow
Englishmen.

'i'hus theI' dismissed them the society, and turned them out to
shit! tor themselves. They went away sullen and rel'rnetorI'. as
neither content to go IIIIIII nor to stIII', . but us there "Its no
remedy they II'.IIIIt preteIIdiuI' to go nnd elIoose n plnee II here
they IIoIIld settle themselves I, and some provisions were giI en
thein, but no weapons.

About four or five days utter, they came <<min for some
vietIIIIls. nnd gnIe. the IroIIeI-uor IIII neeonnt where. tlIIII' hnd
pitelIed their tents, and marked themselves out It lIulIitIItion nod
plantation . and it II as It I'ery eonII enient plnee, indeed, on the
remotest pnrt ot the island. N. E. ., much about the plum: II' here I
proI'IideutiIIllI hInded III my first I'oynge. II hen I II as driven out.
to sea, the. Lord nlone knows IIlIitlIer, III my foolish attempt to
sail round the. island.

Here they built themselves tIIIo handsome huts, and contrived
them III a manner like my lirst lIIIbitIItinn, beingelose under the
side. ot n hill. hIIIiIIg some trees IIroning IIlrendII on three sides
01 it, so that by plIIIItiIII' others, It would he very eIIsily covered
from the sight. unless IIIIrroII'IlI senrehed for. 'l'lIev desired
some dried I'oIIts '-slIins, for beds IIIId eoII ering II lIIclI \Iere giII en
them; and upon I'iIIiIIg their II ords that they would not disturb
the rest, or IndIIIe. anv of their plIIntntious, they gnu: them
hIItIIlIets. and "lint other tools thIIII eould spare; some pens.
burle I. and rice, tor sowing; and. III II word, anything they
wanted. exee It III-Ins IuId ammunition. .

"llIeI' [km in this sepIIrIIte. condition about six months, and
had got in their first harvest. though the qnnntity II as but small.
the parcel ot land they had planted being but little; tor, indeed,
lInIiIII' all their plnutntion to form, the) hIId II great dad at
work upon their lIIIndsI. nnd when they came to make boards
and pots, and sneh things. they were quite out (It their element.
and could Innke. nothing 0t it: and when the rainy season came
on. for want of II tune in the earth, theI' could not keep their
grain dry. unit it was in great danger of spoiling; and this
humbled them much . so they came and begged the Spaniards
to help them. II lIIeh they very rendil did; and In tour daIs
II III-Led II I_IIrI-IIt hole III the side of the {till for them, big enough
to secure their corn and other things train the rain: but it was
but a poor place, at best, compared to mine, and especially as
mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and
made several new apartments in it.

About three-quarters of a year after this separation, a new
frolic took these rogues, which, together with the former villany
they had committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and
had very near been the ruin of the whole colony. The three
new associates began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life
they led, and that without hope of bettering their circumstances ;
and a whim took them, that they would make a voyage to the
continent, from whence the savages came, and would try if they
could seize upon some prisoners among the natives there, and
bring them home, so to make them do the laborious part of their
work for them.

The project was not so preposterous, if they had <<one no
farther: but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, 2but had
either mischief in the design, or mischief in the event: and, if
I may give my opinion, they seemed to be under a blast from
Heaven ; for if we will not allow avisible curse to pursue visible
crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things with the
divine justice? It was certainly an apparent vengeance on their
crime of mutiny and piracy that brought them to the state they
were in; and they showed not the least remorse for the crime,
but added new villanies to it, such as the piece of monstrous
cruelty of wounding a poor slave, because he did not, or perhaps
could not, understand to do what he was directed, and to wound
him in such a manner as made him a cripple all his life, and in a
place where no surgeon or medicine could he had for his cure:
and what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do justice
to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it was,
as was afterwards the formed design they all laid, to murder the
Spaniards in cold blood, and in their sleep.
 

SECTION XXXV.

THE MUTINO'DS ENGLISHMEN ARE DISMISSED FROM THE ISLAND----

RETURN WITH SEVERAL CAPTIVE SAVAGES--TAKE THE FEMALES
AS WIVES--ARRIVAL 0F SAVAGE.

BUT I leave observing, and return to the story.----The three
fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very
humble terms desired to be admitted to speak with them; the
Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which was
this :--That they were tired of living in the manner they did;
and that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries
they wanted, and that having no help, thcyfound they should be
starved; but'if the Spaniards would give them leave to take one
of the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms and
ammunition (proportioned to their defence, they would go over to
the main an seek their fortunes, and so deliver them from the
trouble of supplying them with any other provisions.

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were
running into; told them they had suffered such hardships upon
that very spot, that they could, without any spirit of prophecy,
tell them they would be starved, or murdered, and bade them
consider of it.

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they
stayed here, for they could not work, and would not work, and
they could but be starved abroad; and if they were murdered,
there was an end of them; they had no wives or children to cry
after them: and, in short, insisted importunately upon their
demand; declaring they would go, whether they would give
them any arms or no.

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness that if they
were resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be
in no condition to defend themselves: end that though they
could ill spare their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves,

et they would let them have two muskets, a istol end a cut.
lass, and each man a hatchet, which they thou t was sufficient
for them. In a word, they accepted the 0 er; and having
baked them bread enou h to serve them a month, and given
them as much cat's ties as they could eat while it was sweet,
and a great has et of dried grapes, a pot of fresh water, and a .
young kid alive, they boldly set out in the canoe {or a voyage
over the see, where it was at least forty miles broad.

The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have
carried filteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big
for them to man e; but as they had a fair breeze, and flood tide
with them, they "(I well enough. They had made a mast of a
long pole, and a sail of four large goata'-sltins dried, which they
had sewed or laced together; and away they went merrily
enough : the Spaniards called after them, Been m'age; and no man
ever thought of seeing them any more.

The Spaniards were olhen saying to one another, end to the
two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how uietly and
comfortably they lived, now these three turbulent fe ows were
gone: as for their coming again, that was the remotest thing
from their thoughts that could be imagined; when, behold, after
two-and-twenty days' absence, one of the Englishmen, being
abroad upon his anting work, sees three strange men coming
towards him at e istance, with guns upon their shoulders.

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes
frightened and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him
they were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the
island, but could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing a while,
says to him, How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are
the savages, to be sure--No, no, says the Englishman; the
are men in clothes, with arms--Nay, then, says the Spauia ,
why are you concerned? If they are not savages, they must be
friends; for there is no Christian nation upon earth but will do
us good rather than harm.

While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen,
and standing without the wood, which was new planted, hallooed
to them: they presentl knew their voices, and so all the wonder
of that kind ceased. Byut now the admiration was turned upon
another question, via, What could be the matter, and what made
them come back ain? . . .

It was not long fore they brought the men in, and inquiring
where the had been, and what they had been doin , they gave
them afufi account of their voyage in afew we 5, vu. That
thznreaehed the land in two days, or something less; but
(in ' g the people alarmed at their coming, and preparing with282 Allt'l-I."t'tllll-L'l or

bows and arrows to fight them. they din-st not go on sham. but
sailed on to the. northward six or aeven hours. till they came to
a great opeuia '. by which they perceived that the land they saw
ti-om onr ishnn was not the main. hot on island; upon entering
that opening of the Ht'tt. they saw another island on tho right
hand. north. and several more west; and being resolved to land
somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which lav west,
and went boldly on shore: that they found the people very
courteous and friendly to them; and that they gave theta several
roots and some dried tish. and appeared very sociable; and the
women as well as the men were very forward to suppr them
with anything they eould get for them to eat, and brought it to
them a great way upon their heads.

They continued here four days ; and inquired. as well as they
could of them. by signs. what nations were this way. and that
way; and were. told of several fierce and terrible people that
In ed almost every way. who. as they made. known by signs to
them. used to eat met ; but as for themselves. they said. they
never ate men or women, except only such as they took in the
wars; and then, they owned, they made a great feast, and ate
their prisoners. .

'l'he Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of that
kind; and they told them about two moons ago. pointing to the
nimm. and to two lingers; and that their great king had two
hundred prisoners now. which he had taken in his war. and they
were feeding them to make them fat for the next least. The
l-anlislnnen seemed mighty desirous of seeing those prisoners;
but the. others mistaking them. thought they were desirous to
have some of them to earry away for their own eating: so they
heehonod to them, pointing to the. setting of the nun, and then
to the rising: which was to signify that the next morning at
sun-rising they would bring some for them.- and. tmtordingly.
the neu morning. they brought down five women. and eleven
men. and gave. them to the Englishmen, to earry with them on
their voyage. justas we would bring so many cows and oxen
down to a seaport town to vietual a shi ).

As lmnish and hat-barons as these fcl ows were at home, their
stomaehs turned at this sight. and they did not know what to do.
To refuse the. prisoners would have been the highest atl'ront to
the savage. gentry that could he oll'ered them. and what to do
with them they knew not. However. after seine debate. they
resolved to accept of them; and. in return. they ave the
savages that brought. them one of their hateheta. an o d key. a
knife. and six or seven of their bullets; which, though they did
not understand their use. they seemed articularly leased
with; and then tying the poor ereatures' toads behin them,
thev dragged the prisoners mto the boat for our men.
~ The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon "they<< Wu..."
habitat/yaw"

ROBINSON CRUIOL 283

had them, or else they that gave them this noble present would
certainly have expected that they should have gone to work
with them, have killed two or three of them the next morning,
and perhaps have invited the donors to dinner. But having
taken their leave, with all the respect and thanks that could
well pass between people, where, on either side, they under-
stood not one word the could say, they put ofl' with their boat.
and came back tows s the first island; where, when they
arrived, the set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being
too many 0 them tor their occasion.

In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communi-
cation with their prisoners; but it was imgossible to make them
understand anything; nothing they eoul say to them, or give
them, or do for them, but was looked upon as going to murder
them. They first of all unbound them; but the poor creatures
screamed at that, especially the women, as it' they had just felt
the knife at their throats; for they immediately concluded they
were unbound on purpose to he killed If they gave them any-
thing to eat, it was the same thing; they then concluded it
was for fear they should sink in flesh, and so not be {at enougl
to kill. If they looked at one of them more particularly, the
party presently concluded it was to see whether he or she was
fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay, alter they had brought
them quite over, and begun to use them kindly, and treat them
well, still they expected every day to make a dinner or supper
for their new masters.

When the three wanderer-e had given this unaccountable
history or journal of their voyage. the Spaniard asked them
where their new family was; and being told that they had
brought them on shore. and put them into one of their huts,
and were come up to beg some victusls for them, they (the
S anianls) and the other two Englishmen, that is to say, the
w thin colony, resolved to go all down to the place and see
them; and did so, and Friday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there they set all bound; for
when they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands.
that they might not take the boat and make their escape;
there, l any, they set, all of them stark naked. First, there
were three men, lust , comel fellows, well-shaped, etrai ht
and fair limbs, about t irt to iirty-five years of age; and ve
women, whereof two mig it be from thirty to forty; two more
not above four or five-and-twcuty; and the fifth, a tall comely
maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The women were well-
favourod, agreeable persons, both in shape and features, only
tawny; and two of them. had they been perfect white, would
have passed for very handsome Women, even in London itself.
having pleasant agreeable countenanccs, and of a very modest
behavtour: especially when they came afiern'ards to he clothed

U234 AlH'I-ZNTUIHI'X OF

and dressed, as "my IIallIIIl it, though that dross was very
iIIIliIli- IrIIIIt, it must ho IIonI'IIssIIIl ; of which IIIIrIIIIIlIsr.

'I'IIII si-Iht. you may IIII. sure, "as soInIIthinIv uncouth to our
Spaniards II In) new III gIIo thIIIII II just IIlIaraIItIIr, InIIn III the
amt III-.lIaIioIIr, III" the most IIalIII. IIIIIlatII I'IEIIIIM'I'S, and perfect
good humour that III'III' I mot with; and, in particular, III the
most IIIIIIIIIst, as will prIIsIIIItlI' appoar: I say the siII'lIt was
\I II uncouth, to sue thrIIII IIIIkI-Il IIIIIII IIIIII ll\'t' iIIIkIIII IIIIIIIIIII, all
tIIIrI-tlIIIr hound, and III "III most miserable II'IrIIIIIIIstaIIIIIIs that.
human IIIIIIIrI- ('ulllIl lIIIsIIpposIIIl III IIII, \'l'lu to he (Expt'cllll" III .ry
IIIIIIIIIInt III lIII. IlI'aggIIIl out, and Iltl\'t' thIIir hrains kIIoIIkIIIl out,
and "'1'" to hII IIIIIII II up likIIII Ialt' that. is kiIlIId for II dainty.

The first thin." thIII' did was to cause the old lIIIliaII, lI'ridaI" s
I'IIIlIIIII. III Iro in, IIIIII sIIII. IiI'sI, iI lIII kIIIIII aIII III" tlII-III. and thou
it In! understood anI III' I.hI" Ir spI III h. As soon as the old IIIIIII
I'anIII in, he lIIIIkIIIl :<<Irionsly at IIH'III, but know IIoIII' III" thIIIII;
llt'llltl'r could any of llll'lll IIIIIlI-rsIIIIIIl a word IIII. said, or II si-vn
III- IIonlIl IIIIIkII, II\IIIIpt IIIIII III "III \IIIIIII'II. lIoIIIII Or, this was
IIIIIIIIIIII to answer the IInIl, IIlIiII II was to satisfy them that. the
IIIIIII into IIlIosII lIaIIIls they wore IalII-II IVIIrII. (" hristians; that
IhI-I abhorrIId IIIItiIIg IIII II III' IIIIIIII-II; and that tlII _I' might I)"
sIII'II IIIII I would not IIII killIIIl. .-\s soon as IhI'I' Wt'l't' nssIIrIIIl
III this. IlIIII- IlisIIoIIIrIId \||I II a on, and by son lI awkward gIIs-
t.IIIIsIIs. sIIII-ral ways, as is luIIIl to IIIIsI-riIIII; tor, it. seems, tlIIIy
wI-rII III" sI-I'IIral nations.

'I'hI' woman who was "Mr intIIrprIIIIIr was hid, in thc Ilt'\I.
plaIIII. to ask [limit if "my were willing to IIII SI'I'HIIIIS, and III Work
for IIIII. IIIIIn II ho had I)I't)|l"lll. IIIIIIII away. to 5m I: their lives; III.
II lIII II "III all III" II dam-in"; and prI-sIIutlI (Inc III" to taking'
up this, and another that IInI tlIiIII' that IaI' mud, to carry IIII
IlII" Ir shonlIlIIrs, to intimate that Illt"'_\' \H'l't' \Vllll||_" to work.

'lhII goIIIrnor, II ho hand that IhII Illulll" women among
them would prIIsIIIIIlI' hII. atIIInIlIId IIiIlI soIIIo Illt'tfln'l'lllt'lll't',
and might. occasion some striI'II. atIII pIII'haps blood, asked tho
IhrIII: IIIIIII IIIIIII they intended to IlII with IIIIIsII. women, and how
"my Il|l|'||tll'tI to use thIIIII. II hIIthIIr as svrvants or as IIoIIIIIII. '
UIIII. ot the l-ZIIglislInII-II IInsIIIIrIIl II-rI' boldly and rIIIIIlilv, that
they would use thIIIn as hotlI- . to II lllt'll Ihc gIII'IIrnor said, I am
not going to restrain Ion than it; you an- your own nIastIIIIs as
to that; but this I think Is but just, for l\\0"llIllI'.{ disorders and
IpIarrIIls among you, IIIIII l IlIIsirII it oI Ion for that reason only,
viz. that you will all IIIII I, that it aIII of I'm! take any of thIIsII
IvoInIIu, as a woman or wife, that IIII shall take but one: and
that lIaIinI' takIIII IIIIII. none also shall toIIIIh her; for though II II
IIIIIIIIot IIIIIIIIIII any one III you, yet it Is hut reasonable that wlIilII
IoII sIaI- hIIIIII the woman any III yon takIIs should be main-
"IIII'IIIIII liy thII man that takes her, and should be his II'iIII; I
mean, saIs lIII, while III: continues here, and that none else shall
have anything to do with her. All this appeared so just, that
every one agreed to it without any dillieulty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to
take any of them? llut every one of them answered no: some
of them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did not
like women that were not Christians: and all together declared
that they would not touch one of them: which was an instance
of sat-h virtue as l have not met with in all my travels. 0n the
other hand, to be short, the live Englishmen took them every
one a wife, that is to say. a temporary wife; and so they set up
a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived
in my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within.
The three servants which were taken in the late battle of the
savages lived with them; and these carried on the main part of
the colony, supplied all the rest with food, and assisted them in
anything as they could, eras they found necessity required.

ltut the wonder of the story was, how live sueh refraetory, ill-
matched fellows should agree about these women, and that two
of them should not llllt'l) upon the same woman, especially seeing
two or three of them were, without comparison, more agreeable
than the others: but they took a good way enough to prevent
t narrelling among,r themselves; for they set the live women by
t iemselves in one of their hats, and they went all into the other
but. and drew lots among them who should choose first.

lie. that drew to choose first went away by himself to the but
where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he
chose; and it was worth observing. that be that chose first took
her that was reckoned the hmneliest and oldest of the live, which
made mirth enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards
laughed at it: but the fellow eonsideml better than any of them,
that it was application and business they were to expect assist-
ance in, as lunch as in anything else; and she proved the best
wife of all the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and
fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition returned
upon them again, and they firmly believed they were now going
to he devoured. Accordingly, when the English sailor came in
and fetched out one of them. the rest set up a most lamentable
ery, and hung about her, and took their leave of her with such
agouies and affection, as would have grieved the hardest heart
in the world; nor was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy
them that they were not to be immediately murdered, till they
fetched the old man, Friday's father, who immediately let them
know that the five men, who had fetched them out one by one,
had chosen them for their wives.

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was
a little ovor, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and
helped them; and in a few hours they had built them every one

It 2
a new but or tent for their lodging a art; for those they had
already were crowded with their tools, ouschold stuff, and pro-
visions. The three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the
two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of the
island, so that they continued separated as before; and thus my
island was peopled in three places; and, as I might say, three
towns were begun to be built.

And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it often
happens in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence
are. in such a disposition of things, I cannot say), the two honest
fellows had the two worst wives; and the three rcprobates, that
were scarce worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither
seemed born to do themselves good, nor any one else, had three
clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious wives: not that the first
two were bad wives, as to their temper or humour, for all the
five were most willing. quiet, passive, and subjected creatures,
rather like slaves than wives; but my meaning is, they were
not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly
and neat.

Another observation I must make. to the honour ofadiligcnt
application, on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothl'ul,
negligent, idle temper, on the other, that when I came to the
place, and viewed the several improvements, plantings, and
management of the several little colonies, the two men had so
far outgone the three, that there was no comparison. They had,
indeed, both of them as much round laid out for corn as they
\ 'antcd, and the reason was, eeause, according to my rule,
nature dictated that it was to no purpose to sow more com than
they wanted; but the dill'ercnce of the cultivation, of the plant-
ing, of the fences, and, indeed, of every thing else, was easy to
be seen at first view.

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their
huts, so that when you came to the place, nothing was to be
seen but wood: and though they had twice had their plantation
demolished, once by their own countrymen, and once by the
enemy, as shall be shown in its place, yet they had restored all
again, and every thing was thriving and flourishing about them:
they had gra )cs planted in order, and managed like a vineyard,
though they ad themselves never seen anything of that kind;
and by their good ordering their vines, their grapes were as good
again as any of the others. They had also found themselves out
a retreat in the thickest part of the woods; where, though there
was not a natural cave, as I had found, yet the made one with
incessant labour of their hands, and where, w en the mischief
which followed happened, they secured their wives and children,
so as they could never be found; they having, by sticking innu-
merable stakes and poles of the wood which, as I said, grew so
readily, made the grove unpassahle, except in some places where
they climbed up to get over the outside part, and then went on
by ways of their own leaving.

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they
were much civilized by their settlement, compared to what they
were before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the same
opportunity; yet one of the certain companions of a profligate
mind never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true,
they planted corn, and made lcnees; but Solomon's words were
never better verified than in them, " I went by the vineyard of
the slothl'ul, and it was all overgrown with thorns;" for when
the Spaniards came to view their crop, they could not see it in
some places for weeds, the hedge had several gaps in it, where
the wild goats had got in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here
and there a dead bush was crammed in, to stop them out for the
present, but it was only shutting the stable-door after the steed
was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the colony of the
other two, there was the very face of industry and success upon
all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn,
or a gap in any of their hedges; and they, on the other hand,
verified Solomon's words in another place, " that the diligent
hand maketh rich ;" for every thing grew and thrived, and they
had plenty within and without; they had more tame cattle than
the others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet
more pleasure and diversion too.

lt is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly
within doors, and having learned the English ways of dressing
and cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said,
was a cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their hus-
hands' victuals very nicely and well; whereas the others could
not be brought to understand it: but then the husband, who, as
I say, had been cook's mate, did it himself. But as for the he!-
bands of the three wives, they loitered about, fetched tnrtles'
eggs, and caught fish and birds; in a word, anything but labour,
and they fared accordingly. The diligent lived well and com-
fortably; and the slothful lived hard and beggarly; and so, I
believe, generally speaking, it is all over the world.

But I now come to a scene different from all that had hap-
pened before, either to them or to me; and the original of the
story was this: Early one morning, there came on shore five or
six canoes of Indians or savages, call them which you please.
and there is no room to doubt they came upon the o d errand of
feeding upon their slaves; but that part was now so familiar to
the Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not concern
themselves about it. as I did: but having been made sensible,
by their experience, that their only business was to lie concealed,
and that if they were not seen by any of the savages, they would
go oi? again quietly, when their business was done, having, as
yet, not the least notion of there being any inhabitants in the
island ; I say, having been made sensible of this, they had nothing
to do but uve notice to all the three plantations to keep within
doors, am not show themselves, only placing a scout in a pro-
per place. to give notice when the boats went to sea again.

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled
all these measures, and made it known among the savages that
there were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the desola-
tion of almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the
savages were gone oil', the Spaniards peeped abroad a in; and
some. of them had the curiosity to go to the place Mr ere they
had been. to see what they had been doin . Here, to their great
surprise. they found three savages let! lluthind, and lying fitst
asleep upon the ground. It was sup )osed thev had either been
so gorged with their inhuman feast. t tat. like heasts, they were
fiillen asleep, and would not. stir when the. others went, or they
had wandered into the woods, and did not come back in time to
be taken in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at. this sight, and per-
fectly at a loss what to do. The Spanish governor. as it. hap-
iened, was with them. and his ndviee was asked. but he professed
to knew not what to do. As for slaves, they had enough already-;
and as to killing them. they were. none of them inclined to that:
the Spanish governor told me, they could not think of shedding
innocent blood: for as to them. the poor creatures had done.
them no wrong. invaded none of their property, and the ' thought
thev had no just quarrel against them. to take away t ieir lives.
And here I must. in justice. to these Spaniards. observe, that let
the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what.
they will, I never met with seventeen men of any nation what-
soever. in any foreign country, who were so universally modest.
tent wrate, virtuous, so very good-humonml, and so courteous.
as t tese Spaniards ; and as to cruelty, thev had nothing of it in
their very nature: no inhnlnanit y. no harharity, no outrageous
passions; and yet all of them men of great courage and spirit.
'l'hcir temper and calmness had appeared in their hearing the.
insutl'erahle usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice
and humanity appeared now in the. case of the sav s, as above.
Atler some consultation. they resolved upon this: that they
would lie still a while longer, till, it'possihle, these three mm
might he gone, But then the governor Spaniard recollected,
that the three savages had no heat: and if they were left to rave
about the. island. they would certainly discover that there were
inhabitants in it; and so they should be undone that way. Upon
this they went back in, and there lay the fellows fast asleep
still, and so they rumor! to waken them. and take them pri-
soners; and they did so. The poor fellows were strangel
frightened when they were seized upon and hound; and Mimi ,
like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten : for it
seems those eople think all the world does as they do. eating
men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away
they carried them.

It was very happy for them that they did not ca them home
to their castle, I mean to my palace under the hi1; but they
carried them first to the bower, where web the chief of their
country work, such as the keeping the goats, the planting the
corn, &c.; and afterwards they carried them to the habitation
of the two Englishmen.

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had
for them to do; and whether it was by negligence in guarding
them, or that they thought the fellows could not mend them-
selves. I know not, but one of them run away, and taking to the
Woods, the could never hear of him any more.

They ha good reason to believe he got home again soon after.
in some other boats or_ canoes of savages who came on shore
three or four weeks aflcrwards; and who, carrying on their revels
as usual, went ot!' in two days time. This thought terrified them
exceedingly; for they concluded, and that not without good
cause in eed, that if this fellow came home safe amon his com-
rades, he would certainly ive them an account that t ere were
people in the island, and so how few and weak they were: for
this savage, as [observed before. had never been told, and it was
very happy he had not, how many there were. or where they
lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any of their guns,
much less had they shown him any of their other retired places;
such as the cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the
two En lishmeu had made, and the like.

The rat testimony they had that this fellow had given intel-
ligence of them was, that, about two months alter this, six canoes
of savages, with about seven, ei ht, or ten men in a canoe. came
rowing along the north side of e island, where they never used
to come before, and landed, about an hour atter sunrise, at a
convenient place, about a mile from the habitation of the two
Englishmen, where this escaped man had been kept. As the
Spaniard governor: said, had they been all there, the damage
would not have been so much, for not a man of them would have
escaped: but the case differed now very much, for two men to
tidy was too much odds. The two men had the happiness to
discover them about a league ofl', so that it was above an hour
before they landed; and as they landed a mile from their huts,
it was some time before they could come at them. Now, having
great reason to believe that the were betrayed, the first thing
they did was to bind the two s aves which were left, and cause
two of the three men whom they brought with the women (who,
it seems, proved very faithful to them) to lead them, with their
two wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, to
their retired places in the woods, which I have spoken of above.290 MW Izs'rUIII-zs III-

and there to land the two fellows hand and foot. till they heard
further.

III the. next pl:II-e., seeing the saI'II-res III- re all tome on shore
and that day had beat their I'oIIrse din-Ill) that IIIII. they
opt neIl the It Ines II here the IIIileh goats he re kept. and drIII e
them all out: leaving their goals to struggle in the. woods
II hither they pleased. that the savages might think they II'I-reIIll
bred wild; but the rogue \\' ho value with them was too eIIIIIIitIg
for that, and gave them an III'I'IIIIIIt (If it. all, liIr they went
Ilireetly to the place.

\\'hen the too poor frightened men had seI-IIred their IIiI'I-s
and goods, they sent the iItlII-I slay e. they had ot the. three who
ezIIne II Ith the. women. and II lIII II as at their phIee l)I' III'I'idIIIIt
:IIIIII' to the Spaniards IIith all spxed. to I_:iIe them the alarm
and desire speedy help; and. III the mean time. they took their
arms and "hat ammunition they had. and retreated "wards the
phII e in the wood II here their IIiIIIs IIer- se'nt . kII-ping III a
IlistIInee, yet so that they might see, it' possible, "'lllt'll way the

sIIIIII'es took.

"lheI' had not. gone far, but that lroIn II risinIr ground they
IIIIIlIl see. the little army ot their enemies man! on directly to
their habitation, and. in a moat nt more, could set! all their huts
and household stIItl "tuning up togethe r. to their great grlel' and
IIIIIrtitiI':ItioII: for they had a wry I'reat loss III them irretrievahle,
at least for some time. They kept their station tora II hIle till
they found the NH 21"1", like IIild hetsts. spread theIIIselI'es III]
In I r the plat-e, rIIInnIIIgIIIgI-Iery II ay and Her) plaee they eould
think III'. in seIIrI-h ot'prey ; and in pIIrtieIIlIIr for the people, of
II lIIIIn. now, it plainly appeared they had intelligent-c.

'lhe tIIII l-'nglislnnen sun I; this. thinking then 'elIes not
seettre II here they stood heeaIise it "as likely some. ot the IIilIl
people. nIi-.:ht eome that I'I'ay, and they might eoIIIe. too many
III-re -.ther thou-'ht it proper to make. another retreat alIIIIIt halt II
IIIile tarther; he -lieIiIII.':. as it III"te.rIIards happened that the
farther they strolled the ten er II ould be together.
/ ///////

f/ [1/2) c///;"/A'./.

//// '/
 

SECTION XXXVI.

SEVERAL SAVAGES KILLED; THE REMAINDER LEAVE THE ISLAND.--
A FLEET OF THEM AFTERWARDS ARRIVE--A GENERAL BATTLE.--
THE SAVAGES ARE OVERCOME, AND TRANQUILLITY BFBTORED.

THEIR next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown part
of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was
hollow and vastly large; and in this tree they both took their
standing, resolving to see there what might offer. They had not
Stood there long, before two of the savages appeared running
directly that way, as if they already had notice where they stood,
and were coming up to attack them; and a little way farther
they espied three more coming after them, and five more beyond
them, all coming the same way: besides which, they saw seven
or eight more at a distance, running another way; for, in a word,
they ran every way, like sportsmen beating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they
should stand and keep their posture, or fly; but, after a xery
short debate with themselves, they considered, that ifthe savages
ranged the country thus before help came. they might perhaps
find out their retreat in the woods, and then all would be lost:
so the resolved to stand them there; and if they were too many
to dea with, then they would get up to the top of the tree, from
whence they doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as
long as their ammunition lasted, though all the savages that
were landed, which was near fifty, were to attack them.

Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether they
should fire at the first two, or wait for the three. and so take the
middle party, by which the two and the five that followed would
be separated : at length they resolved to let the first two pass by,
unless they should spy them in the tree. and come to attack them.
The first two savages continued them also in this resolution. by
turning a little from them towards another part of the wood; but
the three. and the five alter them, came forward directly to the
tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing
them come so straight toward them, the resolved to take them
in a line as the came; and as they reso ved to fire but one at a
time, perhaps e first shot might hit them all three: for which
purpose, the man who was to fire put three or four small bullets
into his piece; and having a fair loophole, as it were, from a
broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen,
waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so
that he could not miss.

While they were thus waiting. and the savages came on, they
ilainly saw that one o! the three was the runaway savn c that
had escaped from them; and thov both knew him distinct y, and
resolved that, if possible, he should not escape, though they
should both fire; so the other stood ready with his piece, that
if he did not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to have
a second. But the first was too good a marksman to miss his
aim; for as the savages kept near one another, a little behind,
In a line, he fired, and hit two of them directly: the foremost
was killed outright. being shot in the head; the second, which
was the runaway Indian, was shot through the body, and fell,
but was not aite dead; and the third had a little scratch in the
shoulder, per ape bv the same ball that went through the body
of the second; and being dreadfully frightened, though not so
much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in
a hideous manner.

The fire that were behind. more frightened with the noise than
sensible of the danger, stood still at first: for the woods made
the sound a thousand times bi er than it really was, the echoes
rattling from one side to ano er, and the fowls rising from all
parts, screaming. and every sort making a different noise, ac-
cording to their kind; just as it was when I fired the first gun
that perhaps was ever shot oil' in the island.

However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what
the matter was, came on unconcerned. till they came to the place
where their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough;
and here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were
within reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the
wounded man, talking. and, as ma be supposed, inquiring of
him how he came to be hurt; an who, it is very ration to
believe, told them. that a flash of fire first. and immediately after
that thunder from their gods. had killed those two and wounded
him: this, I sey, is refined; for nothing is more certein then
thet, _es they sew no men neer them, so they hed never heerd e
an in ell their lives, not so much es heerd of e In; neither

ew they eny thin of killing end wounding et e ' tence with
tire end bullets: if ey hed, one ' ht reesonehly believe they
would not heve stood so uneoneern in viewing the fete of their
fellows, without some epi rehensione of their own.

Our two men, thou , es they confessed to me, it grieved
them to be obliged to ' I so men poor creetures, who, et the
semejimehhed no notion of their enger; yet, heving them ell
thus in their power, end the first heving loeded his piece egein,
resolved to let dilhoth together emong them; end sing ' out,
by egreement, w 'ch to eim st, they shot to ther, end ' ed,
or very much wounded, four of them; the ME: ' htened even
to death, though not hurt, fell with the rest; so et our men,
seeing them el fell together, thought the hed killed them ell.

The belief thet the seveges were ell ' ed mede our two men
come boldly out from the tree before they hed cherged their
guns, which wee e wrong step; end they were under some sur-
prise when they eeme to the piece, end found no less then four
of them elive, end of them two ve little hurt, end one not at
ell: this oh ' them to fell upon 1. em with the stocks of their
muskets; en first they mede sure of the runewey sevege, that
hed been the eeuse of ell the mischief, end of enother t et was
hurt in the knee, end put them out of their pein: then the men
thet wes hurt not et ell came end kneeled down to them, with
his two hends held up, end mede piteous moens to them, by
gestures end signs, for his life, but could not sey one word to
them thet they could understend. However, they mede signs
to him to sit down et the foot of e tree herd b ; end one of the
Englishmen, with e piece of rope twined, whi he hed by greet
chence in his pocket, tied his two heads behind him, end there
they let! him: end with whet speed they could mede efier the
other two, which were gone before, feerin they, or my more
of them, should find the weyto their cove piece in the woods,
where their wives, end the few goods they hed lefi, ley. They
eeme once in sight of the two men, but it wee et e greet dis-
tenee; however, they hed the setist'ection to see them cross over
e velley towerds the see, quite the con wey from thet which
led to their retreet, which they were efrei of; end being setis-
fied with thet, they went heck to the tree where they lefl: their

risoner, who, es they supposed, wes delivered hyhis comredes,
Ear he wes gone, end the two pieces of rope-yen, with which
the hed bound him, ley just et the foot of the tree.
ey were now in es et concern es before, not knowing
whet course to tehe, or ow neer the enemy might be, or in
whet numbers: so they resolved to go ewey to the piece where
their wives were, to see if ell wee well there, end to mete them
easy, who were in fright enough, to he sure; for though the
savages were their own eountr folk. yet they were most terribly
afraid of them, and perhaps c more. for the knowledge they
had of them.

When they came there, they found the savages had been In
the wood, anti very near that plaee, but had not found it: for it
was indeed inaeeessible, by the trees standing so thiek, as before,
unless the persons seeking it had been directed by those that
knew it, whieh these did not: they foetal, therefore, every thing
very safe, only the women in a terrible fright. While they were
here, they had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come
to their nssistanee: the other ten. with their servants, and old
I'ridnv, I mean Friday's father. were gone in a body to defend
their bower, and the eorn and rattle that was kept there, in ease
the savages should have roved over to that side of the country ;
but they did not spread so far. With the seven S Ianinrds eatue
one of the three savages who, as I said. were llt'll' prisoners
formerly; and with them also came the savage whom the English-
men had lelt. bound hand and foot at the tree: for it seems, they
came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men. and un-
bound the eiglith, and brought him along with them; where.
however, the were obliged to bind him again, as they had the
two others w It) were lot! when the third ran away.

The prisoners now began to he a burthen to tliem; and they
were so afraid of their eseaping, that they were once resolving
to kill them all, believing they were under an absolute neeessit y
to do so, for their own preservation. However, the. Spaniard
governor would not consent to it; but ordered, for the present,
that they should be sent out of the way, to my old cave in the
valley, and be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard them,
atul give them food for their subsistence, whieh was done; and
they were bound there hand and foot for that night.

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so en-
couraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any
longer there; but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves,
with four muskcts and a pistol among them, and two stout
t uarter-staves, away they went in nest of the savages. And
ttrst they came to the tree where tie men la that had been
killed; but it was easy to see that some more ot the savages had
been there, for they had attempted to carry their dead men away,
and had dragged two of them a good way, but had given it over.
From thence they advanced to the first rising ground, where
they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where they
had the tnortilicatien still to see some of the smoke: but neither
could they here see any of the savages. They then resolved,
though with all possible caution, to go forward. towards their
ruined plantation; but a little before they came thither, coming
in sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savage: all out-
barked again in their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed
sorry, at first, that there was no way to come at them, to give
them a parting blow; but, upon the whole, they were very well
satisfied to be rid of them.

The poor En lishmen being new twice ruined, and all their
improvements estroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help
them to rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their
three countrymen, who were not yet noted for having the least
inclination to do any good, yet as soon as they heard of it (for
they living remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all
was over). came and oll'ered their help and assistance, and did,
verv friendly, work for several days, to restore their habitation,
and make necessaries for them. And thus, in a little time, they
were set upon their legs again.

About two (in s after this, they had the further satisfaction of
seeing three of t e savages' canoes come driving on shore, and,
at some distance from them, two drowned men: by which they
had reason to believe that they had met with astorm at sea,
which had overset some of them ; for it had blown very hard the
night after they went off.

lion-ever, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand,
enough of them escaped to inform the rest. as well of what they
had done as of what had happened to them, and to whet them
on to another enterprise of the same nature; which they, it
seems, resolved to attempt, with snflieient force to carry all
hctiire them: for except what the first man had told them of
inhabitants, they could any little of it of their own knowledge.
for they never saw one man; and the fellow being killed that
had aflirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm it to them.

It was live or six months alter this, before they heard any
more of the savages, in which time our men were in he es they
had either forgot their former bad luck, or given over open of
better: when, on a sudden, they were invaded with a most for-
midable fleet of no less than eight-aml-twenty canoes, full of
savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden
swords, and such-like engines of war; and they brought such
numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our people into the

utmost consternation. _
As they came on shore in the evening. and at the easternmost

side of the island. our men had that night to consult and con-
sider what to do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being
entirely concealed was their only safety before, and would be
much more so now. while the number of their enemies was so
great, they therefore resolved. first of all, to take down the huts
which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away their
goals to the old cave; because they supposed the savages would
go directly thither. as soon as it was day, to_ lay the old game
over again, though they did not now lead wit in two leagues of2170 [owns l't'ttl-Zs or

it. In the next rlnce. they drove tin-av all the Ilocks of goats
they had at the o d bower. as I called it. which belonged to the
Spaniards; and. in short. tell as little appearance of inhabitants
any where as was possible: and the next morning early they
posted themselves. with all their foNe. at the plantation ot' the
to o men. to wait for their coining. As they guessed. so it hap-
pened: these new invaders leavin their canoes at the east end
of the island.canie ranging along I lt' shore. directly towards the
place. to the number of two hundred and titly. as near as our
men could judge. ()nruriny was but small. indeed; but that
which was worse. they had not arms for all their number neither.
The \\ hole account. it seems. stood thus : first. as to tncn. seven-
teen Spaniards. live I-anli. nuen. old Friday. or Friday's father.
the three slaves taken with the wotnen. who proved very liiitht'ttl.
and three other slaves. who lived with the Spaniards. 'l'o arm
these. they had eleven nuiskets. Iive pistols. thrcc lim'ling-pitw's.
tit e tnuskets or tinvlitm~piNcs which were taken by me from the
mutinons seamen whom 1 reduced. to o swords. and three. old
halbcrds.

To their slaves thev did not give either musket or l'nsee, but
thet- had every one a halbenl. or a long stntl'. like a quarter-statl'.
with a great spike of iron t'astcucd into each end of it. and bv his
side a hatchet ; also every one of our men had a hatchet. 1l'tto
ot' the n omen could not be prevailed npon lntt they would come
into the tight. and they had bows and arrow s. which the Spaniards
had taken from the savages when the tilst action hapiened.
which I have spoken otl where the Indians fought nit i one
another; and the women had hutchets too.

The S ntttiard governor. whom I described so often. commanded
the whole; mtd \Yill Atkins. who. though a dreadful fellow for
wickedness. w as a most daring. hold fellow, conuunndcd uu ler
him. The savages came forward like lions; and our men. which
n as the worst ot'their litte. had no advantage in their situation;
oulv that Will Atkins. who now proved a most useful fellow.
with six men. was planted just behind it small thicket ot' bushes.
as an advanced guard. with orders to let the first of them pass
by. and then tire into the middle ot'thetn. and as soon as he had
tired. to make his retreat as niutble as he could round a part of
the wood. and so mime in behind the Spaniards. where they
stood. having a thicket ot'trces hetbre. them.

When the savages came on. they ran straggling about every
way in heaps. out of all manner of order. and Will Atkins let
about till y of them ntss bv him; then seeing the rest come in a
verv thick thron . to orders three of his nten to tire. having
loaded their mustets with six or seven bullets a niece. about as
big as large pistol'bnllets. How many they killed or wounded
they knew not. but the consternation and surprise was inatt-
proosible among the savages; they were frightened to the last
degree to hear such a drendliil noise. and see their men killed,
and others hurt. but see nobody that did it; when. in the middle
of their fright. Will Atkins and his other three let lly again
among the thickest ot' them; and in less than a minute the first
three beiu loaded agnin, gave them a third volley.

llad Will Atkins and his men retired immediately. as soon as
they had tired. as they were ordered to do. or had tho rest of the
body been at hand. to have mined in their shot continually. tho
savages had been ell'eetual y routed; for the terror that met
among them came prineipallv from this. via. that they were
killed by the gods with thunder and lightning. and could see
nobody that hurt them; but Will Atkins. staying to load again.
discovered the. eheat; some of the. savages who were at ndiutance
spying them. canto upon them behind; and though Atkins and
his men tired at them also, two or three times. and killed above
twentv. retiring as litst as they could, yet they wounded Atkins
himself, and killed one ol' his l'ellow-Englishmen. with their
arrows. as they did utierwards oue Spaniard, and one of the
ludiau slaves who came with the women. This slave was a
most gallant fellow. and limght most desperately, killing live of
them with his own hand, having no weapon but one of the armed
stnves and a hatchet.

Our men being tints hard laid at. Atkins wounded. and two other
men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the Wood; and the
Spaniards. uller tiring three volleys upon them, retreated also;
for their number was so great. and they were so desperate. that
though above titty of them were killed. and more than as many
wounded. yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of
danger. aml shot their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed
that their wounded men. who were not t uite disabled. were
made outrageous by their Wounds. and t'oug t like madmen.

When our men mtreuted. they left the Spaniard and the
Englishman: that were killed behind them; and the savages.
when their male up to them, killed them over again in awretehed
manner. breaking their arms, legs. aml heads. with their clubs
and wooden swords, like true savages ; but lindin our men
were gone. they did not seem to pursue them, but rew them-
selves up in a ring, which is. it seems. their custom, and shouted
twice. in token ot' their victory; alter whielnthey bad the morti-
fieatiou to see several of their wounded men fall. dying with the
mere loss of blood.

The. Spaniard governor having drawn his little body it
together upon a rising ground. Atkins, though he was woundet .
would have had them march and charge again all together at
once; but the Spaniard replied, Seahor Atkins, you see how
their wounded men tight; let them alone till morning; all the
wounded men will be atiti' and core with their wounds, and Saint
with the loss of blood; and so we shall have the fewer to engage298 ADV "TURF-I 0!

This advice was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, That is
true. senbor. and so shall l too; and that u the reason I would
go on while I am warm--Well. Senbor Atkins. says the
Spaniard, ou have behaved gallantly. and done &our part: we
vull ll ht or you, if you cannot come on; but I ink It best to
eta l morning: so they waited.

at as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the
savages in great disorder about their end and wounded men.
and a great noise and hurry among them where they lay. they
afterwards resolved to fell upon them in the night; especially
if they could come to give them but one volley before they were
discovered. which they had a fair opportunity to do; for one of
the Englishmen. in whose uarter it was where the tight began.
led them round between t o woods and the seaside westward,
and then turnin short south, they came so near where the
thickest of them lay. that, before they were seen or heard, eight
of them fired in among them. and did dreadful execution upon
them; in half a minute more, eight others fired after them.
pourin in their small shot in such quantity. that abundance
were lled and wounded; and all this while they were not able
to see who hurt them. or which wav to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition. and
then divrded themselves in three bodies, and resolved to fall in
among them all together. They had in each body e' ht ersons,
that is to say, twenty-two and the two women, who, t e way,
fought desperately. The divided the lire-arms equal y in each
party. and so the halhe s and staves. They would ave had
the women ke t back, but they said they were resolved to die
with their hns Mids. Having thus formed their little army,
they anarched out from among the trees. and came up to the
teeth of the enemy. shouting and hallooing as loud as they
could; the savages stood altogether, but were in the utmost
confusion. hearing the noise of our men shouting them three

unrters together: they would have fought if they had seen us;
or as soon as we come near enough to be seen. some arrows
were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not
dan rously; but our men nve them no time, but, running up
to t rem. fired among them t we ways. and then fell in with the
butt-ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves. and
hutchels, and laid about them so well, that, in a word, the set
up a dismal screaming and howling, flying to save their ves
which way soever they could.

Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally
wounded in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of
them; the rest, bein frightened out of their wits. scoured
through the woods and over the hills, with all the speed fear and
nimble feet could help them to; and as we did not trouble our.
selves much to pursue them, they got all together to the seaside
where they landed. end Where their cenoes le . But their dis-
esters were not et no end yet; for it blew e terri le mum of wind
thet evening horn the see. so thet it wee impossible for them to
go ofi'; ney, the storm continuing ell night, when the tide eeme
up, their cenoes were most of them driven by the surge of the
see so high upon the shore, thet it required infinite tell to get
them ofi'; en some of them were even deshed to pieces egeinst
the bench, or egeinst one enother.

Our men, though gled of their victory, yet got little rest thet
night; but heving refreshed themselves es well es they could,
they resolved to merch to thet pert of the islend where the
eevegee were tied, end see whet posture they were in. This
necesserily led them over the pleas where the fight hed been,
end where they found severel of the poor creeturee not quite
deed, end yet pest recovering life; e eight disegreeeble eno h
to generous minds; for e truly greet men. tho h obliged y
the low of hettle to destroy his enemy, tekes no eli ht in his
misery. However, there wes no need to give my or are in thin
cue ; for their own sev , who were their servents, dispatched
these our creetures wit their hetchets.

At ength, they eeme in view of the pleee where the more
misereble remeins of the sevegee' ermy ley, where there ep.
peered About e hundred still: their posture wee nerelly sittin
upon the ground, with their knees u towerds t eir mouth, en
the heed put between the two hen leening down upon the

noes.

When our men came within two musket-shots of them, the
Speninrd governor ordered two mneltets to be fired, without
bell, to elerm them: this he did, thet by their eountenenee he
might know whet to expect, vie. whether they were still in heert
to tight, or were so heertily heeten no to be dis irited end die-
coureged, end so he might menege eccordin ly. his stretegem
took; for es soon es the eeveges heerd s first gun end sew
the fiesh of the second, they eterted up upon their feet in the
greetest consternation imegineble: end es our men edveneed
swimy towerd them. they ell ren screeminslend yelling ewey,
with e kind of howlin noise, which our men 'd not understend,
end hed never heerd fore: end thus they ran up the hills into
the country.

At first our men had much rether the westher hed been celm,
end they hsd ell gone ewey to see; but they did not then con-
sider thet this might prohebly heve been the owe-ion of their
coming egein in such multitudes es not to be resisted, or, et
leest, to come so men , end so anon, es would quite desolete
the islend. end stem them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, not-
withetending his wound, kept elweye with them, proved the best
wnnsellor in this eese: his edviee wee, to teke the edventege
thet olfered, endelep in between them end their beets. end so

1
deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any more to
plague the island.

'l'liey consulted long about this; and some were against it,
for fear of making the wretches fly to the woods and live there
desperate, and so they sltould have them to hunt like wild
beasts, be afraid to stir out about their business, and have their
plantation continually rifled. all their tame roats destroyed,
and. iii short. he reduced to a life. ot'eontinual t istress.

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a
httndred men than with a hundred nations: that as they must
destroy their hunts, so they must destroy the. men, or be all of
them destroyed themselves. In a word. he showed them tlte
ueeessity of It so plainly. that they all eatue. into it: so they went
to work immediately with the boats, and g 'tting some dry wood
together from a dead tree. they tried to set some of them on
tire. but they were so wet that they would not burn; however,
the fire so burned the upper part, that it soon made. them unlit
for swimming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what
they were about, sotne of them eume running out ot'the woods,
atul eotning as near as they cot ld to our men. kneeled down
and eried, "0a. ()a, Wuramokoa. and some other words of their
language. which none. of the others understood any thing of;
but as they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was easy
to understand they begged to have their boats spared, and that
they would he gone. aml never eonte there again. llutour men
were. now sati ied that they had no way to preserve themselves.
or to save their eolouy, hut etl'eetually to prevent any of these
people from ever going home again: depending upon this, that
If even so mueh as one of them got back into their country to
tell the. storv, the colony was undone: so that. letting thetn
know that they should not have. any merry, they fell to work
with their eanoes, attd destroyed them every one. that the storm
had not destroyed before; at the sight of whielt the savages
raised a hideous crv in the woods. \vhieh our pet) He heard plain
enough, after which they ran about the. island ike distracted
men; so that. ill a word. our men did not really know at first.
what to do with them. Nor did the Spaniards. with all their
prudent-e, eousider. that wltile they made those people thus
desperate, they ought to have kept a good guard at the same
time upon their plantations; for though, it is true. they had
driven away their cattle. and the Indians did not find out their
main retreat. I mean my old castle at the hill. nor the cave in
the valley, yet they found out my plantation at the bower, and
pulled it all to pieees, and all the fences and planting about it;
trod all the corn uttder foot. tore up the vines and grapes. being
Just then almost ripe, and did our men an iuestimahlo damage,
though to themselves not one thrthiug's worth of service.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions,
yet they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up
and down; for as they were too nimble of foot for our men.
when they found them single, so our men durst not go abroad
single, for fear of being surrounded with their numbers. The
best was, they had no weapons; for though they had bows. they
had no arrows lefl, nor any materials to make any; nor had
they any edge-tool or weapon among them.

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great
and indeed deplorable; but. at the same time, our men were
also brought to very bad circumstances by them: for though
their retreats were preserved, et their provniion was destroyed.
and their harvest spoiled; am what to do, or which way to tum
themselves, they knew not. The only refuge they had now was,
the stock of cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some
little corn which grew there. and the plantation of the three
Englishmen. Will Atkins and his comrades, who were now re-
duced to two; one of them being killed by an arrow, which
struck him on the side of his head, just under the temples, so
that he never spoke more: and it was very remarkable, that
this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the oor savage
slave with his hatchet, and who afterwards inten ed to have
murdered the Spaniards.

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than
mine was at any time. after! first discovered the grains of barley
and rim, and got into the manner of lantin and raising my
corn. and my tame cattle: for now they hat , as I may say. a
hundred wolves upon the island. which would devour every thing
they could come at, yet could be hardly come at themselves.

When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing
they concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up
to the farther part of the island. south-west, that if any more
savages came on shore they mi ht not find one another: then
that they would daily hunt and arass them, and kill as many
of them as they could come at, till they had reduced their
number; and if they could at last tame them, and bring them to
any thing. they would give them corn, and teach them how to
plant, and live upon their dail labour.

in order to this, they so fo lowed them, and so terrified them
with their guns, that in a few' days, if any of them fired a gun at
an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear;
and so dreadfully frightened they were, that the kept out of
sight farther and farther; till. at last, our men fol owing them,
and almost every day killing or wounding some of them, they
kept up in the woods or hollow places so much, that it reduced
them to the utmost misery for want of food; and many were
afterwards found dead in the woods, without any hurt, abso-
lutel starred to death.

W en our men found this, it made their hearts rclent, and pity

x 2802 ammonia or

moved them, especially the Spaniard governor. who was the most
gentleman-like, generous-minded man that I ever met with in
my life; and he proposed. if gossible. to take one of them alive.
and bring him to understsn what they meant, so far as to be
able to act as interpreter, and go email them, and see if they
might be brought to some conditions I at might be depended
upon, to save their lives and do us no harm.

It was some while liol'ore any of them could be taken; but
being weak and half-sutrved. one of them was at last surprised
and made a prisoner. lie was sullen at first, and would neither
out our drink; but finding himself kindly used. and victuals
given him, and no violenro oll'ered him, he at last grew tractable,
nod mtne to himself. They brought old Friday to him. who
talked often with him. and told him how kind the others Would
he to them all; that they would not only save their lives, but
would give them part of the island to live in, provided they would
give satisfaction that they would keep in their own bounds and
not come beyond it to injure or prejudice others; and that they
should have corn given them to plant and make it grow for their
bread. and some bread given them for their present subsistence;
and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of his
countrymen, and see what the said to it; assuring them, that
if they did not agree immediate y. they should be all destroyed.

The poor wrotchca, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in
number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the
first ofl'er, and begged to have some food given them; upon which,
twelve S aniards and two Englishmen, well armed, with three
lndians s aves and old Friday. marched to the place where they
were. The three Indians slat-es carried them a large quantity of
bread, some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in the sun, and
three live goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of a
hill, where they sat down, ate their provisions very thankfully,
and were the most faithful follows to their words that could be
thought of; for, except when the came to beg victuala and
dimctions, they never came out of t eir bounds: and there they
lived when I came to the island. and I went to see them.

They had tau ht them both to plant corn. make bread, breed
tame goats, an milk them: they wanted nothing but wives,
and the soon would have been a nation. They were confined
to a nee of land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and
lying plain towards the sea before them. on the south-east corner
of the island. They had land enough, and it was very good and
fnilitfulzsbout a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles
In sngt .

Our men taught them to make wooden s sdes, such as I made
for myself, and gave among them twelve atehets and three or
four knives; and there they lived, the most subjected Emu
creatures that ever were heard of.
After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tran nillity with re-
spect to the savages til [came to revisit them, w ich was about
two years after; not but that, now and then, some canoes of
savages came on shore for their trinmphal, unnatural feasts; but
as they were of several nations, and perhaps had never heard of
those that came before, or the reason of it, they did not make
any search or inquiry after their countrymen: and if they had,
it would have been very hard to have found them out.

Thus, I think, I have given a hall account of all that happened
to them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The
lndians or savages were wonderfully civilised by them. and they
frequently went among them; but forbade, on pain of death, any
one of the Indians comin to them, because they would not have
their settlement betrayed again. One thing was very remark-
ahle, viz. that they taught the savages to make wicker-work, or
baskets, but they soon outdid their masters; for they made
abundance of most ingenious things in wicker-work, articularly
all sorts of baskets, sieves, birdcages, cupboards, c.; as also
chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance of other
things, being very ingenious at such work, when they were once
put in the way of it.

My coming was a particular relief to these people, because we
furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pick-axes,
and all things of that kind which they could want. With the
help of those tools they were so very andy, that they came at
last to build up their huts, or houses, very handsomely, raddling
or working it u like basket-work all the way round: which was
a very extraorrfinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd,
but was an exceeding good fence, as well against heat as against
all sorts of vermin; and our men were so ta en with it, that they
got the wild savages to come and do the like for them; so that
when I came to see the two Englishmen's colonies, they looked,
at a distance, as if they all lived like bees in a hive. As for Will
Atkins, who was now become a very industrious, useful, and
sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of basket-work as,
i believe, was never seen: it was one hundred and twen paces
round on the outside, as I measured by my steps; the wal s were
as close worked as a basket, in panels or squares of thirty-two
in number, and very strong, standing about seven feet igh;
in the middle was another not above twenty-two paces round,
but built stronger, being octagon in its form, and in the eight
corners stood eight very strong posts; round the top of which
he laid strong pieces, pinned together with wooden pins, from
which he raised a pyramid for a roof of eight rafters, very hand-
some, I assure you, and joined together ve well, though he
had no nails, and only a few iron spikes, whi he made himself
too. out of the old iron that I had left there; and, indeed. this fellow
showed abundance of ingenuity in several things which he had
no knowledge of: he made him a forge, with a pair of wooden
bellows to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal for his worlti
and he formed out of the iron crows a middlin good anvil to
hammer u n: in this manner he made man 'ngs. but espe-
cially hoo s. staples and spikes. bolts an hinges--But. to
return to the house. Alter he had pitched the roof of his inner-
most tent, he worked it up between the ratters with basket-work.
so firm. and thatehed that over again so ingeniously with rice-
straw. and over that a la 0 leal'ot a tree. which covered the top.
that his house was as ry as if it had been entiled or slated.
indeed. he owned that the savages had made the basket-work
for him. The outer circuit was covered as a lean--to, all round
this inner apartment. and long ration: lay them the thirty-two
angles to the top posts of the inner house. being about twenty
feet distant; so that there was a space like a walk Within
thei outer wicker wall and without the inner, near twenty feet
"1t e.

The inner place. he. mrtitioned oil' with the same wicker-work.
but much fairer. and t ivitled into six apartments. so that he had
six rooms on a tloor. and out of every one of these there was a
door: tirst into the. entry. or coming into the main tent, another
door into the main tent, and another door into the space or
walk that was round it: so that walk was also divided Into six
equal parts. which served not only for a retreat, but to store up
any necessaries which the family had occasion for. These six
spores not taking it the whole circumference, what other apart-
ments the outer eirc e had were thus orderedz--As soon as you
were in at the door of the outer circle. you had a short passage
straight before you to the door of the inner house: but on either
side was a wicker partition, and a door in it, by which you went
first into a large room. or storehouse. twenty feet wide, and about
thirty feet long. and through that into another. not quite so long:
so that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms. six of which
were only to he come at through the apartments of the inner
tent. and served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective
chambers of the inner circle; and four large warehouses, or barns,
or what you please to call them. which went through one another.
two on either hand of the passage, that led through the outer
door to the inner tent.

Such a piece of basket-work. I believe. was never seen in the
world. nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built.
In this great bee-hive lived the three families. that is to say. Will
Atkins sud his companion; the third was killed. but his with re--
mained. with three children. for she was. it seems, big with child
when he died: and the other two were not at all backward to
give the widow her full share of every thin . 1 mean as to their
corn, milk. gra es, &c., and when they kil ed a kid, or found a
turtle on the s ore; so that they all lived well enough; though.
it was true, they were not so industrious as the other two, as
has been observed already.

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz. that, as for religion,
I do not know that there was anything of that kind among them:
they often, indeed, put one another in mind that there was a. God,
by the very common method of seamen, viz. swearing by his
name: not were their poor ignorant savage wives much better
for having been married to Christians, as we must call them: for
as they knew very little of God themselves, so they were utterly
incapable of entering into any discourse with their wives about
a God, or to talk anything to them concerning religion.

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the wrves
had made from them was, that they had taught them to speak
English pretty well; and most of their children, which were near
twenty in all, were taught to speak English too, from their first
learning to speak, though they at first spoke it in a very broken
manner, like their mothers. There was none of these children
above six years old when I came thither, for it was not much
above seven years that they had fetched these five savage ladies
over; but they had all been pretty fruitful, for they had all children,
more or less; I think the cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth
child; and the mothers were all a good sort of well-governed,
quiet, laborious women, modest and decent, helpqu to one
another, mighty observant and subject to their masters (I cannot
call them husbands), and wanted nothing but to be well instructed
in the Christian religion, and to be legally married; both which
were happily brought about afterwards by my means. or. at
least, in consequence of my coming among them.
 

SECTION XXXVI I.

ROBINSON LEARNS FROM THE SPANIARDS Till-I DIFFICULTH-ZS THEY
HAD TO ENCOUNTER--HE FURNISHES THE PEOPLE WITH TOOLS,
ETC.--THE FRENCH ECCLESIASTIC.

HAVING thus given an account of the colony in general, and
pretty much of my runagate English, I must say something of the
Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose
story there are some incidents also remarkable enough.

I had a great many discourses with them about their circum-
stances when they were among the savages. They told me readily
that they had no instances to give of their application or ingenuity
in that country; that they were a poor, miserable, dejected hand-
ful of people; that if means had been put into their hands, yet
they had so abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under
the weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but
starving. One of them, a grave and sensible man, told me he
was convinced they were in the wrong; that it was not the part
of wise men to give themselves up to their misery, but always to
take hold of the helps which reason offered, as well for present
support as for future deliverance: he told me that 'ef was the
most senseless insignificant passion in the world, or that it re-
garded only things past, which were generally impossible to be
recalled, or to be remedied, but had no news of things to come, and
had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, but rather
added to the affliction than proposed a remedy; and upon this he
repeated a Spanish proverb, which though I cannot repeat in just'
the same words that he spoke it in, yet I remember I made it into
an English proverb of my own, thus:

In trouble to be mud.

Is to have your trouble doubled.

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements 1
had made in m solitude; my unwearied a plication. as he called
it; and how Iliad made a condition whic in its circumstances
was at first much worse than theirs, a thousand times more
happy than theirs was. even now when the were all together.
He told me it was remarkable that Englis men had a greater
presence of mind, in their distress, than any peo is that ever he
met with: that their unha 3y nation and the ortugueso were
the worst men in the wor to struggle with misfortunes; for
that their first step in dangers, alter the common efi'orts were
over. wss to despair, lie down under it, and die, without rousing
their thou hts up to proper remedies for escape.

l told im their case and mine differed exceedingly; that
they were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without
supply of (bod, or present sustenance till they could provide it;
that, it was true, I had this disadvantage and discomfort. that
l was alone; but then the supplies I ha providentially thrown
into my hands, by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore,
was such a help as would have encou d any creature in the
world to have applied himself as I had one. Senhor, says the
Spaniard, had we poor Spaniards been in your case, we should
never have got half those things out of the ship, as you did:
us , says he, we should never have found means to have not a
rug to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore without
boat or sail; and how much less should we have done if any
of us had been alone! Well, I desired him to abate his com-
pliment, and go on with the history of their coming on shore,
where they landed. He told me they unhappily anded at a
place where there were people without pronsions; whereas,

nd they had the common sense to have put off to sea sgnin,
and gone to another island a little farther, they had found pro-
visions, though without eople; there being an island that way,
as they had been told, it ere there were provisions, though no
people; that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad had he-
quently been there, and had tilled the island with goats and
he at several times. where they had bred in such multitudes,
and. where turtle and aeafowls were in such plenty, that they
could have been in no want of flesh, though they had found no
bread; whereas here, they were only sustained with a few roots
and herbs, which they understood not and which had no sub-
stance in them, and which the inhabitants gave them sparingly
enough; and who could treat them no better, unless they would
turn eannibnis, and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty
of their country. . '
They gave me an account how many ways they strove to
civilizu the savages they were with, and to teach them rational
customs in the ordinary way of living, but in vain; and how
they retorted it upon them. as unjust, that they, who came there
for assistance and support, should attempt to set up for in-
structors of those that ve them food; intimating, it seems,
that none should set up or the instructors of others but those
who could live without them. '

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were
driven to; how sometimes they were many days without any
food at all, the island they were upon being inhabited by a sort
of savages that flivcd more indolent, and for that reason were
less supplied with the necessaries of life, than they had reason
to beIieve others were in the same part of the world; and yet
they ftmnd that these savages were less ravenous and voracious
than those who had better supplies of food. Also they added,
they could not but see with what demonstrations of wisdom and
goodness the governing providence of God directs the events of
things in the world; winch, thcv said. appeared in their circum-
stnuu's; for if, pressed by the hardships they were under, and
the harrenncss ol' the country where they were, they had searched
at'tera better to live in, they had then been out of the way of
the relief that happened to them bv my means.

They then gave me an account how the savages whom they
lived among expected them to go out with them into their wars;
and, it was true, that as they had tire-arms with them, had they
not had the disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have
been serviceable not only to their friends, but have made them-
selves terrible both to friends and enemies; but being without
powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they could not in
reason deny to go out with their landlords to their wars, so
when they came into the tield of battle, they were in a worse
condition than the savages themselves; for they had neither
bows nor arrows. nor could they use those the savages gave
them: so they could do nothing but stand still, and be wounded
with arrows, till they came u to the teeth of their enemy;
and then, indeed, the three ha herds they had were of use to
them; and they would often drive a whole little arm before
them with those hulhenis, and sharpened sticks put into the
mos-ales of their muskets: but that, for all this, they were
sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger
from their arrows, till at last. they found the way to make
themselves large targets of wood, which they covered with
skins of wild beasts, whose names they know not, and these
covered them from the arrows of the savages: yet, notwith-
standing these, they were sometimes in great danger; and five
of them were once knocked down together with the clubs of
the savages, which was the time when one of them was takens

aosissos causes. 309

prisoner, that is to say, the Spaniard whom I had relieved:
that at first the thought he had been killed; but when they
afterwards hea he was taken prisoner, they were under the
greatest grief imaginable, and would willingly have all ventured
their lives to have rescued him.

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest
of their company rescued them, and stood over them fighting till
they were come to themselves, all but him who they thought
in been dead; and then they made their way with their halberds
and pieces, standing close together in a line, through a bod of
above a thousand savages, beating down all that came in eir
way, got the victory over their enemies, but to their great sor-
row, because it was with the loss of their friend. whom the other
party, finding him alive, carried off, with some others, as I gave
an account before. I

They described most ail'ectiorately how they were surprised
with joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery,
who, they thou ht, had been devoured by wild beasts of the
worst kind. via. y wild men; and yet how more and more they
were surprised with the account he gave them of his errand, and
that there was a Christian in any place near, much more one that
was able, and had humanity enough, to contribute to their

deliverance.

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the
relief I sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things
they had not seen since their coming to that miserable place; how
often they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven;
and what a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as
also the other thin I had sent for their supply; and, after all,
they would have to d me something of the joy they were in at the
sight of a boat and pilots, to carry them away to the person and
place from whence all these new comforts came, but it was im-
possible to express it by words, for their excessive joy naturally
driving them to unbecoming extravagances, they had no way to
describe them, but by tellmg me they bordered upon lunacy,
having no way to give vent to their passions suitable to the sense
that was I: on them; that in some it worked one way, and in
some ano er; and that some of them, through a su rise of joy,
would burst into tears, others be stark mad, and o ers imme-
diately faint. This discourse extremely afl'ected me, and called
to my mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father, and the
poor people's ecstasy when I took them up at sea after their
ship was on fire; the joy of the mate of the shi when he found
himself delivered in the place where he expect to perish; and
my own joy, when, atter twenty-eight years' captinty, I found
a good shi ready to carry me to my own country. All these
things in a me more sensible of the relation of these poor man,
and more afiected with it.3) 0 MW IN'I'URI'A 0!

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found
theta. I must relate the heads of what I did for these people,
and the. condition in which I left tltem. It was their opinton,
and mine too. that they would be troubled no more with the
savages. or. if they were. they would be able to cut them off, if
they were twice as many as before; so the had no concern
about that. Then I entered into a serious tiscourse with the
Spaniard. whom I call governor. about their stay in the island:
for as l was not route to carry any of them oll'. so it would not
be just to carry off sotlto and leave others. who, perhaps. would
be unwilling to stav it' tlteir strength was diminished. (In the
other hand. I told them I came to establish them there. not to
remove. them: and then I let them know that I had brought
with too relief of uttndrv kinds for them: that l ltnd been at a
great charge to supply them with all things ttu'essary. as well
for their convenience as their defence; and that i had such and
suelt particular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number. as [W the particular necessary employmcnts which
they Were bred to. being artitieers. to assist them in those things
in which at present they were in want.

They were all together when I talked thus to them; and before
i delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them. one
by one. if they had entirely forget and buried the first animosities
that had been among them. and would shake. hands with one
another. and engage. in a strict friendship and uttion of interest,
that so there might be no more tnisutulerstatulings and 'ealousics.

Will Atkins. with abundance of frankness and goat humour.
said. they had met with atlliction cnough to make them all
sober. and enemies enough to make them all friends; that. for
his part, he would live and die with them: and was so far
from designing anvthing aiust the Spaniards. that he owned
they had done nothing to titn ltut what his own mad humour
made necessary. and what he would have done. and erhaps
worse, in their case; and that he would ask them partiim. if I
desired it. for the foolish and brntish things he had done to
them. and was very willing and desirous of living in terms of
entire friendship and union with them. and would do anything
that lav in his power to convince them of it: and as fhr going
to England. he cared not if he did not go thither these twenty
vears.

' 'l'he Spaniards said tbev had. indeed. at first disartned and
excluded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill
conduct. as they had let me know, and they appealed to me
for the necessity thev were under to do so; but that Will
Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the great fight they
had with the savages. and on several occasions since, and hac
showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for. the general
interest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was past.
and thought he merited as much to be trusted with arms, and
supplied with necessaries, as any of then: and they had testified
their satisfaction in him, b committing the command to him,
next to the governor hims ; end as they had entire confidence
in him, and all his countrymen. so they acknowledged they had
merited that confidence by all the methods that honest men could
merit to be valued and trusted; and they most heartily embraced
the occasion of giving me this assurance, that they would never
have any interest separate from one another.

Upon these thank and 0 en declarations of Mendsheis, we
appointed the next day to inc all together; and, hide , we
made a splendid feast. [caused the ship's cook end his mate
to come on shore and dress our dinner. end the old cook's
mate we had on shore assisted. We brought on shore six pieces
of good beef, and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision,
with our punchbowl, and matenals to fill it; and, in particular,
[gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of
En lish heor: things that neither the S aniards nor the English
ha tasted for man ears, and whic , it may be supposed,
they were very gl 0 . The Spaniards added to our feast five
whole kids, which the cooks roasted: and three of them were
sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen,
that the mi ht feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did
with their s t meat from on board.

After this feast, at which we were ve innocently merry, I
brought out may; cargo of : wherein t at there might be no
dispute about 'viding, I s owed them that there was a sumciency
for them all, desiring that they might all take an equal
quantity of the goods that were for wearing: that is to say,
equal when made up. As, first, I distributed linen snfilcient
to make every one of them four shirts, and, at the Spaniards'
request, afterwards made them up six; these were exceedingly
comfortable to them, having been what, as I may as , they had
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear em. I al-
lotted the thin English stufi's, which i mentioned before, to make
every one alight coat like a heck, which I 'udged fittest for the
heat of the season, cool and loose; and o ered that whenever
they decayed they should make more, as they thought fit: the
like for pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &c.

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon
the countenances of all these poor men, when they saw the care
I had taken of them, and how well I had (tarnished them. They
told me I was a father to them; and that having such a corre-
spondent as I was in so remote a part of the world, it would
make them forget that the were lefi in a desolate place; and
they all voluntarily on to me not to leave the place with-
out my consent. .

Then l presented to them the people I had brought with
me. particularly the tailor. the smith. and the two carpenters,
all of them most necessary peo ile; but, above all, my general
artifieer. than whom they eoul not name anything that was
more useful to them: and the tailor. to show his concern for
them. went to work immediately. and. with my leave. made
them every one. a shirt. the first thing he did: and. which was
still more. he. taught the women not only how to new and atiteh.
and use the needle. but. made them assist to make the shirts for
their husbands. and for all the rest.

As to the earpenters. l seals-e need mention how useful they
were; for they took to pieces all tnv ehunsv. unhandy things.
and tnade. them elever convenient tables. stools, hedsteads. eup-
boards, lockers. shelves. and everything they wanted of that
kind. But. to let them see how nature. made artiticers at first.
I earried the carpenter to see "'ill Atkius's basketrhouse. as
l ealled it : and they both owned they never saw an instance of
sueh natural ingenuity before. nor anything so regular and so
handily built. at least of its kind: and one ot'them. when he.
saw it. after musing a good while. turning about to me. I am
sure. says he. that man has no need of us; you need do nothing
but give him tools.

Then I brought them out all my store of tools. and gave every
man u digging-spade. a shovel, and a rake. for no luul no
burrows or ploughs; and to every separate. plaee a pick-axe, a
erow. a broad axe, and a saw; always appointing, that as otten
as any were broken or worn out. they should be so )plied, with-
out grudgiug. out ot'the general stores that I left. be. uud. Nails.
staples. hinges. hammers. ehisels. knives, scissors, and all sorts
of tron-worli. they had without tale. as they required: for no
man wottld take. more than he wanted. anti he must be a fool
that would waste or s mil them on any neeouut whatever; and.
for the use ot'the smit i, I left two tons of unwrought iron for a.
supply.

My nntgaziue of powder and arms whieh I brought them was
sueh. even to protitsion. that they eould not but rejoice at them;
for now thev eould mareh as I used to do. uith a musket upon
eneh shoulder. if there was oeeasiont atul nere able to light. a
thousand savages. it' they had but some. little advantages of
situation. whieh also they eonld not miss. if they had oeeasion.

l earried on shore with me the young man whose. mother
was starved to death. and the maid also: she was a sober. well
educated, religious young woman. and behaved so inotlimsively.
that every one. gave. her a. good word; she. had. indeed. an
nulm ipy life. with us. there being no woman in the ship but
herself. but. she bore it with patient-e. After a while, seeing
things so well ordered. and in so tine. a way of thriving upon
my island. and considering that they had neither business nor
acquaintance in the East Indies. or reason for taking so long altOfllNloN CRUSOE. a]:

voy ; I say, considerin all this, both of them came to me,
and esired I would give t em leave to remain on the island, and
be entered among my family, as they called it. I agreed to this
readily; and the had a little plot of ground allotted to them,
where they had t tree tents or houses set up, surrounded with a
basket-work, pnllisadoed like Atkins's, 'oining to his planta-
tion. 'l'heir tents were contrived so that t iey had each of them
a room apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great store-
house, to lay their goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now
the other two Englishmen removed their habitation to the same
place; and so the island was divided into three colonies, and no
more, viz. the Spaniards, with old Friday, and the first servants,
at my old habitation under the hill, which was, in a. word, the
capital city; and where they had so enlaried and extended their
works, as well under as on the outside of t c hill, that they lived,
though perfectly concealed, yet full at large. Never was there
such a little city in a wood, and so hid, in any part of the world;
for l verily believe a thousand men mi 'ht have ranged the island
a month, and, it' the had not. known t tere was such a thing. and
looked on turpose or it, they would not. have found it; for the
trees stoo so thick and so close, and grew so fast-woven one
into another, that nothing but. cutting them down first could dis-
cover the place, except the only two narrow entrances where
they went in and out could be found, which was not very easy :
one of them was close down at the water's edge, on the side of
the creek, and it was afterwards above two hundred yards to the
place; and the other was up a ladder at twice, as l have already
tbrmerly described it; and they had also a large wood thick-
planted on the top of the hill, containing above an acre, which
grew <<pace, and concealed the place from all discover ' there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easi y to be
discovered, to enter on that side.

The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were
four families of En-vlishmeu, I mean those I had lett there, with
their wives and children; three savages that were slaves; the
widow and the children of the Englishman that was killed ; the
Voting man and the maid; and, by the way, we made a with of
her before we went away. There was also the two carpenters
and the tailor, whom I brought with me for them; also the smith,
who was a very necessary man to them, especially as a gun-
sinith, to take care of their arms; and my other man, whom I
called Jack-of-all-trtulcs, who was in himself as good almost as
twenty men; for he was not only a very ingenious fellow, but
a very merry fellow; and before I went away we married him
to the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship I men-
lioned before.

And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say
something of the Frencn ecclesiastic that I had brought with me
out of the ship's crew whom I took up at sea. It is true. this
man was a Roman. and perhaps it may give ofl'enco to some
hereatter, it' 1 leave anything extraordinary upon record of a man
about. before I begin. I must (to.aet him out in just colours)
represent in terms very much to his disadvantage. in the account
of Protestants: as. first. that he was a l'apist; secondly. a l'opish
priest; and thirdly. a French l'opish priest. But justice demands
of me to give him a duo character; and I must say. he was a
grave. sober. irons, and most religious person: exact in his life.
extensive in us charity. and exemplary in almost every thing
he did. What then can any one say against being very sensible
ot' the value of such a man. notwithstanding his profession?
though it may be my 0 inion. perhaps, as well as the opinion at
others who shall read t lis. that he was mistaken.

The first hour that l began to converse with him alter he had
amazed to o with me to the 'last Indies. I found reason to delight
oaccodiu _v in his convonmtion; and he first began with me
about re igion in the most ohliging manner imaginable. Sir.
says be. you have not only under God (and at that he crossed
his breast) saved my life. but you have admitted me to go this
voyage in your ship. and by your obligiug civilit have taken
me into vour family, giving me an opportunity 0 free convers
sation. Now. sir. you son by my habit what my rofessiou is,
and l guess lw \'onr nation what yours is: I ma t ink it is to
duty. and doubtless it is so. to use my utmost en cavours. on i
occasions. to bring all the souls l can to the knowledge of the
truth. and to embrace the catholic doctrine; but as I am here
under your wrmission. and in your family, I am bound, in jus-
tice to your indncss, as well as in decency and good manners.
to be under your government; and therefore I shall not, without
your leave. enter into any debate on tho oints of rcli ion in
which We may not agree. farther than 'on is tall give me cave.

I told him his carriage was so modest. that I could not but
acknowlulge it; that it was true. we were such people as they
called heretics. but that he was not the first catholic I had con-
versed with without t'alling into inconveniences, or carr ing the
questions to any, height in debate: that he should not nd him-
self the worse used for being ofa different opinion horn us; and
if we did not converse without anv dislike on either side, it should
be his fault. not ours.

He replied. that he thought all our conversation might be
easily separated from disputes; that it was not his business to
cap principles with every man be convened with; and that he
rather desired me to converse with him as a gentleman than as
a religionist; and that. it! would give him leave at any time to
discourse upon religious subjects, he would readily comply with
it, and that he did not doubt but 1 would allow him also to (16
fend his own opinions as wall as he could; but that. without my11031wa 030803. 315

leave. he would not break in u on me with any such thing. He
told me farther, that he woul not cease to do all that became
him, in his office as a priest as well as a private Christian, to

rocure the good of the ship, and the safety of all that was in

er; and though, perhaps, we would not jom with him, and he
could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray for us, which
he would do upon all occasions. In this manner we convened;
and. as he was of the most obliging, gentleman-like behaviour,
so he was. if I may be allowed to any so, a man of good sense,
and. as i believe. of great learning.

He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the
mauv extraordinary events of it; of many adventures which had
hefuilen him in the few years that he had been abroad in the
world; and particularly this was very remarkable, viz. that in
the voyage he was now engaged in, he had the misfortune to be
five times ship ed and unshipped. and never to go to the place
whither any 0 the shi s he was in were at first desi ed. That
his first intent was to ave gone to Martinico, and t at he went
on board a shi bound thither at St. Male: but, being forced into
Lishon hy ba weather, the chi received some damage b run-
ning aground in the mouth of t e river Tag-us, and was 0 liged
to unload her cargo there; but finding a Portuguese ship there
hound to the Madeiras, and readv to sail, and supposmg he
should easily meet with a vessel there bound to Martinico, he
went on board. in order to sail to the Madeiras; but the master
of the Portuguese ship, being but an indifferent mariner, had
been out of his reckoning, and they drove to Fayal; where, how-
ever. he happened to find a very good market for his cargo,
which was corn, and therefore resolved not to go to the Madei-
rua, but to load salt at the isle of May, and to go away to New-
fimndland. He had no remedy in this exigence but to go with
the ahi . and had a pretty good vo age as far as the Banks (so
thcv cal the place where they catch the fish); where, meeting
with a French ship bound from France to Quebec, in the river
of Canada, and from thence to Martinico, to carry provisions. he
thought he should have an opportunity to complete his first
design; but when he came to Quebec the master of the ship
died. and the vessel proceeded no farther: so the next voyage
he shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burned when
we took them up at sea; and then shipped with us for the East
Indies, as l have already said. Thus he had been disappointed
in five voyages, all, as i may call it, in one voyage, besides what
I shall have occasion to mention farther of the same person.

But i shall not make digression into other men's modes.
which have no relation to my own: I return to what concerns
our afi'airs in the island.316 ADVENTL-ztss or

 

SEC'i'l ON XXXVIII.

ROBINSON'S DISCOURSE WITH THE ECCLESIASTIC AS TO INTRO-
DUCING MARRIAGES AMONG THE PEOPLE--MARRIAGE? PER-
FOltMED.--ATKINS CONVERTS HIS WIFE.

HE came to me one morning, for he lodged among us all the
while we were upon the island, and it happened to be just when
I was going to visit the Englishmen's colony, at the farthest part
of the island; I say, he came to me, and told me with a very
grave countenance, that he had for two or three days desired
an opportunity of some discourse with me, which he hoped
would not be displeasing to me, because he thought it might in
some measure correspond with my general design, which was,
the prosperity of my new colony, and perhaps might put it, at
least more than he thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.

I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse,
and turning a little short, How, sir, said I, can it be said that
we are not in the way of God's blessing, after such visible assist-
ances and wonderful deliverances as we have seen here, and of
which I have aiven you a large account '.'--If you had pleased,
sir, said he, With a world of modest , and yet with great readi-
mess, to have heard me, you would have found no room to be
displeased, much less to think so hard of me, that I should suggest
that you have not had wonderful assistances and deliverances;
and I hope, on your behalf, that vou are in the way of God's
bleSSing, as your design is exceeding good, and will prosper:
but, sir, though it were more so than is even possible to you,
yet there may be some among you that are not equally right in
theiraetions; and you know. that in the. story of the ehildren
of Israel. one .-\ehan in the camp rennwed (iod's blessing from
them. and turned his hand so against them. that six and thirty
of them, though not eoneerned in the erime. were the objeets
ot'divine vengeanee, and bore the weight of that mnishment.

l was sensibly tonehed with his tliseonrse. am told him his
inl'erent'e was so just. and the. whole design seemed so sineere.
and was really so religious in its own nature. that l was very
sorry I had interrnptml him. and begged him to m on: and
in the mean time. beeause it seemed that what wo tad both to
say might take up some time, I told him l was going to the
I'anlishmen's plantations. ntul asked him to go with me, and we
might dist-nurse of it by the way. Ile told me he would the
more willingly wait on me thither. heeause there partly the.
thing was aeted whieh be desired to speak to me. about; so we
walked on. and I pressed hint to be free and plain with me in
what he had to say.

Why then, sir. says he. be. pleased to give me leave to lay
down a few propositions. as the timndatiou of what I have to
any. that we may not ditl'er in the general prineiples. though we
may be ol'some. ditl'ering opinions in the practiee of partieulara.
First, sir. though we. dill'er in some of the doctrinal articles ot
religion. and it is very unhappy it is so. esneeially in the ease.
before. us, as I shall show atterwards. yet there are some general
prinei "('8 in wbieh we both agree, viz. that there is a (iod; and
that t tltl (lod having given us some stated general rules for our
aerviee and obedience. we ought not willingl and knowingly to
otl'end him. either by negleeting to do what he has commanded.
or by doing what he has expressl ' liirbidden ; and let our ilill'cr-
ent reli 'ions be what they will, this general prineiple. is readily
owned )y as all, that the. blessing ol' (ind does not ordinarily
follow iresumptnons siauing against hiseommand; aml every
good (' tristinn will be atl'eetionately eoneerned to prevent any
that are. under his earc living in a total neglect of God and his
mannands. It is not your men being Protestants, whatever
my opinion may be of sueb. that discharges Inc from being
eoneerned for their souls, and from endeavouring. if it lies before
me, that they should live in as little distanre from enmity with
their Maker as possible, espeeiall y if you give me leave to mod-
dle so far in your eireuit.

I eould not yet imagine what he aimed at. and told him I
granted all be had said, and thanked him that he would so titr
concern himself for as; and begged he would explain the parti-
culars ot' a but he had observed. that. like Joshua, to take his own
parable, 1 might put away the accurscd thing from us.

Why then. sir. says he. [ will take the liberty you give me;
and there are three things, which, if I am right. must stand in
the way of God's blessing upon your endeavours here, and

Y 2
which I should rejoice, for your sake, and their own, to see
removed: and, sir, I promise myself that you will fully agree
with me in them all, as soon as I name them; especially because
I shall convince you that every one of them may, with great
ease, and very much to your satisfaction, be remedied. First.
sir, says he, you have here four Englishmen, who have fetched
women from amon the savages, and have taken them as their
wives, and have be many children by them all, and yet are not
married to them after any stated, legal manner, as the laws of
God and man require ; and therefore are yet, in the sense of both,
no less than fornicators, if not living in adultery. To this, sir,
I know you will object that there was no clergyman or priest
of any kind, or of any profession, to perform the ceremony; nor
any you and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage,
and rave it signed between them: and I know also, sir, what
the Spaniard governor has told you, I mean, of the agreement
that he obliged them to make when they took these women,
viz. that they should choose them out by consent, and keep
separately to them, which, by the way, is nothing of a marriage,
no agreement with the women, as wives, but onlyan agreement
among themselves. to keep them from quarrelling. But, sir, the
essence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he called it, being a
Roman) consists not only in the mutual consent of the parties
to take one another as man and wife, but in the formal and legal
obligation that there is in the contract. to compel the man and
woman, at all times, to own and acknowledge each other;
obliging the man to abstain from all other women, to engagein
no other contract while these subsist, and, on all occasions, as
ability allows, to provide honestly for them and their children;
and to oblige the women to the same, or like conditions, mama's
mulamt'is, on their side. Now, sir, says he, these men may when
they please or when occasion resents, abandon these women,
disown their children, leave em to perish, and take other
women, and marry them while these are living: and here he
added, with some warmth, llow, sir, is God honoured in this
unlawful libert ? and how shall a blessing succeed your endea-
vours in this p 0, however fiood in themselves, and however
sincere in your design, while t ese men, who at present are your
subjects, under your absolute government and dominion, are
allowed by you to live in open adultery?

I confess I was struck With the thing itself, but much more
with the convincing argmuents he supported it with; for it was
certainly true, that though they ha no clergyman upon the
spot, yet a formal contract on both sides, made before witnesses,
and confirmed by any token which they had all agreed to be
bound by, though it had been but breaking a stick between
them, engaging the men to own these women for their wives
upon all occasions, and never to abandon them or their children,
and the women to the same with their husbands, had been an
effectual lawful marriage in the sight of God; and it was a t
neglect that it was not done. But I thought to have got 0 my
young priest by telling him that all that part was done when I
was not here; and they had lived so many'f'ears with them now,
that if it was adultery, it was past reme y; they could do no-
thing in it now.

Sir, says he, askin your pardon for such freedom, you are
right in this, that, it eing done in your absence, you could not
be charged with that part of the crime; but, I beseech you,
flatter not yourself that you are not therefore under an obligation
to do your utmost now to at an end to it. How can you think
but that, let the time past ie on whom it will, all the guilt, for the
future, will lie entirely upon you? because it is certainly in your
power now to put an end to it, and in nobody's power but yours.

I was so dull still, that I did not take him right; but I
imagined that. by putting an end to it, he meant that I should
part them, and not snfi'er them to live together any longer; and
I said to him I could not do that, by any means, for that it
would put the whole island into confusion. He seemed an rised
that I should so far mistake him. No, sir, says he, I 0 not
mean that you should now separate them, but legally and efl'ec-
tually marry them now; and as, sir, my way of marrying them
may not be easy to reconcile them to, though it will be effectual,
even by your own laws, so your way may be as well before
God, and as valid among men; I mean, b a written contract
signed by both man and woman, and by al the witnesses pre-
sent, which all the laws of Europe would decree to be valid.

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity
of seal, besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to his
own party or church, and such true warmth for preserving the
people that he had no knowledge of or relation to; I say, for
preserving them from transgressing the laws of God, the like
of which I had indeed not met with any where: but, recollecting
what he had said of marryin them by a written contract, which
I knew he would stand to, freturned it back upon him, and
told him, I granted all that he had said to be 'ust, and on his
part very kind; that I would discourse with t e men upon the
point now, when I came to them; and I knew no reason why
they should scru Is to let him marry them all, which I knew
wel enough would be granted to be as authentic and valid in
England as if they were married by one of our own clergymen.
What was afterwards done in this matter I shall speak of by itself:

I then ressed him to tell me what was the second complaint
which he ad to make, acknowledging that I was very much his
debtor for the first, and thanked him heartily for it. He told
me he would use the same freedom and plainness in the second,
and hoped I would take it as well; and this was, that notwith-
standing these. English subjeets of mine. as he called them, had
lived wuh those women for almost seven years, had taught
them to speak English, and even to read it, and that they were,
as be perceived, women of tolerable understanding. and capable
of instruction. yet they had not. to this hour, taught them any-
thing of the Christian religion, no. not so much as to lmow that
there was it (led. or a worship. or in what manner God was to
be served; or that their own idolatry, and worshipping they
knew not whom. was false and absurd. This, he said, was an
unaeeountahle negleet, and what God would certainly call them
to aeeonnt for. and perhaps. at last, take the. work out of' their
hands--be. spoke this very atl'uttionately, and warmly. lam
persuaded. says he, had those men lived in the savage eountry
whenee. their wives came. the savages would have taken more
pains to have brou rht them to be idolatm's, and to worship the
devil. than any ol'tliese men. so far as I ran see. have taken with
them to teach them the knowledge of the true God. Now, sir,
said be. though I do not aeknou ledge your religion, or you mine,
yet we would he glad to see the. devil's servants, and the snhjeets
of his kingdom, taught to know the general prilleiples of the
Christian religion: that they might, at least. hear ot'God. and a
Redeemer, and of the resurrection. and ot'a future state,--thiugs
whieb we all believe; they would have, at least. been so much
nearer coming into the bosom of the true church than they are
now. in the public profession of idolatry and devil-worship.

i could hold no longer; I took him in my arms. and embraced
him with an exeess of passion. How far. said I to him, have
I been from understntuling the most essential part of aChristinn!
viz. to love. the interest of the ('hristian ehnreh, and the good
of other nn'n's souls: l searee have known what belongs to the
being a Christian--0. sir, do not. say so. replied be; this thing
is not your t'ault.--No, said i; but why did I never lay it to
heart as well as you 't--lt is not too late yet, said he; he not too
forward to condemn yourself.----Bnt what can be done now? said
I; vou sec 1 am goni away.--\\'ill you give me leave to talk
with these )oor men a unit it ?--Yes, with all my heart, said I;
and will oblige. them to give heed to what you say tom--As to
that. said be, we must leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it
is your business to assist them. encourage them. and instruct
them; and if you give me. leave, and God his blessing, I do not
doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be brought home to the
great circle of Christianity. if not into the particular faith we all
embrace. and that even while you stay here. Upon this I said.
I shall not onl 'vc you leave, but give '01: a thousand thanks
for it. What ol owed on this account I s iall mention also again
in its place.

I now ressed him for the third article in which we were to
blame. by, really, says he. it is of the lune nature; and l
will proceed, asking your leave, with the same plainness as
before; it is about your poor savages, who are, as I may as ,
your conquered subjects. It is a maxim, sir, that is, or oug t
to be, received among all Christians, of what church or pre-
tended church soever, viz., The Christian knowledge ought to
be propagated b all possible means, and on all possible oees4
sions. It is on t is principle that our church sends missionaries
into l'ersia, India, China; and that our clergy, even of the supe-
rior sort, willingly engage in the most hazardous veg-ice. and
the most dangerous residence among murderers and ar arians,
to teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them
over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such
an opportunit here to have six or seven and thirty poor
savages broug t over from idolat to the knowledge of God,
their Maker and Redeemer. that wonder how you can pass
such an occasion of doing good, which is really worth the ex-
pense of a man's whole life.

I was now struck dumb, indeed. and had not one word to say.
I had here a 8 MR of true Christian zeal for God and religion
before me, let his particular principles be of what kind aoever:
as for me. I had not so much as entertained a thought of this in
my heart before, and I believe I should not have thought of it;
for I looked upon these savages as slaves, and people whom,
had we any work for them to do, we would have used as such,
or would have been glad to have transported them to any other
part of the world: for our business was to get rid of them; and
we would all have been satisfied if they had been sent to any
country, so they had never seen their own. But to the case ;--
I say, I was confimnded at his discourse, and knew not what
answer to make him.

He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder--
Sir, says he, I shall be very sorry if what I have said "we on
any offence--No, no, said I, I am oil'ended with no dy at
myself; but I am perfectly confounded. not only to think that I
should never take any notice of this before, but with reflectin
what notice I am able to take of it now. You know, sir, said ,
what circumstances I am in; I am bound to the East Indies in
a shi freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be an
insu erable piece of i 'ustics to detain their ship here, the men
lying all this while at Victuals and w es on the owners' account.
It is true, I agreed to be allowed two ve days here, and if I stay
more, I must pay three pounds sterling per dim demurrage;
nor can I stay upon demurrsge above on ht days more, and
l have been here thirteen already; so that am perfectly unable
to engage in this work, unless I would suffer myself-to be lefi
behind here again; in which case, if this sings ship should
miscarry in any part of her v0yage, I should be Just in the same
condition that I was leit in here, at first, and from which I have
been so wonderfully delivered. He owned the case was very
hard upon me, as to my voyage , but laid it home upon my con-
science, whether the blessino' of saving thirty-seven souls was
not worth venturing all I ha in the world for. I. was not so
sensible of that as he was. I returned upon him thus:.Why,
sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, to be an instrument in God's
hand to convert thirty-seven heathens to the knowledge of
Christ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to the
work, so that it seems so naturally to fall into the way of your
profession, how is it then that you do not rather ofi'er yourself
to undertake it, than press me to do it?

Upon this he faced about just before me, as he walked along,
and putting me to a full stop, made me avery low bow. I most
heartily thank God and you, sir, said he, for giving me so evi-
dent a call to so blessed a work; and if you think yourself dis-
chawed from it, and desire me to undertake it, I will most
readfiy do it, and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and
difficulties of such a broken, disappointed voyage as I have met
with, that I am dropped at last into so glorious a work.

I discovered a kind of rapture in' his face while he spoke
this'to me; his eyes sparkled like fire, his face glowed, and
his colour came and went, as if he had been falling into fits; in
a word, he was fired with the joy of being embarked in such a
work. I paused a considerable while before I could tell what
to say to him; for I was really surprised to find a man of such
sincerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the ordi-
nary rate of men, not of his profession only, but even of any
profession whatsoever. But after I had considered it awhile,
I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and that he would
venture, on the single consideration of an attempt on those poor
people, to be locked up in an unplanted island for perhaps his

ife, and at'last might not know whether he should be able to do
them geod' or not? '

He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a
venture? Pray, sir, said he, what do you think I consented to
go in your ship to the East Indies for ?--Nay, said I, that I
know not, unless it was to reach to the Indians--Doubtless
it was, said he; and do you think, if I can convert these thirty-
seven men to the faith of Jesus Christ, it is not worth my time,
though I should never be fetched ofl' the island again? Nay,
is it not infinitely of more worth to save so many souls than
my life is, or the life of twenty more of the same profession?
Yes, sir, says he, 1 would give Christ and the blessed Virgin
thanks all my da s, if I could be made the least happy instru-
ment of saving t e souls of those poor men, though I were
never to set my foot 011' this island, or see my native country
any more. But since you will honour me with putting me
into this work, for which I will pray for you all the days of/; 0,3,7 )9: >>' yak/"967,422. .1
,
my life, I have one hlunble petition to you besides--What is
that? said 1. Why, says be, it is. that you will leave your
man Friday with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to
assist. me; for without some help I cannot. speak to them, or
they to me.

I was sensibly touehed at his requesting Friday, because I
eould not think of parting with him. and that for many reasons:
he had been the companion of my travels; he was not only
Iiiilht'ul to me, but sincerely alI'm-tionste to the last. degree;
and I had resolved to do something considerable for him if he
outlived me, as it was probable he would. Then I knew that
as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it. would quite
eonl'ouml him to bring him to embrace another profitssion; and
he would never. while his eyes were open, believe that his old
master was a heretie, and would bedamncd; and this might,
in the end, ruin the poor l'ellow's prineiples. and so turn him
back again to his lirst idolatry. However, a sudden thought:
relieved me in this strait, and it was this: I told him I could
not say that l was willing to part with Friday on any aeeount
whatever. though a work that. to him was of more value than
his life' ought to he to me ol'much more value than the keepng
or parting with a servant: But, on the other hand, I was per-
suaded that Friday would by no means agree to part with me:
and I could not force. him to it without his consent, without
manifest. injustiee ' beeause I had pmmised I would never put
him away, and he had promised and engaged to me that he
would never l -ave me unless I put. him away.

He. seemed very much eoncerned at it. for he had no rational
aeeess to these. poor people, seeing he did not understand one
word of their language, nor they one word of his. To remove
this dillieult y. I told him l-'riday's father had learned Spanish,
whieh I found he also understood, and he should serve him as an
interpreter. So he was much better satisfied. and nothing eould
iersuade him but he would stay and endeavour to convert them;
an I'rovidenee gave another very happy turn to all this.

I come baek now to the. first part of his objections. When
we eame. to the l-Iuglishmeu. I sent for them altogether, and
after some aeeount given them of what I had done for them, viz.
what neeessury things I had provided for them. and how they
were distributed, whieh they were very sensible of. and very
thankful for. I began to talk to them of the scandalous life they
led. and gave them a full account of the notice the clergyman
had taken of it ; and arguing how unchristian and irreligious a
life it was, I tirst asked them it' they were married men or
bachelors? They soon explained their conditions to me, and
showed that two of them were widowers, and the other three
were single men. or bachelors. I asked them with what con-
science they could take those women, and lie with them as they
had done. call them their wives. and have so many children by
them. antl not be Iawlhlly married to them!

They all gave me the answer I expwted, vis. that there was
nobody to marry them; that they agreed before the governor
to keep them as their wives. and to maintain tltem and own
them as their wives; and they thought, as things stood with
them. they were as legally married as it' the had been married
by a purse". and with all the formalities in 0 world.

I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of
(Soul. and were bound in eonseieuee to lteep them as their wives;
but that the laws ot'men being otherwise. they might desert the
poor women and ehildren hereatler; and that their wives being
poor desolate women, l'rioudless and tntmeyless. wettld have no
way to help themselves. I therefore told them that. unless lwu
assured of their honest intent. I could do nothing for them. but
would tnlte eare that what I did should be for the women and
ehildren without them; and that. unless they would give me some
assurances that they would marry the women. I eould not think
it was eouveuient they should eontinne toget her as loan and wife;
for it was both seautlalons to men antl oll'ensive to (iod. who
they eould not think nould bless them it'they went on thus.

All this went on as I expected; and they told me. especially
\\'tll Atkins. who now seemed to speak for the rest. that they
loved their wives as well as it' they had been born in their own
native country. and would not leave them upon any amount
whatever: and they did verily believe their wtves were as vir-
tuous and as modest. and did. to the utmost of their skill. as
mtteh for them and for their ehiltlren. as any women eould pos-
sibly do; and they would not part with them on any aeeottnt:
and Will Atkins. for his own mrtieular. added. that if any man
would take him nwav. and ot 'er to entry him home to England.
and make him ea itain ot' the best man-of-war in the now. he
would not ire wit: hitn. if he might not carry his wife and chil-
dren with him ; and it' there was a elemvman in the ship. he
would be married to her now with all his heart.

This was just as I would have it: the priest was not With
me at that moment, but was not far oil'; so. to try him farther.
I told him I had a elergyman with me. and. it" he was sineere.
i would have him married next morning. and bade him con-
sider of it. and talk with the rest. He said. as for himself. he
need not eousider of it at all. for he was ver ' ready to do it. and
was glad i had a minister with me, and he elieved they would
be all willing also. I then told hint that me friend. the Ini-
nister. was at l-'n-nehntan. and eouhl not spealt English, but]
would set the elerlt between them. He never so much he
asked me whether he was a l'apist or Protestant. which was
indeed what I was aMid of: so we parted: I went back to
my clergyman. and Will Atkins went in to talk with hisacumen canton. 325

companions. I tleaired the French gentleman not to new any
thing to them till the bulllwll wan thorough ripe: and l told
him what answer the men had given me.

Before! went harm their uarter. they all came to me. and
told me they had been considering what I had laid; that they
were glad to hear I had a clergvman in my corn any. and they
were very willing to give me the satiat'action I esired. and to
he formally married as noon an I pleased; t'or thuv wore far
from desiring to part with their wiveu. and that they meant
nothing but what was very honest when they chose them. So
l appointed them to meet me the next morning. and. in the
menu time. they should let their wives know the meaning of
the marriage law; and that it wan not oul to prevent any
scandal. but also to oblige them that they a mold not t'oraalte
them. whatever might happen.

The women were oaailv made aensthle of the meaning of the
thing. and were verv Well satisfied with it. as indeed t iey had
reason to he: so they failed not to attend altogether at my
apartment next morning, where I brought out my clergyman;
aml though he had not on a miniater's gown. alter the Inannerot'
England. or the hebitot'a triest. alter the manner of Frans-e. yet
inn-in a blnek vest. somet ling like a eaattoek. with a tenth round
it. hot id not look very unlike a minister; and an for his language.
l was his interpreter. llut the aeriousnesa of bin behaviour to
them. and the seruples he made ot'marrvin the women because
they were not baptized and professed Christians. gave them an
exceeding reverence for hie person :and there was no needmlter
that. to inquire whether he was a clergyman or not. Indeed. I
was all-aid his seruples would have been carried no far. as that
he would not have married them at all; nay. notwithatanding all
I was able to say to him. he reaisted me. though modestly. yet
very steadily: and at last reflised absolutely to marry them.
nnlosa he had tlrat talked with the men and the women too; and
though I at tlrst wan a little backward to it. yet at last I agreed
to it with a good will. rereeiving the sincerity of his design.

When he came to t rem. he let them know that I had w
tuainted him with their eirrumstances. and with the present
tesign; that he was very willin to ert'orm that iart of his
function. and marry them. an 1 ad eaired: bnt t at. before
he could do it, he must take the libertv to talk with them. He
told them. that in the eight of all indifl'erent men. and in the
sense ot' the lpwe of society. they had lived all thin while in
open thrnieation; and that it was true. that nothing but the
consenting to marry. or effectually separating them flora one
another. could now put an end to it; but there was a ditllculty
in it too. with res wet to the lawa ot' Chn'etian matrimony.
which he was not llv satisfied about. viz. that of marryin
one that is a professed Christian to a savage, an idolater ans
a heathen. one that Is not baptized; and yet that he did not
see that there. was time letl to endeavour to persuade the
\\ omen to be baptized. or to prot'ess the name of Christ, whom
thev bad he doubted. heard nothing of. and without Ivhieh
tlIeI' eould not be baptized. He told them be doubted they
\\ ere but iIIIlitl'erent ('hristians tlIIIIIIsIIlIIIs; that they had but
little knowledge ot' (IoIl IIII of his wars, and therefore he IIoIIlIl
not II\peIIt that they had said mueh to their Iv'iIes IIII that head
_\'l'l: but. that. unless they would promise him to use their
IIIIdIIaIIIIIrs IIith their IIiI III to persuade them to become ('hris-
tians and IIould. as III-ll as they eould, instruct them in the
lIuIIIIleIlgII and beliel ot (iod that made them. and to worship
Jesus (' hrist that redeemed them. he could not marry them;
for he. would have IIII hand in joining Christians IvitlI savages;
nor II III it IIIIIIsistent IIith the priIII-iples of the Christian religion,
and II III indeed espresslv forbidden III (Iod s law.

'l'hIIv heard all this \'t'l'v attentivelv, and I delivered it very
litithl'ullv to them from his mouth. as near his own words as l
mu"; only sometimes adding somethingol' my mm. to roll-
IiIII II them how just it. was. and how l was of his mind; and I
IIIIIIIIs verv t'aithtilllv distinguished lIetIIIIIIn II hat I said from
lllV selt'. quI II hat were the elergI man s IIIIrds. They told IIIII
it II III Ier_v true what the gentleman said that they \I ere \'t'.|'_\'
inditl'erent ( hristians theIIIsI-lves and that they baIl never talked
to their sites about reli-riou. Lord. sir. saIs Will .-\tltins. how
should we teaeh them religion? uhy. we hnow nothing.I our-
selves . and besides. sir. said he. should we talk to them of (Ind
and .lesus(' hrist. and heaven and hell. It would make them but gh
at us. and ask us what we believe ourselves. And if we should
tell them that IIII believe all the things we speak of to them,
sueh as of good peo IlII goinIII to heaven, and Ivie ked people to
the devil. they \IIIIIlIl IIIk Its II here Ive intend to go ourselves,
that believe all this. and are sueh II II ked felloIIs as II II indeed
are. "'ltv. sir. 'tis enouIle to give them a sttrl'eit of religion at
tIrst hearing; folks Inust haIe some. religion themselves before
tlIev pretend to teaeh other people. --Will Atkins. said I to him.
though I am afraid that II hat vou sav has too much truth III it.
yet can _IotI not tell vour II Ile she' Is in the wrong; that there Is
a (ml, and a religion better than her IIII II . that her gods are
idols; that they can neither hear nor speak; that there Is a
great Being that made all things. and that can destroy all that
he has InaIleI . that he rewards the good and punishes the bad:
and that \\ II are to be judged by him at last for all we do here?
You are not so ignorant. but even nature itself IIill teach you
that all this is true; and lam satisfied you know it all to be
trite. and believe it yourself. ---'l'lIat Is true, sir. said Atkins- but
with what face. can I saII anvthing to mII wife of all this. when
she II III tell Inc immediately it cannot bet true t--Not true! laid
I ; what do you mean by that f-- Wh . sir, said he, she will tell
me it cannot be true that this God I s all tell her of can he just,
or can unish or reward, since I am not punished and sent to
the dewl. that have been such a wicked creature as she knows
I have been. even to her, and to every body else; and that I
should he suffered to live, that have been always acting so con-
trary to what 1 must tell her is good. and to what I ought to
have dents--Why, truly, Atkins, said I. I am afraid thou speak-
cst too much truth; and with that I informed the clergyman of
what Atkins had said, for he was impatient to know. 0, said
the priest. tell him there is one thing will make him the best
minister in the world to his wife. and that is, repentance; for
none teach repentance like true penitents. He wants nothin
but to repent, and then he will he so much the better qualitie
to instruct his wife: he will then he able to tell her that there is
not only a God. and that he is the just rewarder of good and
evil. but that he is a merciful Being. and with infinite goodness
and long-suffering forhcars to punish those that oll'end; waiting
to he gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather
that he should return and live: that oftentimes he sull'ers wicked
nien to go a long time, and even reserves damnation to the
general day of retribution: that it is a clear evidence of God
and of a future state. that righteous men receiVe not their reward,
or wicked men their punishment. till they come into another
world; and this will lead him to teamh his wife the doctrine of the
resurrection and of the last judgment. Let him but repent for him-
self. he will he an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife.

I repeated all this to Atkins. who looked very serious all the
while, and who. we could easily perceive, was more than ordi-
narily atl'eetcd with it: when, being eager. and hardly suffering
me to make an end--l know all this, master. says he. and a
great deal more; but I have not the im udence to talk thus to
my wife. when God and my conscience now, and my wife will
he an undeniable evidence against me. that l have lived as if 1
had never heard of a God or future state, or an thing about it;
and to talk of my repeating, alas I (and with iat he fetched a
deep sigh, and I could see that the tears stood in his eyes) 'tis
past all that with me.--l'ast it, Atkins? said I ; what dost thou
mean by that l--I know well enough what I mean, says he; I
mean 'tis too late. and that is too true.

I told the clergyman. word for word. what he said: the poor
zealous ricst,--l must call him so. for. be his opinion what it
will. he had certainly a most singular atl'ection for the good of
other men's souls, and it would be hard to think he had not the
like for his own,--I say. this afl'ectionate man could not refrain
from tears; but, recovering himself, said to me, Ask him but one
question; Is he easy that it is too late; or is he troubled, and
wishes it Were not not I put the question fairly to Atkins; and
he. answered. with a great deal of passion. llow eonl'd any man be
easy in s eondition that must eertainlv end in eternal destruc-
tion! that he was far from being easy;hut that. on the eontrary.
he Ilt'lit'Vt'tl it wonhl. one time or other. ruin him. What. do you
mean he that I said l. Why, he said. he believed he should one
time or'other eat his throat. to 'lm' an end to the terror ot'it.

'l'heelergynmn shook his llt'flt with great eoneern in his t'aee.
when I told him all this; hot turning quiek to tne upon it, says.
It that be his ease. we may assure him it is not too late ('hrist
will give him l't'litllltlllt't'. lint. pray, says he. explain this to
him; that as no man is saved hut by Christ. and the merit
of his passion proenring d' ' te merey for him. how can it. he
too late for any man to ree e merer'! Does he think he is
ahle to sin beyond the poo er or resell of divine nterey'! l'rny
tell him. there may he a time when provoked men-y will no
longer strive. and when (iod may refuse to hear. hat that it is
an er too late for men to ask mer '\'; and we. that are. ('hrist's
servants. are eonnnandetl to preneh merey at all times. in the
name ot'Jesus Christ, to all those that. sineerely repent; so that
it is non er too late to repent.

l told Atkins all this. and he heard me with great eamentness;
hot it seemed as it' he turned ml the diseonrse to the rest. for he
said to me. he. would go and have some talk with his wife; so
he went out awhile. and n e talked to the rest. I perceived they
were all stupidly ignorant as to matters of religion. as much as
l was \\ hen l went ramhling away from nu' lilther; atnl yet
there were none of them lmekward to hear what had been said;
and all of them seriously promised that they would talk with
their wives ahout it, and do their endeavours to persuade. them
to turn t nistians.

'I'he elergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer
they gai e. but said nothing a good while - hot at. last, shaking
his head. We that are ('hrist's servants. sars he. ean go no
farther than to exhort aml instruct; and when men eomply.
snlnnit to the reproot'. and promise what we ask. 'tis all we ean
do; n e are hound to neeept their good words: hut. heliere me,
sir. said he. whatever you may have known of the. life. of that
man you eall "'ill Atkins. I believe he is the only sineere. eon-
vert among them: I take that man to he. a true. penitent: I will
not despair of the rest; hat that man is apparently struck with
the sense of his past life. and [doubt not. when he eomes to
talk of religion to his wife. he will talk himself etl'ectually into
it : for attempting to teaeh others is sometimes the host way of
teaehing ourselves. I know a man. who, having nothing but a
summary notion of religion himself. and being wicked and
protligate. to the last degree in his life. made a. thorough
reformation in himself by labouring to eonvcrt a Jew. If that
poor Atkins begins hnt onec to talk seriously at Jesus Christuotassos t'tulsott. 329

to his wife. my life. for it, he talks himsell'into a thorough eon-
vert. makes hitnsell'a penitent: and who knows what may follow?
Upon this diseourse. however. and their promising. as nhove,
to endeavour to wrsnade their wives to embrace Christianity.
he married the ot ter two eonple; but Will Atkins and his wife
were not yet eome in. After this. my elergyman waiting awhile,
was curious to know where Atkins was gone; and turning to me.
said. I entreat you. sir. let us walk out. of your labyrinth here,
and look; I dare say we shall find this poor man somewhere or
other talking seriously to his wife. and teaehing her already
umuething of religion. I began to he of the same. mind; so we.
went. out together. and l earried him a way whieh none. knew
but mysell'. and where the trees were so very thiek that it was
not. easy to see through the. tllieket. of leaves. and far harder to
see in than to see out ; when routing to the edge of the. wood. I
saw Atkins and his tawny wit'e sittingltnder the shade ofa hush.
very eager in diseourso: I stopped short till my elergyman eame
up to me. and then having showed him where they were. we
stood and looked very steadily at them a good while. We oh-
served him very earnest with her. pointing up to the sun, and to
every quarter of the heavens. and then down to the earth. then
out to the sea. then to himselt'. then to her. to the woods. to the
trees. Now. says the elergymnn. you see my words are made
good. the man prem'hes to her; mark him now. he is telling her
that. ourtlod has made him and her. and the. heavens. the earth.
the sea. the woods. the trees. Kan--<<l believe he is. said I. In)-
mediately we pereelvetl Will Atkins start upon his feet, litll tlowu
on his knees. and lill u ) hoth his hands. We supposed he said
soon-thing. hut. we eould not hear him; it was too far for that.
He did not eontinue kneeling half a minute. but comes and sits
down again by his wife. and talks to her again; we pereeired
then the woman very attentive. hut whether she. said anything
to him. we eould not tell. While the poor t'ellow \ 'as upon his
knees. I eoultl see the tears run plentifully down my elergymnn's
eheeks. and l eouhl hardly t'orhear myself; but it was a great
alllietion to us both that we were not near enough to hear any-
thing that. passed hetweeu them. Well, however. we eould come
no nearer. for fear of disturbing thent; so we resolved to see an
end to thin pieee ofstill eonversatiou, and it spoke. loud enough
to us without the help of roiee. He sat down again. as l have
said. close by her. and talked again earnestly to her. and two or
three times we could see. him emhraee her most passionately:
another time we saw him take out his handkerehict'and wipe her
eyes. and then kiss her again. with a kind of transport very un-
usual; and after several of these. things. we saw him on a sudden
jump up again. and lead her his hand to help her up, when im-
mediately leading her by the hand a step or two, they both
knecled down together. and continued so about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no lon r, but cries out aloud, St. Paul!
St. Paul! behold he prayeth. fewas afraid Atkins would hear
him, therefore 1 entreatcd him to withhold himself awhile, that
we might see an end of the scene, which to me, 1 must confess,
was the most affecting that ever I saw in my life. Well, he strove
with himself for a while, but was in such raptures to think that
the poor heathen woman was become a Christian, that he was
not able to contain himself; he wept several times, then throw--
ing n his hands and crossing his breast, said over several things
ejaeu ato'ry, and by way of giving God thanks for so miraculous
a testimony of the success of our endeavours; some he spoke
softly, and I could not well hear others; some in Latin, some in
French; then two or three times the tears would interrupt him,
that he could not speak at all; but lbegged that he would con-
tain himself, and let us more narrowly and fully observe what
was before us, which he did for a time, the scene not being near
ended yet; for after the poor man and his wife were risen again
from their knees, we observed he stood talking still eagerly to
her, and we observed her motion, that she was greatly all'ected
with what he said, by her frequently lifting up her hands, laying
her hand to her breast, and such other ostures as express
the greatest seriousness and attention: this continued about
half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked away; so we
could see no more of them in that situation. I took this interval
to talk with my clergyman; and first, I was glad to see the parti-
culars we had both been witnesses to, that, though I was hard
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to think it was
all very sincere here, both in the man and his wife, however ig-
norant they might both be. and I hoped such a beginning would
yet have a more happy end: And who knows, said I, but these
two may in time, by instruction and example, work upon some
of the others 1--Some of them? said he, turning quick upon me;
ny, upon all of them: depend upon it, if those two savages, for
he has been but little better, as you relate it, should embrace
Jesus Christ, they will never leave it till they work upon all the
rest; for true religion is naturally communicative, and he that is
once made a Christian will never leave a pagan behind him, if he
can help it. I owned it was a most christian principle to think

, so, and a testimony of true zeal. as well as a generous heart, in
him. But, my friend, said I, will you give me leave to start one
diflicultv here? I cannot tell how to object the least thing against
that affectionate concern which you show for the turning the

cor )cople from their paganism to the Christian religion: but

ow oes this comfort you while these people are, in our ac-
count, out of the pale of the catholic church, without w ich you
believe there is no salvation? so that you esteem these but here
tics, and for other reasons as eil'ectually lost as the pagans
themselves.
To this he answered. with abundance of candour, thus: Sir,
I am a catholic of the Roman church, and a priest of the order
of St. Benedict, and I embrace all the principles of the Roman
faith; but yet, if you will believe me, and that! do not speak in
compliment to you, or in respect to my circumstances and your
eivihties; I say, nevertheless, I do not look upon on who call
yourselves reformed, without some charity: I re not say
(though I know it is our opinion in general) that you cannot be
saved; I will by no means limit the mercy of Christ so far as to
think that he cannot receive you into the bosom of his church,
in a manner to us unperceiva lo; and I hope you have the same
charity for us: I pray daily for your being all restored to Christ's
church, by whatsoever method he, who is all-wise, is pleased to
direct. In the mean time, sure you will allow it consists with
me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a protestant and a
pagan; between one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way
which I do not think is according to the true faith, and a savage
or a barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no Redeemer;
and if you are not within the pale of the catholic church, we
hope you are nearer bein restored to it than those that know
nothing of God or of his urch: and Irejoice, therefore, when I
see this poor man, who, on say, has been a profiigate, and
almost a murderer, kneel own and pray to J esus Christ, as we
sup ose he did, though not fully enlightened; believing that
God: from whom every such work roceeds, will sensibly touch
his heart, and bring him to the furt er knowledge of that truth
in his own time: and if God shall influence this poor man to
convert and instruct the ignorant savage, his wife, I can never
believe that he shall be cast away himself. And have I not
reason then to rejoice the nearer any are brought to the know-
ledge of Christ, though they ma not be brou ht quite home
into the bosom of the catholic c ureh just at e time when I
may desire it, leaving it to the goodness of Christ to perfect his
work in his own time, and in his own way? Certainly, I would
rejoice if all the savages in America were brought, like this poor
woman, to pray to God, though they were all to he protestants
at first, rat er than they should continue pagans or heathens;
firmly believing. that he that had bestowed the first light to
them would farther illuminate them with a beam of his heavenly
grace, and bring them into the pale of his church, when he should
see good.

elk332 auvexruncs or

 

SECTION XXXIX.

ATKINS RELATES HIS CONVERSATION WITH HIS WIFE--THE LAT-
TER BAPTIZED BY THE PltlEST.--ACCOUNT OF THE STARVING
STATE OF THOSE ON BOARD THE RESCUED VESSEL--ROBIN-
SON'S DEPARTURE FROM THE ISLAND.

I WAS astonished at the sincerity and temper of this pious papist,
as much as I was Oppressed by the power of his reasoning; and
it presently occurred to my thoughts, that if such a temper was
universal, we might be all catholic Christians, whatever church
or particular profession we joined in; that a s irit of charity
would soon work us all up into right princip es; and as he
thought that the like charity would make us all catholics, so I
told him I believed had all the members of his church the like
moderation, they would soon all be rotestants.--And there we
left that part; for we never dispute at all.

However, I talked to him another way, and taking him by the
hand, My friend, says I, I wish all the clergy of the Romish
church were blest with such moderation, and had an equal share
of your charity. I am entirely of your opinion : but I must tell
you, that if you should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy,
they would put you into the Inquisition.--It may be so, said he;
I know notwhat they would do in Spain or Italy; butI will not
say they would be the better' Christians for that severity; for I
am sure there is no heresy in abounding with charity.

As Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there
was over, so we went back our own way; and when we came
back, we found them waiting to be called in: observing this, ]
asked my clergyman if we should discover to him that we had
seen him under the bush or not; and it was his opinion we
should not, but that we should talk to him first, and hear what
he would my to us; so we ealled him in alone, nobody being
in the plum hut ourselves. and I began with him thus:

Will Atkins. said I, prithee what education had you? What
was your father?

W: A. A better nnm than ever I shall he: Sir, my father was
a elergymau.

ll. (9. What. edueation did he give you?

W. A. He would have taught me well. sir; hat I despised all
edueation. instruetiou. or eorreetiou. like a heast. as l was.

It. ('. It. is true. Solomon says, He that despises reprool' is
hrutish.

W. A. Ay.-sir. l was hrutish indeed. for l murdered my
father: for (iod's sake, sir, talk no more about that; sir. I
murdered my poor father.

l'lt. Ila! a murderer!

Here the u'iest started (for l interpreted everv word as he
spoke) and ooked pale: it seems he helieved that Will had
really killed his father.

It. (3. No, no, sir, I do not. understand him so: Will Atkins,
esplnin yourself; you did not kill your father, did you, with
your own hands?

W. A. No, sir. I did not cut his throat; hut I eat the thread
of all his comforts. and shortened his days: I broke his hearthy
the most ungratetid. unnatural return, for the most tender and
utl'eetiouale treatment. that. father ever gave, or ehild eould
r('l'("\'|'.

It. (3. Well. ldid not ask you about your father. to extort
this eonl'essiou: I pray (Sod give you repeutanee for it, and for-
give that. and all your other sins; but I asked you heeause I see
that. though you have. not. mueh learning, yet you are not. so
ignorant as some are in things that are good; that you have
known more of religion. a great deal. than on haVe practised.

W. A. Though you, sir, dul not extort t m t'mllimsion that I
make about my father, eonseienee does; and whenever we come
to look back upon our lives, the sins against our indulgent
parents are eertainly the first that touch as; the wounds they
make lie deepest. and the weight they leaVe will lie heaviest
upon the mind, of all the sins we can eommit.

it. (3. You talk too t'eelingly and sensihly for me, Atkins;
I eannot hear it.

W. A. You hear it, master! I dare say you know nothing ot'it.

It. ('-. Yes, Atkins; every shore. every hill, nay, I may say
every tree in this island. is witness to the. auguis of my soul
for my iagratitnde and bad usage of a good, tender father; a
father mueh like yours. by your disutription: and l murdered
my father as well as you, Will Atkins; hat I think, for all that,
my repentance is short of yours too, by a great deal.

I Would have said more, it' I could have restrained my pas-
z 2
aions; but I thought this poor man's repentance was so much
sincerer than mine, that l was going to cum oil the. discourse
and retire; for l was surprised with what. he had said, and
thought that instead of my going about to teach and instruct
him this man was made a teacher and instructor tome in a most
surprising and unexpected numuer.

I laid all this before the. young clergyman, who was greatly
atl'eeted with it, and said to me, Did I not say, sir, that. when
this man was converted he would preach to us all? I tell you,
sir, it' this one man he. nnule a true. penitent, here will be no
need of me: he will make ('hristians of all in the island--lint
having a little composed nn-sclt', I renewed nw discourse with
Will Atkins. lint. Will, said 1, how comes the sense of this
nmtter to touch you just. now i

W. A. Sir. you have set me about a work that has struck a
dart through my \'ery soul; I have been talking about. (End and
religion to my wife. in order, as you directed me, to make a
Christian of her. and she has preached such a sermon to me as
I shall never forget while I "\'t'.

It. ('. No, no, it. is not your wife has preached to you; but
when _\-on were. moving religious arguments to her, con. . .ncc
has llnng them back upon you.

W. A. Ay. air. with such force as is not. to be resisted.

It. ('. l'ray, Will, let us know what passed between you and
your with; for I know sonu-thing of it already.

\V. A. Sir. it is impossible to give you a full account of it;
i am too full to hold it. and yet have no tongue to express it;
but let her have said what she will, and though I cannot give
you an account. ot'it, this I can tell you, that l have resolved to
amend and reform my life.

It. (V. But tell us some. of it: how did you begin. Will? For
this has been an extraordinary case, that is certain. She has
preached a sermon. indeed, it'she has wrought this upon you.

W. A. Wh '. l first told her the nature of our laws about
marria 1e, and what the. reasons were. that men and women were
oliligci to enter into such compacts, as it was neither in the
power ot'one nor other to break; that otherwise, order and 'us-
tiee. could not be. maintained. and men would run from tielr
wives, and abandon their children, mix eont'usedly with one
another, and neither families be kept entire, nor inheritanccs be
settled bv legal descent.

R. C. You talk like a civilian. Will. Could you make her
understand what you meant by inheritance and families? They
know no such things among the savages, but marry any how,
without regard to relation, consan unity, or family; brother
and sister, any, as l have been tol , even the father and the
daughter, and the son and the mother.

W A. I believe, sir, you are misinformed, and my wife
assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it; perhaps,
for any farther relations, they may not be so exact as we are;
but she tells me they never touch one another in the near rela-
tionship you speak of.

It. (1. Well, what did she say to what you told her?

W. A She said she liked it very well, and it was much better
than in her country.

It. (7. lint did you tell her what marriage was?

W. A. Ay, ay ; there began our dialogue. I asked her if she
would he married to me our way. She asked me what way that
w as. I told her marriage was appointed by (Sod; and here we
had a strange talk together, indeed, as ever man-and wife had,
i believe.

N. It. This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife I took
down in writing, just after he had told it me, which was as
follows:

Wit-1:. Appointed by your (iod ! Why, have you a God in your
country?

W. .\. Yes, my dear, (Bod is in every Country.

th-'I-z. No your (iod in my country; my country have the
great old licnanmekee (Sod.

W. A. (fhild, I am very unlit to show you who (End is: (iod
is in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and
all that in them is.

th-'ia. No makee dc earth; no you God makee all earth; no
Inakee my country.

Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not
making her country.

th-'l-Z. No laugh; why laugh me? This nothing to laugh.

lle wasjnstly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious
than he at first.

W. A. 'l'hat's true indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dear.

Wu-'I-Z. Why you say you (iod makee all L'

W. A. Yes. child, our God made the whole world. and you and
me. and all tiling-*3: for he is the only true God, and there is no
(iml but him; he lives for ever in heaven.

Wli-'l-z. Why you no tell me long ago?

W. A. 'l'hat's true indeed; but I have been a wicked wretch,
and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee with any thing
before. but have lived without God in the world myself.

Wu-'I-z. What have you a great God in your country, you no
know him? No say 0 to him? No do good thing for him?
That no possible.

W. A. it is true; though, for all that, we live as if there was
no God in heaven, or that he had no power on earth.

Wire. But why God let you do so? Why he no makee you
good live?

W. A. It is all our own fault.336 All" ENTUR I! 07

Win. lint you so me he is grout, much great, have much
great power. can out on kill when he will. wh he no mskeo kill
when you no serve. him. no any 0 to him. no good mints!

W. A. 'l'lutt is true, he might. strike me dent; and I ought to
expect it, for l hm-e {men is wicked wreteh. thnt is true; but God
is merciful, uud does not deal with us so we deserve.

"urn. llut then do you not tell God thnnkee for that too?

W. A. No. indeed. I hove not thanked (lod for his merry. Any
more than I have feared God for his power.

Worn. Then you God no God; um no think believe he be such
one. grout nun-h power, strong: no mnkee kill you, though you
make him so much angry.

\V. A. Whut. will my wieked lil'e hinder you ll'om believing in
God! What u drendt'ul creature sin 11 and whut s sud truth
is it. that the horrid lives of Christians hinder the conversion
of henthens!

WIFE. liow me think you have great much God it there
(she points up to hem-en) nnd yet no do well, no do go thing!
('nu he tell? Sure he no tell what you do!

W. A. Yes. yes. he knows and sees nil things; he hears us
sponk. sees it hot we. do, knows uhnt we think, though we do not
spook.

Wm>>; Wlmt! he no hear you curse. swear. seesk do great
dmun.'

W. A. Yes. yes. he hears it nil.

Wu-'n. Where he then the much great power strong!

W. A. He. in merciful. that is all we run any for it; and this
pmvos hint to he the true God; he is God. and net mun, and
therefore we are not consumed.

llere Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror. to think
how he eould tell his Wife so elonrly thnt (iod sees, stud-hears,
nml knows the secret thoughts of the heart. and all that we
go. nod yet tluit he had (hired to do all the vile things he had

one.

\Vu-'l-t. Merciful! What you call that?

W. A. llo is our father and nntker, and he pities and
sport's us.

Wll-'l-t. So then he never makes kill, never nngry when you do
wicked: then he. no good himself, or no great shle.

W. A. Yes. yes. my door, he is infinitely good and infinitely
great. and nhle to punish too; and sometimes. to show his 'ustice
and vengeance. he lets tly his anger to destroy sinners on truth
examples : . runny use eut off in their sins.

"'an ltut no mskue kill you yet: then he tell you, may be.
that he no nmkce you kill: so you mukee do bargain with him.
you do haul thing, he no be angry at you when he be angry st
other mites.

W. A. No, indeed; my sins no sll presumption: upon hi!
oodness; and he would be infinitely just if he destroyed me, as
he has done other men.

Win-z. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead; what you
ea to him for that? You no tell him thankee for all that too?

{M A. I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true.

Win-z. Why no no makee you much good better? you say he
makes you.

W. A. lie made me, as he made all the world: it is I have
deformed myself and abused his goodness, and made myself an
abominable wretch.

WIFE. I wish you makes God know me; I no makee him
an , I no do had wicked thing.

lere Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him, to hears
poor untaught creature desire to he taught to know God, and he
such a wicked wretch that he could not say one word to her about
God, but what the reproach of his own earriifie would make
most irrational to her to believe; nay, that alre y she had told
him that she could not believe in God, because he, that was so
wicked, was not destroyed.

W. A. My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach an to know
God. not God to know you; for he knows you alre y, and every
thought in our heart.

ers. \ y then he know what I say to you now; he know
me wish to know him; how shall me know who makee me i

W. A. Poor creature, he must teach thee, I cannot teach thee;
I will pray to him to teach thee to know him, and forgive me,
that am unworthy to teach thee.

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to
make her know God, and her wishing to know him, that he said
he fell down on his knees before her, and pra ed to God to en-
lighten her mind with the saving knowledge 0 Jesus Christ, and
to pardon his sins, and accept of his being the unworthy instru-
ment of instructing her in the principles of religion: after which
he sat down h her again, and their dialogue went on.--This
lwanithe time w on we saw him kneel down, and hold up his

am 3.

\VIFB. What "in put down the knee for! What you hold up
the hand for! hat you say? Who you speak to? What is
all that?

W. A. My dear, I how my knees in token of m submission
to him that made me; I said O to him, as you it; and as
you: old men do to their idol Benamuckee; that is, I prayed
to im.

Wins. What you say 0 to him for?

W. A. I prayed to him to ogen your eyes, and. our under-
standing, that you may know im, and be accepted y him.

Wire. Can he do that too?

W. A. Yes, he can ; he can do all things.
WIFE. But now he hear what you say?

W. A. Yes; he has bid us pray to him. and promised to
hear us.

Wit-'14. Bid you pray? When be. bid you? How he bid you?
What. you hear him speak?

W. A. No. we do not hear him speak; but he. has revealed
himself many ways to us.

Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God
has revealed himselt'to us by his word, and what his word was
but at last he told it. her tints:

W. .v\. t'md has spoken to some good men in former days.
even from heaven. by plain words; and God has inspired good
men by his Spirit; and they have written all his laws down in
a book.

"'u-'l-z. Me no understaml that : where is book?

W. A. Alas! my poor ereature. l have not this book; but
I hope i shall one time. or other get it for you, and help you to
read it.

Here he embraeed her with great all'eetion; but with inex-
pressible griet'thal he had not a liible.

"'n-'H. lint how you makee. me know that (iod teaebee them
to write lhnt book 'I

\V. A. lly the same rule that we know him to be (Bod.

"at-n. "'hat rule! What way you know him?

W. A lieeanse he teaehes aml eonnuands nothing but what. is
good. righteous. and holy. and tends to make us perfectly good.
as well as pert'eetl y happy ; and beeanse he tiirbids. and commands
us to avoid. all that. is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its
(Ullst'tllll'lll't'.

Wins. 'l'hat. me. would understand. that me t'ain see; if he
teaehee all good thing. he. makee all good thing, he. give. all thing.
he hear me when I say 0 to him. as you dojnst now; he'makee
me good. it' I wish to be. good; he. spare. me. no makee. kill me,
when I no be good : all this you say to do. yet he. be great (ind:
me take. think. believe him to be. great. (iml; me say 0 to him
with you. my dear.

llere the poor man could tbrbear no longer. but raised her up,
made her kneel by him. am! he waved to (iod aloud to instruct
her in the knowledge of himself. )y his Spirit; and that by some
good provident-e, it' possible, she. might some time or other com
to have. a Bible. that she might read the word of (ind, and he
taught by it to know bim.--'l'his was the time that we saw him
lift her up by tho halal. and saw him kneel down by her. as
above.

They had several other discourses, it seeing, afler this, too
long: to be. set down here; and particularly she made him
pmmise. that. sinec he confessed his own life. had been a wicked
abominable course of provocations against God, that he would
reform it, and not make God angry any more; lest he should
make him dead, as she called it, and then she would be left
alone, and never be taught to know this God better; and lest
he should he miserable, as he had told her wicked men would

be, after death. .
This was a strange account, and very affecting. to us both.

but particularly to the young clergyman; he was indeed won-
derfully surprised with it, but under the greatest affliction imagi-
nable that he could not talk to her, that he could not speak
English, to make her understand him; and as she spoke but
very broken English, he could not understand her; however, he
turned himself to me, and told me that he believed that there
must he more to do with this woman than to marry her. I did
not understand him at first, but at length he explained himself,
viz. that she ought to be baptized. I agreed with him in that

art readily, and was for going about it presently. No, no;
liold, sir, said he; though I would have her be baptized by all
means, yet I must observe that Will Atkins, her husband, has
indeed brought her, in a wonderful manner, to be willing to
einbrace a. religious life, and has given her just ideas of the being
ofa God ; of his power, justice, and mercy: yet [desire to know
of him if he has said anything to her of Jesus Christ, and of the
salvation of sinners; of the nature of faith in him, and redemp-
tion by him; of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judg-
ment, and a future state.

I called Will A'tkins again, and asked him; but the poor fel-
low fell immediately into tears, and told us he had said something
to her of all those things, but that he was himself so wicked a
creature, and his own conscience so reproached him with his
horrid ungodly life, that he trembled at the apprehensions that
her knowledge of him should lessen the attention she should 've
to those things, and make her rather contemn religion t an
receive it; but he was assured, he said, that her mind was so
disposed to receive due impressions of all those things, and that
if I would but discourse wtth her, she Would make it appear to
my satisiitction that mv labour would not be lost upon her.

Accordingly. I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter
between my religious priest and the woman, I entreated him to
begin with her; but sure such a sermon was never preached by
a popish priest in these latter ages of the world: and as I told
him, I thought be bad all the seal, all the knowledge. all the
sincerity of a Christian, without the error of a Roman catholic;
and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the Roman
bishops were. before the church of Rome assumed spiritual
sovereignty over the consciences of men. In a word, he brought
the poor woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ, and of
redemption by him, not with wonder and astonishment only, as
she did the first notions of a God, but with joy and faith; with.140 Ann:

   

't't'nt's ot-'

no <<mu-nun. mud n surprising tlogroo ot' nndorstnnding. neuron to
ho iuutgint-d. lttltl'lt loss to ho ospn-ssod: nnd. at hot- on" roqnost,
sho u'ns linptizcd.

"'lu-n lw \rns prvpnriny.r to hn itizo her. I t'tltrontod hint thnt.
ho would pi-rl'orm thnt olllu-i- n'illi sumo t-nutinu. thnt tho Innn
might not Pt'l't't'h't' ho n~ns of tho ltomnn ohnn'h. it' possihlo.
homuso ot' othor ill nonsmlnvuros n-hivh might nttoud udilli'rouvo
among us in tho! wry rohgion which no n'oro instructin tho
Minor in. Ilo told mo thut us ho hurl no consot-rntod chnpo . nor
proper things for tho olllro. I should sco ho would do it in n Innu-
ni-r llmt I should not know by it thnt ho \yus l\ lloniun cntholio
hinisvlt'. it'l hnd not known it lu-t'oro; and so ho did; for snying
only somo n'ords ("'t'l' to himsvll'iu l.ntinI "hit-h ll'tlllltl not no-
dorstnud. ho pooh-d n wholt- dishl'ul ol' \"ltlt'l' upon tho woman's
hond. pronouncing.r in French wry loud. " .\lnry." (which wns
tho nmno ln'r hushnnd dosirrd luv to giw hor. for I wus ln't' god-
l'nthor.) " l hnptino "too in tho nnmo of tho Fulln-r. nud of tho
Sou. und of tho lloly (ihost;" so thut noun vonld know nny-
thing by it "hut roligion hr mm of. "t' gnvo tho benediction
uttrrunrds in Lutin. hnl oithnr \\'ill Atkins did not know but it
wns I'm-unh. or nlsv did not tulm notiro of it nt thnt tinu'.

As soon us this nus own no umrried thvm; ntnl nl'tt'r tho
mnrriugo wus ovor. ho turnvd to Will Atkins. ninl in n vory
ulli~rtionnto nntnnor oxhortnl him. not only to porsowro in thnt
good disposition ho nuts in. but to support tho convictions that
non- upon hint by at resolution to reform his'lil'o; told him it
nits in min to suy ho ri-pontvd il' ho did not t'orsnlw his crimes:
roprt-soutod to him how (Bod lnnl houonrod him with living tho
instrunu-ut of bringing his uit'o to tlu~knou~lodgmif tho('hristiun
religion. nnd that he should ho i'nrvl'ul ho did not dishonour tho
rrnvv ot' (ind: nntl thut if he did, ho would sun tho hvnthon n
wttor ('hristinn tlmn himsvll'; tho siwngu t'tllth'l'lt'tl. and tho
instruun-ut t'nst nnny. llo snid it grout Innny good things to
them hoth; nnd thou m'omun-mling them to God's gomlnoss.
gun- thqu the honmlirtion ngnin. I ropoutiug owry thing to thrm
in English; and thus mulul tlw cvrotnony. I think it was the
most plousnnt and ngrvvnhlo dny to ion that "or I pussml in
my whole lil'o.

But my vlvrgvmnn had not dono yet; his thoughts hung con-
tinually upon tho convnmiou of tho thirty-sown snvnpzos, and
fnin lu- would have stoyod upon the islnnd to have nntlortnlwn
it : hot I oonvinm-d him. first. that his uudurtnlting was imprac-
timhlo in itself; nod. socondly. that perhaps I would put it into
n way of lining dono in his absent-o to his satisfaction; of which
by and by.

llnring thus brought tho nfl'uirs of the inland to a narrow
compass, l was XH'ptll'iltg to go on board the ship. Wltt'fl the
young man I hn taken out of tho I'nmislml ship's company
0

came to me. and told me he understood I had a clergyman with
me. and that 1 had caused the Englishmen to he married to the
savages; that he had a match. too. which he desired might be
tlnished before I went. between two Christians. which he hoped
would not he disagreeable to me.

I know this must he tho young woman who was his mother's
sorvaut. for there was no other Christian woman on the island;
so I hegau to persuade him not to do anything of that kind rashly.
or because he found himself in this solitary eiwumstance. i re-
presented to him that he had some considerable substance in the
world. and good ti'icuds. as I understood by himself. and tho
maid also; that tho maid was not only poor. and a servant. but
was unequal to him. she heing six or seven-aud-tweut years
old. and he not being seventeen or eighteen; that he mig it very
probably. with my assistance. make a remove "out this wilder-
uess. and come into his own country again; and that then it
would he a thonsuml to one but he would re tent his choice.
and the dislike of that circumstance might he tisadvtuita 'cous
to both. i was going to say more. hut he interruptet me.
smiling. and told me. with a great deal of Inmlcsty. that l mis-
took in my guesses. that he had nothin' of that kind in his
thoughts; and he was very glad to hear t rat I had an intent of
putting them in a way to see their own country again; and
nothing should have put him upon staying there. but that-the
voyage l was going was so escemling long and hamrdous. and
would carrv hnn quite out of tho reach ol all his friends; that
he had nothing to desire of me. but that I would settle him in
some little property in the island where he was. give him a ser-
vant or two. and some few necessaries. and he would settle
himself here like a planter. waiting the good time when. it' ever
i returned to En laml. I would redeem them; and hoped I would
not he tunnindt'u ot'hint when I came to England: that he would

ive me some letters to his friends in London. to let them know
now good I had been to him. ms! in what mrt of the world. and
what circumstanm's I had lelt him in; am he )romised me that
whenever I redeemed him. the plantation. am all the improve-
ments he had made upon it. let the value be what it would.
should be wholly mine.

llis discourse was very irettily delivered. considering his youth.
and was the more agreealile to me. because he told me )osttively
the match was not for himself. I gave him all possi lo assu-
rances that if I lived to come safe to England. I would deliver
his letters. and do his business etl'es9tually; and that he might
depend i should never forget the circumstances I had let! him
in: but still i was impatient to know who was the person to be
married: upon which he told me it was my Jack-of-ail-trades
and his man! Susan. I was most agreeably surprised when he
named the match; for indeed I thought it very suitable. The
character of that man 1 have given already ; and as for the mind,
she was a very honest, modest, sober, and religious young wo-
man; had a very good share of sense, was agreeable enough in
her person, spoke very handsomely, and to the pur ose, always
with decency and good manners, and neither too aekward to
speak, when requisite, nor impertinently forward. when it was
not her business: very handy and housewit'ely, and an excellent
manager: tit, indeed, to have been governess to the whole island,
and she knew very well how to behave in every respect.

The match being proposed in this manner. we married them
the same. day; and as l was lather at the altar. as I may say,
and gave her away, so 1 gave her a portion; for l appointed her
and her husband a handsome large space of ground for their
plantation: and. indeed, this match. and the proposal the young
gentleman made to give him a small property in the island, put
me upon pareelliag it out amongst them, that they might not
quarrel afterwards about their situation.

This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who
was now grown a sober, grave. managing fellow, perfectly re-
formed, exceedingly pious and religious, and, as far as I may be
allowed to speak positively in such a case, I verily believe he was
a true penitent. lie divided things so justly. and so much to
every one's satisfaction. that they only desired one general
writing under my hand for the whole, which I caused to be drawn
up, and signed and sealed to them, setting out the bounds and
situation of every man's plantation, and testifying that I gave
them thereby severally a right to the whole possession and in-
beritunee of the respective plantations or farms, with their im-
provements, to them and their heirs, reserving all the rest or
the island as my own property. and a certain rent for every par-
ticular plantation after eleven years, it' I, or any one from me,
or in my name, came to demand it, producing an attested copy
of the same writing.

As to the government and laws among them, I told them I was
not capable of givin them better rules than they were able to
give themselves; on y I made them promise me to live in love
and good neighbourhood with one another; and so 1 prepared
to leave them.

One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being new settled
in a kind of commonwealth among themselves, and having much
business in hand, it was but odd to have sevenoand-thirty lndians
live in a nook ot' the island, independent, and, indeed, unem-
ployed; for, excepting the providing themselves food, which
they had dillieulty enough to do sometimes. they had no man-
ner of business or property to manage. I proposed, therefore,
to the governor S amard, that he should go to them. with
Friday's father, and propose to them to remove, and either
plant for themselves, or take them Into their several families
as servants, to be maintained for their labour, but without being
absolute slaves; for I would not admit them to make them slaves
by force, by any means; because they had their libert given them
by capitulation, as it were articles ot surrender, whic they ought
not to break.

The most willingly embraced the proposal, and came all
very c eert'ul along with him: so we allotted them land, and
plantations, which three or four accepted of, but all the rest
chose to be employed as servants in the several families we had
settled; and thus m colony was in a manner settled, as fol-
lows :---The Spania s possessed my original habitation. which
was the capital city, and extended their plantations all along
the side of the brook, which made the creek that I have so often
described, as far as my bower; and as they increased their cul-
ture, it went alwa s eastward. The English lived in the north-
east part, where V ill Atkins and his comrades began, and came
on southward and south-west, towards the back part of the
Spaniards; and eve plantation had a at addition of land to
take in, if they foun occasion, so that t ey need not jostle one
another for want of room. All the east end of the island was
left uninhabited, that if any of the sav es should come on shore
there only for their usual customary bar arities, the might come
and go; it' they disturbed nobody, nobody would isturb them;
and no doubt but they were often ashore, and went awa again,
for I never heard that the planters were ever attacks or dis-
turbed any more.

It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend
the clergyman that the work of convertin the savages might
perhaps e set on foot in his absence to is satisfaction, and
told him that now I thought it was put in a fair way; for the
savages being thus divided among the Christians, if they would
but every one of them do their part with those which came under
their hands, I hoped it might have a very good effect.

He agreed resently in that, if they did their art. But how,
es s be, shal we obtain that of them? I tol him we would

them all together, and leave it in charge with them, or go
to them, one by one, which he thought best; so we divided it,
he to speak to the Spaniards, who were all papists, and I to
the Eng ish, who were all protestants; and we recommended it
earnes y to them, and made them promise that they would
never make any distinction of papist or protestant in their
exhorting the savages to turn C ristians, but teach them the
general knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus
Christ; and they likewise promised us that the would never
is? any difl'erences or disputes one with one er about re-

on.

When I came to Will Atkins's house (I may call it so, for

such a house, or such a piece of basket-work, I believe. was344 row nsrenrs or

not standing in the world again). there. I found the young
woman I have mentioned above. and Will Atkinu's wife. Were
heeotue intimates; and this prudent. religions young woman.
had pert'eeted the work Will Atkins had begun: and though it
was not nhove four days utter what. I have. related. yet the
new-lmptized savage woman was made sueh a Christian as I
how seldom henrd of in all my observation or conversation in
the world.

It eame next into my mind. in the. morning before I went to
them. that amongst all the needt'nl things I had to leave. with
them. I had not left them a llihle. in u'hieh I showed myself less
considering for them than my good friend the widow was for me.
olien she sent me the enrgo ot' a hundred pounds from Lisbon.
it here she pneked up three liihlesnnd a prayer-hook. How-
ever. the good woman's elmrity lmd a greater extent than ever
she inmgined. for they were reserved for the eomt'ort and instntc-
lieu of those that made mueh better use ot'them than I had done.

I took one of the llihles in [RV poeket. and when I came to
Will Atkins's tent. or house. and found the young woman and
:\tkins's baptized uit'e had been diseoursing of religion together.
for Will Atkins told it. me with a great deal ot'joy. I asked
it' they were together now. and he said yes; so I went into
the house. and he. uith me. and we found them together very
earnest in diseourse. () sir. says \\'ill Atkins. when (iod has
sinners to reeoueile to himself. and nlieus to bring home. he
never uunls n nu-sseuger; my oit'e has got a new instroetor;
I knew l uas us unworthy us l was inenpnhle ol'thnt work; that.
young woman has been sent hither l'roui henveu ; she. is enough
to eonvert a "hole island of savages. The young woman
hluslted. and rose up to go away. but l desired her to sit still .
I told her she had a good nork upon her hands. and I hoped (iod
would hless her in it.

We talked a little. nnd I did not pereeive they had any book
among them. though l did not. ask: but I put my hand into my
meket. und pulled ottt my liihle: llere. says I to Atkins. I have
iironght you an assistant that perhaps you had not before. The
luau was so eontiunnled that he was not able to speak for some
time; but reeoveriug himself. he takes it with both his hands.
and turning to his uit'e. Here, my dear. says he, did I not tell
you our (iotl. though he lives above. could hear what. We said?
llere's the hook I prayed for when von nnd I kneeled down
under the hush: now God has lieord us. and sent. it. When
he lmd said so, the. man fell into sneh transports of passionate
joy. that hetneen the joy of having it, and giving God thanks
for it. the tears ran down his thee like a ehild that watt
crying.

The woman was surprised. and was like to have run into a
mistake that none of us n ere nwure ot', for she firmly believed
God had sent the book upon her husband's petition. It is true,
that providentiall it was so, and might be taken so in a conse-
quent sense; but believe it would have been no difllcult matter,
at that time, to have persuaded the poor woman to haVe believed
that an ex )ress messen reame from heaven on purpose to bring
that individual book; ut it was too serious a matter to suffer
any delusion to take place; so [turned to the young woman. and
told her we did not desire to impose upon the new convert, in her
first and more ignorant understanding of things, and begged her
to explain to her that God may be very 'properly said to answer
our petitions when, in the course 0 ins providence. such
things are in a particular manner brought to pass as we peti-
tioned for; but we did not expect returns from Heaven in a
miraculous and particular manner, and it is our mercy that it is
not so.

This the young Woman did atlerwards effectually, so that
there was, I assure you, no priestcratt used here; and I should
have thoughtit one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the world
to have had it so. But the surprise of joy upon Will Atkins
is really not to be expressed; and there, we may be sure, was
no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the World
for anything of its kind than he was for the Bible; nor, I believe,
never an ' man was glad of a Bible from a better principle; and
though he had been a most roiligate creature, headstron ,
thrious. and desperately wicked}: yet this man is a standin ru e
to us all for the well instructing children, viz. that parents s iould
never give over to teach and instruct, nor ever despair of the
success of their endeavours, let the children be ever so refrac-
tory. or, to appearance, insensible of instruction; for, if ever
(Bod. in his providence, touches the conscience of such, the force
of their education returns n ion them. and the early instruction
of parents is not lost, though it may have been many years laid
asleep. but, some time or other, they may find the benefit of it.
Thus it was with this oor man: however ignorant he was of
religion and Christian nowledge, he found he had some to do
with now more ignorant than himself, and that the least part of
the instruction of his good father that now came to his mind
was of use to him.

Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his father
used to insist so much on the incxpressible value of the Bible,
the rivilege and blessing of it to nations. families, and persons:
but e never entertained the least notion of the worth of it till
now, when being to talk to beathens, savages, and barbarians,
he wanted the help of the written oracle for his assistance.

The young woman was glad of it also for the present occasion,
though she had one, and so had the youth. on board our ship,
among their goods, which were not yet brought on shore. And
now havmg said so many things of this young woman, I cannot
omit telling one story more of her and myself, which has some-
thing in it very informing and remarkable.

I ave related to what extremity the oor young woman was
reduced, how her mistress was starv to death, and died on
board that unhappy ship we met at sea, and how the whole ship's
company was reduced to the last extremity. The gentlewoman
and her son, and this maid, were first hardly used, as to provi-
sions, and at last totally neglected and starved; that is to say,
brought to the last extremity of hun er.--One day, bein dis-
coursing with her on the extremities t ey suffered, I ask her
if she could deseribe, by what she had felt, what it was to starve,
and how it appeared? She told me she believed she could, and
she told her tale ver distinctly, thus:

First, sir, said s e, we had for some days fared exceeding
hard, and suffered very great hunger: but at last we were
wholly without food of any kind, exce t sugar, and a little wine
and water. The first day, afier I ad received no food at
all, I found myself, towards evening, first empty and sick at
the stomach, and nearer night much inclined to awning and
sleep. I laid down on a couch in the great ca in to sleep,
and slept about three hours, and awaked a little refreshed,
having taken a glass of wine when I lay down: after being
about three hours awake, it being about five o'clock in the
morning, I found myself empty, and m stomach sickish, and
lay down again, but could not sleep at , being very faint and
ill; and thus I continued all the second day, with a strange
variety. first hungry, then sick again, with retchings to vomit.
The second night, being obliged to go to bed sflm without
any food, more than a draught of fresh water, and ing asleep,
I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that the market was
mightily stocked with provisions; that I bought some for my
mistress, and went and dined very heartil . I thought my
stomach was as full after this as it would have been afier a
good dinner; but when I awaked, I was exceedingly sunk in
my spirits to find in self in the extremity of famine. The last
glass of wine we ha I drank, and put sugar in it, because of
its having some s irit to supply nourishment; but there being
no substance in t e stomach for the digesting ofice to work
upon, I found the only eti'ect of the wine was, to raise dis-
agreeable fumes from the stomach into the head; and I lay,
as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk, for some
time. The third day, in the morning, after a night of strange,
confused, and inconsistent dreams, and rather dozing than
sleeping, I swaked ravenous and furious with hunger; and I
question, had not my understanding returned and conquered
't, whether, if I had been a mother, and had had a little child
with me, its life would have been safe or not. This lasted
about three hours; during which time I was twice raging mad
as any creature in Bedlam, as my young master told me, and as

he can now inform you.
In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction I fell down, and

struck in face a ainst the corner of a planet bed, in which my
mistress ay, an , with the blow, the 00d hed out of my
nose; and the cabin-ho bringing me a little asin, I sat down
and bled into it a great cal; and as the blood came from me,
I came to myself, and the violence of the flame or fever I was in
abated, and so did the ravenous part of the hunger. Then I grew
sick, and retched to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in
my stomach to bring up. After I had bled some time, I swooned,
and they all believed I was dead; but I came to myself soon
afier, and then had a most dreadful pain in my stomach, norto
be described, not like the colic, but a gnawing, er pain for
food; and towards the night it went ofi', with a kin of earnest
wishing or longing for food, something like, as I suppose, the
longing of a woman with child. I took another draught of water,
with sugar in it; but my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought
it all up again: then I took a draught of water without sugar,
and that stayed with me; and I laid me down u n the bed,
praying most heartily that it would please God to ta e me away;
and com osing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, and
then we. ' g, thought myself dying, being light with vapours
from an empty stomach; I recommended my soul then to God,
and earnestly wished that somebody would throw me into the
sea.

All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, ex-
piring, but bore it with much more patience than I; gave the
last bit of bread she had left to her child, my young master, who
would not have taken it, but she obliged him to eat it; and I
believe it saved his life.

Towards the morning I slept again; and when I awoke, I fell
into a violent passion of crying, and after that had a second fit
of violent hunger: I got u ravenous, and in a most dreadful
condition; had my mistress een dead, as much as I loved her, I
am certain I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as much
relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did eat the flesh of any
creature appointed for food; and once or twice I was going to
bite my own arm: at last I saw the basin in which was the
blood I had bled at m nose the day before: Iran to it, and
swallowed it with such aste, and such a y appetite, as if
I wondered nobody had taken it before, an afraid it should be
taken from me now. Afier it was down, though the thoughts of
it filled me with horror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and
I took another draught of water, and was composed and refreshed
for some hours afier. This was the fourth day; and thus I held
it till towards night; when, within the compass of three hours,
I had all the several circumstances over again, one aner another,

A A
Iiz. sick , sloppy. cIIgIIrIy IIIIII-Iry. pain in the stomach. then
I'IIVIIIIIIIIII III'IIIII, IhIIII siIIII. IIIIIII IIImIIiI- lIlt'llCl'yIllg .IhIIII rIIIIIII-
ons again. :IIIII so IIIIIry IpIIII-IIIII III IIII hour; IIIIII III_I' sIrI-IIgtlI
\VIISICII IIIII-III- IIiIII.'I_II . III llI"I|l I laid IIIII. IIIIIIII. IIIIIiIIg no comfort
but III "III IIIIpII IIIIII I should die before IIIorniIIg.

All this night I IIIIII no sIIII- I-p . hut IIII'. hunger "as now turned
into II IIIsII:I. I; and I IIIIII II IIIrriIIIII. IIoIiI'. IIIIII griping by wind.
iIIsII-IIII of food. Inning IIIIIIIII its IIII_I' into the I)I)\\(' ; and in
this condition I lay tilI morning .II'IIIIII I IIIIII sIIrprisIIII \IitlI the
I-riIIsuIIII lIIIIIIIIIIIIIiIIIIs III Iln' )Iillllg III IsIIIr II ho II:IIIIIII out. to
IIIII IIIIII. his IIIIIIIII-r IIIIs IIIIIIII: I IilIIIII III_\'. self up II IiltIII, for
I IIIIII not SII'I'IIL'Ih III risII. IIIII I'IIIIIIII sIIII IIIIs not. IIIIIIII. though
:IIIII IIIIs IIIIIII III "I\ II IIIr_I' IilIIII signs oI IiIII.

I IIIIII IIII-n surh I-IIIIIIiIsiIIIIs III my stoIIIIII' II. for \\ IIIII III some
sIIsIIInIIIII-II that. I I'nunoL III sI rIIII-- II ItII sIIIIII II'IIIpIIIIII IIIroII.
:IIIII pangs III :IppIIIilII IIIIII notIIiIII.' IIIIt IIIII IorIurIIs III' IIIIIIIII
IIIII imilIIlII; IIIIII III this condition I IIIIs II III-II I IIIIIIrII IhII sIIII-
IIII-II IIIIIIIII or) IIIII. .-\ snil! II sIIiII IIIIII IIIIIIoII and jump IIIIIIIII.
:Is it' lIIII_\' II we IIisII'IIII II II.

I "as not IIIIIII III I;II IIII Irom IIII' IIIIII. IIIIII IIII' IIIisIrIIss mIII'h
IIIss; IIIIII m_I _IIIuIII; In: IslI-I- "us so siIk. that l tIIoIII'IIt IIII IIIIII
IIIIIIII IprIriIIg: so \I II IoIIIIl IIIII opII II IhII I-IIIIiII door. or got any
:u't'nlllll IIIIIII it nus IIIHI IIIIIIIIsioIIIIII SIII'II I'IIIII'IIsiIIII; nor had WI:
:III_I I'IIIII'IIrsIIIioII IIilII IIIII. ship's I-oIIIpIIIIy I'IIr IIIII II:I_I.~I, IIIIIy
Inning told us III: II lIIIII IIIIII not II mouIIIIuI III IIIII thin-.1 to IIIII
III II||' ship; and Ihis "my told us IIIIIIrIIIIrIIs, tIIIII' IIIoIII.'hI We
IIIIII IIIIIIII III'I'III. II II: s: this IIIIIIIIIIIII I-IIIIIIiIioII IIII now in II IIIIII
onI II or>>. sent III saw our liIIIs . IIIIII IIIIII )01. IIIIIIIII us, sir, you
know us II'IIlI us I. IIIIII III-IIIIr too.

This was III'I' IIII II rI-IIIIion. and is such II IIiinIIIIt account of
starving.r III III-IIIII. as, I I'IIIIIIIss, I IIIII'I'I' IIII'I. II iIII. IIIIII II'IIs IIx-
I'IIIIIIiIIg IIIIIIIrIIIiIIiIIg Io IIIII. I IIIII IIIII. IIIIIIIIr IIpt III IM'III'VI'. it
III III: II "no III-I-IIIIIII, IN'I'IIIISIE IIIII _I'oulh gIII'c IIIII :III III'IIIIIIIII. III
II good port III it; though. I must own. not so IIistiIII't IIIIII
so I'IIIIIiIIg IIs IIII: III:IiII: IIIIII tho rather. IN'I'IHISC it sI-IIIIIs his
IIIothI-r I'IIII him III IIIII priIII- III'IIIIr UWII IiI'II; IIIII. IIIII poor IIIIIiII.
though IIIr I'IIIIinIIIIioII III-iIIIr stroIIgI-r tIIIIII IIIIII of her mis--
Irvss, IIIIII \IIIII in III Irs. and II IIIIIIIIIy wonmn too, slIII IIIiI'III.
struggle IIIIrIIIIr uiIII it: I soy the poor mIIiII might IIII sup-
posed to fool IIIII IIxtIIIImil) soniIIthing soIIuIIr IIIIIII IIIIr IIIisIrIIss,
who might. IIII IIIIIIIIIIII III kt'l'p IIIII. Inst hit SIIIIII'IIIIII'.' Ion-for
than she [noted IIiIh IIIII' III rIIIiIII'II. thII. IIIIIiIl.1\'II question
as IIIII case is Ill'l'l' IIIIIIIIIIII, it' our ship, or some otIIIIr, IIIIII not
so pI-oIiIIIIIIIiIIlIy met them II I'I-II do 5 more II oIIld have ended
all IIIIIiI- IiIIIs, IIIIIIIss they had pIIIII Inlcd it by voting one
another; IIIIII that IIIIIII. IIII tIIIIir IIIIsII. stood II IIIIIII IIIII'II scrIIId
them lint II little IIIIiIII, they being live IIIIIIIII'IIII Icngucs Irom
any IIIIIII, or any possibilily of relief, other than in the miracu-
sous manner it happened: but this is by the way; I return to
my disposition of things among the poop e.

And, first, it is to be observed here, that for many reasons I did
not think fit to let them know anything of the sloop I had framed,
and which I thought of setting up among them; for I found, at
least at my first coming, such seeds of divisions among them, that
Isaw plainly, had I set up the sloop, and left it among them,
they would, upon every light disgust, have separated, and gone"
away from one another, or perhaps have turned pirates, and so
made the island a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober
and religious people, as I intended it nor did I leave the two
pieces of brass cannon that I had on board, or the two quarter-
deck guns that my nephew took extraordinary, for the same
reason: I thought it was enough to qualify them for a defensive
war against any that should invade them, but not to set them
up for an offensive war, or to go abroad to attack others; which,
in the end, would only bring ruin and destruction upon them:
I reserved the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service
another way, as I shall observe in its place.

Having now done with the island, I left them all in good cir-
cumstances, and in a flourishing. condition, and went on board
my ship again the 6th of May, having been about twenty-five
days among them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the
island till I came to remove them, I promised to send them far-
ther relief from the Brazils, if I could possibly find an opportunity:
and, particularly, I promised to send them some cattle, such as
sheep, hogs, and cows; as to the two cows and calves which I
brought from England, we had been obliged, by the length of
our voyage, to kill them at sea. for want of hay to feed them.
 

5 EU" 0 N X L.

ENCOUNTER WITH SAVAGES AT SEA--FRIDAY'S DEATIL--ROBINSON
FINDS HIS FORMER. PARTNER IN THE BRAZILS.----SAILS FOR. THE
EAST INDIES.

'I'uE next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set
sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about
twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but
this: that about three days after we had sailed, being hccalmed,
and the current setting strong to the E. N. 1%., running, as it were,
into a bay or gulf on the land side, we were driven something out
of our course, and once or twice our men cried out, Land to the
eastward; but whether it was the continent or islands we could
not tell by any means. But the third day, towards evening, the
sea smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were,
covered towards the land with something very black; not being
able to discover what it was, till after some time, our chief mate,
going up the main--shrouds a little way; and looking at them with
a perspective, cried out it was an army. Icould not imagine
what he meant by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily.
Nay, sir, says he, don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet
too; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see
them paddle along, for the are coming towards us apace.

I was a little surprised, then, indeed, and so was my nephew the
captain ; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island,
and having never been in those seas before, that he could not tell
what to think of it, but said, two or three times, we should all be
devoured. I must confess, considering we were becalmed, and the
current set strong towards thoshore, I liked it the worse; how-
ever, I bade them not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor
as soon as we came so near to know that we must engage them.

The weather continued calm, and they came on space
towards us; so I gave order to come to an anchor, and furl
all our sails: as for the savages, i told them they had nothing
to fear but tire, and therefore they should get their boats out.
and fasten them, one close by the head, and the other by the
stern. and man thent both well, and wait the issue in that
posture: tltis I did, that the men in the boats might be ready
with sheets and buckets to put out any fire these savages would
endeavour to tlx to the outside of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they
eame up with us; but never was such ahorrid sight seen by
Christians: though my mate was much mistaken in his calcula-
tion of their number, yet when they came up we reckoned about
a hundred and twenty-six; sotne of them had sixteen or seven.
teen tnen in them, some. more, and the least six or seven.

When they eame nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless they
had never seen before; nor eould they, at first, as We ailer-
wards uaderstmul. know what to make of us; they eame boldly
up, however, very near to us, and seemed to go about to row
round us, but we. called to our men in the boats not to let them
eome too near them. This very order brought us to an engage-
ment with them, without our designing it: for tive or six of the
large euuoes eame so near our longhoat that our men beckoned
with their hands to keep them baek, whieh they understood
very well. and went. buek. but at their retreat about fifty arrows
mute on board us from those. boats, and one of our men in the
louglmat was very mueh wounded. However, I ealletl to them
not. to tire. by any means; but we handed down some deal boards
into the boat, and the. earpenter presently set up a kind of fence,
like waste boards. to eover them from the arrows of the savages,
it' they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards they all eame up in a body
astern of us, and so near, as that we eould easily diseeru what
they were, though we eouhl not tell their design; and I easily
found they were some of mv old friends, the saute sort of
savages that I had been used to engage with; and in a short
time more they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they came
directly broadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon
us. till they eame so near that they could hear as 8 weak: upon
this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they s IOllltl shoot
any more arrows, and made all our guns read '; but being so
near as to be. within hearing, I made Friday go out upon the
deek, and eall out aloud to them in his language, to know
what they meant; whieh ats'ordingly he did. Whether they
understood him or not, that I knew not; but as soon as he had
eailed to them. six of them. who were in the foremost or ni hest
boat to "8. turned their canoes from us, and stoo ing own,
showed us their naked baeksides. just as if, in ling ish, saving
yOur presence, they had bid us kiss -----: whether this was a
defianre or challenge we knew not. or whether it was done in
mere contempt. or as a signal to the rest; but immediately
l-'riday cried out they Were going to shoot. and. unhappily for
him. poor fellow. they let tly ahont three hundred of their
arrows. and. to my inexpressible grief. killed poor Friday. no
other man heing in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with
no less than thrm arrows. anal about three more fell very near
him; such nnlnek y marksmen they were!

I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and
companion. that I immediately ordered tive guns to be loaded
with small shot. and four with great. and gave them such a
broadside. as they had never heard in their lives het'ore. to be
sure. They were not. above half a cable length otf when we
tired; and our gunners took their aim so well that three or four
ot'their canoes were overset. as we had reason to believe. by
one shot only.

The ill manners of turning it 1 their bare. haeksides to us gave
us no great otfenee; neither tltl I know for certain whether
that. which would iass for the greatest eontempt among us
might he nnderstooil so by them or not; therothre. in return.
I had only resolved to have tired four or five. guns at them
with ponder only. uhich I knew would frighten them sum-
eiently: but when they shot at us directly. with all the furv they
were capable of. and especially as they had killed my poor li'riday.
whom I so entirely loved and valued. and who. indeed. so well
deserved it. I thought myself not only justifiable before God and
luau. but would lmve lieen very glad it' I eould have nverset every
canoe there. and druwned every one ot'them.

l eau neither tell how many we killed. nor how many we
wounded. at this hmadside. but sure such a fright and hurry
never n as seen among such a multitude; there were thirteen or
fourteen ot their canoes split mnl overset in all. and the. men all
set a swimming: the rest. frightened out of their wits. seoured
away as fast as they could. taking but little care to save those
whose hosts were. split or spoiled with our shot; so I suppose
that many of them were lost; and our men took up one poor
fellow swimming for his life. above an hour alter they were all
gone.

The slnall shot front our cannon must needs kill and wound a
great many; but. in short. we never knew any thing how it went
with them. for they tied so fast. that in three lnmrs. or then-abouts.
we eonld not see above three or four straggling canoes. nor did
we ever see the rest any more; for a breeze. of wind springing
up the same evening. we Weighed. and set sail for the Brazils.

We had a prisoner. indeed. but the creature was so sullen
that he would neither eat nor speak. and we all fancied he
would starve himself to death: but I took a way to cure him;
for i made the!" take him and turn him into the longboat, and
make him believe they would toss him into the sea again, and so
leave him where they found him. it' he would not speak : nor
would that do, but they really did throw him into the sea. and
mine. away from him. and then he followed them, for he swam
like a eork, and ealled to them. in his tongue, though they knew
not one word of what he said: however, at last they took him in
again. and then he began to be more tractable; nor did I ever
design they should drown him.

We were now under sail again; but I was the most discon-
solate ereature alive for want of my man Friday, and would have
been very glad to have gone back to the island to have taken
one of the. rest from theuee. for my oeeasion; but it could not
be; so we went on. We had one prisoner, as l have said, and
it. was a long time before. we eonld make him understand any
thing: but, in time. our men taught him some. English, and he
began to be a little traetable. Alterwards, we inquired what
eountry he eame from, but eonld make nothingot' what he said;
for his spt't't'li was so odd. all guttnrnls. and he spoke in the
throat in sneh a hollow. odd manner. that we could never form
a word afler him ; and we were all of opinion that they might
speak that language as well if thev were. gagged as otherwise ;
nor eonld we. perceive that they had any occasion either for
teeth. tongue. lips, or palate. but formed their words just as a
hunting horn forms a tune. with an e um throat. He told us.
however. some time after. when we had] taught him to speak a
little English, that they were. going with their kings to fight a
great battle. When he said kings, we asked him how many
kings .' He. said thev were. live. nation (we. eonld not make him
understand the plural s). and that they all joined to go against
two nation. We asked him what made them come. up to us '! He
said. " 'l'o makee te. great wonder look." Here it is to be observed.
that all those natives. as also those of At'riea, when they learn
English. alu ays add two e's at the end of the words where we use
one: and they plnee the aeeeut upon them. as makee, tnkee, and
the like: and we. eonld not break them ot'it; nay, [could hardly
make Friday leave it otl', though at last he did.

And now I name the. mor t'ellow once more. I must take mv
last leave. of him: Poor ionest Friday ! W e buried him with all
the deeeney and solemnit y possible, by putting him into a collin,
and throwing him into the. sea; and I caused them to fire
eleven guns for him: and so ended the life. of the most grateful,
faithful, honest, and most atl'eetionate. servant. that ever man had.

We. went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in
about twelve days' time we made. land, in the. latitude of five
degrees south of the. line. being the. north-eastermost land 01
all that part of Ameriea. We. kept on S. by E. in sight of the
shore. four days, when we made Ca )c St. Augustine, and in
three days came to an anchor oil the ay of All Saints, the old
plaee of my deliverance, from whenee. came. both my good and
evil fate.

Never ship came to this port that had less business than I
had. and vet it was with great ditlieulty that. we were admitted
to hold the least eorrespondeuee on shore; not. my partner
himself. who was alive. and made a great figure. among them.
not. my two merehant trustees. not the fame. ot' my wonderful
preservation in the island. eould obtain me that. t'avonr; but. my
partner remembering that I had given live. hundred moidores
to the priory ot' the monastery ot'the Augustines. and two hundred
and sevent y-tw o to the poor. went tothe. monasterv. and obliged
the prior that then was. to go to the governor. and get leave for
me. personally. with the raptaiu and one more. besides eight
seamen. to eome on shore. and no more; and this upon eondition
absolutely eapitnlated for. that we should not other to land any
goods out ot'the ship,or to earry any person away without lieenee.
They were so st riet with us as to landing any goods. that it was
with extreme ditlienlty that I got on shore three bales of English
goods, sneh as tine broad-eloths. stalls, and some linen, whieh I
had brought. fora present to my mrtner.

He was a very generous. open-hearted man; though. like me.
he eame from little at first ; and though he knew not that I had
the least design of giving him any thing. he sent me on hoard a
present of fresh provision. wine. and sweetmeats. worth above
thirty moidores. iueluding some tobaeeo. and three. or four tine
med..ls of gold: but I was even with him in my present. whieh,
as l have said. eonsisted ol' tine broad-eloth. English stutl's, lore.
and line hollnuds: also I delivered him about the value of one.
hundred pounds sterling. in the same goods,t'or other uses; and
l obliged him to set up the sloop. whieh I had brought with me
from England. as l have said. for the use of my eolouy, in order
to send the refreshments I intended to my plantation.

.-\eeordingly. he got hands. and tinished the sloop in a very few
days. for she was already framed ; and I gave. the master of her
sueh instruetions as that he eould not miss the plnee; nor did he
miss them. as I had an aeeonnt from my partner afterwards.
I got him soon loaded with the small eargo l sent them; and
one. of our seamen. that had been on shore with me there. otl'ercd
to go with the sloop and settle there. upon my letter to the
governor Spaniard to allot him a sullieient quantity of land for
a plantation. and giving him some elothes and tools for his
phoning work. whieh he said he lllltlt'l'sltNNl, having been an old
planter at Maryland. and a bueeaneer into the. bargain. len-
eouraged the fellow. by granting all he desired; and. as an
addition. I gave. him the. savage whom we had taken irisoner
of war to be his slave. and ordered the governor Spauia to give
him his share of every thing he wanted with the rest.

When we came to tit this man out, my old partner told me
there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his
acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure of the church.
i know not what the matter is with him, says he, but on my
conscience I think he is a heretic in his heart, and he has been
obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition; that he
would he very glad of such an opporttmity to make his escape,
with his wife, and two daughters; and if I would let them go to
my island, and allot them a plantation, he would give them a
small stock to begin with; for the ofliecrs of the Inquisition had
seized all his etl'eets and estate, and he had nothing left but a
little household stuil', and two slaves: and, adds he, though 1
hate his principles, yet I Would not have him fall into their
hands, for he will he assuredly burned alive if he does.

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with
them; and we concealed the man, and his wife and daughters,
on hoard our ship, till the sloop put out to go to sea; and then,
having put all their goods on hoard some time before, we put
them on hoard the sloop after she war got out of the bay.

()ur seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and
their stocks, indeed, were much alike rich in tools, in prepara-
tions, and a farm; but nothing to begin with, except as above:
however, they carried over with them, which was worth all the
rest. some materials for planting sugarcanes, with some plants oi
canes, which he, I mean the Portugal man, understood very well.

Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the
island, I sent them by the sloop three mileh cows and live calves,
about twenty-two hogs among them, three sows big with pig,
two mares, and a stonehorse. For my Spaniards, according to
my promise, I engaged three Portugal women to go, and recom-
mended it to them to marry them, and use them kindly. lcould
have procured more women, but I remembered that the poor
prosecuted man had two daughters, and that there were but tive
of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had wives of their own.
though in another country.

All this cargo arrived safe. and, as you may easily suppose,
was very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now, with
this addition, between sixty and seventy people, besides little
children, of which there were a great many. I found letters at
London front them all, lw way of Lisbon, when I came back to
England. of which I shall also take some notice immediately.

I have now done with the island, and all manner of discourse
about it; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums
would do tvell to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect
to read of the follies of an old man, not warned by his own
harms, much less by those of other men, to beware of the like;
not cooled bv almost forty years' miseries and disappointments;
not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation, nor made
cautious by afflictions and distress beyond imitation.
I had no more business to go to tho that Indian than a man at
full lilwrt y has to go to tho turnkey at Non-gate, and desire him
to loek him up among tho prisonors there. and stat-v0 him. Had
I taken a small vessel [him l-lnglnnd. and gono directly to the
island: lunl I loaded her. as I did the other vessel, with all the
neeessuries for the plantation. and for my )eople; taken a potent
from the government here to tun-e seeun my pmperty, in sub-
jeetion only to that of l'inglnud; hud l ('ulsoed over cannon and
ammunition. servants. and people to plnnt. and taken possession
of the 'lltll'l'. t'ortitied and strengthened it in the quno of Englnntl.
and inn-eased it with people. as I might easily luwo done; lnnl I
then settled myself there. and sent the. ship buck laden with mud
five. as I might ulso have done in six inouths' little. and on ered
my friends to how titted her out again t'oronr supply; lunl l
done this. and stayed there myself. I had at leust ueted Iihe a tuna
ofeonunon sense; hut I was possessed with n wandering spirit.
and seorned nil advantages: l pleased myself with being the
patron of the people I placed there. and doing for them in a kind
ol'luiughty. Iuajestie wny. like on old patriarchal tuounn-h. pro-
viding for them as it' I lnul been father or the whole tiunily, us
well as of the plnntntion but I never so mueh us pretended to
plant in the nmue of any government or nation. or to aeknon letlgo
any prim-e. or to call my people suhjeets to why one tuition morn
than another: nuy. I never so inueh as gave the plaee. u nnme.
but left it.ns I found it. ln'longingto nolnulyuilnl the. ioople under
no diseiplino or government but my on II; who. I tough I hud
intlnenee over the!" us a father and heueliu'tor. had no authority
or power to net oreonunnnd one. way or other. farther tlmn Volun-
tary eonsent. moved them totsnnply: yet even this. had I stnyed
there. would have done well enough: hut us i rambled from them,
and came there no more. the last letters 1 had from nnv ol' them
were hy my partner's menus, who nt'terwnnis sent another sloop
to the plat-e. aud who sent. me word. though I hnd not the. letter
till I got to London. several years after it was written. that. they
went on but poorly, were uiaieontent with their Ion stay there;
thut Will A tluns was (lead; that tin: ot' the. S ianiun s were come
aunt" and though they hml not been nun-t molested by the.
savages vet they had luul some skirmishes with them; and that
they begged of him to write tome to think ot'the promise I luid
made to feteh them away, that they might see their country
again before they died.

But i was gone it n-ihlgooso ehnse. indeetll and they that
will how any more of me. must ho content to follow me into A
new variety of follies. hardships. and wihl adventures. wherein
the justice of Providence. nmy be duly observed; and Wu may
sen how easily Heaven can orgo us with our own desires,
make the stmugest of our wis ies be our ntlliction, and punish
us most severely with those very things which we think it
would be our utmost happiness to be allowed in. Whether I
bad business or no business, away I went; it is no time now
to enlarge it on the reason or absurdity of an own conduct, but
to come to t to history ; l was embarked for t e voyage, and the
vo age I went.

{shall only add a word or two concerning my honest popisb
clergyman ; for let their opinion of us, and all other heretics in
general, as they call us, be as uncharitable as it may, I veril
believe this man was very sincere, and wished the good of 1
men: yet I believe he was upon the reserve in many of his
expressions to prevent giving me oll'ence; for l scarce heard
him once call on the blessed Virgin, or mention St. Jago or his
guardian angel, though so common with the rest of them : how-
ever, I say. I had not the least doubt of his sincerity and pious
intentions on his own part; and lam lirmly of opinion, if the
rest of the po iish missionaries were like him, they would strive
to visit even t ie mor 'l'artars, and Laplauders, where they had
nothing: to give t win, as well as covet to flock to India, l'irsia,
China, t\"e. the most wealthy of the heathen countries; for if
they expected to bring no gains to their church by it, it may well
be admired how they came to admit the Chinese Confucius into
the ealendar ol'the. ('hristian saints. But this by the by.

A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious priest asked
me leave to go thither ; being still, as he observed, bound never
to tinish any voyage he began. llow happy had it been for me
il' i had gone uitb him! llut it was too late now: all things
lleaven appoints for the best: had I gone with him, I had never
had so many things to be thankful for, and the reader had never
heard ot' the second part of the travels and adventures of Robin-
sou Crusoe: so I must here leave. exelaimiog at myself, and go
on with my voyage. From the Brazils we made directly over
the Atlantic Sea to the Cape ol'Good Hope, and bad a tolerable
good voyage, our eourse generally south-east, now and then a
storm, and seine contrary winds, but my disasters at sea were
at an end; mv future rubs and cross events were to bel'al me
on share, that it might appear the land was as well prepared to
be our seourge us the sea.

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on
board, who was to direet all her motions after she arrived at the
Cape. only being limited to a certain number of days for stay,
by charter-party, at. the several ports she was to go to. This
was none of my business, neither did 1 meddle with it; my
nephew, the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those
things between them as they thought tit.

(b l.
\-I
 

SECTION XLl.

THE VESSEL TOUCHES A'l' MADAGASCAR.---AFFRAY "'1'"! THE NA-
TIVES,----\\'ll0 ARE MASSACRED BY THE CREW.--THE SAILORS
Alf'l'EltWAltDS REFUSE TO SAIL WITH RQBINSON, WHO IS LEFT
BY HIS NEI'HEW, THE CAPTAIN, IN BENGAL.

WE stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in
fresh water, but made the best of our way for thc coast of Coro-
mandel. We were indeed informed that a French man-of-war of
fiftv guns, and two large merchant ships, were gone for thc Indies;
and as I knew we were at war with France, I had some appre-
hensions of them; but they went their own way, and we heard
no more of them.

I shall not pester the reader with a. tcdious description of
places, journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, lati-
tudes, trade--winds, &e.; it is enough to name the ports and
places which we touched at, and what occurred to us upon our
passing from one to another. We touched first at the island of
Madagascar, where, though the people are fierce and treacherous,
and very well armed with lances and bows, which they use with
inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared very well with them a while;
they treated us very civilly; and, for some trifles which we gave
them, such as knives, scissors, &c. they brought us eleven good
fat bullocks of a. middling size, which we took in, partly for fresh
provisions for our present spending, and the rest to salt for the
ship's use.

We were obliged to stay here some time after we had fur-
nished ourselves with provisions; and I, who was always toe

, curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I came,
was for going on shore as often as I could. It was on the east
side of the island that we went on shore one evening; and the
peeple, who, by the way, are very numerous, came throngirg
about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance; but as we h
traded freely with them, and had been kindly used, we thought
ourselves in no danger; but when we saw the people, we cut
three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them up at a distance
from us; which, it seems, is a mark in that country, not only of
a trace and friendship, but when it is accepted. the other side
sets up three poles or boughs, which is a signal that they accept
the truce too: but then this is a known condition of the truce,
that you are not to pass beyond their three poles, towards them,
nor they to come past your three poles, or boughs, towards
you; so that you are perfectly secure within the three oles,
and all the space between your poles and theirs is allowe like
a market for free converse, traffic, and commerce. When you
go there, you must not carry your weapons with you; and if
they come into that space, they stick up t eir 'avelins and lances
all at the first poles, and come on unarmed; ut if any violence
is otl'ered them, and the truce thereby broken, away they
run to the ales, and lay hold of their weapons, and the truce
is at an en .

It happened one evening when we went on shore, that a greater
number of their peo le came down than usual,but all very friendl
and civil; and they rought several kinds of provisions, for whic
we satisfied them with such toys as we had; their women, also,
brought us milk and roots, and several things very acee table
to us, and all was quiet; and we made us a little tent or ut of
some boughs of trees, and lay on shore all night.

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satis-
fied to lie on shore as the rest; and the boat riding at an anchor
about a stone's cast from the land, with two menin her to take
care of her, I made one of them come on shore; and getting
some boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread the
sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under the cover of the
branches of the trees all night in the boat.

About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of our men
make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for God's sake,
to brin the boat in, and come and help them, for they were all
like to e murdered; at the same time] heard the fire of five
muskets, which was the number of the guns they had, and that
three times over; for, it seems, the natives here were not so
easily frightened with guns as the savages were in America,
where I had to do with them. All this while I knew not what
was the matter, but rousing immediately from sleep with the
noise, [caused the boat to be thrust in. and resolved, with three
fusees we had on board, to land and assist our men.

We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in too
nnieli haste: for being come to the shore. they ilungetl into the
water. to get to the boat with :ill the ex iedition t iey eoiild. being
pursued by between three und t'oiir iiindred men. Our men
were but nine in all. and only five of them had llisees with them.-
tlio rest had pistols and swords. indeed, but they were of small
use to them.

We [ooh up seven of our men. and with dillleiiltv enough too,
three of them being in y ill wounded; and tluit whieh was still
worse nus. that while \\ e stood in the boat to take our men in,
we \\ ere in as uiiieh danger as they were in on shore; for they
toured their iii-rows iii upon us so thick. that we were glad to
iarrieado the side of the bout tip with the benches. and two or
three loose hoards. \ihieh. to our great sittistiietion. we luid by
mere iii-eideut iii the limit. And yet. had it been thiylight. they
are, it seems. sueh exact marksineu. that il'they could have seen
but the least part of any ot'iis. they would have been sure ot'ns.
We lnid. by the light of the moon. a little sight ot'tlieiii. as they
stood peliiug us from the shore with durts and arrows; and
huiing got reiidv our lin'rttl'lllfl. u it gave them tt volley. that we
eoiild hear. by the eries of some of them. had wounded several;
ho" t'\'t'|'. they 'tuud thus iii battle army on the shore till break
ol'duy. "lllt'll we suppose was that they might see the better to
ltlhl' their aim at us.

In this eonditioii \\ e lay. and i-oiilil not tell how to weigh our
anelior or set up our sail. beeiiuse ii e must needs stand up in the
boat. iiinl they were sure to hit us as we were to hit it bird in ii
tree with small shot. We made signals of distress to the ship,
whieh. though she rode ii league otl'. yet my nephew the eaptiiiii.
hearing our tiring. tiiid by glasses pereeiviiig the posture we lay
in. and that we tired towards the shore. pretty well understood
us; and weighing author with itll speed. he stood as near the
shore as he diirst with the ship. and then sent another boat. with
ten liuiuls in her. to assist ll. : but we eiilled to them not to
route too iiezirI telling them what condition we were in; how-
ever they stood in near to us. and one of the men tuking the end
of a ltl\\-iillt' in his hand, and keeping one limit between hiin
and the enemy. so that they eoiihl not perfectly see him. suuni
on board us. and imide fast the line to the bout; iipon iihieh we
slipped out a little t':|l|it', and leaving our tinelior behind, they
towed us out ot'the reiieh ol' the arrows; we all the while lying
close behind the harrieadu we had made.

As soon as we were got from between the ship aiitl the shore.
that we eonld lay her side to the shore. slio ritii along just by
them. and poured iti a broadside among them loaded with pieces
of iron and lead. small bullets. and such stiitl'. besides the great
shot. which made a terrible havoc among them.

When we \\ ere got on board itul out of danger. we had time
to exutninc into the occasion ot'tliis fray; and. indeed, our
supereargo, who had been often in those parts, put me upon it;
for he said he was sure the inhabitants would not have touched
us after we had made a truce, if we had not done something to
proVoke them to it. At length it came out. that an old wotnan
who had come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our
poles, and a young woman with her, who also brottght some
roots or herbs; and while the old woman (whether she was
mother to the young woman or no they could not tell) was sell-
ing as the mills, one of our men offered some rudeness to the
\\'('Ilt'l| that was with her, at which the old woman made a great
noise; however. the. s unnan would not quit his prize, but carried
her out of the old Woman's sight among the trees, it being almost
dark: the old woman went away without her, and, as we may
suppose, made an outcry among the people she came from, who,
upon notice, raised this great army upon us in three or four
hours; and it was great odds but. we had all been destroyed.

()ne of ottr men was killed with a lance thrown at him just
at. the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent they
had made: the rest came otl' free, all bttt the fellow who was
the occasion of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for his
black mistress. for we. couhl not hear what became of him a
great while. We lay upon the shore two days after, though the
wind presented. and tuade signals for him, and tnade our boat
sail up shore and down shore several leagues, bttt in Vttllt, so we
were obliged to give him over; and if he alone had sntl'ered for
it, the loss had been less.

I could not satisfy myself, however. without venturing on
shore once more, to try if I could learn any thing of him or
them: it was the third night after the action that i had a great
mind to learn. it' I could by any in 'tltls, what misehiet' we had
done, and how the game stood on the Indians' side. I was
careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again;
but I ought, indeed. to have been sure that the men I went with
had been under my command. before I engaged in a thing so
hazardous and miscltierous, as l was brought into by it with-
out. design.

We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the. ship,
besides the supercargo and myself. and we landed two hours
before. midnight, at the same place where the Italians stood
drawn up in the evening before: I landed here, because my
design. as l have said, was chiefly to see if they had quitted the
field. and it' they had left any marks behind them of the mischief
we had done. them; and I thought if we could surprise one or
two of them, perhaps we might get out: man again, by way of
exchange.

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two
bodies. whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the other.
We neither saw our heard any body stir when we landed; and
we marched in . one body at a distance from the other, to the
place; but at unit could see nothing. it being very dark; till h
and by our boatswniu. who led the first party, stumbled and fe I
over a dead body. This made them halt awhile; for knowing
by the eireumstauees that they were at the place where the
Indians had stood, they waited tor my coming u there. We con-
cluded to halt till the moon began to rise, whic we knew would
he in less than an hour, when we. eould easily discern the havoc
we had made among them. We told thirty-two bodies upon the
ground, whereof two a ere not quite dead; some had an arm, and
some a leg shot oil". and one his head; those that were wounded.
we suppose. they had carried away.

When we. had made, as i thought. a full diseovery of all we.
could come. to the knowledge of. l was resolved for going on
board; but the boatswain and his party sent me word that they
were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where these
dogs, as they called them. dwelt. and asked me to go along with
them; and if they could find them, as they still fancied they
should. they did not doubt of getting a good hootv; and it might.
he they might find 'l'om Jell'ry there: that was the man's name
we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough
what answer to have given them; for I should have commanded
them instantly on board, knowing it was not a hazard (it for us
to run, who had a ship, and ship-loading in our charge, and a
voyage to make whieh depended very much upon the lives of
the men; but as they sent me word they were resolved to go.
and only asked me and my company to go along with them, I
positively refused it. and rose up. for l was sitting on the ground,
in order to go to the boat. One or two of the men began to
importune me to go; and when I refused, began to grumble.
and say that they were not under my command, and they would
go. Come. Jnek. says one of the men, will you go with me?
I'll go for one. Jack said he would--and then snother,--aud,
in a word they all left me but one, whom I persuaded to stay,
and a boy left in the. boat. So the supereargo and I, with the
third man, went back to the boat, where we told them we would
stay for them, and take care to take in as many of them as
should he left; for I told them it was a mad thing they were
going about. and supposed most of them would run the fate of
Tom Jell'ry.

'l'hey told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would
come off again, and they would take care, &c.; so away they
went I cntreated them to consider the ship and the voyage.
that their lives were not their own, and that they were entrusted
with the voyage. in some measure; that if the miscarried, the.
ship might he lost for want of their help, an that they could
not answer for it to God or man. But I might as well have
talked to the mainmast of the ship; they were mad upon taeir
journey, only they gave me good words, and begged I would
not be angry; that they did not doubt but they would be back
again in about an hour at farthest; for the Indian town, they
said, was not above half a mile off, though they found it above
two miles before they got to it.

Well, they all went away; and though the attempt was des-
perate. and such as none but madmen would have gone about,

ct, to give them their due, they went about it as warily as
boldly: they were gallantly armed, for they had every man a
fusee or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol; some of them had
broad eutlasscs, some of them had hangers, and the boatswain
and two more had oleaxes; besides all which they had among
them thirteen handigrcnadoes: bolder fellows, and better pro-
vided, never went about any wicked work in the world.

When they went out. their chief design was plunder, and they
were in mighty hopes of finding gold there; but a circumstance,
which none of them were aware of, set them on fire with revenge,
and made devils of them all. When they came to the few Indian
houses which they thought had been the town, which was not
above half a mile off, they were under a great disappointment,
for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses; and where
the town was, or how big, they knew not. They consulted
therefore, what to do, and were some time before the could
resolve; for if they fell upon these, they must cut al their
throats, and it was ten to one but some of them might escape,
it being in the night, though the moon was up; and if one
escaped, he would run and raise all the town, so they should
have a whole army upon them: again, on the other hand, it
they went away and left those untouched, for the people were
all asleep, they could not tell which way to look for the town:
however, the last was the best advice; so they resolved to leave
them, and look for the town as well as they could. They went
on a little we , and found a cow tied to a tree; this, they pre-
sently concluded, would be a good guide to them; for, they said,
the cow certainly belonged to the town before them, or to the
town behind them; and if they untied her, they should see which
way she went: if she went back, they had nothing to say to her;
but, if she went forward, they woul follow her: so they cut the
cord, which was made of twisted flags, and the cow went on
before them, directl to the town; which, as they reported, con-
sisted of above two hundred houses or huts, and in some of these
they found several families living together.

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep
could make them; and. first, they called another council. to con-
sider what they had to do; and, in a word, they resolved to
divide themselves into three bodies, and so set three houses on
fire in three parts of the town; and as the men came out, tt

8 B8M Anvw'rtmrs or

seize them and bind them (it' any resisted, they need not he tucked
what to do then). and so to seareh the rest of the houses for
plunder: but they resolved to mareh silently first through the
town. and see what dimensions it was of, and if they might
venture upon it or no.

They did so. and desperately resolved that they would venture
upon them: but while they were animating one another to the
work. three of them. who were a little before. the rest,enlled out
aloud to them. aml told them that they had found 'l'om Jefl'ry:
they all ran up to the plat-e. where they found the poor fellow
hanging up naked by one arm. and his throat cut. There was
an Indian house just by the tree. where. they found sixteen or
seventeen ot'the prim-ipal Indians, who had been eoneernetl in
the fray with us hetbre. and two or three. of them wounded with
our shot ; aml our men found they were awake. and talking our.
to another in that. house. but knew not their number.

The sight of their poor mangled eomrade so enra red them, as
before. that they swore to one another they wouhl i i revenged.
and that not an Indian that enme into their hands should have
any quarter: and to work they went immediately, and yet not
no madly as might he expeeled from the rage and fury they were
in. Their tirst eare was to get something that would soon take
tireI but. alter a little search. they found that would he to no
purpose: for most of the houses were low, and thatehed with
tings and rushes. of whieh the country is full : so they presently
made some wildtire. as we. call it, by wetting a little powder in
tho palm of their hands; and in a quarter of an hour they set
the town on tire in four or five plaees. and particularly that house
where the Indians were not gone to bed.

As soon as the tire began to blaze. the poor frightened creatures
began to rush out to save their lives. but met with their fate in
the attempt ; and es weially at the door, where they drove them
bat-k. the boatswain iimself killing one or two with his poleam;
the house being large. and many in it. he did not rare to go in.
hut ealled fora hmal-gn'umlo. and threw it among them, which
at tirst frightened them. but. when it burst. made sueh havoc
among them. that they eried out in a hideous manner. In short.
most of the Indians who were. in the open part of the house were
killed or hurt with the grenade, except two or three who pressed
to the, door. which the bontswaiu and two more. kept, with their
hayonets on the. mnzzles of their pieees, and dispatehed all that
came. in their way : but there was another apartment in the
house. where the prinee or king. or whatever he was, and several
others were; and these Were. kept in till the. house, which was
by this time all in a light flame, fell in upon them, and they were
smothered together.

All this while they tired not a gun, because they would not
Inkcn the people faster than they could muster them; but thenonmsos IIIIIIsoI-z. 36.5

firu hegan III \I' aken them find enough. and our fellows were glad
to keep a little together in hoIliI s ; for the fire grew so raging.
all the.| houses being made III light IIIInIhIIinhlII sIIIIl'. that they
could hIIrIllII hear the street he III IIIIII them; and their business
was Io I'olloII the tire, for the sIIreII IIxIIIIIIIiIIn; as I'astas the.
tire. I-itlIIIII l'oIIIIIIIl the people. out III those. houses which were
hnrning, or frightened them out Uffllllt'rs' our people were ready
III their doors to knock them on the. head. still calling and hal-
looiII-g one to IInoIhIIr to re IIIIIIIIhIIr 'l'qu JIIIrrI'.

\\ lIile this "as doing. I Innst eoIII'IIss I II IN IN}! uneasy. and
IIspI-IiIIllI' II IIIIII I saw the. flames III the IoIIII. II'IhiIh. it hIIiIII'
IIiIIIII. seemed III he just lII' me. My nephIIII. the. IIIptaiu. who
\\:Is ronsIIIl l)\' his men. seeing snIIh II tire II as IIIIII' uneasy, not
kIIoII'inII' II hat the matter II as or II hat IlIIuIzeII l u- as in. espeeially
III "fill" the guns too. for by this time "In began to use their
lire-arias; a IhonsInIl thoughts oppressed his IiIiIIIl IIIIIIIIIIrIIiIIg
me and Ihe sn IIIrI'IIIIgII. IIlnit unnlIl hIIIIIInIII III us; and, at last,
though he. IIoulIl ill spare am more. men. yet not lInoIIiiIg what
exigi III II II II might he in. he takes IIIIIIIher hoat, IIIIII IIith thir-
Ieen men and hinIsII ll IIonIIIs on shore to IIIII.

"II "as surprised to see. Inc and the snpereargo in the boat.
with no more Ihan IIIII IIIII II . and though he II II\ glad that IIII
\IIIrII IIIIll. '\t't he II IIII in the same. iInpaIiIInIIe \IiIli us to know
II III" II 'l'I doing; for the noise. IIIIIIIiIIIIIIIl nnIl IhII llaIIIe increased;
in short. it "as nut to an impossibility Ior any man in the
world to rIstrain their enriosin Io knoiir IIhIIt had he pIInIIIl.
or their IIIIIIIIIII II IIIII Ihe. saIiItII III the IIIIIII. . in II II IIrIl I I0 IIap<
Iain told me he IIoIIlIl <<III and help his me". let IIhat IIIIIIlIl
wine. I argued IIiIh him. as I did heIorII. IIiIh the men. the
safe I_I III the ship. the dange Ir ol the Image, the iIIIIIIIest III the
oqurs IIIIIl IIIIIrIIhInIIs. I\'III.. and told him l and IIIII two men
would go. and only see. H II II IIonlIl III a IlistnnIIII learn II hat was
like to l't' the. event, and mine. haek and tell him. It was all
one to Inlk to my nephew. as it "I!!! to talk to the rest before;
he "'OlllIl go. he sniIl' . and he only \Iix'heIl he had left but ten
men in ll' II. ship - for he could not. think III Inning: his men lost
IoII IIIIIII III help; he. had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and
his life III d all' . IIIIIl IIIIIII' he. meat.

I II as no uIIuIeI aide. to sIIIII hIIhinIl now than I \\ as In persuade
them not to go} so. in shoiII IlIII. IIIIpIIIin ordered two men to
row had; the pinnaee and I'IIIIIlI twelve men more. leaving the
long-hunt III an auehor; and that II hen they eame hiwlt, six men
should keep IhII. III II hnaIs, and six more eon: c after us: so that
he IIIII I ah si\IIIIIn men in the ship; for the II hole ship' a com-
panv consisted oI si\III- III II men, "hereof two were lost In the

ate Ipmrrel II Ineh brought this Inisehief on.

BI mg now on the llllll'Cll, I'oII mIIv he. sure. we felt little of the
ground we trod on; and beinI' guided by the tire, we kept no

I! ll- "
path, but went directly to the place of the flame. If the noise
of the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of the poor
ieople were now quite of another nature, and tilled us with
liol'l'Ot'. 1 must. confess I was never at the sacking a city, or at
the taking a town by storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell
taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing man, woman. and child;
and 1 had read of Count 'l'illy sacking the city of Magdeburg,
and cutting the throats ol' twenty-two thousand of all sexes;
but I never had an idea of the thing itself before, nor is it )08-
sible to describe it, or the horror that was upon our min s at
hearing it. However, we went on, and at length came to the
town, though there was no entering the streets of it for the tire.
The first object we met with was the ruins ot'a hut or house, or
rather the ashes of it. for the house was consumed: and just
before it, plain enough to be seen by the light of the tire, lay
four men and three women killed. and. as we thought, one or
two more lay in the heap among the tire; in short, there were
such instances of rage altogether barbarous. and of a t'ury some.-
thing beyond what was human, that we thought it impossible
our men could be guilty of it; or if they were the authors of it,
we thought they ought to be every one of them put to the worst
of deaths. But this was not all: we. saw the tire increased for-
ward. and the cry went on just as the tire went on; so that we
were in the utmost confusion. We advanced a little way farther;
and. behold, to our astonishment, three naked women, and cry-
ing in a most. dreadful manner, came flying as if they had wings.
and after them sixteen or seventeen men. natives, in the same
terror and consternation. with three of our English butchers in
the rear; who, when they could not overtake them, tired in
among them, and one that was killed by their shot fell down in
our sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to be their
enemies, and that we would murder them as well as those that
pursued them. they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the
'woipen, and two of them fell down, as if already dead, with the
rig it.

My very soul shrunk within me. and my blood ran chill in mv
veins. when I saw this; and I believe, had the three English
sailors that pursued them come on, I had made our men kill them
all: however, we took some wavs to let the poor flying creatures
know that we would not hurt them; and immediately they came
up to us. and kneeling down with their hands lifted up, made
piteous lamentation to us to save them, which we let them know
we would; whereupon they crept all together in a huddle close
behind us. as for protection. I left mv men drawn up together,
and charging them to hurt nobody, but, it' possible, to get at
some of our people, and see what devil it was possessed them.
and what they intended to do, and to command them ott'; assur-
ing them that if they stayed till daylight, they would have a
hundred thousand men about their ears: I say, I left them, and
wont among those flying eo le, taking only two of our men
with me; and there was in ee a iteous spectacle amon them;
some of them had their feet terri ly burned, with tramp mg and
running through the tire, others their hands burned; one of the
women had fallen down in the fire, and was very much burned
before she could get out again; and two or three of the men had
cuts in their backs and thighs, from our men ursuing; and
another was shot through the body, and died whi e I was there.

I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was,
but I could not understand one word they said; though. by signs,
I )crceived some of them knew not what was the occasion them-
sc ves. I was so terrified, in my thoughts, at this outrageous
attempt, that I could not stay there, but went back to my own
men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town, through
the fire, or whatever might be in the way, and ut an end to it,
cost what it would: accordingly, as I came bac to In men, I
told them my resolution, and commanded them to fo low me;
when at the very moment came four of our men, with the boat-
swain at their head, rovin over heaps of bodies they had killed,
all covered with blood am dust, as if they wanted more people
to massacre, when our men hallooed to them as loud as they
could halloo; and with much ado one of them made them hear,
so that they knew who we were, and came up to us.

As soon as the hoatswain saw us, he set up a hulloo like a
shout of triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come;
and without waiting to hear me, Captain, says he, noble captain!
I am glad you are come; we are not half done yet: villanous
hell-hound dogs! I'll kill as many of them as poor Tom has
hairs upon his head: we have sworn to spare none of them;
we'll root out the very nation of them from the earth: and thus
he ran on, out of breath too with action, and would not give us
leave to speak a word.

At last, raising my voice, that I might silence him a little,
Barbarons dog! said I, what are you doing? I won't have one
creature touched more, upon pain of death: I charge you upon
your life, to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you are a
dead man this minute.--Wh_v, sir, says he, do you know what
you do, or what they have done? If on want a reason for what
we have done, come hither; and wit that he showed me the
poor fellow hanging, with his throat cut.

I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time would
have been forward enou h; but! thought they had carried their
rage too far, and remem red Jacob's words to his sons Simeon
and Levi--" Cursed be their an er, for it was fierce; and their
wrath, for it was cruel." ButI ad now a new task upon my
hands; for when the men I carried with me saw the sight, as I
had done, I had as much to do to restrain them as I should have
had with the others; nny. my nephew himself fell in with them,
and told me, in their hearing, that he wus only concerned for fear
of the men being overpowered: and as to the people. Ito thought
not one of thetn on rbt to live; for they had all gluttcd themselves
with the murder ot the poor man, and that they ought to be
used like murderers: upon these words, away run eight of my
men. with the. bouts-train and his crew, to cotnplete their bloody
work; nntl I. seeing: it quite. ottt of toy power to restrain them.
came. away pensh e uttd sad; for I could not bear the sight. much
less the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that fell
into their hands. '

I got nobody to come bnek with me. but the su tercargo and
two men. "ml with these. walked back to the. bout. t. was a very
great piece of toll y in me. I confess. to venture back as it were
alone; for as it began now to be. almost day. and the alarm ltad
run over the country. there stood about forty men. armed with
lattces and bows. at the little. place where tlte twelve or thirteen
houses stood mentioned before: but by necidettt I missed the
place. and come. directly to the. seaside; and by the timel got.
to the seaside it was broad dny; immediately I took the. pinnuee
and went. on board. and sent her buck to assist: the men ttt what
might happen.

I observed, about the. time that I came to the. boat's side, that
the tire was pretty well out, and the noise abated: but in about
half an hour after I got on board I heard a volley of our men's
tire-arms. and saw u grout smoke: this, as I understood otter-
wurds, was our men falling upon the men who, as I said, stood
at tlte few houses on the. nay. of whom they killed sixteen or
seventeen. and set all the houses on tire, but. did not-meddle with
the women or children.

lly the time. the men got to the. shore again with the pinnace,
our men began to appear; the eume' dropping in. not in two
bodies as they went, but struggling here and there in such a
manner. that a small force of resolute men might. have cttt them
all otl'. But the dread of them was upon the whole country; and
the tttett were sur trised. and so frightened, tltut l believe a hun-
dred of them won d have tled at the sight of but tive of our men;
nor in all this terrible action was there a tnan that made any
considerable defence; they were so surprised between the terror
of the tire und the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that
they knew not which way to turn themselves; for if they tled
one way they were met by one party; it' back again, by another;
so that they were every where knocked dowtt: nor did any of
our men receive the least hurt. except one that sprained his foot,
and another that. had one of his hands burned.

l was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and, indeed.
with all the men. in my mind, but with him in particular, as well
for his acting so out at his duty, as commander of the ship, and
having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in his rompting,
rather than cooling, the rage of' his blind men. in so loody and
cruel an enterprise. My nephew answered me very respectfully,
but told me that when he saw the body of' the poor seaman whom
they had murdered in so cruel and barbarous a manner, he was
not master of' himself, neither could he govern his passion: he
owned he should not have done so. as he was commander of the
ship; but as he was a man. and nature moved him, he could not
bear it. As for the rest of the men, they were not subject to
me at all, and they knew it well enough; so they took no notice
of' my dislike.

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more ofit.
()ur men differed in the account of the number they had killed;
but according to the best of their accounts, put all together, they
killed or destroyed about one hundred and fifty people, men.
women, and children, and left not a house standing in the town.
As for the poor fellow 'l'om Jeffry, as he was quite dead (for his
throat was so cut that his head was half off), it would do him no
service to bring him away; so they only took him down from
the tree, where he was hanging by one hand.

However just our men thought this action, I was against them
in it, and I always after that time told them God would blast the
voyage; for I looked upon all the blood the shed that ni ht to
he murder in them; for though it is true t at they had illed
'I'om Jeffry. yet J efi'ry was the aggressor, had broken the truce,
and had violated or debauched a young woman of theirs, who
came down to them innocently, and on the faith of the public
capitulation.

'he boatswsin defended this quarrel when we were afterwards
on board. He said it was true that we seemed to break the
truce, but really had not; and that the war was begun the ni ht
before by the natives themselves, who had shot at us, and ki ed
one of' our men without any just provocation; so that as we
were in a capacity to fight them now, we might also be in a-
capacity to do ourselves justice upon them in an extraordinary
manner; that though the poor man had taken a little liberty
with the womb, he ought not to have been murdered, and that
in such a villanous manner; and that they did nothing but what
gas just, and what the laws of' God allowed to be done to mur-

erers.

One would think this. should have been enough to have warned
us against going on shore amongst heathens and barbarians:
but it is imsossible to make mankind wise but at their own
expense; an their experience seems to be always of most use
to them when it is dearest bought.

We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to
the coast of Coromandel. only to touch at Surat; but the chief
of the supereargo's design lay at the bay of' Bengal; where if he
missed his business outwanl-bound. he was to go up to China,
aml return to the coast as he came home.

The. tirst disaster that bet'el us was in the gulf of Persia, where
tive of our men venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the
gulf. were. surroumled by the Arabians. and either all killed or
carried away into slavery : the rest of the boat's crew were not
able to rescue. them. and had but just time to get otl' their boat.
I began to upbraid them with the. just retribution of Heaven in
this case; but the boatswain very warmlv told me. he thought i
went. farther in my censures than I could show any warrant for
in Scripturi; and referred to Luke. xiii. -l. where our Saviour
intimates that those men on whom the tower of Siloatu fell were.
not. sinners above all the (lalileaus; but that which put me to
silence in the case was. that not one of these live men who were
now lost were of those who \vent on shore to the massacre of
Madagascar, so I always called it. though our men could not
bear to hear the word umsmerr with any patience.

Ilut my frequent preaching to them on the subject had worse
eousetpteuees than I expected; and the boatswain who had been
the head of the attempt. came up boldly to me. one time. and
told me he found that I brought that allitir mutinually upon the
stage; that I made unjust reflections upon it. and had used
the men very ill on that account. aml himself in particular;
that as l was but. a passenger. aml had no commmnl in the
ship. or concern in the voyage. they were not obliged to bear
it; that they did not. know but I might have some ill design
in my head. alnl perhaps to call them to an account for it
when they came to England; and that. theretiire. unless I
would resolve to have done with it. aml also not to concern
myself any farther with him, or any of his all'airs. he would
leave the ship; for he did not think it was safe to sail with me
among them.

I heard him patieutl enough till he had done, and then told
him. that [confessed had all along opposed the massacre of
Madagascar. and that I had. on all occasions. spoken my mind
freely about it, though not more. upon him than any of the
rest ; that as to having no communal in the ship, that was true;
nor did 1 exercise any authority. only took the liberty of
speaking my mind in tliiiws which publicly concerned as all;
am! what concern I had in t. ie voyage was none of his business;
that. l was a considerable owner in the ship; in that claim, I
conceived I had a right to s ieak even tiirther than I had done,
and would not be. accountable to him or any one else; and began
to be a little warm with him. He made but little reply to me
at that time. and I thought the atlitir had been over. We were
at this time in the road at Bengal; and being willing to see the
place. i went on shore with the supercargo. in the ship's boat,
to divert myself; and towards evening was preparing to go on
hoard, when one of the men came to me, and told me he would
not have me trouhle myself to come down to the boat, for they
had orders not to carry me on board any more. Any one may
guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a message; and
I asked the man who bade him deliver that message to me?
lle told me, the cockswain. I said no more to the fellow, hut
hade him let them know he had delivered his message, and that
I had given him no answer to it.

I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told
him the story; adding, which I presently foresaw, that there
would he a mutiny in the ship; and entreated him to go immco
diately on board the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the
captain of it. But I might have spared this intelligence, for
before I had spoken to him on shore the matter was elfected on
hoard. 'l'lie hoatswaiu, the gunner, the carpenter, and all the
inferior otlicers, as soon as l was gone oll' in the boat, came up,
and desired to speak with the captain; and there the hoatswain,
making a long harangue, and repeating all he had said to me,
told the captain, in a fetv words, that as l was now gone ence--
alily on shore, they were loath to use any violence wit me,
wlueh, if I had not gone on shore, they would otherwise have
done, to oblige me to have gone; they therefore thought lit to
tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve in the ship
under his command, the would perform it well and faithfully;
hut if I would not quit t 1e ship, or the captain oblige me to quit
it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him;
and at that word all, he turned his face towards the mainmast,
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at
which all the seamen, being got together there, cried out, One
and all I one and all!

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great
presence of mind; and though he was sur rised, you may be
sure, at the thing, vet he told them calmly tlhat he would consi-
der of the matter; but that he could do nothing in it till he had
spoken to me about it. Housed some arguments with them
to show them the unreasonableucss and injustice of the thing:
but it was all in vain ; they sivore and shook hands round before
his face, that they would all go on shore, unless he would engage
to them not to suffer me to come any more on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation
to me, and did not know how I might take it: so he be an to
talk smartly to them; told them that l was a very consi erable
owner of the ship, and that, in justice, he could not put me out
of my own house; that this was next door to serving me as the
famous pirate Kidd had done, who made a mutiny in the ship,
set the captain on shore on an uninhabited island, and ran awa
with the ship; that let them go into what shi they would, if
ever they came to England again it would cost t em very dear;
that the ship was mine, and that he could not put me out of it'
and that he would rather lose the ship and the voyage too than
disoblige me so much ; so they might do as they pleased: how-
ever, he would go on shore and talk with me, and invited the
boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might accommodate
the matter with me. But they all rejected the proposal, and
said they would have nothing to do with me any more; and if I
came. on board, they would all go on shore. Well, said the cap~
tain, if you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with
him. So away he came to me with this account, a little after the
message had been brought to me from the cockswain.

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess; for I was
not without apprehensions that they would confine him by vio-
lence, set sail, and run away with the ship; and then I had been
stripped naked in a remote country, having nothing to help my-
self: in short, Ihad been in aworse case than when I was alone
in the island. But they had not come to that length, it seems,
to my satisfaction; and when my nephew told me what they
had said to him, and how they had sworn and shook hands that
they would, one and all, leave the ship if I was sufl'ered to come
on board, I told him he should not be concerned a'. it at all, for
I would stay on shore: I only desired he would take care and
send me all my necessary thinws on shore, and leave me a. suf>>
ficient sum of money, and I would find my way to England as well
as I could.

This was a. heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was
no way to help it but to comply; so, in short, he went on board
the ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded
to their importunity, and had sent for his goods from on board
the ship : so that the matter was over in a few hours, the men
returned to their duty. and I began to consider what course I
should steer.
 

SECTION X LI 1.

MEETS WITH AN ENGLISH MERCHANT WITH WHOM HE MAKES SOME
TRADING VOYAGES.--'I'I-IEY ARE MISTAKEN FOR PIRATES--VAN-
QUISII THEIR. PURSUEltS.--VOYAGE T0 CHINA.----RENCONTRE WITH
THE COCHIN CHlNI'SSE.--ISLAND 0F FORMOSA.--GULF 0F NANQUIN.
---r\PI'REIIEi\'SIONS 0F FALLING INTO THE HANDS OF THE DUTCH.

I was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I
think I may call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by
sea farther 011' from England than I was at my island; only, it
is true, I might travel here by land over the great Mogul's
country to Surat, might go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the
gulf of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over the Desert
of Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon; from thence by sea again
to Italy, and so overland into France; and this put together
might at least be a full diameter of the globe, or more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some
English ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the
island of Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England.
But as I came hither without any concern with the English East
India Company, so it would be difficult to go from hence with-
out their license, unless with great favour of the captains of
the ships, or the Company's factors, and to both I was an utter
stranger.

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without
me; a treatment I think a man in my circumstances scarce ever
met with, except when pirates running away with the ship, anu
setting those that would not agree with their villany on shore.
Indeed, this was next door to it, both ways; however, my nephew
left me two servants, or rather one companion and one servant;
the first was clerk to the urser, whom he engaged to go with
me, and the other was \is own servant. I took me also a
good lodging in the house of an Englishwoman, where several
memhants lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather Jews,
and one En lishman; here i was handsomely enough enters
tained: and t iat I might not be said to run rashly upon anything,
I stayed here above nine months considering what course to
take, and how to manage myself. I had some English goods
with me of value| and a considerable sum of money; my nephew
furnishing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of
credit for more, il' I had occasion, that I might not he straitened,
whatever mi ht happen.

I quickly (isposed of my goods to advantage. and. as I origi-
nallv intended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which,
of all other things, were the most proper for me, in my present
circumstances; because 1 could always carry my whole estate
about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my re-
turn to England, but none falling out to my mind, the English
merchant who lodged with me, and whom i had contracted an
intimate acquaintance with, came to me one morning. Country-
man, says he. I have a project to communicate to you, which, as
it suits with my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with yours
also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it. Here we
are posted, you by accident, and l by my own choice, in a part
of the world very remote from our own countr ; but it is in a
country wherghy us who understand trade and usiness,agrcat
deal of money is to he got. If you will put one thousand ounds
to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, t ie first
we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, I'll be merchant,
and we'll go a trading voyage to China: for what should we stand
still for! The whole world is in motion, rolling round and
round; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly,
are busy and diligent: why should we be idle? There are no
drones in the world but men; why should we be of that number?

I liked this proposal very w oil. and the more because it seemed
to be expressed with so much goodwill, and in so friendly a
manner. I will not say but that I might, by my loose unhinged
circumstances, he the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or
indeed any thing else; whereas, otherwise, trade was none of
my element. However, I might perhaps say with some truth,
that it' trade was not my element, rambling was, and no pro-

)sal for seeing any part of the world which I had never seen

fore could possibly come amiss to me.

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our
minds, and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get
English sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to
govern the wage and manage the sailors which we should pick
up there. A r some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a
winner, English; a Dutch ca enter, and three foremastmen.

ith these we found we coul do well enough, having Indian
seamen, such as they were, to make up.

There are so many travellers who have wrote the history of
their voyages and travels this way, that it would be very little
diversion to any body to 've along account of the places we
went to, and the eople w o inhabit there: these things I leave
to others, and re er the reader to those 'ournals and travels o!
Englishmen of which many I find are pu lished and more pro-
mised every day; it is enough for me to tell you that we made
this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from thence
to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium and
some arrack; the first a commodity which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted
there. In a word, we went up to Suskan, made a very great
voyage, were eight months out, and returned to Bengal; and I
was very well satisfied with my adventure. I observe that our
peo la in En land often admire how ofilcers which the Com any
sen into In is, and the merchants which generally stay t ere,
get such very great estates as the do, and sometimes come home
worth sixty or seventy thousan pounds at a time; but it is no
wonder, or at least we shall see so much farther into it, when we
consider the innumerable orts and places where they have a
free commerce, that it will he none; and much less will it be so
when we consider that at those places and ports where the
English ships come, there is such great and constant demands for
the growth of all other countries, that there is a certain vent for
the returns, as well as a market abroad for the goods carried out.

In short, we made a very good voya e, and I got so much
money by my first adventure, and we an insight into the
method of getting more, that had I been twenty years younger,
I should have been tempted to have stayed here, and sought no
farther for making any fortune: but what was all this to a man
upwards of threescore, that was rich enough, and came abroad
more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world than a
covetous desire of gaining by it? And. indeed, I think it is with
great justice I now call it restless desire, for it was so. When
I was at home, I was restless to go abroad; and when I was
abroad, I was restless to be at home. I say, what was this gain
to me? I was rich enough already, nor had I any uneasy desires
about getting more money; and therefore the profit of the
voyage to me was of no great force for the prompting me forward
to farther undertakings; hence I thought that by this voyage I
had made no progress at all, because I was come back, as I might
call it, to the place from whence I came, as to a home: whereas
my 0 e, which, like that which Solomon speaks of; was never
satist ed with seeing, was still desirous of wandering and seeing
more. I wit-aroma into a part of the world which I was never
in helium. and that mrt, in particular. which I had heard much
of, and was resolver to see as much of it as I could; and then I
thought I might say 1 had seen all the world that was worth
seeing.

But my ti-llow traveller and i had dill'erent notions: I do not
name. this to insist on my own, lin' I acknowledge his were the
must just. and the most suited to the end of a merchant's life;
who, when he is abroad upon adventures, it is his wisdom to
stick to that, as the best thing for hitu, which he is like to get
the most. money by. MV new friend ltcpt himself to the nature
of tho thing, and would haw been content to have gone like a
carrier's horse, always to the same inn, backward and forward,
provided he couhl, as he called it, find his account in it. On the
other hand, mine was the notion ot'u mad rambling boy, that
never cares to sec a thing twice over. llut this was not all: I
had a kind of impatience upon me to he nearer home, and yet
the. most unsettled resolution imaginable which way to go. In
the interval of these consultations. my friend, who was always
upon the. sear-h for business. proposed another voyage to me
among the Spice Islands. and to bring home a loading of cloves
from the Muuillas, or thcreabonts; places, indeed, where the
Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the Spaniards;
though we item not so far, but to some other, where they have
not the uholo power, as they have at llatavia, Ceylon, &l7.

We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief'difll-
cult y was in brin ring me to come into it: however. at last, nothing
else otl'ermg. am finding that really stirring about and trading,
the protit being so great, and, as i may say. certain, had more
pleasure in it, and had more satisliwtion to my mind, than sitting
still, which, to lne especially, "as the unhappiest part of my
life. I resolved on this voyage too, which we made very success-
fully, :ouching at llorneo. and several islands whose names I do
not remembcr, and came home in about live months. We soul
our spice, which was chielly cloves and some nutniegs, to the
1' 2rsian merchants, who carried them away to the gulf; and
making ncar live ol'oue, we really 'ot a great deal of money.

My friend, when we made up tiis account. smiled at me:
Well now, said he, with a sort or agreeable insult upon my
indolent tom wr, is not this better than walking about here. like
a man of nothing to do, and spending our time in staring at the
nonsense and ignorance of the Pagans t--Why. trul , Hays Lmy
frietul,l think it is, and I begin to be a convert an 0 principles
ofnu-rchamhsiug; but I must tell you, said I, by the way, you
do not know what I am doing: for if I once con nor my back.
warduesa, and embark heartily, as old as I and shall urea:
you up and down the world till [tire you; for i shall pursue it
so eagerly, i shall never let you he still.

lint, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this
there came in a Dutch <<hi from Batavia; she was a coaster,
not an European trader, ot' at out two hundred tons burthen; the
men, as they pretended, having been so sickly, that the captain
had not hands enough to go to sea with. he lay by at Bengal;
and having, it seems, got money enough. or being willing, for
other reasons, to go for Europe, to gave public notice he would
sell his shi i. This came to my ears before my new partner heard
of it, and i had a great mind to buy it; so i went to him, and
told him of it. lie considered awhile, for he was no rash man
neither; but musing some time, he replied, She is a little too
big; but, however, we will have her. Accordinglv, we bought
the ship, and agreeing with the master, we paid for her, and took
possession. When we had done so, we resolved to entertain the
men, if we could, to 'oiu them with those we had, for the pur-
suing our business; at on a sudden, they having received, not
their wages, but their share of the money, as we afterwards
learned, not one of them was to be found; we in uircd much
about them, and at length were told that they were a 1 gene toge-
ther b land to Agra, the greateit ot' the Mogul's residence, and
from t ience to travel to Surat, ant go by sea to the gult'of Persia.

Nothing had so much troubled me a good while as that I should
miss the opportunity of going with them; for such a ramble, I
tlmught, and in such company as would both have guarded and
diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design;
and i should have both seen the world and gone homewards too:
but I was much better satisfied a few days alter, when I came to
know what sort of fellows the were; for, in short, their history
was, that this man they calle captain was the gunner only, not
the commander; that they had been a trading voyage. in which
they had been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had
killed the captain and three of his men ; and that after the captain
was killed, these men. eleven in number. had resolved to run
away with the ship, which they did, and brought her to Bengal,
leavmg the mate and live men more on shore; of whom hereafter.

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly
by her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine
into things so exactly as we ought; for we never inquired any-
thing of the seamen, who would certainly have {altered in their
account, contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted
themselves ; or one how or other we should have had reason to
have suspected them: but the man showed us a bill of sale for
the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such name, for
I suppose it was all a forgery, and called himself by that name,
and we could not contradict him; and withal, having no sue-
ptcton ot' the thing, we went through with our bargain.378 amen-mans or

We picked up some more English sailors hero alter this, and
some Dutch; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the
south-east t'or elm-cs. &e. ; that is to say, among the Philippine
and Molneea isles; and, in short, not to till up this part. of my
story with tritles, when what is to eolno is so remarkable, I
spent, from first to last, six years in this country, trading from
port to port, backward and forward, and with very good success,
and was now the last year with my new partner, going in the
ship aliovena-ntioned, on a voyage to Coma. nut. designing first.
to Siam. to buy riee.

In this voyage, la-iag by contrary winds obliged to beat up
and down a great while inthe straits of Malacca. and among the
Islands, we were no sooner got clear of those dilllenlt seas than
we. (hand our ship had sprung a leak, and we. were not able. by
all our industry. to liud out where it was. This forced us to make
some port; and my partner. who knew the country better than
I did. directed the captain to put into the. river of Cambodia; for
I had made the English mate, one. Mr. 'I'hompson, captain, not
being willing to take the charge of the ship npou myself. This
river lies on the north side of the great buy or gulf which goes
up to Siam. While. n e were here. and going often on shore for
refreshment, there comes to me one day an Englishman. and he
was, it seems, a gnnIn-r's-niate on board an English East India
shi ) \I'IIIl'II rode in the same river, at or near the city of Cam-
bodia; what brought him hither we knew not; but he comes to
me, aml speaking English, Sir, says be, you are a stranger to
me. and l to you. but I have something to tell you that very
nearly eoueerns you.

I looked steadliistly at him a good while, and thought at first
I had known him, but I did not : If it very nearly conecrns Inc,
said I. aml not yourself, what moves you to tell it. to me '!-I am
moved, says In, by the imminent danger you are in, and, for
nught I see, you have no knowledge of it.----I know no danger
I am in, says I, but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it
out ; but. I intend to lav her aground to-Inorrow, to see if I can
lind it.-----llul, sir. says he, leaky or not leaky. tied it or not find
it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow,
when you hear what I have. to say to you: do you know, sir,
said he, the town of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this
river? and there are two large English shi )8 about live leagues
on this side, and three l)utch.--Wcll, said i, and what is thatto
me ?--\\'hy, sir, said he, is it for a man that. is upon such adven-
tures as you are. to come into a port and not examine first
what ships there. are there, and whether he is able to deal with
them? I sup rose you do not think you are a match for them?
I was anmsed very much at his discourse, but not amazed
at it, for I could not coneeive what he meant; and I turned short
npon him, and said. Sir, [wish you would explain yourself;
I cannot imagine what reason I have to be afraid of any of the
Company's ships, or Dutch shi s; I am no interlopor; whatcau
the have to say to me? lie oolted like a man half angry and
haltileased, and pausing awhile, but smiling, Well, sir, says he,
if you think yourselt'seeure, you must take our chance; i am
sorry your fate should blind you against go advice: but assure
yourself, if you do not put to sea immediately, you will the very
next tide be attacked by five longboats fullol'mcn, and perhaps.
it' you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the arti-
eulars he examined alterwards. I thought, sir, added he, I s ould
have met with a better reception than this, for doing you a
piece of service of such importance.--I can never be ungrateful,
said I, for any service, or to any man that oil'ers me any kind-
ness; but it is past my comprehension what they should have
such a desi it upon me for: however, since you say there is no
time to he ost, and that there is some villanous design on hand
against me, I will go on board this minute, and put to sea
immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim
without stopping it: but, sir, said I, shall I go away ignorant
of the cause of all this? Can you give me no further light into
it l--I can tell you but part of the story, sir, says he; but I have
a Dutch seaman here with me. and I believe [could persuade
him to tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it: but the
short of the story is this, the first part of which, I suppose, you
know well enough, viz. that you was with this ship at Sumatra;
that there your captain was murdered by the Malays, with
three of his men; and that you, or some of those that were on
board with you, ran away with the ship. and are since turned
pirates. This is the sum of the story, and you will all be seized
as pirates, I can assure you, and executed with very little core.
mony; for you know merchant ships show but little law to
pirates, if they get them into their power.---Now you speak
plain En dish, said I, and I thank you; and though I know
nothing that we have done like what you talk of, for I am sure
."'deg came honestly and fairlv by the ship; yet seeing such a work
Is doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly, I will
be upon my guard--Nay, sir. says he, do not talk about being
upon your guard; the best defence is, to be out of the danger;
if you have any regard for our life, and the lives of all your
men. put to sea, without fai , at high water; and as on have a
whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out fore they
can come down; for they will come away at high water, and as
they have twcnt miles to come, vou Will get near two hours
of them by the difference of the tide, not reckoning the length
oi: the way; besides, as they are only boats, and not shi s, they
will not venture to follow you far out to sea, cs ' y if It
blows.--Well, said I, you have been very kind in this; what
shall I do for you to make you amends 'f--Sir, says he, you may
C C
not be willing to make me any amends, because you may not be
convinced of the truth of it: I will make an offer to you; I have
nineteen months' pay due to me on board the ship "'2 which I
came out of England in; and the Dutchman that is with me has
seven months' pay due to him; if you will make good our pay
to us, we will go along with you: if you find nothing more in it,
we will desire no more; but if we do convince you that we have
saved your lives, and the ship, and the lives of all the men in
her, we will leave the rest to you.

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board,
and the two men with me. As. soon as I came to the ship's
side, my artner, who was on board, came out on the uarter--
deck, an called to me, with a great deal of joy, 0 ho! O 0! we
have stopped the leak! we have stopped the leak l--Say you so?
said I, thank God; but weigh anchor then immediately.--Weighl
says he: what do you mean by that? What is the matter ?--
Ask no questions, said I; but all hands to work, and we' h
without losing a minute. He was surprised, but, however,l%e
called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be
> of. up ; and though the tide was not quite down, yet a little land
_reeze blowin , we stood out to sea. Then I called him into the
cabin, and tol him the story ; and we called in the men, and they
told us the rest ofit: but as it took up a great deal of time,
before we had done a seamen comes to the cabin door, and called
out to us that the captain bade him tell us we were chased.
Chased! says I; by what'l--By five sloops, or boats, says the
fellow, full of--men.--Very well, said I ; then it is apparent there
is something in it. In the next place I ordered all our men to
be called up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship,
and to take us for pirates, and asked them if the would stand
byvus, and by one another: the men answered c eerfully, one
and all, that they would live and die with us. Then I asked the
captain what way he thought best for us to manage a fight with
them; for resist them I was resolved we would, and that to the,
last drop. He said readily that the way was to keep them
off with our great shot as long as we could, and then fire at them
with our small arms, to keep them from boarding us; hutwhen
neither of these would do any longer, we should retire to our
close uarters'; perhaps theyhad not materials to break open
our'b (heads, or get in upon us.

The gunner had, in the mean time, orders to bring two guns
to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and
load them with musket bullets and small ieces of old iron, and
what came next to hand; and thus we made ready for fight: but
all this while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see
the boats at a distance, being five large longboats, following us
with all the sail they could make. ,

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were
English) ontsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of
them, and gained upon us considerably, so that we found they
would come up with us; upon which we fired a gun without
ball, to intimate that they should bring to; and we put out a
flag of truce, as a signal for parley; but they came crowding
after us, till they came within shot, when we took in our white

, they having made no answer to it, and hung out a red flag,
an fired at them with shot. Notwithstanding this, they came
on till they were near enough to call to them with a speakinv-
trumpet which we had on board; so we called to them, and b e
them keep ofl', at their peril.

It was all one: they crowded after us, and endeavoured to
come under our stern, so as to board us on our quarter; upon
which, seeing they were resolute for mischief, and depended
upon the strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the
ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside; when immediately
we fired five guns at them, one of which had been levelled so
true as to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and bring
them to the necessity of taking down their sail, and running all
to the head of the boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay by,
and had enough of it; but seeing the foremost boat crowd on
after us, we made ready to fire at her in particular. While this
was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, being for-
warder than the other two, made 11 to the boat which we had
disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take out the men:
we called again to the foremost boat, and offered atruce, to
parley again, and to know what her business was with us; but

ad no answer, only she crowded close under our stern. Upon
this our gunner, who was a. very dexterous fellow, run out his
two chase guns, and fired again at her, but the shot missing, the
men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on; but
the gunner, getting quickly ready ain, fired among them a
second time, one shot of which, thong it missed the boat itself,
yet fell in among the men, and we could easily see had done a
. great deal of mischief among them; but we took no notice of that,

were the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them,
and firing three guns more, we found the boat was almost split
to pieces; in particular, her rudder and a piece of her stern was
shot quite away; so they handed her sail immediately, and were
in great disorder. But to complete their misfortune, our gunner
let fl two guns at them again: where he hit them we could not
tell, hut we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men
already in the water: upon this I immediately manned out our
pinnace, which we had kept close by our side, with orders to
pick up some of the men, if they could, and save them from
drowning, and immediately come on board the ship with them,
because we saw the rest of the boats began to come up. Our
men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up three men,

C C 2 '
one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while before
we could recover him. As soon as they were on board, we
crowded all the sail we could make, and stood farther out to
sea; and we found that when the other three boats came up to
the first, they gave over their chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not
the reason of it, vet seemed to be much greater than I appre-
hended, I resolved that we should change our course, and not
let any one know whither we were goin : so we stood out to
sea eastward, quite out of the course 0 all European shi 3,
whether they were bound to China. or any where else within t e
commerce of the European nations.

When we were at sea, we began to consult with the two sea-
men, and inquire what the meaning of all this should be; and
the Dutchman let us into the secret at once, telling us that the
fellow that sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief
that had run away with her. Then he told us how the captain,
whose name too he told us, though I do not remember it now,
was treacherously murdered by the natives on the coast of Ma-
lacca, with three of his men; and that he, this Dutchman, and
four more, got into the woods, where they wandered about a
great while, till at length he, in particular, in a miraculous
manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship, which,
sailing near the shore in its way from China, had sent their boat
on shore for fresh water; that he durst not come to that part of
the shore where the boat was, but made shift in the night to
take the water farther off, and swimming a great while, at last
the ship's boat took him up.

He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the
seamen belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest
in their travels, and gave an account that the fellow who had
run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates,
which were gone a cruising in her; and that they had already
taken an English ship and two Dutch ships very richl laden.

This latter art was found to concern us directly, t ough we
knew it to be Elise; et as m partner said very justly, if we had
fallen into their hands, and t ey had had such a prepossession
against us beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended -
ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter at their hands; and
especially considering that our accusers had been our judges, and
that we could have expected nothing from them but what rage
would have dictated, and an ungoverned passion have executed;
and therefore it was his opinion we should go directly back to
Bengal, from whence we came, without puttin in at any port
whatever; because there we could give a go account of our-
selves, could prove where we were when the ship put in, of
whom we bought her, and the like; and which was more than
all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity of bringing it
before the pro er judges, we should be sure to have some justice,
and not to be anged first and judged afterwards.

I was some time of my artner's opinion; but after a little
more serious thinking, I to (1 him I thought it was a very great
hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were
on the wrong side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if the
alarm was given, we should be sure to be waylaid on every side,
as well by the Dutch of Batavia as the English elsewhere; that
if we should be taken, as it were, running away, we should even
condemn ourselves, and there would want no more evidence to
destroy us. I also asked the English sailor's opinion, who said
he was of my mind, and that we should certainly be taken.
This danger a little startled my artner, and all the ship's com-
pany, and we immediately reso ved to go away to the coast of
Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China; and pursuing the
first design as to trade, find some way or other to dispose of
the ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the country,
such as we could get. This was a proved of as the best method
for our security; and according y we steered away N.N.E.,
keeping above fifty leagues ofi' from the usual course to the
eastward. This, however, put us to some inconvenience; for,
first, the winds, when we came to that distance from the shore,
seemed to be more steadily against us, blowing almost trade,
as we call it, from the E. and E.N.E., so that we were a long
while upon our voyage, and we were but ill provided with vic-
tuals for so long a run; and, which was still worse, there was
some danger that those English and Dutch ships, whose boats
pursued us, whereof some were bound that way, might be got in

efore us, and if not, some other ship bound to China might
have information of us from them, and pursue us with the same
VlgOlll'.

I must confess, I was now ve uneas , and thought myself,
including the late escape from t e long ats, to have been in
the most dangerous condition that ever I was through my past
life; for whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never
pursued for a thief before; nor had I ever done anything that
merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish;
I had chiefly been my own enemy, or, as I may rightly sa , I
had been nobody's enemy but my own; but now I was em ar-
rassed in the worst condition imaginable; for though I was
perfectly innocent, I was in no condition to make that innocence
appear; and if I had been taken, it had been under a supposed
guilt of the worst kind. This made me very anxious to make
an escape, though which wa to do it I knew not, or what port
or place we co d go to. 1V y partner seein me thus dejected,
though he was the most concerned at first, an to encourage
me, and describing to me the several ports of that coast, to d
me he would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the bay
of Tonqnin, intending to go afterwards to Macao, a town ones
in possession of the Portuguese, and where still a great many
European families resided; and articularly the missionary
piiliests usually went thither, in or er to their going forward to
C inn.

Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after
a tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for
provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the
morning; and upon reflection on the past circumstances we
were in, and the danger if we had not escaped. we resolved to
put into a small river, which, however, had depth enough of
water for us, and to see it' we could, either overland or by the
ship's pinnace, come to know what ships were in any port
thereabouts. This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance;
for though we did not immediately see any European ships in
the bay of 'l'ouquin, yet the next morning there came into the
bay two Dutch ships; and a third, without any colours 3 read
out, but which we believed to he a Dutchman, passed y at
about two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China; and
in the afternoon went by two English ships steering the same
course; and thus we thought we saw ourselves beset with
enemies both one way and the other. The place we were in was
wild and barbarous; the people thieves, even by occupation or
profession; and though, it. is true, we had not much to seek of
them, and, except getting a few provisions, cared not how little
we had to do with them, yet it was with much difficulty that
we kept ourselves from being insulted by them, several ways.
We were in a small river of this country, within a few leagues
of its utmost limits northward; and by our boat we coasted
north--east, to the point of land which opens the great bay of
Tonquin; and it was in this beating up along the shore that we
discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The people we
were among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of
the coast, having no correspondence with any other nation, and
dealing only in fish and oil, and such gross commodities; and it
may be particularly seen that they are the most barbarous of
any of the inhabitants. Among other customs, the have this
one, viz. that if any vessel has the misfortune to he s ipwrecked
upon their coast, they presently make the men all prisoners or
slaves; and it was not long before we found a piece of their
kindness this way. on the occasion following.

I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea,
and that we could not find it out; and it happened that, as I
have said, it was stopped unexpectedly in the happy minute
ot'our being to be seized by the Dutch and English ships in the
bay of Siam; yet as we did not find the ship so perfectly tight
and sound as we desired, we resolved, while we were at this
place, to lay her on shore, and take out what heavy things we
had on board, and clean her bottom; and, if possible, to find
out where the leaks were. Accordingly, having lightened the
ship, and brought all our guns and other moveables to one side,
we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her bottom;
but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her on dry
ground, neither could we find out a proper place for it.

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a
sight, came wandering down the shore to look at us; and seeing
the ship lie down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in
towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work
on her bottom with stages, and with their boats, on the ofl-side,
they presently concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay so
fast on the ground. On this supposition, they all came about
us in two or three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats,
having some of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the ship ; and
if thev had found us there, to have carried us away for slaves to
their king, or whatever they call him, for we knew nothing of
their governor.

When they came up to the ship and began to row round her,
they discovered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's
bottom and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every
seafaring man knows how. They stood for a while gazing at us,
and we, who were a little surprised, could not imagine what
their design was; but being willing to be sure, we took this
opportunity to get some of us into e ship, and others to hand
down arms and ammunition to those that were at work to defend
themselves with, if there should be occasion; and it was no
more than need: for in less than a quarter of an hour's consul-
tation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck;
and that we were all at work endeavouring to save her, or to
save our lives by the he] of our boats; and when we handed
our arms into the boats, t ey concluded, by that motion, that we
were endeavourin to save some of our goods; upon this they
took it for grante we all belonged to them, and away they came
directly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of battle.

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for
we lay but in an ill osture to fi ht, and cried out to us to know
what they should 0. I immediately called to the men that
worked upon the stages, to slip them down, and get up the side
into the ship; and bade those in the boat to row round, and
come on board; and those few of us who were on board worked
with all the strength and hands we had, to bring the shi to
rights; but, however, neither the men upon the stages nor those
in the boats could do as they were ordered, before the Cochin
Chinese were upon them; and two of their boats boarded our
longboat, and began to lay hold on the men as their prisoners.

The first man they laid hold on was an English seaman, a
stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, never
offered to fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I
thought; but he understood his business better than I could
teach him, for he grappled the pagan, and dragged him by main
force out of their boat into ours, where taking him by the ears,
he beat his head so against the boat's gunnel, that the fellow
died in his hands; and, in the mean time, a Dutchman, who stood
next, took up the musket, and with the butt-end of it so laid
about him, that he knocked down five of them who attempted to
enter the boat. But this was doing little towards resisting thirty
or forty men, who fearless, because ignorant of their danger, be-
gan to throw themselves into the longboat, where we had but
five men in all to defend it: but the following accident, which
deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete victory.

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship,
as well as to pay the seams where he had calked her to stop the
leaks. had got two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled
with boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and
such stuff as the Shipwrights use for that work; and the man
that attended the carpentcr had a great iron ladle in his hand,
with which he supplied the men that were at work with the hot
stuff: two of the enemy's men entered the boat just where this
fellow stood, being in the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted
them with a ladleful of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned and
scolded them, being half naked, that they roared out like bulls,
and, enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter
saw it, and cried out, Well done. Jack! give them some more of
it: and stepping forward himself, takes one of the mops, and
dipping it in the pitch--pot, he and his man threw it among them
so plentifnlly, that, in short, of all the men in the three boats
there was not one that escaped being scalded and burned with
it. in a most frightful, pitiful manner, and made such a howling
and crying, that I never heard a worse noise: for it is worth
observing, that though pain naturally makes all people cry
out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclamation, and
makes noises as different from one another as their speech. I
cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name than
howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it; for I never
heard anything more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I
have said, I heard bowl in the forest on the frontiers of Lan-
gnedoc.

I was never better pleased with a victory in m life; not only
as it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our nger was im-
minent before, but, as we got this victory without any blood-
shed, except of that man the fellow killed with his naked hands,
and which I was very much concerned at, for I was sick of kill-
ing such poor savage wretches, even though it was in my own
defence, knowing they came on errands which they thought just
and knew no better; and that though it may be a just thing, be-
cause necessary (for there is no necessary wickedness in nature),
yet I thought it was a sad life, when we must be alwa s obliged
to be killing our fellow-creatures to preserve ourse ves; and,
indeed, I think so still, and I would even now sufi'er a great deal,
rather than I would take away the life even of the worst person
injuring me; and I believe all considering people who know
the value of life would be of my opinion, if they entered seriously
into the consideration of it.

But to return to my story :--All the while this was doing, my
partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had
with great dexterity brought the ship almost to rights, and
having got the guns into their places again, the gunner called
to me to bid our boat et out of the way, for he would let fly
among them. I called ack again to him, and bid him not offer
to fire, for the ca enter would do the work without him; but
bid him heat anot er pitch-kettle, which our cook, who was on
board, took care of: but the enemy was so terrified with what
they had met with in their first attack, that they would not
come on again; and some of them who were farthest ofi', seeing
the ship swim, as it were, upright, began, as we suppose, to see
their mistake, and give over the enterprise, finding it was not
as they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry fight, and
having got some rice, and some roots and bread, with about six-
teen hogs. on board, two davs before, we resolved to stay here
no longer, but go forward, whatever came of it; for we made no
doubt but we should be surrounded the next day with rogues
enough, perha s more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of
for us. We t erefore got all our things on board the same
evening, and the next morning were ready to sail: in the mean
time, lying at anchor at some distance frOm the shore, we were
not so much concerned, being now in a fighting posture, as well
as in a sailin posture, if an enemy had resented. The next
day, having ' hed our war within boa , and finding our ship
was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We would
have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to inform
ourselves of what was to be known concerning the Dutch ships
that had been there; but we durst not stand in there, because
we had seen several ships go in, as we supposed, but a little
before: so we kept on N. E. towards the island of Formosa, as
much afraid of being seen b a Dutch or English merchant ship,
as a Dutch or English merc ant ship in the Mediterranean is of
an Algerine man-of-war.

When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N.E. as if we
would go to the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this we
did that we might not fall into the wa of any of the European
ships; and then we steered north, ti we came to the latitude
of 22 deg. 30 min., by which means we made the island Formosa
directly, where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who were ver cour-
teous and civil in their manners, supplied us with willing y, and
dealt very fairly and pnnctnnlly with us in all their agreements
and bargains, which is what we did not find among other people,
and may be owing to the remains of Christianity which was once
planted here by a Dutch miSsionary of protestants, and is a
testimony of what I have often observed, viz. that the Christian
religion always civilizes the people and reforms their manners,
where it is received, whether it works saving effects upon them
0" "0.

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China
at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports
ot'China where our European ships usually come; being resolved,
it' possible, not to fit" into any of their hands, especially in this
country ; where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of
being entirely ruined.

Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved
to put. into the first trading port we should cotne at; and stand-
ing in for the shore, a boat came off two leagues to us, with an
old Portuguese pilot on board, who knowing us to be an Euro-
pcan ship, came to oil'er his service, which, indeed, we were glad
of. and took him on board; upon which, without asking us
whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and
sent it back.

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old
man carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him
about carrying: us to the gulf of Nanquin, which is the most
northern part of the coast of China. The old man said he knew
the gulf ot' Nanquin very well, but smiling, asked us what we
would do there? I told him we would sell our cargo and pur-
chase China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c.,
and so would return by the same course we came. He told us
our best port had been to have put in at Macao, where we could
not have. failed of a market for our opium to our satisfaction,
and might for our money have purchased all sorts of China
goods as cheap as we could at Nanquin.

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which
he was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gen-
tlemen as well as merchants, and that we had a mind to go and
see the great city ot'l'eking. and the famous court of the monarch
of China. Why then, says the old man, you should go to Ningpo,
where. by the river which runs into the sea there, you may go
up within five leagues ot' the great canal. This canal is a. navi-
gable stream, which goes through the heart of that vast empire
of China, crosses all the rivers. passes some considerable hills
by the help of sluiccs and gates, and goes up to the city of
Peking, being in length near two hundred and seventy leagues.
Well, said I, Senhor Portuguese, but that is not our business
now; the great question is, it' you can carrv us up to the city or
Nan uin, from whence we can travel to Felting afterwards? He
said u: could do so very well, and that there was a great Dutch
ship gone up that way just before. This gave me a little shock,
for a Dutch ship was now our terror, and we had much rather
have met the devil, at least if he had not come in too frightful
a figure; and we depended upon it that a Dutch ship would be
our destruction, for we were in no condition to fight them; all
the ships they trade with into those parts being of great burden,
and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some con-
cern, when he named a Dutch ship; and said to me, Sir, you
need be under no apprehensions ot' the Dutch; I suppose they
are not now at war with your nation ?--No, said I, that's true;
but I know not what liberties men may take when they are out
of the reach of the laws of their own country.--Why, says be,
you are no irates; what need you fear? They will not meddle
with peacea le merchants, sure.

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my
face at that word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels
appointed by nature to circulate it, for it put me into the greatest
disorder and confusion imaginable; nor was it possible for me
to conceal it so, but the old man easily perceived it.

Sir, says he, I find you are in some disorder in your thoughts
at my talk; pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, and,
depend upon it, I'll do you all the service I cam--Why, senhor,
said I, it is true, I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this
time, whither to go in particular; and I am something more so
for what you said about pirates. I hope there are no pirates in
these seas; we are but in an ill condition to meet with them,
for you see we have but a small force, and are but very weakly
manned--0, sir, says he, don't be concerned, I do not know
that there have been any pirates in these seas these fifteen years,
except one, which was seen, as I hear, in the bay of Siam, about
a month since; but you may be assured she is gone to the south-
ward; nor was she a ship of any great force, or fit for the work .
she was not built for a privateer, but was run away with by a
reprobate crew that was on board, after the captain and some
of his men had been murdered by the Malayans, at or near the
island of Sumatra--What! said I, seeming to know nothing of
the matter, did they murder the captain ?--No, said he, I don't
understand that they murdered him; but as they afterwards ran
away with the ship, it is generally believed that they betrayed
him into the hands of the Malayans, who did murder him; and
perhaps they procured them to do it.---Why then, said 1, they

eserve death as much as if they had done it themselves.---N a ,
says the old man, they do deserve it; and they will certa' y
have it, if they light upon any English or Dutch ship; for the
have all agreed together, that if they meet that rogue they'
give him no quarter.-- But, said I to him, you say the pirate is
gone out of these seas; how can they meet with him then?--
Why, that's true, says he, they do say so; but he was, as I tell
you. in the bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia; and was dis-
covered there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and
who were left on shore when they ran away with her; and some
English and Dutch traders being in the river, they were within
a little of taking him: nay, said he, if the foremost boats had
been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him;
but he, finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about,
and fired at those two, and disabled them before the others came
up. and then standing oil' to sea, the others were not able to
follow, and so he got away; but they have all so exacta de-
scription of the ship, that they will be sure to know her; and
wherever they find her they have vowed to give no quarter
either to the captain or seamen, but to hang them all up at the
vard~arm.--"'hat ! said I, will they execute them right or wrong;
hang them first. and judge them afterwards '.'---O sir, says the old
pilot, there is no need to make a formal business of it with such
rogues as those; let them tie them back to back, and set them
a diving. 'tis no more than they deserve.

I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could do
no harm, so that I turned short upon him: Well now, senhor,
said I. this is the very reason why I would have you carry us
up to Nanquin, and not put back to Macao, or to any other part
ol'the country where the English or Dutch ships come; for be
it known to you, senhor, those captains of the English and
Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that
neither know what belongs to justice, nor how to behave them-
selves as the laws of God and nature direct; but being proud of
their offices, and not understanding their power, they would act
the murderers to punish robbers; would take upon them to
insult men falsely accused, and determine them guilty without
due inquiry: and perhaps I may live to bring some of them to
account for it, when they may be taught how justice is to be
executed; and that no man ought to be treated as a criminal till
some evidence may be had of the crime, and that he is the man.

With this I told him that this was the very ship they attacked,
and gave him a full account of the skirmish we had with their
boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved. I told
him all the story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchman
served us. I told him the reasons I had to believe the story
of killing the master by the Malayans was true, as also the
running away with the ship; but it was all a fiction of theirown
to suggest that the men had turned pirates, and they ought to
have been sure it was so before they had ventured to attack us
by an rise, and oblige us to resist them; adding, that they would
have the blood of those men, whom we killed there in Just do-
fence, to answer for.

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were
very much in the ri ht to go away to the north; and that if he
might advise us, it s ould be to sell the ship in China, which we
mi ht ve well do, and bu or build another in the country;
an said e, though you w' not get so good a ship, yet you may
get one able enough to carry you and all your goods back again
to Bengal, or any where else. I told him I would take his
advice when I came to any port where I could find a ship for
my turn, or get any customer to buy this. He replied, I should
meet with customers enough for the ship at Nan uin, and that
a Chinese junk would serve me ve well to go bac again; and
that he would procure me peo le 0th to bu one and sell the
other. Well but, senhor, said , as you say t ey know the ship
so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instru-
mental to bring some honest innocent men into a terrible broil,
and perhaps to be murdered in cold blood; for wherever they
find the ship, they will prove the guilt upon the men, by pro . ing
this was the ship, and so innocent men may probably be over-
powered and murdered--Why, says the old man, I'll find out a
way to prevent that also; for as I know all those commanders you
speak of very well, and shall see them all as they pass by, I will
be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let them know
that they had been so much in the wrong; that though the
people who were on board at first might run away wifii the
ship, yet it was not true that they had turned pirates; and that,
in particular, these were not the men that first went ofi' with the
ship, but innocently bought her for their trade; and I am per-
suaded they will so far believe me, as at least to act more can-
tiously for the time to come.

While these things were passing between us, by way of dis-
course, we went forward directly for Nanquin, and in about
thirteen days' sail came to an anchor at the south-west point
of the great ulf of Nanquin; where, by the way, I came b
accident to un erstand that two Dutch ships were gone the length
before me, and that I should certainly fall into their hands.
I consulted my partner again in this exigency, and he was as
much at a loss as I was, and would very gladly have been safe
on shore almost any where: however, was not in such per-
plexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if there was no creek
or harbour which I might ut into and pursue my business with
the Chinese privatel , an be in no danger of the enemy. He
told me, if I woul sail to the southward about forty-two
leagues, there was a little port called Quinchang, where the
fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao, on their ro-
gress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where
no European ships ever put in; and ifl thou ht to put in there,
I might consider what further course to s when I was on
shore. He confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants,
except that at some certain times they had a kind of a fairthere,
when the merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the
Chinese merchandises.

We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of the port, as
he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do not particularly
remember it, having lost this, together with the names of many
other places set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled
by the water by an accident; but this I remember, that the
Chinese or Japanese merchants we corresponded with called it
by a difi'erent name from that which our Portuguese pilot gave
it, and pronounced it as above, Quinchang

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place,
we weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore
where we were to get fresh water; on both which occasions the
people of the country were very civil to us, and brought us abund-
ance of things to sell to us, I mean of provisions, plants, roots,
tca. rice, and some fowls, but nothing without money.

We came to the other port (the wind bein contrary) not till
five days, but it was very much to our satis tion; and I was
joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my foot on shore,
resolving. and my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose
of ourselves and effects any other way, though not every way to our
satisfaction, we would never set one foot on board that unhappy
vessel more; and, indeed, Iuiust acknowledge, that of all the cir-
cumstances of life that ever I had any experience of, nothing
makes mankind so completely miserable as that of being in con-
stant fear. Well does the Scripture say, " The fear of man brings
a snare ;" it is a life of death, and the mind is so entirely op-
pressed by it, that it is capable of no relief.

N or did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by
heightening every danger, representing the English and Dutc

captains to be men incapable of hearing reason, or of distin-
guishing between honest men and rogues; or between a story
calculated for our own turn, made out of nothing, on purpose
to deceive, and a true genuine account of our whole voyage, pro--
gress, and design ; for we might many ways have convinced any
reasonable creature that we were not pirates; the goods we had
on board, the course we steered, our frank] showing ourselves,
and entering into such and such ports; antiv even our very man-
ner, the force we had, the number of men, the few arms, little
ammunition, short provisions; all these would have served to
convince any men that we were no pirates. The opium and
other goods we had on board would make it appear the ship
had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen, who, it was said, had the
names of all the men that werein the ship, might easily seethat
we were a mixture of En liah, Portuguese, and Indians, and but
two Dutchmen on has . These, and many other particular
circumstances, might have made it evident to the understanding
of any commander, whose hands we might fall into, that we
were no pirates. But fear, that blind, useless passion, worked
another way, and threw us into the vapours; it bewildered our
understandings, and set the imagination at work to form a thou-
sand terrible things that perha s might never happen. We first
supposed, as indeed every y else had related to us, that the
seamen on board the English and Dutch ships, but especially
the Dutch, were so enraged at the name of a pirate, and espe-
cinll at our beating off their boats and esca in , that they
won d not give themselves leave to inquire w e er we were
pirates or no; but would execute us ofi'~hand, as weeall it, with-
out giving us any room for a defence. We reflected that there
really was so much apparent evidence before them, that they
would scarce inquire after any more; as, first, that the ship was
certainly the same, and that some of the seamen among them
knew her, and had been on heard her; and, secondly, that when
we had intelligence at the river of Cambodia that the were
coming down to examine us, we fought their boats and ed; so
that we made no doubt but they were as fully satisfied of our
being pirates, as we were satisfied of the contrary; and, as I
often said, I know not but I should have been apt to have taken
those circumstances for evidence, if the tables were turned, and
my case was theirs; and have made no scruple of cutting all the

crew to pieces, without believing, or perhaps considering, what
they might have to offer in their defence.

But let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions;
and both my partner and I scarce slept a night without dream-
ing of halters and yard-arms, that is to say, 'bbets , of fighting,
and being taken; of killing, and being ' ed: and one night
I was in such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had
boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen down, that
I struck my doubled fist against the side of the cabin I lay in,
with such a force, as wounded my hand grievously, broke my
knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh, so that it awaked me
out of my sleep.

Another apprehension I had was, the cruel usage we might
meet with from them if we fell into their hands: then the story
of Amboyna came into my head, and how the Dutch might per-
haps torture us, as they did our countrymen there, and make .
some of our men, by extremity of torture, confess those crimes

they never were guilty of; or own themselves and all of us to be
pirates, and so they would put us to death with a formal appearb
ance of Justice; and that they might be tempted to do this for

the gain of our ship and cargo which was worth four or five
thousand pounds, put all together
These things tormented me and mv partner too, night and day;
nor did we consider that the captains of ships have no authority
to act tints; and it 11c bad surrendered prisoners to them, they
could not answer the destroying us, or torturing us, but would
be accountable for it when they came to their own country; this,
I 5111' g: no me no satisfaction , for if they 11 ere to act thus with
11s, 111111t advantage would it be to 11s that they should be called
to an account 1111 it? or if 110 were first to be murdered, what
satistiietion would it be to us to ha1e them punished wheit they
came home?

I '11111111t refrain taking notice here 11hatreflections I now had
upon the vast 1ari1-ty of my particular circumstances; how hard
I thought it 1111', tliat I, 11 ho had spent forty years in a life of
continual dillieulties, and was at last come, as it were, to the
port or haven 11l1ieh all men dri1' e at, viz. to 119.10 rest and plenty,
should be a volunteer in new sorrows by my own unhappy
choice; and that I who had escaped so many dangers in my
1outl1, should now come to be hanged in m_1'ol1l age, and 111 so
remote a place, for a crime which I 11 as not in the least inclined
to, much less guilty ot

After these thoughts, something of religion would come in;
and I "ould be considering that this seemed to me to be a dis-
position of iInIIIediale. l'ro11denec. and I ought to look upon it
and submit to it 115 such; that although I was innocent as to
men. l was tar from being innocent as to n11' Maker; and I ought
to look in and e\11n1ine 11h'1t other crimes in my file were most
obvious to me and for 111111-11 Providence might justly inflict this
punishment as a retribution . and that I ought to submit to
this. just as 1 11011111 to a shipwreck, if it had pleased God to
ha1' e brought such a disaster upon me.

III its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its place,
and then I 11 ould be talking 1111' self 11p to rigorous resolutions;
that 1 111111111 not. be taken to be barbarously used hva parcel
of merciless wretches in cold blood, that it were much better
to have fallen into the hands of the smages, though I was sure
they would feast upon me "hen thev had taken me, than those
who 11 ould perhaps glut their rage upon me b_1 inhuman tor-
tnres and barharities; that 111 the case of the 5111 ages I always
resolved to die fighting to the last gasp, and why should I not
do so now. seeing it was much more dreadful, to me at least, to
think of falling into these men's hands, than ever it was to
think of being eaten by men. 9 for the savages give them their
due, would not eat a man till he was killed and dead, but that
these men had manv arts beyond the crueltv of death. W hen-
e1' er these thoughts prevailed, I was sure to put myself into a
kind of fever with the agitation of a supposed light; my blood
would boil, and m1-' e_1 es sparkle, 115:! III was engaged, andI
always resolved to take no quarter at their hands; but, even
at last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow up the ship
and all that was in her, and leave them but little booty to

boast of. _ _ . . .
The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of these

things were to our thoughts while we were at sea, the greater
was our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on shore; and my

artner told me he dreamed that he had a very heavy load upon
his back, which he was to carry up a hill, and found that he was
not able to stand longer under it; but that the Portuguese pilot
came and took it off his back, and the hill disappeared, the
ground before him appearing all smooth and plain: and truly it
was so; they were all like men who had a load taken off their
backs. For my part, I had a weight taken off from my heart
that it was not able. any longer to bear; and, as I said above, we
resolved to go no more to sea in that ship. When we came on
shore, the old pilot, who was now our friend, got us a lodging
and a warehouse for our goods, which, by the way, was much
the same: it was a little house, or but, with a larger house ad-
joining to it, all built with canes, and palisadoed round with large
canes, to keep out pilfering thieves, of which, it seems, there were
not a few in that country: however, the magistrates allowed us
a little guard, and we had a soldier with a kind of halberd, or
half--pike, who stood sentinel at "our door; to whom we allowed
a pint of rice, and a little piece of money, about the value ofthree-
pence, per day, so that our goods were kept very safe.

The fair, or mart, usually kept in this place, had been over
some time; however, we found that there were three or four
junks in the river, and two J apaners, I mean ships from Japan,
with goods which they had bought in China, and were not gone
away, having some Japanese merchants on shore.

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get
us acquainted with three missionary Romish priests who were
in town, and who had been there some time converting the people
to Christianity; but we thought they made but poor work of it,
and made them but sorry Christians when they had done: how-
ever, that was none of our business. One of these was a French--
man, whom they called Father Simon ; another was a Portuguese,
and the third, a Genoese; but Father Simon was courteous, easy
in his manner, and very agreeable company; the other two were
more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and ap lied seriously to
the work they came about, viz. to talk with, an insinuate them.
selves among, the inhabitants, wherever they had opportunity.
"e often ate and drank with those men; and though. I must
confess, the conversion, as they call it, of the Chinese to Christi-
anity is so far from the true conversion required to bring heathen
people to the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount to little
more than letting them know the name of Christ, and say some
prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which they

D D
understand not, and to cross themselves, and the like; yet it
must he confessed that the religionists, 11 hon1 11' e call missionaries,
11110 11 firm belief that these people 11' ill be saved, and that they
are the instruments of it; and, on this account, they undergo
not onl1' the fatigue of the voyage, and the hazards of living' 1n
such places, but oftentimes death itself, with the most violent
tortures, for the sake of this work.

But. to return to my story. 'lhis French priest, Father Simon,
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the mission, to
go up to Peki11g,tl1e roy til seat of the Chinese emperor, and
waited only forn another priest, 11 ho "as ordered to come to him
from Macao, to go along 111th him; and 11e scarce e1' er met
together but he was 1n11t1nr' me to go that Journey; telling me
how he would show me all the glorious things at that mighty
empire, and, among the rest, the greatest city in the world: a
cit1', said he, that3 your Lohdon and our Paris put together,
cannot he equal to. This 11 as the city of Peking, which, 1 con-
fess, 1:; row great, and infinitely full of people; but as I looked
011 those thing's 111th dill'erent 1:" es from other men, so 1 shall
gi1c my opinion of them 111 a l'ew words, when I come in course
of my travels to speak more particularly of them.

B11t,first,l come to m3 friar or missionary. Dining with him
one da_1',an'd being.r 1'1-r3' merry together, I showed some little
inclination to go with him; and he pressed me and my partner
1 er_1'l1ar1l.and 111th a great many persuasions, to consent. Why,

Father Simon, says m3 partner, should you desire our company
so much'. 3011 know we are heretics, and you do not love us,
nor cannot keep 11s company with any pleasure.--0, says he,
1' on may perhaps be good catholics 111 time, my business here is
to com' ert heathens, and 11 he knows but I may convert you too?
--Very 11' ell, Father, said I, so 1'011 11111 preach to us all the way?
--I 11ill not be troublesome to 1011, says he; our religion does
not di1' est us of good manners: besides, we are here like countrv-
men; and so we are, compared to the place we are in; and it you
are linznenots, and I a Catholic, we may all be Christians at
last; at least, we are all gentlemen, and we may converse so,
without being uneasy to one another. I liked this part of his
discourse very 11 ell and it began to put me in mind of my priest
that I had left in the Brazils; but this Father Simon did not come
up to his character by a great deal: for though Father Simon had
no appearance of a criminal le1it3' in him: neither, yet he had
not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere afi'ection
to religion, that my other good ecclesiastic had.

But to leave him alittle, though he never left us, nor soliciting
us to go with him; we had something else before us at first, for
we had all this while our ship and our merchandise to dispose
of, and we began to he very doubtful what we should do, for we
were now in a 3place of very little business; and once I was about
to venture to sail for the river of Kilam, and the cit of Nan-
quin: but Providence seemed now more visibly, as thought,
than ever, to concern itself in our affairs; andI was encouraged,
from this very time, to think I should one way or other get out
of this entangled circumstance, and be brought home to my own
country again, though I had not the least view of the manner.
Providence, I say, began here to clear up our way a little: and
the first thing that ofi'ered was, that our old Portuguese pilot
brought a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what goods we
had; and, in the first place, he bought all our opium, and gave
us a very good price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some in
small pieces of their own coin, and some in small wedges, of
about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were dealingwith him
for our opium, it came into m head that he might perhaps deal
for the ship too, and I ordered t e interpreter to propose it to him:
he shrugged up his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to
him; but in a few da 3 after he came to me, with one of the
missionary priests for is interpreter, and told me he had a pro-
posal to make to me, which was this :--he had bouvht a great
quantity of goods of us, when he had no thoughts of proposals
made to him of buying the ship; and that, therefore, he had not
money enough to pay for the ship: but if I would let the same
men who were in the ship navigate her, he would hire the ship
to go to Japan; and would send them from thence to the Philip-
pine islands with another loading, which he would pay the
reight of before they went from Japan, and that at their return
he would buy the ship. I began to listen to his proposal, and
so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I could not
but begin to entertain a notion 0 going myself with him, and so
to sail from the Philippine islands away to the South Seas:
accordingly I asked the Japanese merchant if he would not hire
us to the Philippine islands, and discharge us there. He said,
No, he could not do that, for then he could not have the return
of his cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan, at the ship's
return. Well, still I was for taking him at that proposal, and

oing myself; but my partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me
from it, representing the dangers, as well of the seas as of the
Japanese, who are a false, cruel, and treacherous people; like'
wise those of the Spaniards at the Philippines, more false, cruel,
and treacherous than they.

But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion: the
first thing we had to do was, to consult with the captain of the
ship, and with his men, and know if they were willing to go to
Japan: and while I was doing this, the young man whom my
nephew had left with me as my companioa for .my travels came
to me, and told me that he thought that voyage promised very
fair, and that there was a great prospect of advantage, and he
would be very glad if I undertook it; but that if I would not,

D D 2
and would give him leave, he would 0 as a merchant, or how 1
pleased to order him; that if ever e came to England, and I
was there and alive, he would render me a faithful account of his
success, which should be as much mine as I pleased. I was
really loth to part with him; but considering the prospect of
advantage, which was really considerable, and that he was a
young fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I inclined
to let him go; but I told him I would consult my partner, and
give him an answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed
about it, and my partner made a most generous ofi'er : You know
it has been an unlucky ship, said he, and we both resolve not to
go to sea in it again: if 'our steward (so he called my man) will
venture the voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to him.
and let him make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England,
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for one half
of the profits of the ship's freight to us ; the other shall be his own.

If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young
man, made him such an ofi'cr, I could do no less than ofi'er him
the same: and all the ship's compan being willing to go with
him, we made over half the ship to him in property. and took
a writing from him, obliging him to account for the other; and
away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very
punctual, honest man to him; protected him at Japan, and got
him a licence to come on shore, which the Europeans in general
have not lately obtained; paid him his freight very punctunlly;
sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan and China wares,
and a supercargo of their own, who, trafficking with the Spa-
niards, brought back European goods again, and a great quantity
of cloves and other spices; and there he was not only paid his
freight very well, and at a very good price, but not beinw willing
to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods on his
own account; and with some money, and some spices of his own
which he brought with him, he went back to the Manillas to the
Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here, having got
a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a ti-ee
ship; and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco
in America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him a licence to
land there, and to travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish
ship to Europe with all his men. He made the v0 'age to Aca-
pulco very happily, and there he sold his ship; and aving there
also obtained allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he
found means. somehow or other, to get to Jamaica, with all his
treasure; and about eight years after came to England exceeding
rich, of which I shall take notice in its place -. in the mean time,
I return to our particular afi'uirs.

Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, it came
before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should
give to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the
design against us in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they had
done us a very considerable service, and deserved well at our
hands; though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues too:
for as they believed the story of our being pirates, and that we
had really run away with t e ship, they came down to us not
only to betray the design that was formed against us, but to go
to sea with us as irates; and one of them confessed afterwards
that nothing else ut the hopes of going a-roguing brought him
to do it: however, the service they did us was not the less; and
therefore, as I had promised to be grateful to them, I first or-
dered the money to be paid them which they said was due to
them on board their respective ships; over and above that, I
gave each of them a small sum of money in old, which con-
tented them very well; then I made the Englis man unner in
the ship, the gunner being now made second mate an purser;
the Dutchman I made boatswain; so they were both very well
pleased, and proved very serviceable, being both able seamen,
and very stout fellows.

We were now on shore in China: if [thought myself banished
and remote from my own country at Bengal, where I bad man
ways to get home for my money, what, could I think of myse
now, when I was got about a thousand leagues farther ofi' ti-om
home, and perfectly destitute of all manner of prospect of return?
All we had for it was this, that in about four months' time there
was to be another fair at the place where we were, and then we
might be able to purchase all sorts of the manufactures of the
country, and withal might possibly find some Chinese junks or
vessels from Tonquin, t at would be to be sold, and would carry
us and our code whither we pleased. This I liked very wel ,
and resolves to wait; besides, as our particular persons were
not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch ships came thither,
perhaps we might have an Opportunity to load our goods, and
get passage to some other place in India, nearer home. Upon
these hapes we resolved to continue here; but, to divert our-
selves, we took two or three journeys into the country. First,
we went ten days' journey, to the city of Nanquin, a city well
worth seeing, indeed; they say it has a million of people in it:
it is regularly built, the streets all exactly straight, and cross
one another in direct lines, which gives the figure of it great ad--
vantage. But when I come to compare the miserable people of
these countries with ours, their fabrics, their manner of hving,
their government, their religion, their wealth, and their glory,
as some call it, I must confess that I scarcely think it worth my
while to mention them here. It is very observable, that we
wcnder at the grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies,
the government, the manufactures, the commerce, and conduct
of these people; not that it is to be wondered at, or, indeed, in
the least to be regarded, but because having a true notion of
the barbarity of those countries, the rudeness and the ignorance
that prevails there, we do not expect to find any such thing so
far otf. Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces and
royal buildings of Europe? What their trade to the universal
commerce of England, llolland, France, and Spain? What are
their cities to ours, for wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel, rich
furniture, and infinite variety? What are their ports, supplied
with a few junks and barks, to our navigation, our merchant
tleets, our large and powerful navies? Our city of London has
more trade than half their mighty empire: one English, Dutch,
or French man-of--war of eighty guns, would be able to fight
almost all the shipping belonging to China: but the greatness
of their wealth, their trade, the power of their government, and
the strength of their armies, may be a little surprising to us;
because, as l have said. considering them as a barbarous nation
of pagans, little better than savages, we did not expect such
things among them. And this, indeed, is the advantage with
which all their greatness and power is represented to us ; other-
wise, it is in itself nothing at all; for what I have said of their
ships may he said of their armies and troops: all the forces of
their empire, though they were to bring two millions of men into
the field together, would be able to do nothing but ruin the
country, and starve themselves, if they were to besiege a strong
town in Flanders, or to fight a disciplined army. One good line
of German cuirassiers, or of French cavalry, might withstand all
the horse of China: a million of their foot could not stand before
one embattled body of our infantry, posted so as not to be sur-
rounded, though they were not to be one to twenty in number:
nay, I do not boast if I say that thirty thousand German or
English foot, and ten thousand horse, well managed, could defeat
all the forces of China. And so of our fortified towns, and of the
art of our engineers in assaulting and defending towns: there is
not a fortified town in China could hold out one month gainst
the batteries and attacks of an European army; and, at the same
time, all the armies of China could never take such a town as
Dunkirk. provided it was not starved--no, not in a ten years'
siege. They have fire-arms, it is true, but they are awkward
and uncertain in their going off; and their powder has but little
strength. 'l'hcir armies are badly disciplined, and want skill to
attack, or temper to retreat; and, therefore, I must confess,
it seemed strange to me, when I came home, and heard our
people say such fine things of the power, glory, magnificence, and
trade of the Chinese; because, as far as I saw, they a peared to
be a contemptible herd or crowd of ignorant sordid s ves, sub-
jected to a government qualified only to rule such a people: and
were not its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and the
Muscovite empire in a manner as rude, impotent, and ill go-
verned as they, the Czar of Muscovy might with ease drive themnonmson eiws 401

all out of their country, and conquer them in one campaign: and
had the Czar (who is now a growing prince) fallen this war,
instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, and equally 1mpro1ed
himseu 1n the art of 11.11; as they say he has done, - and if none
of the powers of Europe had envied or interrupted him, he might
by this time have been emperor of China, instead of being beaten
by the king of Sweden at Narv va, when the latter was not one to
six in nuniber. As their stieng th and their <<rr,an(le11r so their
navigation, commerce, and husbandry are very imperfect, com-
pared to the same thiiigs 111 I) urope: also in their knowledge,
their learning, and 111 their skill 111 the sciences, they are either
11er1'a1vk11'ar1l or del'ecti1- e, though they have globes and spheres,
and a smattering of the mathematics, and think they know more
than all the world besides: but thev know little of" the motions
of the heavenly bodies; ; and so grossly and absurdly ignorant
are their common people, that when the sun is eclipsed, thev
think a. great dragon has assaulted it, and 1s going to min a11 av
111th it; and they fall a clattering with all the drums and kettles
in the country, to fright the monster away, just as we do to hive
a swarm of bees.

As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have made
in all the accounts I have given of my travels, I shall make no
more such: it is none of my business, nor any part of my design;
but to give an aeeou utof' my 01111 adventures through a lifeof inimi-

table wanderings, and a long variety of changes, 6which, perhaps,
few that come after me 11111 have heard the like of: I shall there-
fore say1ery little of all the mighty places, desert countries, and
numerous people I have yet to: pass through, more than relates
to my owns tory, and which my concern among them will make
necessary.402 .uwrzxrunss or?

 

SECTION XLIII.

JOURNEY TO PEKING.--ROBINSON JOINS A CARAVAN PROCEEDING
TO MOSCOW.--RENCONTRES WITH THE TARTARS.

I WAS now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about
thirty degrees north of the line, for we were returned from Nan-
qnin: I had, indeed, a mind to see the city of Peking, which I had
heard so much of, and Father Simon importancd me daily to do
it. At length his time of going away being set, and the other
missionary who was to go with him being arrived from Macao,
it was necessary that we should resolve either to go or not; so
I referred it wholly to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice,
who at length resolved it in the affirmative; and we prepared for
our journey. We set out with very good advantage, as to finding
the way, for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their
Mandarins, a kind of Viceroy or principal magistrates in the
province where they reside, and who take great state upon them,
travelling with great attendance, and with great homage from the
people, who are sometimes greatly impoverished by them, being
obliged to furnish provisions for them and all their attendants
in their journeys. That which I particularly observed, as (.0 our
travelling with his baggage, was this, that though we received
sufficient provisions both for ourselves and our horses from the
country, as belonging to the Mandarin, yet we were obliged to
pay for every thing we had, after the market price of the
country, and the Mandarin's steward collected it duly from us ;
so that our travelling in the retinue of the Mandarin. though it
was every great kindness to us, was not such amighty favour in
him, but was a great advantage to him, considering there were
about thirty other people travelled in the same manner besides
us, under the protection of his retinue; for the country furnished
all the provisions for nothing to him, and yet he took our money
for them.

We were twenty-five days travellin to Peking, through a
country infinitely populous, but I thin badly cultivated; the
husbandry, the economy, and the way of living miserable,
though they boast so much of the industry of the people: I say
miserable, if compared with our own, but not so to these poor
wretches, who know no other. The pride of the people is infi-
nitely great, and exceeded by nothing but their poverty, in some
parts, which adds to that which I call their misery; and I
must needs think the naked savages of America live much more
happily than the poorest sort of these, because as they have
nothing, so they desire nothing: whereas these are proud and
insolent, and in the main are in many parts mere beggars and
drudges; their ostentation is inexpressible; and, if they can,
they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, which is to
the last degree ridiculous, as well as the contempt of all the
world but themselves.

I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the
deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary than here; and
yet the roads here are well paved and well kept, and very con-
venient for travellers: but nothing was more awkward to me

. than to see such a haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the
midst of the grossest simplicity and ignorance; and my friend
Father Simon and I used to be very merry upon these occasions,
to see the beggarly pride of these people. For example, comin
by the house of a country gentleman, as Father Simon calle
him, about ten leagues ofi' the city of Nanquin, we had first of all
the honour to ride with the master of the house about two miles;

; the state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mix-

l ture of pomp and povert . His habit was very proper for a

l scaramouch, or merry-an w, being a dirty calico, with hanging

5 sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes almost on every side: it

i covered a tafi'ety vest, as greasy as a butcher's, and which testi-
fied that his honour must be a most exquisite sloven. His horse
was but a poor, starved, hobbling creature, and he had two

; slaves followed him on foot to drive the poor creature along: he
had a whip in his hand, and he belaboured the beast as fast about

3 the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode by us,

i, with about ten or twelve servants, going from the city to his

i' country seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on

;, gently, but this figure of a entleman rode away before us; and

. as we sterilped at a village u out an hour to refresh us, when we

:eamebyt ecountryseat ofthis great man, we saw him in a
little place before his door. eating his repast. It was a kind ofa
garden. but. he 11 as 1' er1' easy to be seen' . and we were given to
understand that the. more. we looked at him the better he would
l1eplcased.llc sat under :1. tree, something like the palmetto
which ctl'ect11all1' shaded him 01' or the head, and on the south
side. - but under the. tree was also placed a large umbrella, which
made that. part look well enough. He sat lolliug back In a great
11ll1o11'-11hair, being 11. heavy corpuleut 111 m. and had his meat
brought him by two women sla1' cs' . he had two more, one of
which fed the squire with a spoon, and the other held the dish
with one hand, and scraped olt' what he let t'all upon his worship's
heard and tatl'cty 1cst with the other, - while the great fat brute
thought it below him to employ his 111111 hands in any of those
familiar otlices, which kings and monarchs would rather do than
be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their scr1' ants.

I took this time to think what pains mens pride puts them to,
and how trouhlestune a haughty temper, thus ill managed, must
he to 11 man of common sense; and leaving the poor wretch to
please. himself with our looking at him. as if we admired his
pomp though 1111 1'1111ll1' pitied and coutemned him, we pursued
our iournc1':onl_1' l'ather Simon had the curiosity to stay to
inform himself 111111 111 111ties the country justice had to feed 1111
in all his state. 11l11el1 he had the honour to taste ol, and
"Me -h was. I think. 11 mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of
garlic 111 it and :1 little hag filled with green pepper, and another
plant 11 huh thc1' have there smnethiug like our ginger, but:
smelling like musk. and tasting like mustard, all this was put:
together. and a small piece of [11.1 111 mutton boiled 111 it, and this was
his worship s repast;t'ou1- or ti1' e sen ants more atteilded at a dis-
tance. who, we supposed, were to eat of the same after their master.

As for our Mandarin with whom 11 e travelled, he was respected
as a king. surrounded al11a1s with his gentlemen, and attended
in all his appearances with such pomp, that I saw little of him
but at a distance. ' but this I 11l1ser1'cd,tl1at there was not a horse
in his retinue but that our carrier s pack-horses in England
seemed to 11111 to look lunch hotter: though it was hard to judge
rightly. for they were so covered with e1 nipagc, mantles, trap-
pings. 8'12 that we could scarce see a111't dug but their feet and
their heads as they 11 cut along.

I 1111s 111111' light- hearted, and all 1111' trouble and pcrplexitv
that I have gi1' en an account ot being 01' er, I had no anxious
thought about me. which made this journey the pleasanter to
me. ' nor had I any ill accident attended me, only in passmg or
tin-ding a small ri1e1' 1111' horse fell, and made me free of the
cou11tr1, as the1 call it. that 15 to say, threw me in: the place
11 as not deep, but it 11 etted me all 01' cr. I mention it, because
it spoiled 1111-11oeket-l1ook, "herein 1 had set down the names
of several people and pl. ces which I had occasion to remember,1/ /, .
.- .//'//'
I, /,/'/". U'
,. . My?
4/'/'
///"
r/f '
,. /' ~ ' (
/ 72/3 7' .
77,1,
/,,;,/, /'/
and which, not taking due care of, the leaves rotted, and the
words were never after to be read, to my great loss as to the
names of some places I touched at in this journey.
' At length we arrived at Peking: I had nobody with me but
the youth whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend
- me as a servant, and w 0 proved very trusty and diligent; and
my partner had nobody with him, but one servant, who was a
: kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see
' the court, we bore his charges foi- his company, and to use him
as an interpreter, for he understood the language of the country,
and spoke good French, and a little English; and, indeed, this
old man was a most useful implement to us every where; for we
had not been above a week at Peking, when he came laughing,
Ah, Senhor lnglese, says he, I have something to tell you will
make your heart glad l--My heart glad! says I; what can that
be? I don't know anything in this country can either give me
'oy or grief, to any great degree--Yes, yes, said the old man, in
roken English, make you glad, me sorry.--Why, said I, will it
make you sorry ?--Because, said be, you have brou ht me here
twent -five days' journey, and will leave me to go ack alone,
and w ich way shall I get to my port afterwards without a ship,
without a horse, without pecans : so he called money, being his
broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make us merry with.
In short, he told us there was a great caravan of Muscov1te and
~ Polish merchants in the city, reparing to set out on their
journey by land to Moscovy, wit in four or five weeks, and he
was sure we would take the opportunity to go with them, and
leave him behind, to go back alone.

I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and
had scarce power to speak to him for some time; but at last I
turned to him, How do you know this? said I. Are you sure it
is true ?--Yes, says he; I met this morning in the street an old
acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is among them; he came
last from Astracan, and was designin to go to Touquin, where
I formerly knew him, but has alte his mind, and is now re-
solved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river
Wolga to Astracan.----Well. senhor, says I, do not be uneasy
about being left to go back alone; if this be a method for my
return to England, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao
at all. We then went to consult together what was to be done;
and I asked my partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and
whether it would suit with his affairs? He told me he would do
just as I would; for he had settled all his'afl'airs so well at Ben-
gal, and left his efi'ects in such od hands, that as we had made
a good voyage here, if he co d vest it in China silks, wrought
and raw, such as might be worth the carriage, he would be con-
tent to go to England, and then make his voyage back to Bengal
by the Company's ships
Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Portuguese
pilot would go with us we would hear his charges to Moscow,
or to England, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be
esteemed over generous in that neither, it' we had not rewarded
him farther, the. service he had done us being really worth more
than that: for he. had not only been a pilot to us at sea, but he
had been like a broker for us on shore; and his procuring for
Its the Japan merchant was some hundreds of minds in our
pocket. . So we consulted together about it, am being willing
to gratify him, which was but doing him justice, and very will-
ing also to have him with us besides, for he was a most. neces-
sary man on all ot ions, we agreed to give him a quantitv ol'
mined gold, which. . . l compute it, came to about one hundred
and seventy-live pounds sterling. between us, and to bear all his
charges, both for hitnselt'nnd horse, except only a horse to carry
his goods. llaving settled this between ourselves, we called him
to let him know what we had resolved. I told him he had colu-
plained ot'ouv being to let him go back alone. and I was now to
tell him we were resolved he should not go back at all ; that as
we had resolved to go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved
also he should go with us; and that we called him to know his
mind. He shook his head, and said. it was a long journey, and
he. had no [lemme to carry him thither, or to subsist himself when
he came. there. We told him we believed it was so, and therefore
we had resolved to do something for him that should let him see
how sensible we. were. of the service he had done its, and also
how agreeable he. was to us: and then I told him what we had
resolved to give him here, which he might lay out as we would
do our own; anti that as for his charges, it" he would go with us
we would set him safe on shore (life and casualties excepted)
either in Muscovy or England, which he would, at our own
charge, except only the carriage of his goods. He received the
proposal like a luau transported, and told us he would go with
us over the whole world; and so we all prepared for our journey.
However, as it was with us. so it was with the other merchants:
they had many things to do; and instead of being ready in five
weeks, it was four months and some days before all things were
got together.

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out.
from l'dting. My partner and the old pilot had gone express
back to the port where we had first put in, to dispose of some
goods which we had left there: and l. with a Chinese merchant
whom I had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to
Peking on his own atl'airs. went to Nanquin, where I bought
ninety pieces of fine damasks, with about two hundred pieces
of other very fine silks of several sorts, some mixed with gold,
and had all these brought to Peking against my partner's return:
besides this, we bought a very large quantity of raw silk, and
some other goods, our cargo amounting, in these gooos only,
to about three thousand five hundred pounds sterling; 11 inch,
together with tea, and some fine calicoes, and three camels'
loads of nutmegs and clov es. loaded in all eighteen camels for
our share, besides those 11e rode upon; which, 11ith two or
three spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us. in short, t11cnt1'-si\ camels and horses 111 our retinue.

The company 11 as 1011 great, and, as near as I can remember,
made. bet" c1111 three and four hundred horse, and upwards oi
one. hundred and tw'cnt1 men, very 11' ell armed, and provided
('11- all 01' eats: for as the Ilastcrn caravans are subject to be
attacked by the Arabs, so are these by the 'l'artars; but they are
not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous,
11 hen they prevail.

The company censistcd of people of se1cral nations: but there
were above si.\'t1' oi them merchants or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some new Livonians: and to our particular
satisfaction, ii1e oi them 11' ere Scots, who appeared also to be
men of great experience. in business, and of ver ry good substance.

\\ hen we had travelled one day's journey, the guides who
were five in number, called all tlie gentlemen and merchants,
that is to say, all the passengers e\ccpt the servants, to a great
council, as the1 called it. At this council every one deposited
at certain quantit1 of money to a common stock, for the neces-
sary e\pense oi' h1111n11' i'oraee on the way. where it was not
otherw ise to be had, and for satisi'1 mg the gilides, getting horses,
and the like: and here they constituted the Journey, as theyc call
it 1i/.. they named captaiiis and oiiiecrs to draw 11s all 11p, and
gi1 11 the 11 ord of command in case of an attack, and give every
one their turn of command; nor 11' as this forming us into order
any more than what 11c found neediul upon the 11 a1, as shall
be observed.

The road all on this side of the countr1 is very populous, and
is full of potters and earth makers, that is to say, people that
temper the earth for the China-w are; and as I was coming along,
our Portugal pilot, who had al11a1s something or other to say
to make us merry, came sneeriug to me, and told me he would
show me the greatest rarity in all the country, and that I should
have this to say of China, after all the ill humoured things I had

said of it, that I had seen one thing 11hich 11 as not to be seen in
all the 11 orld beside. I 11 as very importnnate to know what it:
was: at last he told me it was a gentleman's house built with
China- -ware. " ell, says I, are not the materials oi their build-
ings the product of their ow 11 country, and so it is all China-ware,
is it not.'-- No, no,sa1's he, I mean it is a house all made of
China-ware, such as you call it in England, or, as it is called in
our country. porcelain.- W ell, say 3 I, =3such a thing may be;ho1v
big is it? Can we carry it in a box upon a camel! If we can.
we will buy it.--Upon a camel! says the old pilot, holding up
both his hands ; why there is a family of thirtv people lives in it.

1 was then curious, indeed, to see it; and when I came to it,
it was nothing but this: it was a timber house, or a house built,
as we call it in England, with lath and plaster; but all this
plastering was really China-ware, that is to say, it was plastered
with the earth that makes China-ware. The outside, which the
sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and looked very well, perfectly
white. and painted with blue figures, as the large China-ware in
England is painted, and hard as if it had been burned. As to
the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined with
hardened and painted tiles, like the little square tiles we call
galley-tiles in England, all made of the finest China, and the
figures exceeding fine, indeed, with extraordinary variety of
colours, mixed with gold; many tiles making but. one figure, but
joined so artificially, the mortar being made of the same earth,
that it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The floors of
the rooms were of the same composition, and as hard as the
earthen floors we have in use in several parts of England; as
hard as stone, and smooth, but not burned and painted, except
some smaller rooms, like closets, which were all as it were paved
with the same tile: the ceiling, and all the lastering work in
the whole house, were of the same earth; and: after all, the roof
was covered with tiles of the same, but of a deep shining black.
This was a China warehouse, indeed, truly and literally to be
called so, and had I not been upon the journey, I could have
stayed some days to see and examine the particulars of it. They
told me there were fountains and fishponds in the garden, all
paved on the bottom and sides with the same; and fine statues
set up in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain
earth, and burned whole.

As this is one of the singularities of China, so the may be
allowed to excel in it; but I am very sure they exce in their
accounts otTit ; for they told me such incredible things of their per-
formance in crockery-ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate,
as knowing it could not be true. They told me, in particular,
of one workman that made a ship with all its tackle, and masts
and sails, in earthen-ware, big enough to carry fifty men. If
they had told me he launched it, and made a voyage to Japan in
it, I might have said something to it, indeed; but as it was, I
knew the whole of the story, which was, in short, asking pardon
for the word, that the fellow lied: so I smiled, and said nothing
to it.

This odd si ht kept me two hours behind the caravan, for
which the lea er of it for the day fined me about the value of
three shillings; and told me, if it had been three days' journey
without the wall, as it was three days' within, he must have fined
me {our times as much, and made me ask pardon the next
council day: I promised to be more orderly; and, indeed, I found
afterwards the orders made for keeping all together were abso-
lutely necessary for our common safety.

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a
fortification inst the Tartars; and a very great work it is.
going over hgsaand mountains in a needless track, where the
rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy could
possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did. no wall
could hinder them. The tell us its length is near a thousand
English miles, but that t e country is five hundred in a straight
measured line, which the wall bounds, without measurin the
windings and turnings it takes: it is about four fathoms 'gh,
and as many thick in some laces.

I stood still an hour, or t ereabout, without trespassing our
orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look
at it on every side, near and far oil", I mean that was within my
view; and the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it
for the wonder of the world, was mighty eager to hear my
opinion of it. I told him it was a most excellent thing to kee
out the Tartars; which he happened not to understand as
meant it, and so took it for a compliment; but the old pilot
laughed: 0, Senhor Inglese, says he, you speak in colours.---In
colours! said I; what do you mean by that?--Why you speak
what looks white this way, and black that way: gay one way,
and dull another. You tell him it is a good wall to keep out
Tartars; you tell me by that it is good for nothing but to keep
out Tartars. I understand you, Senhor Inglese; ll understand
you; but Senhor Chinese underStood you his own way--Well,
says I, senhor, do you think it would stand out an army of our
country people, with a good train of artillery, or our engineers,
with two companies of miners? Would not they batter it down
in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia; or blow it up in '
the air, foundation and all, that there should be no sign of it left?
--Ay, ay, says he, I know that. The Chinese wanted mightily
to know what I said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days
after, for we were then almost out of their country, and he was to
leave us in a little time alter this; but when he knew what I said,
he was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard no more of his
fine story of the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed.

After we passed this mighty nothing. called a wall, something
like the Picts' wall, so famous in N orthumberland, built by the
Romans, we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the
peeople rather confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as

mg subject to the inroads and depredations of the Tartar-s,
who rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by
the naked inhabitants of an open country. And here I began
to find the necessity of keepmg together in a caravan as we
travelled, for we saw several troops of Tartars roving about;
but when I came to see them distinctly, I wondered more that
the Chinese empire could be conquered by such contemptible
fellows; for they are a mere horde of wild fellows, keepinn

order, a'nd understanding no discipline or manner of fight. T eir
horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit for
nothing; and this we found the first day we saw them, which
1111' after we entered the wilder put of the country. Our leader
for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a huntingl
as they call it, and what was this but hunting of sheep: how-
e1 er, it may be called huntintr too, for the creatures are the
wildest and swiftest of foot that ever I saw of their kind; only
the_1 111" not run a great way. and you are sure of sport when
1011 beWin the chase, for the_1 appear generally thirt or forty in
a flock, eand, like true sheep,11 11111 ays keep together when theyy fly.

I11 pursuit of this odd sort 01 game, it was our hop to meet
with about forty 'l'artars; whether they were hunting mutton as
we were, or whether they looked for another kind of prey, we
know not; but as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kind
of horn 1er_1' loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had ne1' er
heard before, and: by the 11 av, ne1 er care to hear again: we all
supposed this was to call their friends about them, and so it
11 as , for 111 less than ten minutes a troop of forty or fifty more
appeared at about a mile distance, but our work was over first,
as it happened.

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be
amongst us, and as soon as he heard the horn he told us that
we had nothing to do but to charge them immediately without
loss of time, and dra111nC/r us up in a line, he asked if we were
resol1ed. \\ e told him we were ready to follow him, so he rode
directly towards them. They stood gazing at us like a mere
crowd drawn up in no order, nor showing the face of any order
at all: but as soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their
arrows, which, how e1 er, missed us very hap ily . it seems they
mistook not their aim, but their distance, or their arrows ab
fell a little short of us, but with so true an aim, that had we
been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several men
wounded, if not killed.

Immediately 11' e halted. and though it was at a great distance
we fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, fol-
low 111g our shot full gallop, to fall In among them sword in hand,
for so our bold Scot that ed us directed. He was, indeed, but
a merchant, but he behaved with that 1igour and bravery on
this occasion, and wet with such cool courage too, that I never

saw any man in action fitter for command. As soon as we came
up to them, we fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew;
but they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable. The only
stand am of them made was on our right, where three of them
stood, and. by signs, called the rest to come back to them, having
a kind of scimitar in their hands, and their bows hanging to their
backs. Our brave commander, without asking anybody to follow
him, gallo s up close to them, and with his fusee knocks one of
them off Bis horse, killed the second with his pistol, and the
third ran away; and thus ended our fight: but we had this
misfortune attending it, that all our mutton we had in chase got
away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but as for the Tartars,
there were about five of them killed : how many were wounded
we knew not; but this we knew, that the other party were so
frightened with the noise of our guns, that they made off, and
never'made any attem t upon us.

We were all this w ile in the Chinese dominions, and there-
fore the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards: but in about
five days we entered a vast, great, wild desert, which held us
three days and nights' march; and we were obliged to carry our
water with us in great leathern bottles, and to encamp all night,
just as I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia.

i asked our guides whose dominion this was in; and they
told me this was a kind of border, that might be called no man's
land, being a part of Great Karakathay, or Grand Tartary: but,
however, it was all reckoned as belonging to China, but that
there was no care taken here to reserve it from the inroads of
thieves. and therefore it was rec oned the worst desert in the
whole march, though we were to go over some much larger.

In passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful
to me, we saw, two or three times, little parties of the Tartar-s,
but they seemed to be upon their own afi'airs, and to have no
design upon us : and so, like the man who met the devil, if they
had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to say to them; we
let them go. Once, however, a arty of them came so near as
to stand and gaze at us r whet er it was to consider if they
should attack us or not, we knew not: but when we were passed
at some distance by them, we made a rear guard of forty men.
and st00d ready for them. letting the caravan pass halfa mile or
thereabouts before us : but afier a while they marched off; only
we found they saluted us with five arrows at their parting, one
of which wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, and we left
him the next day, poor creature, in eat need of a good farrier:
they might shoot more arrows, whic might fall short of us, but
we saw no more arrows or Tartars that time.

We travelled near a month after this, the ways not being so
good as at first, though still in the dominions of the emperor
of China, but lay for the most part in villages, some of which
were fortified, because of the incursions of the Tartars. When
we were come to one of these towns (it was about two days and
a half journey before we were to come to the city of Naum),
l wanted to buy a camel, of which there are plent to be sold all
the way upon that road, and horses also, we as they are,

E!
because, so many caravans coming that way, they are often
wanted. The person that I spoke to, to t me a camel, would
have gone and fetched one for me; but , like a fool, must be
ofiicious, and go myself along with him: the place was about
two miles out of the village, where it seems they kept the camels
and horses feeding under a guard.

I walked it on foot, with my old ilot and a Chinese, being
very desirous of a little variety. When we came to the place,
it was a low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall,
piled up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a park,
with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the door. Having
bought a camel, and agreed for the price, I came away, and the
Chineseman that went with me led the camel, when on a sudden
came up five Tartars on horseback: two of them seized the fellow
and took the camel from him, while the other three stepped up
to me and my old pilot, seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had
no weapon about me but my sword, which could but ill defend
me against three horsemen. The first that came up stopped
short upon my drawing my sword. for they are arr-ant cowards;
but a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the head,
which I never felt till afterwards, and wondered, when I came
to myself, what was the matter, and where I was, for he laid me
flat on the ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portu-
guese (so Providence, unlooked for, directs deliverances from
dangers which to us are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket,
which I knew nothinv of, nor the 'I'artars neither: if they had,
I suppose they would not have attacked us; but cowards are
always boldest when there is no danger. The old man seein
me down, with a bold heart stepped up to the fellow that ha
struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling
him 'down by main force a little towards him with the other,
shot him in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot. He
then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I
said, and before he could come forward again, made a blow at
him with a scimitar which he always wore, but missing the man,
cut his horse in the side of his head, cut one of the ears off. by
the root, and a great slice down by the side of his face. The

oor beast, enraged with the wound, was no more to be governed
liy his rider, though the fellow sat well enough too, but away
he flew. and carried him quite out of the pilot's reach and at
some distance. rising upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar,
and fell upon him.

In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the
camel, but he had no weapon: however, seeing the Tartar
down, and his horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him,
and seizing' upon an ugly ill-favoured weapon he had by his
side, something like a pole-axe, but not a ole-axe neither, he
wrenched it from him, and made shift to on): his Tartarian
brains out with it. But my old man had the third Tartar to
deal with still; and seeing he did not fly, as he expected, nor
come on to fight him, as he ap rehended, but stand stock-still,
the old man stood still too, an fell to work with his tackle, to
charge his pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol,

away he scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I called him
afterwards, a complete victory.

By this time I was a little recovered; for I thought-when I
first began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I
said above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the
ground, and what was the matter. But a few moments after,
as sense returned,l felt pain, though] did not know where;
so I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away bloody:
then I felt my head ache; and then, in a moment, memory re-
turned, and every thing was present to me again. I jumped
upon my feet instantly, and got hold of m sword, but no
enemies in view: I found a Tartar lie den and his horse
standing very uietly by him; and, looking further, I saw my
cham ion and eliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese
had one, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old
man, seeing me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced
me with a great deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been
killed; and seeing me bloody, would see how I was hurt: but it
was not much, only what we call a broken head; neither did I
afterwards find any great inconvenience from the blow, for it was
well again in two or three days.

We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost
a camel and gained a horse; but that which was remarkable,
when we came back to the village, the man demanded to be paid
for the camel; I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing
before the Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he
acted with a great deal of prudence and impartiality; and, having
heard both sides, he gravel asked the Chinese man that went
with me to buy the came , whose servant he was? I am no
servant, says he, but went with the stranger.--At whose re-
quest? says the justice. At the stranger's request, says be.
Why, then, says the justice, you were the stranger's servant for
the time; and the camel being delivered to his servant, it was
delivered to him, and he must pay for it.

I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to say:
but, admiring to see such just reasoning upon the consequence,
and an accurate stating of the case, I paid willing] tor the
camel, and sent for another; but, you mav observe, I id not go
to fetch it myself any more, for I ad had enough of that.

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire: they
call it fortified, and so it is, as fortifications go there; for this I
will venture to aflirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathay, which,
I believe, are some millions, could not batter down the walls

E E 2
with their bows and arrows; but to call it strong, if it were
attacked with cannon, would be to make those who understand
it laugh at you.

We wanted, as l have said, above two days' journey of this
city, when messengers were sent express to every part of the
road to tell all travu'lers and caravans to halt till they had a
guard sent for them; for that an unusual body of 'l'artars,
making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about
thirty miles beyond the city.

This was verv bad news to travellers; however, it was care.
fully done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear We
should have a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two
hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our
left, and three hundred more from the city of Naum. and with
these we advanced boldly; the three hundred soldiers from
Naunt marched in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and
our men on each side. of our camels, with our baggage. and the
whole caravan in the centre; in this order, and well prepared
for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the whole ten
thousand Mogul 'l'artars, if they had appeared; but the next
day, when they did appear, it was quite another thing.

It was early in the morning, when, marching from a well
situated little town, called Changu, we had a river to pass,
which we were obliged to ferry; and, had the 'l'artars had any
intelligence, then had been the time to have attacked us, when
the caravan being over, the rear guard was behind; but they
did not appear there. About three hours after, when we were
entered upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles over,
behold, by a cloud ot'dust they raised, we saw an enemy was at
hand; and they were at hand, indeed, for they came on upon
the spur.

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big
the day before, began to stagger; and the soldiers frequently
looked behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that he
is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of tny mind; and,
being near me. called out, Senhor lnglese, says be, those fellows
must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the 'l'artars
come on, they will never stand it.----l am of your mind, said I;
but what must be done 'f--Done! says he, let fifty of 'our men
advance, and tlank them on each wine, and encourage them; and
they will fight like brave fellows in brave company: but, with-
out this, they will every man tnrn his back. Immediately I
rode up to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our
mind; and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right wing,
and fifty to the lett, and the rest made a line of rescue; and so
we. marched, leaving the last two hundred men to make a body
by themselves, and to guard the camels; only that, it' need were,
they should send a hundred men to assist the last fifty.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerabls com any
they were: how many we could not tell, but ten thousan . we
thought. was the least: a party of them came on first and viewed
our posture, traversing the ground In the front of our line ; and. as
we found them within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two
wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing
with their shot, which was done; but they went off, and I sup-
pose back, to give an account of the reception they were like y
to meet with; and, indeed, that salute cloyed their stomachs, for
they immediately halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and wheel-
ing oll' to the left, they gave over their design, and said no more
to us for that time; which was very agreeable to our circum-
stances, which were but very indifferent for a battle with such a
number.

Two days after we came to the city of Naun, or Naum; we
thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected to the
value ofa hundred crowns, or thereahouts, which we gave to
the soldiers sent to guard us; and here we rested one day. This
is a garrison, indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept
here; but the reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite
frontiers lay nearer to them than they now do, the Muscovites
having abandoned that part of the country, which lies from this
city west for about two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit for
use; and more especially being so very remote, and so difficult
to send troo s thither for its defence: for we had yet above two
thousand mi es to Muscovy, properly so called.

After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful
deserts; one of which we were sixteen days passing over; and
which, as I said, was to be called no man's land; and, on the
13th of April, we came to the 'frontiers of the Muscovite
dominions. I think the first town, or fortress, whichever it may
he called, that belonged to the czar of Muscovy, was called
Arguna, being on the west side of the river Arguna.

1 could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so
soon arrived in, as I called it, aChristian country, or, at least, in
aconntry governed by Christians; for though the Muscovites
do. in my opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians, yet
such they pretend to be, and are very devout in their way. It
would certainly occur to any man who travels the world as I
have done, and who had any power of reflection, what a bless-
ing it is to be brought into the world where the name of God
and a Redeemer is known, adored and worship ed; and not
where the people, given up by Heaven to strong elusions, wor-
ship the devil, and rostrate themselves to stocks and stones;
worship monsters, e ements, horrid-shaped animals, and statues
or images of monsters. Not a town or city we passed through
but had their pagoda, their idols, and their temples, and ignorant
people worshipping even the works of their own hands. Now
we came where, at least, a face of the Christian worship appeared;
where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and whether ignorantly or
not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the name of the
true God was called upon and adored, and it made my soul re-
joice to see it. I saluted the brave Scots merchant I mentioned
above with my first acknowledgment of this; and taking him by
the hand, I said to him, Blessed be God, we are once again
amongst Christians. He smiled, and answered, Do not rejoice
too soon, countryman; these Muscovites are but an odd sort of
Christians; and but for the name of it, you may see very little
of the substance for some months farther of our journey. W eli,
says I, but still it is better than paganism and worshipping of
devils--Why, I will tell you, says he, except the Russian soldiers
in the garrisons, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities upon
the road, all the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles
farther, is inhabited by the worst and most ignorant of pagans
and so indeed, we found it.
 

SECTION XLIV.

ROUTE THROUGH MUSCOVY.--ROBINSON AND A SCOTS MERCHANT
DESTROY AN IDOL--THE WHOLE CARAVAN IN GREAT EBB".
FROM THE PURSUIT OF THE PAGANS.--TOBOLSKI.--MUSCOVITE
EXILES.--DEPAR.TURE FROM TOBOLSKL--ENCOUNTER 'VITH A
TROOP 0F ROBBERS IN THE DESERT.----ROBINSON BEACHES
ARCIIANGEL, AND FINALLY ARRIVES IN ENGLAND.

WE were now launched into the greatest iece of solid earth, if I
understand any thing of the surface of t e lobe, that is to be
found in any part of the world; we had, at east, twelve thou-
sand miles to the sea, eastward; two thousand to the bottom
of the Baltic sea, westward; and above three thousand, if we left
that sea and went on west, to the British and French channels;
we had full five thousand miles to the Indian or Persian sea,
south; and about eight hundred to the Frozen sea, north. Nay,
if some people may be believed, there might be no sea, north-
east, till we came round the pole, and consequently into the
north-west, and so had a continent of land into America, the
Lord knows where; though I could give some reasons why I
believe that to be a mistake.

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while
before we came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to
observe there but this: first, that all the rivers run to the east:
as I understood by the charts, which some in our caravan had
with them, it was plain all those rivers ran into the great river
Yamour, or Amour; which river, by the natural course of it,
must run into the Best sea, or Chinese Ocean. The story they
tell us. that the mouth of this river is choked u with bulrushas
of a monstrous growth, viz. three feet about, an twenty or thirty
feet high, I must be allowed tosay, I believe nothin of it; but,
as its navigation is of no use, because there is no t e that way,
the 'l'artars, to whom it alone belong-s, dealing in nothing but
cattle, so nohody, that ever I heard of, has been curious enough
either to go down to the month of it in boats, or come up
from the mouth of it in ships, as far as I can find: but this is
certain, that this river running east, in the latitude of about
til'tv degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and
finds an ocean to empty itself in that latitude: so we are sure
of sea there.

Some leagues to the north of this river there are several con-
siderable rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour
runs east. and these are all found to join their waters with the

t river 'l'artarus, named so from the northermost nations
of the Mogul 'l'artars; who. as the Chinese say, were the first
'I'artars in the world; and who. as our geographers allege, arc
the (log and Magog mentioned in sacred story. These rivers
running all northward. as well as all the other rivers lam vet to
speak of, make it evident that the northern ocean bounds the
land also on that side : so that it does not seem rational in the
least to think that the land can extend itself to join with America
on that side, or that there is not a communication between the
northern and eastern ocean: but of this I shall say no more; it
was my observation at that time, and therefore I take notice of
it in this place.

We new advanced from the river Arguna bv easy and moderate
journeys, and were ver visibly obliged to the care the Czar of
Muscovy has taken to ave cities and towns built in as many
places as it is possible to lace them, where his soldiers keep
garrison. something like t e stationary soldiers placed by the
llomaus in the remotest cotuitries of their empire; some of which
that I had read of were placed in Britain, for the securit of com-
merce, and for the lodgin travellers; and thus it was ere: for
wherever we came, though at these towns and stations the gar-
risous and governors were Russians and professed Christians, yet
the inhabitants were mere pagans; sacrificin to idols, and
worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the out of heaven;
and not only so, but were, of all the heathens and agans that
ever I met with, the most barbarous, except only that they did
not eat men's flesh, as our savages of America did.

Some instances of this we met within the country between
Arguaa, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and acitv
of Tartars and Russians together, called Nertzinskoi, in which
is a continued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to
travel over. In avillage, near the last of these places, I had the
curiosity to go and see their way of living, which is most brutish
and insufl'erable: they had, I suppose. a great sacrifice that
day; for there stood out, upon an old stump of a tree, an idol
made of wood, ii-ightful as the devil; at least, as "filling we
can think of to represent the devil can be made: it a and
not so much as resembling any creature that the world ever saw;
ears as big as goats' horns, and as high; eyes as big as acrown
piece; a nose like a crooked ram's-horn, and a mouth extended
four-cornered. like that of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked
like a parrot's under-bill: it was dressed up in the filthiest
manner that you could suppose: its upper arment was of sheep-
skins, with the wool outward; a great artar bonnet on the
head, with two horns growing through it: it was about eight feet
high. yet had no feet or legs, nor any other proportion of arts.
This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the vi lage;
and, when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen
creatures, whether men or women I could not tell. for they made
no distinction b their habits, all I ing flat upon the ground
round this formi able block of shape ess wood: I saw no motion
among them any more than if they had been all logs of wood,
like the idol, and at first I really thought they had been so; but,
when I came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet, and
raised a howlin or , as if it had been so many deep-mouthed
hounds, and wa kc away, as if they were displeased at our dis-
turbing them. A little way off from the idol, and at the door of
a tent or hut, made all of sheep-skins and cow-skins dried, stood
three butchers,----l thought they were such : when I came nearer
to them. I found they had long knives in their hands; and in
the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one young
bullock or steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that senseless
log of an idol; the three men were priests belonging to it, and
the seventeen prostrated wretches were the people w 0 brought
the offering, and were making their prayers to that stock.
Iconfess. I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a hohgoblin than ever I was at anything in my life;
to see God's most lorious and best creature, to whom he had
ted so many afvantages. even by creation above the rest of
the works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour
his Maker, and be honoured by him, sunk and degenerated to a
degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothin ,
a mere i nary object, dressed up by themselves, and ma e
terrible to t emselves by their own oontrivance, adorned only
with clouts and rags; and that this should be the effect of mere
ignorance, wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself;
who, envying to his Maker the homage and adoration of his
creatures, had deluded them into such sordid and brntish things
as one would think should shock nature itself!
But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of
thoughts: thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there
was no room to wonder at at, or think it. impossible: all my
admiration turned to rage, and I rode up to the image or men-
ster, call it what you will, and with my sword made a stroke at
the bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two; and one of
our men that was with me took hold of the sheep-skin that
covered it, and pulled at it; when, behold, a most hideous out-
cry and howling ran through the village, and two or three hun-
dred people came about my cars, so that l was glad to scour for
it, for we saw some had bows and arrows; but I resolved from
that moment. to visit them again.

Our cariu'an rested three nights at the town, which was about
four miles 011', in order to provide some horses which they
wanted, several of the horses having been lamed and jaded with
the badness ot'the way, and long march over the last desert; so
we had some leisure here to put my design in execution. l
cmnmnnimtted my design to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of
whose courage I had suflieicnt testimony: I told him what 1
had seen, and with what indignation I had since thought. that
human nature could he so degenerate; I told him, if I could get
but four or five men well armed to go with me, I was resolved
to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol, and let them see
that it had no power to help itself; and consequently could not.
be an object of worship, or to be prayed to, much less help them
that otl'cred sacrifices to it.

He. laughed at me :--says be, Your zeal may be good, but:
what do you propose to yourself by it?--l'ropose! said I; to
vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil-
worship.--llut how will it vindicate the honour of (lod, said
he. while the people will not be able to know what you mean
by it. unless you could speak to them, and tell them so? And
then they will light you, and beat you too, I'll assure you; for
they are desperate. fellows. and that especially in defence of their
idolattwa--Cun we not, said I, do it in the night, and then leave
them the reasons and the causes in writing in their own lan-
gaage?----\\'ritiug! said be; why there is not a man in five
nat ions ot'them that knows anything of a letter, or how to read
a word any way.---\\'retehed ignorance! said I to him : however,
I have a great mind to do it; perhaps nature mav draw infer-
ences from it to them, to let them see how brutish they are to
worship such horrid things--Look you, sir, said be, if your
zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you must do it; but, in the
next place, I would have you consider, these wild nations of
people are subjected by force to the Czar of Muscovy's domi-
nion. and if you do this, it is ten to one but they will come by
thousands to the govemor of Nertzinskoi, and demand satisfac-
tion; and if he cannot give them satisfaction, it is ten to one but
they revolt; and it II ill occasion a new war with all the Tartars
in the country.

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for awhile,
but 1 liarped upon the same string,r still; and all that day I II as
uneasy to put my project in execution. Towards the evening:
the Scots merchant met me by accident In our walk about the
town, and desired to speak with me: I belicv c, said he, 1 have
put \'(III (III IIour good design; I have been a little Concerned
about it since: for l abhor idolatry as much as you can do.--
"lrulv, said I, you have put it oll' a little, as to the execution of
II, but \'Ull have not put it out of my thoutrhts; and I believe
I shall do it before I quit this place, though I were to be deli-
IIIrIId up to them for szItist'action.-- No, no, said he, (iod lorbid
theI should deliver Iou up to such a crew of monsters. 'lhey
shall not do that neither; that IIould be murdering you indeed
--\\" ny, said I, hoII' II ould tlIeI' use me ?--Usc you! said he, I'll
tell you how they saved a poor Russian, who affrontcd them In
theii' worship, just as you did, and II hom they took prisoner,
after they had lamed him II IIlI an arm", that he could not run
an :I_I': they took him and stripped him stark-naked, and set him
upon the top of the idol- -InoIIsIcr, and stood all roimd him, and
shut as many arroIIs into him as IIoulIl stick over his whole
l)U(l\' , and then they burnt him, and all the arrous sticking In
him. as a sacrifice to the idol.---- And was this the same idol?
said I. lcs, said he, the \Cl') same--Well, saidl, IIIill tell
you a story. So I related the story of our men at Madagascar,
and how thev burnt and sacked the village there, and killed
man. ammo, and child, for their mnrderin-r one of our men,
just as it is related before; and I added, that I thought we ought
to do so to thi 8 \illan.

lle listened \"('l'y attentiv clI' to the storv, . but IIhcn I talked
of doing so to that village, said he, Y on mistake very much; it
"as not this village, it was almost a hundred miles from this
place; but It was the same idol. tor they carry him about III pro--
cession all III er the countrI --" ell, said I, then that idol ought
to be punished for it; and it shall, said 1, it I live this night out.

ln a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and told
me. 1 should not oalonc, but he II ould go with me, but he
would no first and rinuI a stout fellow, one of his couIItrImen,
to go also with us: and one, said he, as famous for his zeal as
I-ou can desire anv one to be awninst such devilish things as
ihese. In a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, II z'hom
he called Captain Richardson, and gave him a full account of
what I had seen, and also "hat I intended; and he told me
reMlllV. he would go II ith me it it cost him his life. So we agreed
to go, only we three. I had, indeed, pro osed it to my partner,
but he dcclined it. He said, he was rea y to assist me to the
utmost, and upon all occasions, for mI' deleuce; but this "as an
adventure quite out of his way: so, I say, we resolved upon our
work, only we three and my man-servant, and to put it in execu.
tion that night about midni ht, with all the secrecy im 'nable.

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to ela it
till the next night, because, the caravan being to set forwa in
the morning. we supposed the governor could not pretend to
give them any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his
power. The Scots merchant, as stead in his resolution for the
enterprise as bold in executing, broug t me a Tartar's robe or
grown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and
had provided the same for himself and his countryman, that the
people, if they saw us, should not determine who we were.

All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible
matter with aqua vitaa, gunpowder, and such other materials as
we could get; and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot.
about an hour after night we set out upon our expedition.

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found
that the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending
their idol. The night was cloudy; yet the moon gave us light
enough to see that the idol stood just in the same posture and
place that it did before. The people seemed to be all at their
rest; onlv, that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, where
we saw the three priests whom we mistook for butchers, we saw
a light; and going up close to the door, we heard people talking
as if there were five or six of them; we concluded, therefore,
that if we set wildfire to the idol, these men would come out
immediately, and run 11 to the place to rescue it from the dc-
struction that we inten ed for it; 'and what to do with them we
knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away and setting fire
to it at a distance. but when we came to handle it, we found it
too bulky for our carriage; so we were at a loss again. The
second Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the creatures that were there on the head, when they
came out; but I could not join with that; I was against killing
them, if it were possible to avoid it. Well, then, said the Scots
merchant. I will tell vou what we will do: we will try to make
them prisoners, tie their hands, and make them stand and see
their idol destroyed.

As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about
us, which we used to tie our firelocks altogether with: so we
resolved to attack these people first, and with as little noise as
we could. The first thing we did, we knocked at the door, when,
one of the priests coming to it, we immediately seized u in him,
stopped his mouth, and tied his hands behin him, an led him
' to the idol, where we gagged him that he might not make a
noise, tied his feet also together, and left him on the ground

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another
would come out, to see what the matter was; but we waited so
long till the third man came back to us; and then nobody coming
out, we knocked again gently. and immediately out came two
more, and we served them just in the same manner, but were
obliged to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol some
distance from one another; when, going back, we found two more
were come out to the door, and a third stood behind them within
the door. We seized the two, and immediately tied them, when
the third stepping back, and crying out, my Scots merchant went
in after him, and, taking out a composition we had made, that
would only smoke and stink, he set fire to it and threw it in
among them: by that time the other Scotsman and my men, taking
charge of the two men already bound, and tied tOgether also by
the arm, led them away to the idol. and left them there to see
if their idol would relieve them, making haste back to us.

When the fone we had thrown in had filled the but with so
much smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw
in a small leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a
candle, and following it in, we found there were but four ple,
and, as we supposed, had been about some of their dia lical
snerifiees. They appeared, in short, frightened to death, at least
so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak neither,
for the smoke.

in a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the
other, and all without any noise. I should have said we bro ht
them out of the house, or but, first; for indeed we were not a le
to bear the smoke any more than they were. When we had done
this, we carried them altogether to the idol: when we came there
we fell to work with him; and first we daubed him all over, and
his robes also, with tar, and such other stuff as we had, which
was tallow mixed with brimstone: then we stopped his eyes and
ears and mouth full of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a great
piece of wildfire in his bonnet; and then sticking all the com-
hustibles we had brought with us upon him, we looked about to
see if we could find anything else to help to burn him; when my
Scotsman remembered that by the tent, or but, where the men
were, there lav a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes I
do not remember; away he and the other Scotsman ran and
fetched their arms hill of that. When we had done this, we took
all our prisoners, and brought them, having untied their feet and
ungagged their mouths, and made them stand up, and set them
before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to the whole.

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts, till the
powder in the eyes and mouth and ears of the idol blew up, and,
us we could reeive, had split and deformed the shape of it:
and, in a we , till we saw it burned into a mere block or log of
wood; and setting dry forage to it, we found it would be soon
quite consumed; so we began to think of going away: but the
Scotsman said, No, we must not go, for these poor deluded
wretches will all throw themselves into the tire, and burn them-
selves with the idol. So we. resolved to slay till the forage
was hurt down too, and then came away and left them.

After the feat was performed, \vc appeared in the morning
among our fellow travellers, exceeding busy in gettin ready for
our journey: nor could any man suggest that we ha been any
where but. in our beds, as travellers might be supposed to be, to
fit themselves for the fatigues of the day's journey.

But the all'air did not end so: tlte next day came a great
number of the country people to the town gates, and in a most
outrageous manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian go-
vernor for the insulting their priests, and burning their Cham
("hi-'l'hanugu. The people of Nertzinskoi were at first. in agreat
consternation, for they said the 'l'artars were already no less than
thirty thousand strong. The. Russian governor sent out mes-
sengers to appease them, and ave them all the good words
imaginable; assuring them that 1e knew nothing ol'it, and that
there, had not a soul in his garrison been abroad, so that it could
not he from any body there; hut if they could let him know who
did it. they should he esemplarily punished. They returned
haughtily. that all the country revereuecd the great ('ham ('hi--
'l'hauugu, who dwelt in the sun, and no tnortal would have dared
to oll'er violence to his image but some Christian misereant; and
they therefore resolved to denounce war against hint and all the
Russians. who. they said. were miscreants and Christians.

The governor, still patient. and unwilling to make a breach,
or to have. any cause. of war alleged to he given by him. the
('zar having strictly charged theta to treat the conquered country
with gentleness and civility. gave them still all the good words
he could. At last he. told them there was a caravan gone towards
Russia that morning. and perhaps it was some of them who had
done them this injury; and that if they would he satislied with
that. he would send alter them to inquire into it. This seemed
to appease. them a little; and accordingly the governor sent
after us. and gave us a particular aqcount how the thing was;
intimatiug withal, that if any in our caravan had done it. they
should make their escape: but that. whether we had done it or
no. we should make all the haste forward that was possible; and
that. in the mean time, he would keep them in play as long as
he could.

This was very friendly in the governor: however, when it
came. to the caravan. there was nobody knew any thing of the
matter; and as for us that were guilty. we were least of all
sus eeted. However. the captain of the caravan for the time
too ' the hint that the governor gave us. and we travelled two
days and two nights without any considerable stop, and then
we lav at a village called l'lothns. nor did we make any long
stop here, but hastened on towards Jarswena, another of the
czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where we expected we should
be safe. But upon the second day's march from l'lothus, by
the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance, some of our
people began to be sensible we were pursued. We had entered
a great desert, and had passed by a great lake called Schaks
Oser, when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on
the other side of the lake, to the north, we travelling west. We
observed they went awav west, as we did, but had supposed we
would have taken that side of the lake, whereas we very happily
took the south side; and in two days more they disappeared
again: for they, believing we were still before them, pushed on
till they cmne to the river Udda, a very great river when it
passes farther north, but when we came to it we found it narrow
and fordable.

The third day, they had either found their mistake, or had
intelligence of us. and came pouring in upon us towards the
dusk of the evening. We had, to our great satisfaction, just
pitched upon a place for our camp. which was very convenient
for the night; for as we were upon a desert, though but at the
beginning of it, that was above five hundred miles over, we had
no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the city
Jamwena, which we had yet two days' march to: the desert,
however, had some few woods in it on this side, and little rivers,
which ran all into the great river Udda; it was in a narrow
strait. between little but very thick woods, that we pitched
our little camp for that night, expecting to be attacked before
morning.

Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for: but
as it was usual for the Moo'ul 'l'artars to go about in troops in
that desert, so the caravans aiways fortify themselves every night
against them, as against armies of robbers ; and it was therefore
no new thing to be pursued.

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most
advantageous camp; for we lay between two woods, with a little
rivulet running just before our front, so that we could not be
surrounded, or attacked any way but in our front or rear. We
took care also to make our front as strong as we could, by
placing our packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line
on the inside of the river, and felling some trees in our rear.

In this posture we encamped for the night; but the enemy
was upon us before we had finished our situation. They did
not come on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent three
messengers to us, to demand the men to be delivered to them
that had abused their priests, and burned their god Chum Chi-
Thaun with fire, that they might burn them with fire; and
upon t is, they said, they would go away, and do us no further
harm, otherwise they would destroy us all. Our men looked
. very blank at this message, and began to stare at one another,
to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces: but,
nobody was the word; nobody did it. The leader of the cara-
van sent word he was well assured that it was not done by any
of our camp; that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on
our business; that we had done no harm to them or to any one
else; and that, therefore, they must look farther for their are
mics who had injured them, for we were not the peo le; so
desired them not to disturb us, for, if they did. we shoul' defend
ourselves.

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer;
and a great crowd of them came running down in the morning
by break of day, to our camp; but seeing us in such an Intac-
countable situation, they durst come no farther than the brook
in our front, where they stood, and showed us such a number
that indeed terrified us very much: for those that spoke least
of them spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood and looked at
us awhile, and then setting up a great howl, they let fly a cloud
of arrows among us; but we were well enough fortified for that,
for we sheltered under our baggage, and I do not remember that
one of us was hurt.

Some time alter this. we saw them move a little to our right,
and expected them on the rear; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack
of J arawena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader
of the caravan, said to him, I'll go send all these peo le away to
Siheilka: this was a city four or five days' journey at east to the
right, and rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows,
and getting on horseback, he rides away from our rear directly,
as it were back to Nertzinskoi; after this, he takes a great cir-
cuit about, and comes directly on the army of the Tartars, as it
he had been sent express to tell them along story, that the
people who had burned the Cham Chi-Thaungn were gone to
Siheilka, with a caravan of miscreants. as he called them, that is
to say. Christians; and that they had resolved to burn the god
Schal-Isar, belonging to the Tongueses.

As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and ierfectly spoke
their language, he counterfeited so well, that t ey all took it
from him, and away they drove in a mostviolent hurry to Siheilka,
which, it seems, was five days' journey to the north; and in less
than three hours they were entirelv out of our sight. and we
never heard any more of them, nor whether they went to Siheilka
or no. So we passed away safel on to Jarswena, where there
was a garrison of Muscovites, an there we rested five days, the
caravan being exceedingly fatigued with the last day's hard
march, and with want of rest in the night.

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held as twenty-
three days' march. We furnished ourselves with some tents
here. for the better accommodating ourselves in the night; and
the leader of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, ot- waggons
of the country, for carrying our water or provisions; and these
carriages were our defence, every night, round our little camp;
sothathadthe'l'artars ap unless theyhadbeenvery
numerous indeed. they woul not have been able to hurt us.

We may well be supposed to want rest again afler this lo
journey: for in this esert we neither saw house nor tree, an
scarce a bush; though we saw abundance of the sable-hunters,
who are all Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of which this country
is a part; and they frequently attack small caravans, but we saw
no numbers of them to ther.

After we had passed ' desert, we came into a country pretty
well inhabited; that is to say, we found towns and castles, settled
by the czar of Muscovy, with fiarrisons of stationary soldiers,
to protect the caravans, and efend the country against the
Tartars, who would otherwise make it very dangerous travel-
ling; and his czarish majesty has given such strict orders for
the well guarding the caravans and merchants, that, if there are
any Tartars heard of in the country, detachments of the garri-
sons are always sent to see the travellers safe than station to
station. And thus the governor of Adinskoy, whom I had an
opportunity to make a visit to, by means of the Scots merchant,
who was acquainted with him, ofiered us a guard of fifty men, if
we thought there was any r, to the next station.

I thought, long before this, t as we came nearer to Europe
we should find the country better inhabited, and the people more
civilized; but I found myself mistaken in both: for we had yet
the nation of the Tongueses to pass through, where we saw the
same tokens of paganism and barbarlty as before; only, as they
were conquered by the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous;
but for rudeness of manners, and idolatry, no eople in the
world ever went beyond them: they are clothed El in skins of
beasts, and their houses are built of the same; you know not a
man from a woman, neither by the ruggedness of their counte-
nancee nor their clothes; and ill the winter, when the ground is
covered with snow, they live underground in vaults, which have
cavities going from one to another.

if the Tartar-s had their Cham Chi-Thaungu for a whole
village or country. these had idols in every hut and every cave:
besides, they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow,
and, in a word, every thing they do not understand, and they
understand but very little; so that every element, every uncom--
mon thing, sets them a sacrificing. 1 met with nothing peculiar
to myself in all this country, which I reckon was, from the
desert I spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of it
being another desert, which took us up twelve days' severe
travelling, without house or tree; and we were obliged agnin
to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread. After
we were out of the desert, and had travelled two days, we

I P
came to J anezay. a Museovite city or station on the great river
Janezay (Yenisey), which, they told us there, parted Europe
from Asia.

Here 1 observed. ignorance. and paganism still prevailed, ex-
cept in the Mnseovite garrisons; all the country between the
river ()by and the river Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the
people as barbarous, as the rctnotest of the 'l'artars; nay, as an
nation, for augbt I know. in Asia or America. I also form ,
whieh 1 observed to the Muscovite overnors whom [had an
opportunity to eonverse with. that t ie poor pagans are not
mueh wiser, or nearer Christianity. for being under the Masco-
vite government; which they aeknowledgml was true enough:
but. that. as they said. was none of their business: that if the
ezar expected to convert his Siberian, 'l'onguese, or Tartar sub-
jects. it should be done by sending elergymeu among them, not
soldiers: and, they added, with more sincerity than I expected,
that they found it was not so much the eoneern of their monarch
to make the. people. ('hristians as it was to make them subjects.

From this river to the great river ()by, we crossed a wild
uncultivated country. barren of people aml good management;
otherwise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable
country. What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans,
eveept sueh as are. sent among them from Russia: for this is
the. country, l mean on both sides the river ()by, whither the
Museovite eritninals that are not put to death are banished, and
from whenee it is next to impossible they should ever come away.

1 have nothing material to say of my partieular nll'airs till i
came to 'l'obolski. the capital city of Siberia, where I continued
seine time on the following ta'ension.

We had now been almost seven months on our journey, and
winter began to come on apaee; whereupon my partner and I
called a eottneil about our partieular affairs, in which we found
it proper. as we were bound for England, and not for Moscow,
to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of
sledges and reindeer to earry us over the snow in the winter
time; and, indeed, they have such things that it would be in--
credible to relate the particulars of. by which means the Russians
travel more. in the. winter than they can in summer, as in these
sledges they are able to run night and day: the snow being
frozen, is one universal covering to nature, bv which the hills,
vales. rivers. and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone,
and they run upon the surface, without any regard to what is
underneath.

But 1 bad no occasion to push at a winter journey of this
kind; 1 was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my mate
lay two ways: either I must go on as the caravan went, till i
came to J areslaw, and then go ofl' west for Narva, and the gulf
of Finland, and so to Dsntzic, where I might possibly sell my
China cargo to good advantage; or I must leave the caravan at
a little town on the Dwina, from whence 1 had but six days by
water to Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping
either to England, Holland, or Hamburg .

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have
been prepOsterous: for as to Dantzic, the Baltic would have been
frozen up, and I could not get assage; and to go by land in
those countries was far less safe t an amon? the Mogul Tartars:
likewise, to go to Archangel in October, til the ships would be
gone from thence, and even the merchants who dwell there in
summer retire south to Moscow in the winter. when the ships
are gone; so that I could have nothing but extremity of cold
to encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie in an
empty town all the winter: so that, upon the whole, I thought
it much my better way to let the caravan go, and make provi-
sion to winter where l was, at 'l'obolski, in Siberia, in the lati-
tude of about sixty degrees, where I was sure of three things to
wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty of provisions, such as
the country afforded, a warm house, with fuel enough, and
excellent company.

I was now II) a quite difl'erentclimate from my beloved island,
where I never felt cold, except when I had my ague; on the
contrary, I had much to do to hear any clothes on my back, and
never made any fire but without doors, which was necessary for
dressing my food, 8:0. Now I made me three good vests. with
large robes or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and
button close to the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make
them sufficiently warm.

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our
way in England of making fires in every room in the house in
open chimneys, which, when the tire was out, always kept the
air in the room cold as the climate; but taking an apartment in
a good house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built like
a furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like a stove; the
funnel to carry the smoke went up one way, the door to come
at the fire went in another, and all the rooms were kept equally
wami, but no fire seen, just as they beat the bagnios in England.
By this means, we had always the same climate in all the rooms,
and an nal heat was preserved; and how cold soever it was
without, it was always warm within: and yet we saw no fire,
nor were ever incommoded with smoke.

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be possi-
ble to meet with good company here, in a country so barbarous
as that of the most northerly parts of Europe, near the frozen
ocean, within but a very few degrees of Nova Zembla. But this
being the country where the state criminals of Muscovy, as I
observed before, are all banished, this city was full of nobleman,
gentlemen, soldiers, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here was the

F F 2:
famous prince Gallitzeu, the old eral Robostiski, and several
other persons of note, and some adies. By means of my Scots
merchant, whom, nevertheless, I parted with here, [made an
acquaintance with several of these gentlemen; and from these,
in the long winter nights in which lstayed here, i received seve-
ral very agreeable visits.

it was talking one night with Prince ------, one of the
banished ministers of state belonging to the czar of Museovy,
that the discourse of my articular case began. He had been
telling me abundance of ne things of the greatness, the mag-
nificence, the dominions, and the absolute power of the emperor
of the Russians: I interrupted him, and told him I was a greater
and more powerful prince than even the czar of Muscovy was,
though my dominions were not so large, or my people so many.
The Russian grandee looked a little surprised, and fixing his
eyes steadily upon me, began to wonder what I meant. i told
him his wonder would cease when I had explained myself.
First, l told him I had absolute disposal of the lives and fortunes
of all my subjects; that, notwithstanding my absolute power,
1 had not one person disaffected to my government, or to my
person. in all my dominions. He shook his head at that, and
said, There, indeed, I outdid the ear of Muscovy. I told him
that all the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all my sub-
jects were not only my tenants, but tenants at will; that they
would all light for me to the last drop; and that never tyrant,
for sut'll I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so universally
beloved, and yet so horribly feared by his subjects.

After amusing him with these riddles in government for a
while, I opened the case, and told him the story at large of my
living in the island; and how I managed both myself and the
people that were under me, just as I have since minuted it
down. They were exceedingly taken with the sto , and
especially the prince, who told me, with a sigh, that t e true
greatness of life was to be masters of ourselves; that he would
not have exchanged such at state of life as mine to be czar of
Must-(ivy; and that he found more felicity in the retirement he
seemed to be banished to there, than ever he found in the
highest authority he enjoyed in the court of his master the coat;
that the height of human wisdom was to bring our tempera
down to our circumstances, and to make a calm within, under
the weight of the greatest stoma without. When he came
first hither, he said he used to tear the hair from his head, and
the clothes from his back, as others had done before him; but a
little time and consideration had made him look into himself. as
well as round him, to things without: that he found the mind of
man, if it was but once brought to reflect upon the state of uni-
versal life, and how little this world was concerned in its true
felicity, was perfectly capable of making a felicity for itself, fully
satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own best ends and desires,
with ut very little assistance from the world: the air to breathe
in, food to sustain life, clothes for warmth, and libert for exer-
cise, in order to health, completed, in his opinion, I that the
world could do for us; and t ough the greatness, the authority,
the riches, and the pleasures which some enjoyed in the world,
had much in them t at was agreeable to us, yet all those things
chiefly gratified the coarsest of our afl'ections, such as our sin-
hition, our particular pride, avarice, vanity, and sensuality; all
which, being the mere roduct ol' the worst part of man, were in
themselves crimes, an had in them the seeds of all manner of
crimes; but neither were related to, nor concerned with, any of
those virtues that constituted us wise men, or of those graces
that distinguished us as Christians; that being now deprived of
all thh fancied felicity which he enjoyed in the full exercise of
all those vices, he said he was at leisure to look upon the dark
side of them, where he found all manner of deformity, and was
now convinced that virtue only makes a man truly wise, rich,
and great, and presence him in the way to a superior happiness
in a future state; and in this, he said, they were more ha py in
their banishment than all their enemies were, who had e full
possession of all the wealth and power they had left behind
them. Nor, sir, says he, do I bring my mind to this politically,
by the necessity of my circumstances, which some call miser-
able; but, if I know any thing of myself, I would not now go
back, though the czar my master should call me, and reinstate
me in all my former grandeur: I say, I would no more go back
to it than I believe my soul, when it shall be delivered from this
prison of the body. and has had a taste of the glorious state
beyond life, would come back to the gaol of flesh and blood it
is now enclosed in, and leave heaven, to deal in the dirt and
crime of human affairs.

He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so much
earnestness and motion of his spirits, that it was evident it was
the true sense of his soul; there was no room to doubt his sin-
cerity. I told him I once thought myself a kind of monarch in
my old station, of which I had given him an account; but that
I thought he was not only a monarch, but a great con ueror:
for that he that has got a Victory over his own exorbitant esires,
and the absolute dominion over himself; whose reason entirely
governs his will, is certainl greater than he that conquers a
city. But, my lord, said I, s all I take the liberty to ask you a
question l--With all my heart, as a he. If the door of your
liberty was opened, said I, woul you not take hold of it to
deliver you from this exilei--Hold, said he, your question is
subtile, and requires some serious, just distinctions, to give it a
sincere answer; and I will give it you from the bottom of my
heart. Nothing that I know of in this world, would move me
to deliver myself from this state of banishment. except these.
tuo; first. the enjovment ot' nIII relations; and, secondly. alittle
warmer climate: but 1 protest to you, that to go back to the
pomp ot' the court, the glorv, the poo er. the hurry of a minister
of state, . the wealth. the gaiety, and the pleasures of a courtier;
if my master should send me word this moment that he restores
me to all he banished me from, lprotest. il i know myself at
all. I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts. and these
frozen lakes, for the palace at Moscow .,---But my lord, said l,
perhaps Ion not only are banished from the pleasures of the.
eourt. and from the power, authority. and wealth you enjoyed
before but you may be absent too from some. ot the. come--
IIienees of lil'In your estate perhaps. confiscated, and your etl'eets
plundered; and the supplies left you here may not be. suitable
to the ordinary demands of lil'II..---I\y, says he, that is as Ion
suppose Inc to be a lord. or a prince, &e.., . so. indeed, I am; but
you are non to consider me only as a man, a human creature,
not at all IlistinIruislII-Il from another; and so I can sufi'er no
"not, unless I should be visited IIitli siekness and distenIpI-rs.
lloII'IIIIIr, to put the question out ot dispute. Ion see. our man-
ner: "II. are. in this plaee. the persons ot rank: no live pert'eetlv
retired, as suited to II state ot' banishment- ; "e have something
reseued from the slIipII reek of our fortunes, II hieh keeps us from
the mere. neeessitv ot lInntiIIIII for food; but the poor soldiers,
II ho are here IIitlIout that help, liIe In as much plenty as ne.
II ho go into the II ends and catch sahles and foxes: the labour
III a month IIill maintain them a war: and, as the any of living
is not expensive, so it is not hard to <<vet sullieient to onrseh es.
So that objection Is out ot doors.

l lIaI II not room to git II a full aeeount of the most agreeable,
conversation I had with this truly great man; in all which he
shon ed that his mind II as so inspired II ith asnperior ltnonledge
of things, so supported by reliIrion, as no" as by It vast share of
II Ntlolll. that his contempt. of the world "as reallI as much as
he. had expressed, and that he II as alums the same to the last,
as II Ill appear in the. story I am going: to tell.

i had been here eight months. and a dark, dreadful winter i
thought it , the eold so intense that I could not so much as look
abroad without being wrapped In furs and a mask of for before.
my (III-e, or rather a hood. IIith only a hole for breath. and two
t'or sight: the little daylight we had was, as "(I reckoned, for
three months, not above the hours a day, and six at most; only
that the snow lIiIIg on the ground eontinuallv. and the weather
clear, it was never quite dark. ()ur horses were kept, or rather
starIed. undelground and as for our servants. whom we hired
here to look after ourselves and horses, we had, new new and
then, their fingers and toes to thaw and take care of, lest they
should mortify and fall otl'.
It is true. within doors we were warm, the houses being close,
the walls thick, the lights small, and the less all double. Our
food was chiefly the flesh of deer, dried an cured in the season;
bread good enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of several
sorts, and some flesh of mutton and of the buffaloes, which is
prett good meat. All the stores of revisions for the winter
are aid up in the summer, and we] cured: our drink was
water, mixed with aqua~vite instead of brandy; and for atreat,
mead instead of wine, which, however, they have excellent good.
The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers, f uently
brought us in fine venison, and sometimes bear's flesh, ut we
did not much care for the last. We had a good stock of tea,
with which we treated our friends, as above, and we lived very
cheerfully and well, all things considered.

It was now March, the days grown considerably longer, and
the weather at least tolerable; so the other travellers began to
pre )are sledges to carry them over the snow, and to 1: things
rca y to be going: but my measures being fixed, as I ave said,
for Archangel, and not for Mnscovy or the Baltic, I made no
motion; knowing very well that the ships from the south do
not set out for that part of the world till May or June, and that
if 1 was there by the beginning of August, it would be as soon
as any ships would be ready to go away; and therefore I made
no haste to be gone, as others did: in a word, I saw a great
many people, nay, all the travellers, go away before me. It
seems, every year they go from thence to Muscovy for trade,
viz. to carry furs, and buy necessaries, which they bring back
with them to furnish their shops: also others went on the same
errand to Archangel; but then they all bein to come back
again, above eight hundred miles, went all out fore me.

In the month of May I began to make all ready to pack up;
and, as I was doing this, it occurred to me that, seeing'eall these
people were banished by the Czar of Mnscovy to Si tin, and
yet, when the came there, were let]: at liberty to go whither
they would, w y they did not then go away to any part of the
world, wherever they thought fit; and I began to examine what
should hinder them from making such an attempt. But my
wonder was over when I entered upon that subject with the
person I have mentioned, who answered me thus: Consider,
first, sir, said he, the place where we are; and, secondly, the
condition we are in; es ecially the generality of the people who
are banished hither. 6% are surrounded with stronger things
than bars or bolts: on the north side an unnavigable ocean,
where ship never sailed, and boat never swam; every other
way, we have above a thousand miles to pass through the car's
own dominions, and by ways utterly impassable, except by the
roads made by the government, an through the towns
garrisoned by his troops; so that we could neither pass undiso
covered by the road, nor suhsist any other way: so that it Is in
vain to attempt it.

I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they were in
a prison every jot as secure as if they had been locked up in the
castle at Moscow: however, it came into my thoughts that
I might certainly be made an instrument to procure e escape
of this excellent person; and that, whatever hazard I ran,
I would certainly try if I could carry him oti'. Upon this I took
an m'casion, one evening, to tell him my thoughts. I repre-
sented to him that it was very easy for me to carry him away,
there being no guard ox er him in the country; and as I was not
going to Moscow, but to Archangel, and that [went in the
retinne of a caravan, by which I was not obliged to lie in the
stationary towns in the desert, but could encamp every night
where I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted to Arch-
angel, where I would immediately secure him on board an
English ship, and carry him safe along with me; and as to his
subsistence, and other particulars, it should be my care, till he
could better supply himself.

He heard me verv attentively, and looked earnestly on me
all the while I spoke; nay,l could see in his very face that
what I said put his spirits into an exceeding ferment: his colour
l'rcquently changed, his eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered,
that it might be even perceived in his countenance; nor could
he immediately answer me when I had done. and as it were
hesitated what he would say to it: but after he had paused a
little, he embraced me, and said, How unhappy are we, un-
guarded creatures as we are, that even our greatest acts of
friendship are made snaru unto us, and we are made tempters
of one another! My dear friend, said he, your offer is so ain-
ccre, has such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is
so calculated for my advantage, that I must have very little
knowledge of the world if I did not both wonder at it, and ac-
knowledge the obligation I have upon me to you for it. But did
you believe I was sincere in what I have often said to you of
my contempt of the world! Did you believe I spoke In very
soul to you, and that I had reall obtained that degree of elicity
here that had placed me above all that the world could 've me?
Did you believe I was sincere when I told you I woul not go
hack. if I was recalled even to be all that I once was in the
court, with the favour of the czar my master? Did ou believe
me, my fi'iend, to be an honest man; or did you be ieve me to
he a boasting hypocrite? Here he stopped, as if he would hear
what I would sav; but, indeed, I soon after perceived that he
stopped because his s irits were in motion, his great heart was
full of struggles, an he could not go on. I was, I confess,
astonished at the thing as well as at the man, and I used some
arguments with him to urge him to set himself free; that he
ought to look open this as a door 0 ned 1) Heaven for his de
liverance. and a summons by Provi ence, w 0 has the care and
disposition of all events, to do himself good, and to render him-
self useful in the world.

He had by this time moorered himself: How do you know,
sir, says he, warmly, but that, instead of a summons from
Heaven, it may be a feint of another instrument; representing
in alluring colours to me the show of felicity as a deliverance,
which may in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin?
Here I am free from the temptation of returning to m former
miserable greatness; there I am not sure but that all e seeds
of pride, ambition, avarice, and luxury, which'I know remain in
nature, may revive and take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm
me; and then the he yeprisoner, whom on see now master of
his soul's liberty, sh the miserable s ave of his own senses,
in the full of all personal libe . Dear sir, let me remain in this
blessed confinement, banished om the crimes of life, rather than
purchase a show of freedom at the expense of the liberty of my
reason, and at the future happiness which Inow have in my
View, but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight of: for I am but
flesh; a man, a mere man; have passions and afi'ections as
likely to ssess and overthrow me as any man: 0 he not my
friend an tempter both together!

If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood
silent, looking at him, and, indeed. admiring what I saw. The
struggle in his soul was so great, that though the weather was
extremely cold, it put him into a most violent sweat. and I found
he wanted to give vent to his mind; so I said a word or two, that
I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on him again, and
then 1 withdrew to my own apartment.

About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near the door
of my room, and I was going to open the door, but he had 0 ened
it and came in. My dear friend, says he, you had most
overset me, but I am recovered. Do not take it ill that] do not
close with your offer; I assure on it is not for want of sense or
the kindness of it in you; and came to make the most sincere
acknowledgment of it to you; but I hope I have got the victory
over myselfi--My lord. said I, I hope you are full satisfied that
you do not resist the call of Heaven--Sir, sai he, if it had
been from Heaven, the same power would have influenced me
to have accepted it: but I hope, and am fully satisfied, that it is
from Heaven that I declined it; and I have infinite satisfaction
in the pardng, that you shall leave me an honest man still,
though not a free man.

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions
to him of my having no end in it but a sincere desire to serve
him. He embraced me vs passionately, and assured me he
was sensible of that, and s ould always acknowledge it; and
with that he offered me a very fine present of cables, too much.
indeed, for me to accept from a man in his circumstances, and
I would have avoided them, but he would not be refused.

The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship with a
small present of tea, and two ieces of China damask, and four
little wedges of Japan old, w ich did not all weigh above six
ounces or thereabout, at were far short of the value of his
sables, which, when I came to England, I found worth near
two hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one iece of
the damask, and one of the pieces of gold. which he afine
stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which I found he took for
the rarity of it, but would not take any more; and he sent word
by my servant that he desired to speak with me.

When I came to him, he told me I knew what had passed
between us, and hoped I would not move him any more in that
afi'air; but that, since I had made such a generous offer to him,
he asked me if 1 had kindness enough to offer the same to
another person that he would name to me, in whom he had a

at share of concern. I told him that I could not say I
inclined to do so much for any but himself; for whom I had a
particular value, and should have been glad to have been the
instrument of his deliverance; however, if he would please to
name the person to me, I would give him my answer. He told
me it was his only son; who, though I had not seen him, yet
he was in the same condition with himself, and above two
hundred miles from him, on the other side the Oby; but that, if
I consented, he would send for him.

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made
some ceremony in letting him understand that it was wholly on
his account; and that seeingl could not prevail on him, I would
show my respect to him by my concern for his son: but these
things are too tedious to repeat here. He sent awn the next
day for his son; and in about twenty days he came ack with
the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with very
rich furs, and which, in the whole, amounted to a very great
value. His servants brought the horses into the town, ut led:
the young lord at a distance till night, when he came incognito
into our apartment, and his father presented him to me, and, in
short, we concerted the manner of our travelling, and every thing
proper for the journey.

I had bought a considerable quantity ofsables, black fox-skins,
fine ermines, and such other furs as are very rich, in that city,
in exchange for some of the goods I had brought from China: in
particular for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the
greatest part here, and the rest afterward at Archangel, for a
much better price than I could have got at London; and my
partner, who was sensible of the profit, and whose business
more particularly than mine was merchandise, was mightily
leased with our stay, on account of the trafiic we made
ere.

It was the beginning of June when I lefi this remote place, a
city, I believe, httle heard of in the world; and, indeed, it is so
far out of the road of commerce, that I know not how it should
be much talked of. We were now reduced to a very small
caravan, hang only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all
of them pass for mine, though my new guest was proprietor
of eleven of them : it was most natural also that I should take
more servants with me than I had before; and the young lord

assed for my steward: what great man I passed for 1!! self

know not, neither did it concern me to inquire. We had ere
the worst and the largest desert to pass over that we met with
in our whole journey; I call it the worst, because the way was
very deep in some p aces, and very uneven in others; the best
we had to say for it was, that we thou t we had no troops of
Tartan; or robbers to fear, and that ey never came on this
side the river Oby, or at least but very seldom; but we found
it otherwise.

My young lord had a faithful Muscovite, or rather a Siberian
servant, who was erfectl acquainted with the country, and led
us by private ro s, so at we avoided coming into the prin-
cipal towns and cities upon the great road, such as Tumen,
Soloy Kamskoi, and several others ; because the Muscovite
garrisons which are kept there are very curious and strict in
their observation upon travellers, and searching lest an of the
banished persons of note should make their escape at way
into Muscovy; but by this means, as we were kept out of the
cities, so our whole journey was a desert, and we were obliged
to encamp and lie in our tents, when we might have had very

od accommodation in the cities on the way: this the yo

ord was so sensible of, that he would not allow us to lie abr'difi

when we came to several cities on the way, but lay abroad him-
self, with his servant, in the woods, and met us always at the
appointed places.

We were just entered Europe. having passed the river Kama,
which in these parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia,
and the first city on the European side was called Soloy Kam-
skoi, which is as much as to say, the great city on the river
Kama; and here we thought to see some evident alteration in
the people; but we were mistaken: for as we had a vast desert
to pass, which is near seven hundred miles long in some places,
but not above two hundred miles over where we passed it, so,
till we came past that horrible place, we found very little difl'er-
encc between that country and the Mogul Tartary : the people
are mostly pagans, and little better than the savages of America;
their houses and towns full of idols, and their way of living
wholly barbarous. except in the cities, as above, and the villages
near them, where they are Christians, as they call themselves,
of the Greek church; but have their religion mingled with so
many relics of superstition, that it is scarce to be known in some
places from more sorcery and witchcraft.

In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must (sfier all our
dangers were to our imagination escaped, as before) have been
plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, b a troop of
thieves: of what country they were I am yet at a ass to know,
but they were all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, and
were at first about forty-five in number: they came so near to
us as to be within two musket shots, and asking no questions,
surrounded us with their horses. and looked very earnestly
upon us twice: at length they placed themselves just in our
way; upon which we drew up in a little line, before our camels,
being not above sixteen men in all; and being drawn it thus,
we halted, and sent out the Siberian servant, who atten ed his
lord, to see who the were: his master was the more willin to
let him go, because e was not a little apprehensive that they
were a Siberian troo sent out after him. The man came up
near them with a mg of truce, and called to them; but
though he spoke severa of their languages, or dialects of Ian-
guages rather, he could not understand a word they said: how-
ever, afler some signs to him not to come nearer to them, at his
peril, the fellow came back no wiser than he went: only that by
their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars of
Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there must be
more ot'them upon the great desert, though he had never heard
that any of them were seen so far north before.

About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us,
and rode round our little wood to see where they might break
in; but finding us always ready to face them, they went off
again ; and we resolved not to stir for that night.

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy:
there was on our left hand, at about a quarterol'amile distance,
a little ve, and very near the road; I immediately resolved
we shou d advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves as well
as we could there: for, first, I considered that the trees would
in a great measure cover us from their arrows; and, in the
next lace, they could not come to charge us in a bod : it was,
inde , an old Portu ese pilot who proposed it, an who had
this excellency atten ' g him, that he was alwa s readies: and
most apt to direct and encourage us in eases of most danger.
We advanced immediately, with what speed we could, and gained
that little wood; the Tartan, or thieves, for we knew not what
to call them, keeping their stand, and not attempting to hinder
us. When we came thither, we found, to our great satisfaction,
that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the one side a
very great spring of water, which running out in a little brook
was, a little farther, joined by another of the like size; and was,
in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterwards the
Wirtska: the trees which grew about this spring were not above
two hundred, but very large, and stood pretty thick, so that as
soon as we gotin we saw ourselves perfectlv safe born the
enemy, unless the? attacked us on foot.

While we stay here waiting the motion of the enemy some
hours, without perceiving they made any movement, our Por-
tuguese, with some help, out several arms of trees half 011', and
laid them hanging across from one tree to another, and in a
manner fenced us in. About two hours before night they came
down directly upon us: and though we had not perceived it,
we found they had been joined by some more of the same, so
that they were near fourscore horse; whereof, however, we
fancied some were women. They came on till they were within
half shot of our little wood, when we fired one musket without
bail, and called to them in the Russian ton e to know what
the wanted, and bade them keep 011': but sy came on with
a ouble fury up to the wood aide, not imagining we were so
barricaded that they could not easily break in. Our old pilot
was our captain, as well as oui' engineer, and desired us not to
fire upon them till they came within istol-shot, that we might
be sure to kill; and that when we di fire, we should be sure
to take good aim: we bade him give the word of command,
which he delayed so long, that they were some of them within
two pikes' length of us when we let fl . We aimed so true that
we killed fourteen of them, and woun ed several others, as also
several of their horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces
with two or three bullets at least.

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated
immediately about one hundred rods from us, in which time we
loaded our pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance,
we sallied out, and catnhed four or five of their horses, whose
riders we supposed were killed: and coming up to the dead, we
judged they were Tar-tars, but knew not how they came to make
an excursion of such an unusual lengh.

We slept little, you may be sure, at spent the most part of
the night in strengthening our situation, and harrieading the
entrances into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited
for daylight, and when it came, it gave us a ver{ unwelcome
discove , indeed: for the enemy, who we thong t were dis-
co with the reception they met with, were now greatly
increased, and had set up eleven or twelve huts or tends, as if
they were resolved to hesiege us: and this little camp they had

iiched u n the open plain, about three quarters of a mile
in us. e were, indeed, surprised at this discovery; and now,

I confess, I gave myself over for lost, andall that I had {the loss
of my <<feet: did not lie so near me, though very considerable,
2lSS the thoughts of falling into the hands of such barbarians, at
the latter end of my journey, after so many difficulties and
hazards as I had gone throu h, and even in sight of our port,
where we expected safety an deliverance. As to my partner,
he was raging, and declared that to lose his goods would be his
ruin, and that he would rather die than be starved; and he was
for fighting to the last drop.

The youn lord, as gallant as ever flesh showed itself, was for
fighting to t e last also: and my old ilot was of the opinion
that we were able to resist them all in t e situation we were then
in ; and thus we spent the day in debates of what we should do:
but towards evening we {one that the number of our enemies
still increased, and we did not know but by the morning they
might be a still greater number: so I began to inquire ofthosa
people we had brought from Tobolski, if there were no private
ways, by which we might avoid them in the night, and perhaps
rot rent to some town, or get help to guard us over the desert.
The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord, told us, if we
designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would engage to carry
us off in the night, to a way that went north, towards the river
1' -.trou, by which he made no question but we might get awav,
and the Tartars never the wiser: but, he said, his lord had told
him he would not retreat, but would rather choose to fight. I
told him he mistook his lord; for that he was too wise a man to
love lighting for the sake of it; and that I knew his lord was
brave enough, by what he had showed already; but that his
lord knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen men to
light five hundred. unless an unavoidable necessity forced them
to it; and that, if he thought it possible for us to escape in the
night, we had nothing else to do but to attcm tit. He answered,
if his lordship gave him such orders he woul lose his life if he
(lid not perform it: we soon brought his lord to give that order,
though privately, and we immediately prepared for the putting
it in practice.

And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a firein
our little camp. which we kept burning, and prepared so as to
make it burn all night, that. the 'l'artars might conclude we were
still there; but as soon as it was dark, and we could see the
stars (for our guide would not stir before), having all our horses
and camels ready loaded, we followed our new guide, who I soon
found steered himself by the north star.

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be
lighter still; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon
began to rise, so that. in short, it was rather lighter than we
wished it to be; but by six o'clock the next morning we were
got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled our horses. Here
we found a Russian village, named Kermazinskoy, where we
rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmnck Tartars that day.
About two hours before night we set out again. and travelled
till eight the next morning, though not quite so hard as before;
and about seven o'clock we passed a little river, called Kirtza,
and came to a good large town inhabited by Russians, called
Ozomoys: there we heard that several troops of Kalmucks had
been abroad upon the desert, but that we were now completely
out of danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction.
Here we were obliged to get some fresh horses; and having
need enough of rest, we stayed five days; and my partner and
I agreed to give the honest Siberian who brought us thither the
value of ten pistoles.

In five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river
Wirtzogda, and running into the Dwina: we were there, very
happily, near the end of our travels by land, that river being
navigable, in seven days' passage, to Archangel. From hence
we came to Lawrenskoy the 3d of July; and providing ourselves
with two luggge boats, and a barge for our own convenience,
we embarked the 7th, and arrived ail safe at Archangel the 18th;
having been a year, five months, and three da s on the journey,
including our stay of eight months at To olski. We were
obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the arrival of the
ships, and must have tarried longer, had not a Hamburgher
come in above a month sooner than any of the English ships:
when, after some consideration that the city of Hamburgh might
happen to be as good a market for our goods as London, we all
took freight with him; and, having put our goods on board, it
was most natural for me to put my steward on board to take
care of them: by which means my young lord had a sufficient
opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore again all
the time we stayed there; and this he did that he might not be
seen in the city, where some of the Moscow merchants would
certainly have seen and discovered him.

We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of August, the same
year; and after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the
Elbe the 18th of September. Here my partner and I found a
verv good sale for our goods, as well those of China as the
sables, 8m. of Siberia; and dividing the produce, my share
amounted to three thousand four hundred and seventy-five
pounds seventeen shillings and threepence, including about six

undred pounds' worth of diamonds which I purchased at
Bengal.

Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the
Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where be resolved
to seek protection, and could correspond with those of his
father's friends who were left alive. He did not part without
testimonies of gratitude for the service I had done him, and his
sense of my kindness to the prince his father.

To conclude. baring stayed near four months in Hamburgh,4'12 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

I came from thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked
in the packet, and arrived in London the 10th of January, 1705,
having been absent from England ten years and nine months.
and here I resolved to prepare for a longer journey than all
these, having lived a. life of infinite variety seventy-two years,
and learned sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and the
blessing of ending our days in peace.

 

-----~_._______. .
k. CLAY, PRINTER, BREAD STREET HILL-MESSRS. BELL AND DALDY'S'

CATALOGUE

0'

BOHN'S VARIOUS. LIBRARIES

AND"

THEIR OTHER COLLECTIONS,

WITH A CLASSIFIED IND".

 

LONDON:

N0. 186, FLEET STREET,
AND 6. YORK STREET, COVENT- 6mm.

1864. '

.- Liar;
A complete Set, in 483 Volumes, price 1211. 13s.

'5w- SEPARATE LIBRARIES. "a.
150 SIANDARD LIBRARY (including the Atlas toCoxo's
Marlborough) . . . . . . 26 15 0
18 Hmomcu. LIBRARY . . . . . - 3 5 0
6 LIBRARY or Fan-non "moms . . . . 1 1 0
43 : Uxmnx mu m STANDARD LIBRARY . . 8 3 5
19 : PHILOIDOICAL LIBRARY . . . . . . 4 0 0
29 g Bnmm Cuma . . . . . . . 5 1 6
8 EEocwmmcu. LIBRARY . . . 2 0 0
40 Amount" LIBRARY . . . . . . 10 0 0
74 CHEAP SERIB . . . . . . . 5 19 6
76 [Lu-mm LXBIIARY . . . . . . l9 9 0
89 Gunmen. LIBRARY including the Atlna) . 21 18 6
63 Scmmmc LIBRARY . . . . . 16 4 0

I! rmmnox.

MISS AGNES STRICKLAN'D'S LIVES OF THE QUEENS OF
131.2th A Popular Revised Edition. in six volumes (Himum
BBARY).

LOW'NDES'S BIBLIOGRAPEER'S MANUAL. Appendix Vol. con-
taining the Lists of Books published by various Societies and Clubs.

(Pauowoicu. Luau").

FOSTER'S MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. including his Easy
on Doddridge. 3w. (Snmmm LIBRARY).

FESTUS. A POEM. by P. J. BAILEY. Seventh Edilion.' Revised.
(Unil'onn with the STANDARD Lanny).NOTICE.

Muses. Bur. and DALnr beg to announce that they have
purchased of Mr. H. G. Bohn, who is preparing to retire
from business, after forty years of successful enterprise. the
entire stock of his various Libraries, consisting of more
than 600 different works, and comprising nearly half a
million of volumes.

These Libraries have been created by Mr. Bohn during
the past twenty years by an amount of energy and industry,
bibliographical knowledge and literary skill never before
united with the requisite amount of capital; and they repre-
sent an accumulation of valuable works unexampled in the
history of literary undertakings.

Though Mr. Bohn was not the first to recognize the
power of cheapness as applied to the production of becks,
he was the first to address his efl'orts exclusively to works
of a standard character and enduring interest. He threw
himself into the movement with characteristic energy; and
in developing his aim he is known by those who have
watched the progress of cheap literature to have distanced
all competitors. During the time that his Libraries have
been before the public, he has carried into all classes in all
parts of the world where the English language is under-
stood an unexampled choice of books, not only for students
and scholars, but for readers who merely seek amusement.

Such a choice, so varied, and at so low a price, does not
exist in this country or elsewhere ; and Mr. Bohn is entitled
to the gratitude of all who value the humaniziug efi'ects of

literature. Since the commencement of these Libraries at
s 2iv sorrel.

loast three million volumes have been issued, and these
may fairly be taken to represent thirty million readers.

ln accepting the responsibility of so large an under-
taking. Messrs. Bell and Daldy desire to carry on the pro-
jeets of Mr. Bohn with the same spirit and energy which
have influenced him, and they are happy to announce they
will have the advantage of his bibliographical knowledge
and large experience.

In addition to the Libraries of Mr. Bohn, this Catalogue
comprises the various Collections published by Messrs.
Bell and Daldy during the last nine years. and new in
progress.

'l'hoso Libraries and Collections together afford a choice
from about 800 volumes on general literature and educa-
tion.

To assist purchasers in making their selections at classi-
fied index is attached, by which they will be guided to the
subjects of the books.

Messrs. Bell and Dahly venture to add, that the Aldine
Poets, Altline Series, British Worthies, Elzevir Series, and
Pocket Volumes. are specially prepared for the lovers of
choice books, and are specimens of careful editing combined
with the most finished workmanship in all external features.
The) beliexe that they are not surpassed in these respects
by on) similar productions of the present dai.

Many of the ahme works are adapted for prizes and
presents; and they may be had through any bookseller,
bound in a suitable style, by giving a short notice.
no: no:

Aim mum--Mud.
mm. WIlIon . . ." SI. 41, 42 NW! Life alarm . . . I:
Angler'I Hanan]. Hound . . . l1 Dentin Dark Plus . 13
cu- OoquII . . . as New Tumult--Gm: . u, 41, 41
--- 0mm 0!. Morphy . . . 40 um In . . . M
__ Ml CompInlon . . . 40 Sturu'I ammonium . . u
Hmdbook. . . . Io lelafl um Ind Drum n. 43. 49
--- huh. Suunwn . . . . do Who-Ila on the Comm fiver . ll

---Toummen: . . . . . lo
0 MAW WWII.

Handbook of . . 38
' ' Boom: and nm . . . . 9
Hull, Enid". Wllker . . . al Lomb'I Dnunuc Pooh . . . . 21

Bhoomdluuudonuu . . . so .1..."th II
A". Behlelel'l Dmquc Llumun . u

"if"?! Iconocnp . , . 27 an I Plan. . . . IS. 42
Hoiboln'l Blblo 01:, . . . . 27 W-- Worn . . . . 1"
Dan>> or Death . . . 21 SheridIn' I We Work. . . u

IMIPI Noun: . . . . . . In Honor.
mmmmun' ~ 3' Autumn'ITdu. . . . . . 2e

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Michal lo and "mph-PS1 I I as
a>> am Mon>> . . . u 233.1%.5: ~ ~ - - - 2:
"M!" """W'W- - - " mamas-3mm ' ' ' 2o
sunley 'I Synopt- o! Nam. . 40 Gun Mm ' ' ' 23
Vuut' I him of mo Mun . . 15 M Tm; . _ . '. 1 lo
Anna. by 30:0; 1:. Worth . . . . . . 20
CW Gm . . . . . M I . . . 21
Ian; . . . 46 Golaumh'I War of WW . 4 1
0mm: School Ann . . . . A1 Howtbomo' I TIIII . . . . 20

Mulbom 'Iampalnl . . . no Housman-burs . . . . 27
m Bunt'IBook'foroOoI-mr . . . 7

"mum. 1"!an Work . . . 17.24-

 

Burio'I "to . . . . . . . ID
Oelllnl. Nemoluof . . . . . o m! Ffli'fdm - g
Fuur'o yfo. an. . . . . . . lo _ gunnedhc: ; : 25
FronkllnIAnwbIocnp by . . . as unfelm'IPmIowmn . a
lrvlng'n Life Ind kuul . . u, 24 um"... Worn . as
Johmonome,&u . . . . 2: NVMW'I Immofmi'm' u
Locko't [Me And Lem" . . . 12 Hilton! . Our me . . 13
LHMILH' llmlfl . . . '3 Modern Novella: o! M" 35
NelIon'Iure. Southey . . . so." Human-Life . ,5
hrpo'ontefihmthm . . . so "chime-um. _ 30
W""""'" - - - - ~'1-'3 Wmmm I . . as
WW"M'"'deg - - - - 17-" Tue-own": . . . . . a:
WEIIW'LUOOI . . . . . 3|. TWOEM . . . . . z
m cm Uncle Tomb": . . . 18. 25
Addlun'u Works. . . . . . )9 White Slave . . . . . . . 2!
Ruth" Works . . . . . 19 Wide. WHBWOIH - . . . . H
mm . . . . 19 Willu'I Tania. . . . . . . a
Imam Watt: . . -. . n Ynlo'l'idom . . . . . a
[m hm Am
Emigrant-loo . . . n," Fenaon'ITolemIqu . . . , 4,.
mm . . 9 hi'onnm'Ii'I-NII . . . . u
------Somu- . . . . u Plot-bk . . . . . . (I
"Work . . . . . . u Vomuommxfi. . . . . u
autumn some. of Pa>>- um Am
ma........xc mm.fl..____u
m~~-'-" Wowum....u
gama-Wm "I." I . ' ' :31 than: mm. m. -
[numb-hm. . . 3'! 5&1." . . n

xm.mml.u Helm'lhau
flmuto...ta WIWo-h......uv1 chum mu.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no: no:
Gull: Arman. "mnchL HIIMIS--MII'M
A-Znehylua . . . . . . . as," Monou- otflmpden, bylaldNu-
lk-vmulhems . . . . . . . 45 (em . . . . . '6
1'4""th . . . . . 46.47 Phull'pdoOomminel . I:
Herodotus . . . . . . ".47 Nun] and mm Home. of
"Inked . . . . . . . a Britain . . . 29
Homer . . . . . . . 45 Pmll'aLlfoofAm'edemt . 21
Plato . . . . . . . . 4o M'surooflaox. . . . 13
fivlmflegfl. . . . . . . . 46 Imdaledlcl 13
ac dl . . . . . fl
\onophon'u Annhuln . . . 47.47 IIUIX-Iwhmgmu . . _ . fl
WNW" ' ' ' '7 Anuquluu,Populu- Brand . . 21
(lam: (11m) Tn .\.\'sl.AfluX! null. Anna In 3mm" , , 9
Achlllm Tnuun . . . . . . :4 Christianity. m Planting of,
Fwd-luvs . . . . . . . . ls Neandor. ' . . , , . , )3
Admin: . . . . . . . 32 CHEERLE-
Ambulmfinek . . . . M Mano-Sum (mmlck. Bode . 21
N <<WWI-"9" ~ . - - - - 3' Florence or Womur'n . . 21
Amwflumm - - in Umfl'ny do Vimuf . . . 21
-- "MDT! 0' Anlmllfi- - 33 Henry 0! Hunuugdon' I . . 2!
------ Memphnles - ' - - 3? lug" ph'lChkao . . . 22
---- Omnfln . . 32 Matthew ot Purl: . . . . 22
-------- l' umlu um! l-'mnumiea 3'1 _ Wuunlnaur . 22
--------- Rheum mnmsm . 3'1 mama or new: . . . . 2|
Alhmtua . . . . . . . . :L'f Roam de Hovenden . . . 22
lllnn . . . . . . . . . 3h Six one" um Chronicles. . 23
(hllimnchun . . . . . . 30 Wllllun of "gum" . , 23
IN-mn-nmm' Onuons . . . no. 3:! amalgam] Tabla. mm>> , . 31
lynx-Tm humus . . - ~ . 3* Chumhlhamry .Neunder . . . xa
{iilfipv'dwu- . - - ~ - - . g: aglhdmiflu'wt .m. . . I:
u 01 0|" . . . . - . . an 0 fish" . , )
"fl"'mm- - ~ - - - 3' Diary. Ftlclyn. . . . fl.' . . )6

- Analysis of . . . . 18 _p,py. . . . 15
-- Nows- - - . . ~ 1" Bum-gum: Hum", . 21
"MM. . . . . . . . :N Huebiu; . no
Homer' 5 lllad. . . . . . . a! Ontarim VI-
--- Pope . . . . . 30 um , _ 23
---- Odyssey . . . . . 34 30C/..." , 30
---------~-- - - - - 30 Sowmm . 20
"amps. . . . . . . . . 3; Theodomk

usclus . . . . . . . . ' h u . 20
glinll'o'ludnua . . . . . . . 20 hop kl WE" . . "CH"!- 22
illllll' . . . . . . . . . 35 . _ 43
mm . . . . . . . 35 EELWW'ES'" , _ .3
'Stnphnclen . . . . . . . . 36 _____ mu." . . .3
lheocrllus. . . . . . . . 36 by", Cumamuuon. p.191." , m
'l'heuanln - - ~ ~ - ~ - - 3' Revolution of "PS0.0th u
Thuqdhien - ~ - - - 3deg FlmuceJluhluelll . . . . 12
------ Ali-WI 01- - - - 19 l-'n-nch Ravoluflun or me. Imu-
1:yru-nn........86 "awn
"Mm" - ~ - ' ' ' ' 35 French Revolution, fight . . I:
Hummus". Mam-ms. -------' '- - - 1
gramlo'rrnhf'gmn; . h. . . 9 Ge--nn--any "2;;- 3W"! - - - 3
xe's . eo mug . . lo '

Memo!" of me [km of "In"!!! CHEM HMO?"

a I'Lfi-"urfi k ' ' ' ' '0 eighth. binning . ' g
ulzu: eo on . . . 2d - -

Monk': Conmmpo m'lu . 24 Emory Phllmphhfly (haunted:
lrvlng'llm of Wumnzwn . 17.24 Millet - - - - 17
Jum-uulmm XIV. . . . . . u Hum-w eron. - - ~ 11
--.----Richud Cum-dam . 1] Index 0"th . . . . . 37
mmgnbzumm of; ' ' ' ' " 3""1133? "'3" 2:1 stalelo'flnl. ' ' g

m units of "union: Per- 93" 5 - - -
m%........u Miemummeumn-n

Memoir ofOolonel Huh-Mason . ll 3mm. ' - -
' mam), _ , , 1. Nqnnundor mu . Qmm "DIX.

IAGI

"mu m Tuna--ovum
Null Bottles. Allen . .
NW6: Gammoqu .
Northern Anthnluq mm .
Philosophy, Tennemn . . .

of motor}. Hegel .

--.----_--

Schlo'el
Popegknko . . . . . .
humane. . .

Rep mauve Government. Gum:
Beam-um or Iho Monmhy, LI-
Inoruno . .

Revolution. Counter, In W

Rom Emphe, Gibbon.
---- Repuhllc. Michele:
Roch. Emory of . .

film Ockloy' . . .

 

DUI-r.-

Serv'u. nun .
8mm Jae . .
Three Monthl'ln Power. I'm-rune

TIero Em. Th .
TnvelI. Mm mulemno .

 

 

 

 

26
26
22
19
18
M
13
16
ll

12

9
20
12
13
I3
13
15
5
16
2!

In Amulet. Humboldt. . 39
- of Mom Rho . . . . 23
Wellington. Vlcwrlco o! . . . 28
ITALIAN (m) Tumu'nom non.
Afloulo'o Orlando Furlou . . 26
Dunc-Iv . . . . . . . Is
--- -- Wright . . as
'l'IIIo' I Jenn-Ian Dellvend . . 3|
hm Ant-non.
Geo-I. Do Rollo Gulloo . . . <<I 47
-- --- 3h 1-3 . . 46
Gum'o Colo loser . . . . 4o. 47
----0nuonI. . . . . 45
Roman. . . . . 45.4641
Juveul, Elven. l-lc . . . . 46
our! Mm . . . . 45
[41(31qu . . . . . . . 41
Ovld'o Fun . . . . . 46
Sullnfl. . . . . 40, 4'!
Y=rllng Gannon. kc. . . . . 4a
. . . . 46
"all. . . . . . . . 4o. 4'!

Ln!!! ("I").Tnmntomnou.
Anni-nus MucemnuI.
Antonino" Tho I!" .
Apolum. (he 60
Boothlu . .
(but . .
0mm: . . .
Gloom'o Anaemia. &c. .
-------- Sum of tho Gods. 82o
--" 3%": 'm '
---- l lot] .

OI-Iuou .

....-.

o
. I .
I . . .
I o .
.

 

.............

...-o.o....
o...-...e.-
.u..-.-....

s

....I--.
s

322822228888PS283828

o

:
a;-

Ln'nt (no) Tummo mn--

ovum
LIIclllnI . . .
'Ii'umuiil'm
'I

Ovid . .
Pardon. .
Pemnlnl .
Phodru .
Plum .
Pllny'o N'un'nl motor]
Pmpe rum. . .

Qulnulhn'IInItlIulu
SIlluIt. .
Suwnhu .
8qu lot. .

oooo-oooo

...-o
...-o

Tum
Terence
Tlhullu
Velleloo 1':qu
VIrgil . ,, . .

agataaaaaaaaeauura

.
.
o
.
-

LII-gnu Emu. &c.

lawndeo'o Blbllom her'I lhnul Ia
Schlegel'o Hloloryo Llwntun . M

 

 

Simondl'I Uunmn or South of
Europe. . . . . . . 14
Hmnoua.

Am' I Scholo Muta- . . . 45
MI Ency- . . 9. 44
Bionic" I Slr 1'.) Work: . . . 2|
Ind o Infill-I. . . . 2.3

00 n collector'I Maul. Hum-
phleyo . . . . 39
Cotton hunt-mares. Um . . . 4o
Omlhlunk'o 'I'hne Counu. kc. I 26~
new? of Ohioku WM . . I!
m lat Ila-111m" . 23
ve en . 23
Epluphi . . . 21
hour'- my; 8m . . . . . Io
-------' Lectures. 8n. . . . . lo
---- limeunneou Wax-h . Io
Fmoeflnm . . . . . . . . 10
Much- Works . . . . . . )0
Guy 'I Works. . . . . . 44
KIII'I I(Buu) LIenIenInI . . . 41
---- - ---- moan . . . 41
(Robert) Wot . . . . u
Remus. Workl . . . . . (1,42
Juno's hop." . . . . . . fl
JnnIuI'I [nun . . . . . . n
Llon annual . . . . . . . 26
Inoke'o Ola-duct. kc. . . . . I . 46
gunners 1on Tom) . . . . . g

OERHWI . . . .
Mount-chm: (Philooophy of). Du 40
Howl Seamus finnh . . . N
Polllle'l (yolcqndb. . . . . )8
Ponery Ind mm: . . . . a.
Pro-chem and Min; . . . 13
onoI' o( Either) 3:"un . . . so

finding '13:?" INN-g. Women 3:
WI . . 4
\Y Physic-l Theory . . . 43
mum . . 4s
I'MIK

Ilmnunmlim
'I'Imprmm Cavema- . . . . 'sz
"'IIIIII, Roddh IIII . . . . . 30
Young IAIy' I look . . , . . a!

Nnmuu. Ilmmxr.
Imth lllnls. Muxllo. . . . .
(m "Ink. III-chIII'III . .
l'IIIIIIry. Mrhon Ind an bray . III
mm... "mm. . . . . . . 27
Selhunuv. \I'lIlIo . . . . . ill."
Warblrm SWMI. . . . . . . 28

I\\I'.PIT.

ID
'10

AkI'nIIIIr' I Poem: . . All
IIIIIIIII I'III'II-- Mlllun to Klrku
Whllo . . . . . . . . l'I
Dunn's "mm-I. . . . . II. '1
~ Sump: . . . . . . . ll
IhIIlrr'n "whim . . . '18
(bl-whlmn'n I'leun . . . . ll. '1
ColllIII'I l'wuu . . . . . . 41'
Cowpor'l I'll'nul . . . . . . 41!
>>- ---\\'urI:I . . . . . III
DilI-IIII' I S>>. Sm . . . 23

I'rydmal'mum "urn . . I <<I

  

HI": I MI-II-Iul ""li . . . :Il
(IIIIIIIIIIIIII' I Poems . . . . II
(law.- r' I Ounfmlu AnIIuIlI. . . <<I
(Imy' I l'omu . . . . <<.44
III-rlIII-I'I I'm-nu . . . . . II. 43
""10 \VIIIh"! I'Il'nls . . . . III
hnmrollow'I I'R'nll . . . . 28.11
NIIIIIII'I l'unulln- hut . . 2*. I I. <<I
- -------- ------ M. mum . . 23. u
IV'Ifln'h'I Sonnets . . . . 29
"If"! l'll'"|"l \I'IIrkl . . . :III
"I Ilu Hood Bullmln . . . . II
SI-I Sum Ind Bulb-Ia . . . . 4|
SlukeIII-IN'I I'm-nu . . . In. I:
Spoluu'r'x "Ru-kg . . . . . . 4:!
'l'IuIIIImn'I I'wIIII . . . . . <<
------- sI-uum . . . . . u
\'IIIxIIIII'I PM>>. . . . II. III
Young's l'wma . . . . . . u
l'nnvmuu AND Quunfluss.

DIcII-nury of III-wk Ind IAun Quo-
IaIlonI . . . . . . M
Han-lbw! of l'mvvflu . . . . 1H
l"ol) (Int 0! I-'onlgu Proverb. . . :I'J

3"":me AND hum-nun.

Anatomy. Com the. 14mm."
AnImII M" II" "IU- OIrpnIIu-r . . an
Ark: and SUI-um Jay on . . . u
Aunt-In. lJlIy . . . . . . II
AIlmImmy, Hummer . . . . as
--- IIIIId . . . . 39

 

Mn I Advnmmentof IAImIn n3 3?. <<
.-- Novnm {II-[Influx 37. u

lk>>uny.0upeuter . . l -. . 38

OLAUBIIIID IND".

null

St'lmk AND menorur--mmw.

llquuy. DoJIIIIIeu . . . .

llquIIwn-u Tani-m
Clmlmon on Kohl Mm .
Rum-<<Mun. . . . .
Klvbyun AnImIlI . . .
I'muLuIICIIImIIIry . .
Whowoll'I AI
(Jamal l'IIyIIuI

Guam-mt.
Alflvultunlfihdm' .
Elementary. I'Irkm. . .
lfinclplnofisuxkhudt .

('hovnqunOnlour . .

Ul'lllplll'llh'o I'IIyI lul ocuApIIll

OI.

('mme' I Imllcwfiw of Wm 5cm

0mm. IlumlIu I'I . . .

UIIIIMIII'.
(Imrral. RIcIIInkon .
Mal!!! III (mum. "Ink"
OHIII of WI IIL MIIlel .
OI Sal plum. 'yo Snub .
WIrII'IcuonA aka. Mum".
Wander: of Geology. Mum-ll

"nmloxydhrpen m. . . .

Invmuom. Bu kInIvm' I "MOI-yo of

Ju_\n- 'I Sdrnflllc DIIluguu . .
KuII'I Hakeem . . . .
I.II\~ I'hIlIIIthy of. Sdllml .
Incko'I I'MloIophInl Works .
hum. Du of
Mn IIInImI 'hIhInphy.ureemEer
Mnlk'lm. Dome-nun . .
MIm-nlun. Rk'hanhon .
NnIIInl I'IIIIImpII. "I" .
Oonlnl' I 8qu In Iture .
l'nlI-unII-Iugy .Rlchudlou .
l'lIyIIw, Hunt. . . .
Ram or "In. I'lvkomm. .
Schnuw' I F'nh. I'IIIIII. III:
Sch-mo. Mary of. Hum. .
'l'vvhnlml And In. Ilulloy .
Vl'flI'hIIIv I'by. okay. Gama!>>
News "I NIIIII'I", IIIImIIoIdt

imluuyfinponm . . . .

Tumuurur.
Min-nu, Slummdkeveu .
('hInI . .

mglm 14!"th
(lawnmumlvm . . .

-- su-Ibo . . .

hulk . .

Landon. PIcmrI-I Ihndbook of

--- RmIdIIIg.

Nlmvoh, Baum!

Nanny . . .

I'MI . . . .

Rune . . .

QI1'00DIU

- -I

 

..........-.

.....
.....

.........-..

(ID

1|?
3'!
37
J1

37

4 II
I s
<<I
3:!
3'!
:Ill
39

'0
3'
39
'0

1'1

1|!

<<I
39
:19
do
39

33
39

38

3|
96
'3"
39

'3'!
29

33Bohn's Standard Library:

A SIB!!! 07 m 3381' ENGLISH AND FOBIIGN AUTHORS, PRINTED
IN A NEW AND ILIGANT FORM, EQUALLY ADAPTID TO THE
LIBRARY AND THE 11833133, AND PUBLISHED AT AN uranium
LOW PRICI-

anh volume contains about 500 pages. is printed on fine pa in at
800.. and to strongly bound in cloth. at the low price of 32"". p0

Bacon's Essa s. A hthegms, Wisdom of the Ancients,
5' FE

New Atlantis. an enry VIL. with Introduction and Notes.
Portrait. 8:. 6d.

Beaumont and Fletcher, a popular Selection from. By
Leigh Hunt. 30. 6d.

Beckmsnn's History of Inventions, Discoveries, and Origins.

Revised and enlarged, by Drs. Francis and Grithth. with Memoir
by H. G. Balm. Portraits. In 2 vols. 3:. 6d. each.

Bromer's (Miss) Works. Translated by Mary Hewitt.
New Edition. carefully revised. In 4 vols. 3:. 641. each.

Vol. 1 contains The Neigghours, and other Tales. Portrait.
Vol. 2. The President's iughter.

Vol. 3. The Home. and Strife and Peace.
Vol. 4. A Diary. the H-- Family, the Solitary. &c.

Butler's (Bp.) Analogy of Religion, and Sermons, with

Analytical Introductions and Notes. by a Member of the University
of Oxford. Portrait. 3:. 6d.

Carafes (The) of Maddaloni: and Naples under Spanish
Dominion. Translated from the German of Alfredde Remnant
Portrait of Hamm'ollo. 3s. 6d.

Csrrel's History of the Counter Revolution in England,
for the Re-esmhlishment of Popery under Charles II. and James )1.
Fox's History of James II. And lord Lensdsle's Memoir of the
BeignofJunalL Portrm'tsofCanelandFaz. 3:."

Cellini (Benvenuto), Memoirs of. Written by himself.

Translated by Thomas Roscoe from the new and enlarged Text of
Molini. Portrait. 3:. 6d.

Conde's History of the Dominion of the Arabs in Spain.
'l'nnslntodfiomtheSpanishbyMr-s. Footer. In 3 Vols. 8:. Grinch.10 Boss's "mun mun.

Cowper's Complete Works. Edited by Southey : compris-
ing his Poems. Correspondence, and Translations. and a Memoir
of the Author. Illustrawd with fifty IO sings on Steel. after
dai'qm by Hamy. In 8 vols. 8s. ' each.

Vols. 1 to 4. Memoir amd Correspondence: with General Index
to some.

Vols. 851 und 6. Poetical Works. 2 Vols. Fourteen Engraving: on
Ste .

Vol. 7. Tmnslution oi' Homer's Iliad. Plates.

Vol. 8. Translation of Homer's Odyssey. Plates.

['oxe's Memoirs of the Duke of Marlborough, 3 Vols.
l'orlrai'ls <<1wa Duke, Duchess. and Prince Eugene. 38. 6d. each.

0.. An Atlas to the above. cont-lulu; 26 line large lips and Plans of Hal>>
borough's Gimpslgns. lncludlng all those publishes] In the orlglnsl l-'dltion st
12!. 124. may now be bud. in one volume. <<0. for 10C/. 6d.

---- History of the House of Austria, from the Founde-
tinn of the Monarchy by lthodolph of ansburgh. to the death of
Leopold 11.. 1218--1792. With eontinuntion to the present time. New
and Iii-vised Edition, including the celebrated work Genesis. and the
triul of Lntour's Murderers. Portraits of Maximilian. Bliodotph.
Maria Theresa, and the reigning Emperor. In 4 vols. 3s. 6d. each.

Do Lolme on the Constitution of England, or an Account of
the English Government. in which it is compared lxxth with the
Republican form of Govvmmcnt and the other Monmhies of
Europe; Edited, with Life of the Author and Notes, by John
Mnegrogor. M.P. 3s.6d.

Foster's (John) Life and Correspondence, Edited by J. E.
Bylnnd. Portrait. In 2 Vols. 8s. 6d. each.

Lectures, delivered at Broadmead Chapel, Bristol,
Edited by J. E. Ityland. In 2 vols. 8s. 6d. each.

Critical Essays, contributed to the Eclectic Re-
view. Edited by J. E. Bylsnd. In 2 vols. 3r. 6d. each.

Essays: on Decision of Character; on a Man's

Writing Memoirs of himself : on the (Rthct Romantic; on the
aversion of Men of Taste to Evangelical ligion. &e. 35. 6d.

Essays on the Evils of Popular Ignorance. New

Edition, to which is added. a Discourse on the Propagation of
Christianity in India. 3:. 6d.

Fosterisns: Thoughts, Reflections, and Criticisms

of the late John Foster. selected from periodical. papers, and
Edited by Henry G. Bohn (nearly 600 pages>>. 5s.

Miscellaneous Works. Including his Essay on
Doddridge. Preparing.

Fuller's (Andrew) Principal Works. With Memoir. Por-
trait. 3s. 6d.son's' "mun mean. 11

Goethe's Works. In 5 vols. 8:. 6d. each.
Vols. 1 and 2 contain Autobiography. 13 Books; and Travels
. in Ital . France. and Switzerland. Portrait.

Vol. 3. oust. lphigenis. Torquato Teuo. Egont. doc. Trans-
lated by Miss Bwenwick; and Gen von lichingen, by Sir
Walter Scott. revised by Henry G. Bohn. Mapiece.

Vol. 4. Novels and Tales; containing Elective Attinities, Sor-
rows of Werther, The Gem Emignnts, The Good Women,
and a Nouvelstte.

Vol. 5. Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship. a- Novel. translated
by B. D. Boylan.

Gregory's (D12) Letters on the Evidences, Doctrines, and
Duties of the Christian Religion. 30. 6d.

Guizot's History of Representative Government, trans-
lated horn the French by A. R. Scoble, with Index. 3e. 6d.

History of the English Revolution of 1640, from

the Accession. to the Death of Charles I. With a Preliminary
Essay on its causes and succeu. Translated by William Hazlitt.
Portrait of Charles I. So. 6d.

History of Civilization, from the Fall of the
Roman Empire to the French Revolution. Translated by William
Halli". h3vols. Portrait ome'zot. &c. Sasdeaoh.

Hall's (Rev. Robert) Miscellaneous Works and Remains,
with Memoir by Dr. Gregory. and an Esmy on his Character by
John Foster. Portrait. 80.611.

Heine's Poems, complete, translated from the German in
the original Metres. with a Sketch of Heine's Life, by Edgar A.
Boning. 30.6%

Hungary: its History and Revolutions. With a copious
Memoir of Kouuth. from new and authentic sources. Portrait of
Knuth. 80.611.

Hutchinson (Colonel), Memoirs of, by his Widow Lucy;
with an Account of the Siege of Iatham House. Portrait. 3:. 6d.

James's (G. P. R.) History of the Life of Richard Cceur de
' Leon, King of England. Portraits of Richard and Philip Am
In 2 vols. 3e. Gd. each.

History of the Life of Louis XIV. Portraits of
MHKMCGWMIMM'L 11127018. 8a6d.esoh.

Junius's Letters, with all the Notes of Woodfall's Edition,
and important additions; also. an lisaay disclosing the Authorship.
andanelahontelndex. In2vols. 8:.de12 menu's 81AM!) inner.

Lemartine's History of the Girondists, or Personal Memoirs

of the Patriot: of the French Revolution. from unpublished mnrooe.
I'm-traits of Robmpicm. Madam Roland. and CW Conley.
In 8 vols. 3s. M. mil.

---- History of the Restoration of the Monarchy in
Franco (n Sequel to his Hietmy of the Gimndists). with Index.
I't'l'h'tlt'h <<J [AIWIrh-m', Tallyrand. quuysue. Nay. and Louis X VII.
In i Vols. 3:. 6d. ouch.

History of the French Revolution of 1848. with
a fine fmutia'nim mutainiug I'mh'm'h of Lamina. Ledru Rollin.
Buyout <<Ia l'Iiure. Amgo. Louie Blanr. and Cnmieuz. 3s. 6d.

Lonzi's History of Pointing: a revised translation by Thos.
Rom>>, with complcto lnvlrx. Portrait; of Raphael. Titian and
('unvggim In 8 Vols. 3:. 6d. ouch.

Locke's Philosophical Works. containing an Essay on the
llumon Understandingmn l'hmym tho Conduct of the Understand-
ing. kc" with l'wlimiuory Dimmrse. Non-s and Index by J. A.
St. John. Esq. Portrait. In 2 vols. 3s. 6d. each.

Life and Letters. with Extracts from his Com-
mon-Plum Books. by Lord King. New Edition. with a General
Index. 38.011.

Luther's Table Talk, tmnslated and Edited by William
Ilmlitt. New Edition. to which is added the Life of Luther. by
Alexander Chalmers. with additions fiom Miohclot and Audi".
Portrait. uflrr 14mm Kranarh. 31. 6d.

 

 

Mmehiawelli'a History of Florence. Prince. and other Works.
Portrait. 34:. 6d.

Menzel's History of Germany. Portraits of Charlemagne,
Charles l2, and Prince Maternich. In 3 vols. 3:. 6d. each.

Michelet's Life of Luther, translated by W. Hazlitt. 3s. 6:].

History of the Roman Republic, translated by
William Hazlitt. 30.6(1.

---- History of the French Revolution, from its ear-

liest indications to the flight of the King in 1791. With General
Index. Ibontiepiers. (646 pages.) 30. 6d.

Mignot's History of the French Revolution from 1789 to
18". Portrait of Napoleon as Fin! Canal. 80. ed.

Milton's Prose Works. including the Christian Doctrine.
tnmslntcd and Edited. with Notes (many additional). by the Bight
Rev. Charles Sumner. 0.0.. Bishop of Winchester. and Omani
Index. Portraits and Iberia-piece. In 5 vols. 80. 6d>> ouch.
Mitford's (Miss) Our Village. Sketches of Rural Character,
and Scenery; New and Improved Edition. complete. Woodard;
aadEngmvimouSted. In2vols. 3a6deach.

Neander's Church History, translated from the German;
complete. with General Index. In 10 vols. 3s. 6d. each.

Life of Christ, translated from the German. 3.9. 6d.

----- First planting of Christianity, and Antignostikus.
Translated by J. E. Byland. In 2 vols. 8:. 6d. each.

History of Christian Dogmss, translated from the
German. by J. E. Byland. In 2 vols. 80. 6d. each.

Memorials of Christian Life in the Early and
Middle Ages (including his Light in Dark Places), translated by
J. E. Bylsnd. 80. 6d.

Ockley's History' of the Saracens, revised and enlarged,

with a Life 0 Mohammed, and Memoir of the Author. by H. G.-
Bohn. Portrait 9' Mohammad. 8s. 6d.

ltanke's Histo of the Popes, translated by E. Foster.
Portraits ofJ 'us IL. Innocent X. dec. 1118 vols. 3:. 6d. each.

---- History of Servia and the Servian Revolution.
With an Account of the Insurrection in Bosnia Translated by
Mrs. Kerr. To which is added. The Slavonic Provinces of Turkey.
from the French of Cyprian Robert. and other sources. 3;. 611.

Reynolds' (Sir Joshua) Literary Works, with Memoir.
Puma. In2vols. 3a6d.eaeh.

Roscoe's Life and Pontificate of Leo. X.. with the Copyright

Notes. Appendices of Historical Documents. the Episode on Lucretia
Borgiaandanlndex. ThmfimParmia. In2vols. 3a6deach.

Life of Lorenzo de Medici, called the Magnificent,

including the Copyright Notes and Illustrations. and a new Memoir
by his Son. Portrait. 8;. 6d.

Russia, History of, from the earliest Period. compiled from

the most authentic sources. includin Kalamsin. Tooke, and Segnr,
by Walter K. Kelly. Par-trails of gather-inc, Nicholas. and Men!-
schiko]. In 2 vols. 8s. 6d. each.

Schillor's Works. In 4 vols. 3s. 6d. each.

Vol. 1. containing History of the Thirty Years' War, and Bevolt
of the Netherlands. Portrait of Saddler.

Vol. 2. Continuation of the Revolt of the Netherlands; Wallen-
slein's Camp; The Piccolomini; The Death of Wallenstein;
and William Tell. Portrait of Wallenstein.

Vol. 3. Don Carlos. Mary Stuart. Maid of Orleans. and Bride of
Messina. Portrait of (he Maid of Orleans.

Vol. 4. The Robbers. Fiesoo. Love and Intrigue. and the Ghost-
Seer. translated by Henry G. Bohn.
Schlogel's Lectures on the Philosophy of Life and the
Philosophy of Language. translatml by A. J. W. Morrison. 8s. 6d.

Lectures on the History of Literature. Ancient

and Modern. Now first completely translated from the German.
with a General Index. 3:. (id.

-- Lectures on the l'liilomphy of History. translated

from the German with a Memoir of the Author. by J. B. Ilobeltaon.
Esq. New Edition. n'visui. Portrait. 8s. Gd.

Lectures on Dramatic Literature. translated by
Mr. lllaek. New Edition. with Memoir. mmmlly revised from
the last (lemma Edition. by A. J. W. Morrison. Pot-(mil. 3s. 6d.

---- Lectures on Modern History, translated from the
last German Edition. 3s. 6d.

Alsthetic and Miscellaneous Works. containing
Letters on Christian Art. Essay on Gothic Arvhiteetum. Remarks
on tho Ronmnro l'eetn' of the Middle Ages. on Slinkspeare. the

Limits of the Beautiful. and on the Iongaago and Wisdom of the
Indiana 3s. 6d.

Sheridan's Dramatic. Works and Life. Portrait. 3s. 6d.

Sismondi's History of the Literature of the South of Eu-
rope. translahd hy Roseoe. A New Edition. with all the Notes of
the last Freueh Edition. The Specimens of early French. Italian.
Spanish. and Portuguese Poetry are translated into English Verse
by Cory. Witl'en. Rum-U". and others Complete with Memoir of
the Author. and Index. Tint fine I'orlraits. In 2 vols. 8s. 6d. each.

Smith's (Adam) 'l'heoryof Moral Sentiments: with his
Emmy on the First Formation of languages: to which is added a
Itiogmphieal and Critieal Memoir of the Author by Dugald

Stewart. 3s. 6d.
Smyth's (Professor) Lectures on Modem History; from
the irniption of the Northem Nations to the close of the American

Revolution. New Edition. with the Author's last Cometions. an
additional Lecture. and a complete Index. In 2 vols. 3s. 6d. each.

-- Lectures on the History of the French Revolu-

tion. New Edition. with the Author's last mrn'etions, and Index.
In 2 Vols. 3:. 6d. eoeh.

Stumi's Morning ('ommnnings with God. or Devotional
Meditations for Every Day in the Year. Tmnslated from the
German. le.6<<l.

Taylor's (Bishop Jeremy) Holy Living and Dying. Por-
trait. (Kathi.

'l'hierry's History of the. Conquest of England by the Nor-

mans: its Causes. and its Ginssllienms Translated by William
Hazlitt. Portrait of 'l'hierry and lt'illiam I. In 2 vols. 33. Gd. ouch.son's area-onion. nmsanr. 15

Thierry's History of the Tiers Etat, or Third Estate. in
France. Translated from the French by the Rev. F. B. Wells.
2 vols. in one. 5:.

Vasari's Lives of the Painters, Sculptors, and Architects.
Tmnslated by Mrs. Foster. In 5 vols. 3:. 6d. each.

\'l'licatley on the Book of Common Prayer. Frontispiece.
8s. M.
II.

Bohn's Historical Library.
Uniform with the Sranman Lmaaar, 5:. per volume

Evelyn's Diary and Correspondence, with the Private
Correspondence of Charles I. and others during the Civil War.
New Edition. revised and considerably enlarged. from the original
Papers. Now first Illustrated with numerous Portraits and Plates
migrant! on Steel. In 4 vols. 5:. each.

" No change of MIMI, no attention of taste. no revolution of science have
im'riiaiml. or can im r the celebrity of Evelyn. "is name is fresh in the land.
an his reputation. ike the tree of an Indian Paradise. exists. and will continue
to "(Ts)". Mi strength and beauty, uniniured by ume.'---Quartaly Review
(Sou .

l'opys' Diary and Correspondence. Edited by Lord Bray-
hrooke. New and Improved Edition. with important Additions.

including numerous Letters. Illustrated with many Portraits.
In 4 vols. 5:. each.

Jesse's Memoirs of the Court of England during the Reign

of the Stuarts. including the Protectorate. \l'ith General Index.
Upimrds of Forty Portraits on Steel. In 3 vols. 53. each.

Memoirs of the Pretenders and their Adherents.
New Editiomwith Index. Six Portraits. 5s.

Nugent's (Lord) Memorials of Hampden, his Party and

Times. Fourth Edition revised, with a Memoir of the Author, and
copious Index. Illustrated with twelvefine Portraits. 5:.

Strickland's (Miss Agnes) Lives of the Queens of England.
'1' Popular Revised Edition. with 6 Portraits. In 6 vols. In the
'rest.

 

m.
Bohn's Library of French Memoirs.

Flttform with the Snxman Lrsmr. 3s. Gd. per volume.

Memoirs of Philip de Commines, containing the Histories
of Louis XI. and Charles VIII. Kings of France, and of chfll'lt s
the Bold. Duke of Burgundy. To which is added, The Scandalous16 sonx'a sorroor. um comes mus.

Chronicle. or Secret History of Louis XI. Edited. with Life and

Notes. h A. R. Seohle. Esq. Portrait: of Charles the Bold and
max . In 2 vols. &.6duch.

Memoirs of the Duke of Sully, Prime Minister to Henry
the Great. Translated from the French. New Edition. revised.
with additional Notea and an Historical Introduction. lg Sir
Walter Scott. With a General Index. Portraits of Sally. my
117.. Culigny. and Marie de Medicic. In 4 vols. 8:. 6d. each.

IV.

Bohn's School and College Series.

New Testament (The) in Greek. Grieshach's Text, with
the various readings of Mill and Schnlz at foot of page. and Parallel
References in the margin ; also a Critical Introduction and Chrono-
logical Tables. By an eminent Scholar. Third Edition. revised

nndfitimrrected. Twofac-simila of Greek Kunmipta (650 pages.)
30.

or bound up with a complete Greek and English Lexicon to
the New Testament (250 pages additional, making in all 900). 5a.

 

V.

Uniform with the Standard Library.

British Poets, from Milton to Kirke White. Cabinet Edi-

tion. Frontiapiecea containing Twenty-two Medalion Portraito.
Complete in4vols. 14a.

Cary's Translation of Dante's Heaven, Hell and Purgatory.
7s. 6d.

L'hillingworth's Religion of Protestants. 3s. 6d.

Classic Tales. Comprising in one volume the most
esteemed works of the imagination: Contents--Russel". The Vicar
of Wnkofiold. The Exiles of Siberia, Paul and Virginia. The Indian
Cottage. Gulliver's Travels. Sterne's Sentimental Journey. Sorrows

of \girter, Theodosius and Constantia. and the Castle of Otranto.
3a. .

Demosthenes and Eschines, the Orations of. Translated
by Thomas Leland. DD. 3:.

Dickson and Mowbmy on Poultry. Edited by Mm. London.
Illustrations by Horny. 5a.umonn wrrn m 51mm mean. 17

Henrfs (Matthew) Commentary on .the Psalms. Numerous
mutations. 40.6d.

Holland's British Angler's Manual, including a Pisoatorial
Account of the principal Rivers, Dabs. and Trout-streams in the
United Kingdom. ' Improved Edition, enlarged. by Edward Jesse,
Eeqph'mvestrgzd with My WM Steel Eugnwhgr and Liquo-
gra . a.

"A book otmnmllnusbuu . For practical Wanner Indusdetall
it. an hardly be ouwcded."--Bd?r LVO. p

Horaoe's Odes and Epodes. Translated literally and
rhythmically, by the Rev. W. Sewell. 3:. 6d.

Irving's (Washington) Complete Works. In )0 vols. 3s. 6d.
eac . '

Vol. I. Edna midi and Knickerbocker. Portrait of the Author.

Vol. II. Skate Book and Life of Goldsmith.

Vol. III. Braoehrid Hall and Abbotsford and Newswad.

Vol. IV. Tales of a veller and the Alhambra. -

Vol. V. Con nest of Granada and Conquest of Spain.

Vols. VI. an VII. Life of Columbus and Companions of Colum-

bus, with a new Index. Fina Portrait.

Vol. VIII. Astoria and Tour in the Prairies.

Vol. 1!. Mahomet and" hi. Bum.

Vo'linf'. Conquest of Florida and Adventures of Captain Bonne-

---- (Washington) Life of Washington, Sequel to Wash-
iangtg; Irving's Works. With General Index. Portrait. In! vols.
. ac

---- aahin n Life and Letters b his N new,
Piemqlrfingtoln)2vols. 3n.6d.each. ' y ep

Joyce's Introduction to the Arts and Sciences. Containing
a genenl e lamtion of the fundamental principlea and facts of the
Sciences. in with Examination Questions mbjoinad. 30. 6d.

Lawrence's Lectures on Comparative Anatomy..Phyuioloy,

Zoology.andtheNatunlBinyofMan. Wmdlz
PM. 50.

Lilly's Introduction to Astrology, with numerous emenda-
time adaptedtotheimpmvedfiateofflm unions 0193 Mt
day. by "kid. 5:.

Miller's (Professor) History, from the Fall of the Roman
Exnpnebthermchkevolufimphflm ' Med. New
Mfigmissd and impmvedwithludexmd m2. Inivola.
8:. ed. per vol.

018 nonu's "11.01.0910". AND rumosenucn meni'.

l'erkes' Elementary Chemistry. on the basis of the Chemical
Untwliium. Revisml Edition. 35. (kt.

Political, The, Cyclopmdia. In -l vols. 38. 611. each.

Alan bound in 2 Vols. with leather backs. 15x.

'nnlullu as much as eight. unllunry liven. l! was i-rlglnnlIy Imbllslml In lliollll'l'
slmlu- by Mr.Clwlrs Knlgmmndx-r um uncut l'ulllim chUulml')'.fll PS1 Ins.

 

Shakespeare's Plays mu] Poems, with Life. by Alexander
l'lmlnn-rs. In clear il'uunuud type. 8s. 6d.
-------- or. with forty beautiful outlim' Steel Eugrm-iuys. 5s.

l'nclu Tom's Cabin. with Introductory Remarks by the
Iii-V. J. Slu-rnnm. Printed in at large clear type. with 8 Illiwtrutium
by Lear/i mu! Gilbert. and Frontiupi'a'e by lliuctilifi'. 83. (id.
" Mrs. Beecher Stuwc's Incomparable I:ile."-- The Times.

Wide. 'l'ho. \Vido "'orld. by Elizabeth "'ctllemll. Illus-
trutnt by 10 Itiyhlgjluidhdd Engravings on Steel. 35. (id.

vx.
Bohn's Philologicel and Philosophical
Library.

l'uiIiu-m with "w Susmlm Lunww. at is. per volume Lexvrptirig those
marked otherwise).

Hegel's Twenties on the Philosophy of History. Trans-
lated by J. Sibrec. MA. 56.

'llerudotus, Turner's (Dawson, W.) Notes to. for the use of
Students: with Map. Appendices. and Index. 5:.

 

Wheeler's Analysis and Summary of ; with a
Synelimllistieul Table of Events. Tnble of WL-iglns, M. &c. 56.

Kent's Critique of Pure Reason; translated by J. M. D.
Mciklejolm. 5s.

Logic, or the Science of Inference; 11 Popular Manual ; by
J. Devey. 5a.

Luwndes' Bibliogruplier's Manual of English Literature;
Com rising an account. of me. curious. and useful Books published
in "lend xinoe the invention of Printing; with bibliographiml
mul critical Notices and Prices. New Edition, revised and enlarged:
by Henry G. Belm. Parts 1. to X. 80. 6d. each. Pm XI. (the
Appendix Volume) in the I'm. '

Dnomv's snrrrsn cmsrcs. 19

Tennemnnn's Manual of the History of Philosophy; revised
and continued by J. R. Morel].

Thucydides, Wheeler's Analysis of. With Chronological
and other Tables. New Edition, with a General Index. 5!.

Wright's (Thomas) Diction of Obsolete and Provincial
English(1048 pages). In 2vo . 5s.esch.

 

-- or, bound in one thick volume, half morocco,
marbled edges. 123.6%

vu.
Bohn's British Classics.

Divan>> with the S-rssmnn Lrsnsnr. 3s. 6d. per volume.

Addison's Works, with the Notes of Bisho Hurd. New
Edition. with much additional matter. and up of 100 Unpub-
lished Letters. Edited by Henry G. Bohn. With a very copious

Indlex. Portrait and eight Engrau'ngs on Steel. In 6 vols. 3s. 6d.
coc .

'.' This is the first time nigh; like a complete edition of Addison's Works
hos been presented to the iish Public. it contains nearly one third more
than has h them been published in s collective-form.

Burke's Works. In 6 Volumes. 3s. 6d. each.

Vol. 1. oontsiniughis Vindication of Natural Socie . Essay on
the Sublime and Beautiful, and various Political ' nice.
'01. 2. Reflections on the French Revolution; Letter-s relating

to the Bristol Election; Speech on Fox's East India Bill: etc.

Vol. 3. Appeal from the New to the Old Whigs; on the Nabob
of Arcot's Debts; the Catholic Claims. etc.

Vol. 4. Begin on the Amrirs of India, and Articles of Charge
against srren Hastings. .

Vol. 5. Conclusion of the Articles of Charge against Warren
Ratings; Political Letters on the American War; on s Regi-
cide Peace. to the Empress of Russia.

Vol. 6. Miscellaneous Speeches. Letters end we. Abridg-
ments of English History, etc. With 3 Gen Index.

 

Speeches on the Impeachment of Warren Hastings;
and Letters. With Index. In 2 vols. (forming Vols. 7 and 8 of the
complete works). 3:. 6d. each.

------- Life. By Prior; New Edition, revised by the
Author. Portrait. 8:. 6d.
'.' This is usually Ittlcht'd to the works. and ibms s Ninth Volume.

0220 BOHN'B ECOLESIASTIOAB LIBRARY.

Defoo's Works. Edited by Sir Walter Scott. In 7 Vols.

3s. 6d. each.
'ol. 1. Life. Adventures. and Piraeies of Captain Singleton, and
Life of Colonel Jack. Part'mt't of Defoe.

Vol. 2. Memoirs of a Cavalier; Adventures of Captain Carleton.
Dickory Cmnke. 6>>.

Vol. 3. Life of Moll Flanders; and the History of the Devil.

\'ol. 4. Roxana. or the Fortunate Mistress; and Life of Mrs.
Christian Davies.

Vol. 5. History of the Great Plague of London. 1665, (to which
is added. the Fine of London. 1666. by an Anonymous writer);
The Storm; and The True Born Englishman.

Vol. 6. Life and Adventures of Duncan Cam bell; Voyage
Round the World; and Tracts relating to the anoverian Ac-
(\'filull.

Vol. 7. Robinson Crusoe.

Gibbon's Roman Empire; complete and 'nnabridged, with

variorum Notes; including. in addition to the Author's own. those
of Guizut. Wench, Niohnhr. Hugo. Neander, and other foreign scho-
lars; and an elaborate Index. Edited by an English Ohnrchman.
l'urtrm't amt Maps. In 7 volumes. 3:. 6d. each.

vm.
Bohn's Ecclesiastical Library.

Uniform with the Snsmnn Lrananr. 5s. per volume.

Ensebins' Ecclesiastical History. With Notes. 53.

Philo J ndzeus. Works of ; the contemporary of Josephus.
Translated from the Greek. by C. D. Yonge. ln 4 vols. 58. each.

Socrates' Ecclesiastical History, in continuation of Ense-
bius; with the Notes of Valesius. 5s.

Sozomen's Ecclesiastical History, from M). 324-440: and

the Ecclesiastical History of Philostorgius: translated from the
Greek. With a Memoir of the Author. by E. Walford, MA. 53.

Theodoret and Evagrius. Ecclesiastical Histories, from

Inn. 332 to A.U. 427; and from no. 431 to m. 514. With General
Index. 58.
m
Bohn's Antiquarian Library.
Uniform with the Snnmsn Lrnsnnr, at 53. per volume.

Bedo's Ecclesiastical History, and Anglo-Saxon Chronicle.
53.

Boethius's Consolation of Philosophy, rendered into Anglo-

Suxon by King Alfred, with the Anglo-Saxon Metres, and a literal
English translation of the whole. by the Rev. Samuel Fox. 50.

Brand's Popular Antiquities of England, Scotland, and Ire-
land. By Sir Henry Ellis. In 3 vols. 53. each.

Browne's (Sir Thomas) Works. Edited by Simon Wilkin.
In 8 vols. [59. each.
Vol. 11 containin the Vulgar Errors.
Vol. 2. Roligio edici. and Garden of Cyrus.
Vol. 8. Urn-Burial. Tracts, and Correspondence. -

Chronicles of the Crusaders; Richard of Devizes, Geofi'rey
do Vinsanf, Lord do Joinville. Illuminated Frmtr'spiece. 5:.

Chronicles of the Tombs. A collection of Epitaphs, pre-
ceded by an Essay on Monumental Inscriptions snd Sepnlchral An-
tiquities. By T. J. Pettigrew. F.R.S.. F.S.A. 50.

Early Travels in Palestine; Willibald, Sewulf, Benja-
min of Todels. Mandeville. IA Brocquiere, and Manndrell; all un-
abridged. Edited by Thomas Wright. Esq. Map. 53.

Ellie's Early English Metrical Romances. Revised by J.
O. Halliwell. Esq. Illuminated Fronfispiece. 5s.

Florence of Worcester's Chronicle, with the Two Continu-
otions : comprising Annals ofEnglish History, {mm the De of
theBomsnstothe ReignofEdward I. Translatedwith otes, by
Thomas Forester. Esq. M.A. 5s.

Giroldus Combrensis' Historical Works. Containing his
Topography of Ireland; History of the Conquestof Ireland; Itine-
rsry through Wales: and Description of Wales. With Index.
Edited by Thom Wright. Esq. 5s.

Hand-Book of Proverbs. Com' rising all Ray's Collection
of English Proverbs; with his ditions from Foreign
and s Complete Alphabetical Index, introducing largo Ad 'tions.
as well of Proverbs as of Soyin Sentences. Maxims, nod Phrnsu.
collectedandedited by Henry .Bohn. 5:.

Henry of Huntingdon's History of the English, from the
Roma Inversion to Henry II.; with the Acts ofKing Stephen. to.
Translated and edited by T. Forester. Esq.. ILA. 5s.22 nons's asrrqnsnrsn usaasr.

Ingnlph's ('hronicle of the Abbey of ('l'oyland, with the
Continuation by Peter of Blois and other Writers. Translated,
with Notes and an Index, by H. T. Riley, BA. 55.

licightley's (Thomas) Fairy Mythology. New Edition.
corrected and enlarged by the Author. Frontiapi'ecs by Geomc
Cruikshank. 5s.

Lamb's Specimens of English Dramatic Poets of the Time
of Elizabeth; including his Selections from the Garrick Plays. 50.

Lepsias's Letters from E t, EthioPia, and the Peninsula
of Sinai; also Extracts from s Chronn ogy of the Egyptians. with
reference to the Exodus of the Israelites. Revised by the Author.
Translated by Leonora and Joanna B. Homer. Maps of the Nile,
and the Peninsula of Sinai, and Coloured View of Mama! Barhal. 58.

Mallet's Northern Antiquities. by Bishop Percy. With
an Aladmct of the Eyrbi 'ia Saga. by Sir Walter Scott. New
Edition, revised and on argu by J. A. Blackwell. 5:.

Marco Polo's Travels ; the translation of Msrsden. Edited
with Notes :and Introduction, by T. Wright, M.A., F.S.A.. &0. 53.

Matthew Paris's Chronicle. In 5 vols. 5s. each.

Fms'r Samoa. containing Roger of Wendovcr's Flowers of English
History, from the Descent of the Saxons to AD. 1235. Trans-
lated by Dr. Giles. In 2 vols.

SECOND Sscrloa'. containing the History of England from 1285 to
1273. With Index to the entire Work. In 3 vols.

Matthew of \Vestminster's Flowers of History, especially

such as relate to the atlhirs of Britain; fiom the beginning of the
World to A.D. 1307. Translated by C. D. Yonge. In 2 vols. 59. each.

Ordericns Yitnlis' Ecclesiastical History of England and
Normandy. Translated with Notes, the Introduction of Guizot, and
the Critical Notice of M. Dclille. by '1'. Forester, MA. With very
copious Index. In 4 Vols. 5:. each.

l'anli's (Dr. R.) Life of Alfred the Great: translated from
the German. To which is appended Alfred's Anglo-Saxon Version
of Omsius. With a literal translation in god, Notes. and an
Anglo-Saxon Grammar and Glossary, by B. orpe, Esq. 5s.

Polyglot of Foreign Proverbs; comprising French, Italian,
German, Dutch. Spanish, Portuguese, and Danish: with English
Translations, and a. General English Index, [singing the whole into
parallels, by Henry G. Balm. 5:.

Roger De Hoveden's Annals of English History; from

an. 732 to am. 1201. Translated and edited by H. '1'. Riley, Esq,
ILA. In 2 Vols. 55. each.nons's mu suns. 23

Six Old English Chronicles, viz., Asser's Life of Alfred,

and the Chronicla of Ethelwcrd, Gildas, Nannies. GedIrey of Mon~
mouth, and Richard of Cirencester. 5:.

William of Malmesbury's Chronicle of the Kings of Eng~
land. Translatedby Sharpe. 5a.

Yule-Tide Stories. A collection of Scandinavian Tales and
Traditions. Edited by B. Thorpe, Esq. 59.

x.
Bohn's Cheap Series.

Berber (The); or, The Mountaineer of the Atlas: a Tale
of Morocco, by W. 8. Mayo. MD. lo. 611.

Boswell's Life of Johnson, including his Tour to the
Hebrides. Tour in Wales, &c.. edited wiih large additions and
Notes, by the Right Hon. John Wilson Choker. The second and
most complete Copyright Edition, rearranged and revised accord-
ing to the suggestions of Lord Macsulny, b the late John
Wri ht. Esq" with further sdditions by Mr. 0 er. Upward: of
40 fine Engraving: on Steel. In 8 volumes. 2:. each.

'.' The public has now tbr 16:. what we: for-may published at 21.

J ohnsoniana: a collection of Miscellaneous Anec-
dotes and Sayings of Dr. Samuel Johnson. gathered from nearly a
hundred publications; a Sequel to the preceding. ofwlu'dt it forms
Vol.9. 9 and 10. Engraving. on Steel. Vol. 2 contains a General
Index to the ten volumes.) In 2 vols. each.

Cape and the Kafirs; 3 Diary of Five Years' Residence;
with'a Chapter ofAdvice to Emigrants. By H. Ward. 2;

Cor nter's (Dr. W. B.) Physiology of Temperance and
otal Abstinence. Being an Examination of the Efi'ects of Alco-
holic Liquors. 1a.

or, on fine paper, bound :'n cloth. 2:. 6d.

Cinq-Mars; or, a Conspiracy under Louis XIII. An His-
torical Romance by Count Alfred de Vigny. Tnmlsted by'Wil-
um Hazlitt. Esq. 2..

Dihdin's Sea Songs (Admiralty Edition), Illustrations by
CM 20. 8d.

Emerson's Orations and Lectures. 1s.
Representative Men. Complete. 1s. ,

Franklin's Ben'amin Genuine Antobwgn' h from the
Origins! nelcript, 1?me Sports. 1:. P y'24 Boss's can SERIII.

Ger-vinus's Introduction to the History of the 19th Cen-

tury, translated from the German, with a Memoir of the Author.
In.

Guizot's Life of Monk. ls. Gd.

Monk's Contemporaries :---Biographic Studies on
the English Revolution of 1688, I'orlnu't of Lord Clarendon.
1:. Cd.

Ilawthorne's (Nathaniel) Twice Told Tales. Is.

the same, Second Series. ls.

Snow Image, and other Tales. 1s.

---- Scarlet Letter. 1s.

House with the Seven Gables, a Romance. ls.

Irving's (Washington) Life of Mohammed. Fine Por-
trait. 18. 6d.

Successors of Molmmmed. ls. 6d.

-------- Life of Goldsmith. ls. 6d.

---- Sketch Book. 1s. 6d.

---- Tales of a Traveller. 1s. 6d.

--- Tour on the Prairies. ls.

Conquests of Granada and Spain. 2 vols. ls. 6d. each.

Life of Columbus. 2 vols. ls. 6d. each.

Companions of Columbus. 1s. 6d.

Adventures of Captain Bonneville. ls. 6d.

Knickerbocker's New York. 1s. Gd.

Tales of the Alhambra. 1s. 6d.

Conquest of Florida. ls. 6d.

--- Abbotsford and Newstead. ls.

----------- Salmagundi. ls. 6d.

--- Bmcebridge Hall. ls. Gd.

---- Astoria. Fine portrait of the Author. 28.

------ Wolfert's Roost, and other Tales. ls.

---- or, on fine paper, (uniform with the Complete
l-'dition of lrvmgsWorlss) Portrait of the Author. In. 6d.
Life of \V ashington, authorized edition (uniform

with the Works). Fine Portrait. 4%. 5 parts, with General Index.
2:. 6d. each.

Life and Letters. By his Nephew, Pierre E.
Irving. Portrait. In! Vols. 2:. each.

'.' For Washington Iniug' a W orks. with Memoir. mllcctcd in 16 volt. see page H.Boss's mu>> mm. 25

Lamertine's Genevieve; or, The History of a Servant Girl,
translated by A. R. Scobel. In. 6d.

Stonemason of Saintpoint. A Village Tale. ls. 6d.

Three Months in Power; a. History and Vindica-
tion of his Political Career. 2:.

Lion Hunting and Sporting Life in Algeria, by Jules
Gerard, the " Lion Killer." TwelveEngravhlga. 10.6d.

London and its Environs, by Cyrus Bedding. Numerous
Illustrations. 2s.

Mayhew's Image of his Father; or, One Boy is-more
T3323]? PS12121]. 9. Dozen Girls. Twelve page Illustration on Steel by

Modern Novelists of France, containing Paul Huet, the

Young Midshipman, and Kernock the Corsair, by Eugene Sue;
Physiology of the General Lover, by Soulie; the Poacher, by
Jules Janin; Jenny, and Husbands, by Paul de Keck. 2s.

Munchausen's (Baron) Life and Adventures. 1s.

Preachers and Preaching, in ancient and modern times, an
historical and critical Emy, including, among the modems.
Sketches of Robert Hall, Newman, Chalmers, Irving, Melvill,
Spurgeon, Bellew, Dale, Cumming, Willmott. 350. By the Rev.
Henry Christmas. Portrait. 10.611

Sandford and Merton. By Thomas Day. New edition.
Eightfino Engraving: on Wood, by Ansley. 2c.

Taylor's El Dorado; or, Pictures of the Gold Region.

2 vols. 10. each.

Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life among the Lowly: with
Introductory Remarks by the Rev. J. Sherman. Reprinting.

White Slave. Reprinting.

Willie's (N. Parker) People I have Met; or, Pictures of
Society. and People of Mark. 1:. 6d.

Convalescent, or Rambles and Adventures. 1s. 6d.

Life Here and There; or, Sketches of Society and
Adventure. la. 6d.

Hurry-graphs, or Sketches of Scenery, Celebrities,
and Society. )3. 6d.

Pencillings by the Way. Four fine plates. 2:. Gd.
x1.
Bohn's Illustrated Library

llugbrm with tho Smnmno LIBRARY. 53.31" volume (excepting those
marked otherwise).

Allen's Battles of the British Na New I" dition, revised

11111! enlarged by the Author. Numerous fine I'ortn. 'ta engraved on
Steel. In 2 vols. 59. each.

Andersens Danish Legends and Fairy Tales, containing
many Tales not in any other edition. Translated from the

Original by Caroline Peecliey. Illustrated with 120 Wood Engmb
ingn, chiefly by Foreiqn Artists. 5:

Aliosto's Orlando Furioso, in English Verse, by W. S.

Rose. Twelve fine Engraringa. including an unpublished Portmit
aflrr Titian. In 2 vols. 58.06011.

Bechstcins Cage and Chamber Birds, including Sweets
\\ airhlcrs. Enlarged edition. Numerous Plates. 511.
' .' All other editions ere abridged.

or, with the plates coloured. 7s. 6d.

Bonomi's Nineveh and its Palaces. New Edition, revised

11nd considerably enlarged. both' 1n matter and Plates. including 11.
Full Account of the Assyrian Sculptures recently added to the
National Collection. Upwards of 300 .lz'ngra11131113.}y 5a.

l11tler's lludibms, with Variorum Notes, a Biogm pyh, and

11 General Index. Edited by Henry G. Bohn. Thirty beautiful
Illustrations. 5a.

 

 

or,f11rthcr illustrated with 62 Outline Portraits. In
2 vols. 108.

('nttermoles Evenings at Haddon Hall. 24 exquisite En~

qmu'ngs on Steel, from 1(131' m by himclf, the Letterpress by tho
neesDe Cunbells. 511.9

China, Pictorial. Deserit tive, and Historical, with some

Account of Am and the unnese. Siam. end Annxh. Nearly' 100
Illustratiom. 58.

('mikshanlr's Three Courses and 11 Dessert; 11 Series of

Tales, embellishal with 50 hummus Illustrations by George Cnu'h-
shank. 5s.

Dante, translated into English Verse by I. C. Wri g,ht M..A

Third Edition. carefully revised. Portrait3 and 3-1 IIIuErations on
Steel, after Flarman. 5s.sons's momem menu. 27

o
Didron's Christian Ioonogra hy; a Histo of Christian
Art. Translated from the BEeneh. Upward? of 150 beautiful
outline Engraving. h2vols. Vol. I. 5;.
(MmDanM-mcmwmmemdvohme.)

Gil Blas, the Adventures of. Twenty-four Engraving: on Steel,
a?" Smirk. and 10 Mayo by George Cruikshank. (612 pages).

Grimm's Gammer Grethel; or, German Fairy Tales and
Popular Stories. containing 42 Fairy Tales. Translated by Edgar
Taylor.- mmeroue Wooden" by George Cruikshank. 3:. 6d.

Holbein's Dance of Death, and Bible Cuts; upwards of
150 Weds, beautiMy in feature. with Introduction and
Descriptions b the late rancis Dance, and Dr. Thomas Fregnsll
Dibdin. 2 v0 in 1. 7s. 6d.

Howitt's (Mary) Pictorial Calendar of the Seasons; ex- '
liibiting the Pleasures and Pursuits of Country Life. for every
Month. and embodying the whole of Aikin's Calendar of Nature.
Upward: of 100 Engraving: on Wood. 50.

Howitt's (Mary and William) Stories of English and Foreign
Life. Mtg beautifid Steel Engravings. 5e.

Hunt's (Leigh) Book for 2. Corner. Eighty extremely beau-
tiful Wood Engraving: and a Fronts'opieoe on Steel. 50.

India, Pictorial, Descriptive, and Historical, from the
Farliest'l'imes to the Present. Upwdo of 100 file Emeinge
on Wood. and a Map. 5e.

J eese'e Anecdotes of Dogs. New Edition with large addi-
3:38. W by nummfine Wooden" afier Honey, Bowie).-

. We the addih' 34 ll' ' Steel '
afiw or w . ' PS1: 0'41." tghly-fimdled Engramnqe
Kitto's Scripture Lands, and Biblical Atlas. Twenty-four

info. beige-filly engraved on Bled. aeounpanied by a Consulting
ex.

or, with the Maps coloured. 7s. Gd.

Krnmmacher'e Parables. Translated from the 7111 German
Edition. Fortymmby ClaytonaugmudbyfleBrothm
Dam. 5.. SS

Lindsay's SSLord Letters on Egypt, Edam, and the Holy
Land. ' ew

'lion. enlarged. 1W ' beadi Wood Engine-
inge. and 2 Hope. 51. I"28 Boss's Inwarumo mount.

Lodge's Portraits of Illustrious Personages of Great Britain,
with Biogmphicul and Historical Memoirs. Two Hundred and
Forty Portraits. beautifully engraved on Steel, with the respective
Biogmphics unabridged Complete in 8 \'013. 53. each.

Longfellow's Poetical Works, complete, including Hia-
wutho. Miles Standish, and The Wnysiulc Inn. Twenty-firm full--

page Wood Engraving>>. by Birhet Foster and others, and a new Portrait
engraved on Steel. 55.

 

or, without the illustrations. 3s. 6d.
Prose Works. complete. Six'een fzdl-page Wood

Engraving: by Dirkct Foster and others. 53.

Mon-yat's Mastermon Ready; or, the Wreck of the Pacific.
New Edition. Kandy--three beautiful Enyruringa on Wood. 59.

 

 

Mission; or, Scenes in Africa. (Written for
Young People}. Illustrated by Gilbert and Dulziel. 53.

Pirate and Three Putters. New Edition, to which
is prefixed n Memoir of the Author. Illustrated with 20 beautiful
Steel Engravings, from Drawings by Chrrkson Staiwfiehl, RA. 5s.

Privateer's-Man One Hundred Years Ago. Eight
highly-flnialn:d_line Eugrurings on Steel. after Stolhard. 5s.

Settlers in Canada. New Edition. 12m fine En-
gnu-tugs by Gilbert and Dulzlcl. 5s.

Maxwell's Victories of Wellington and the British Armies.
Illustrations on Steel. 58.

Michael Angelo and Raphael, their Lives and Works. By

Duppn and Quutrcmerc dc Quincy. Illustrated with 13 highly-

finished Engraving: on Steel; iucltuling the Last Judgnmrt. and
" Cartoons," with Portraits. 5s. '

Miller's History of the Anglo-Saxons. written in aHEOFular
style, on the basis of Sharon Turner. with a. Gene ndex.
Portrait of Alfred. Map of Saxon Britain. and 12 <<tubercle Engrav-
ings on Shel, after Designs by W. Harvey. 58.

Milton's Poetical Works, with o Memoir and Critical Re-
marks by James Montgomery, an Index to Paradise Lost. Todd's
Verbal Index to all the Poems. and a Selection of Explanatory
Notes, by Henry G. Doha. Illustrated with 120 Wood Engraving:
by Thompson. Williams. 0. Smith. and Linton, from Drawingaby
W. Harvey. In 2 volumes. 5s. each.

Vol. 1. Paradise Lost, complete, with Memoir. Notes and Index.
Vol. 2. Paradise choincd. and other Poems, with Verbal Index
to all the Poems.son's mumsm LIBRARY. 29

Mudie's British Birds; or, History of the Feathered Tribes
of the British Islands. New Edition. Revised by W. C. L.
Martin, Esq. Fifty-two figures of Birds and 7 additional Plates of
Eggs. In 2 vols. 5'>>. each.

or, with the Plates coloured. 7s. 6d. per vol.

haval and Military Heroes of Great Britain ; or, Calendar
of Victo : being a Record of British Valour and Con nest by Sea.
and Len , on every day in the year. from the time of illiam the
Con ueror to the battle of Inkermonn. By Major Johns RM..
and 'eutensnt i'. H. Nicolas, R.M., with chronological and al ha-
bctical Indexes. Illustrated with 24: Portraits engraved on Stee . 63.

Nicolini's History of the Jesuits: their Origin, Progress,
Doctrines, and Desi s. Fine Portraits of L0 01a, Lathes, Xavier.
Borgia. Aoquam'va, Ere la Chaise, Ricci, and g'm Ganganelli. 58.

Norway and its Scenery, comprising Price's Journal, with
large Additions, and a Rom-Book. Edited by Thomas Forester,
Esq. Twenty-two Illustrations on Steel by Luau. 5:.

Paris and its Environs, including Versailles, St. Cloud. and
Excursions into the Champagne Districts. An illustrated Hand-
book for Travellers. Edited by Thomas Forester, author of " Nor-
way and its Scenery." Minty-eight beautiful Engravings. 5s.

Petrarch's Sonnets, Triumphs, and other Poems, trans-
lated for the first time completely into English verse. By various
hands. With a Life of the Poet. by Thomas Campbell. Illustrated
with 16 Engravings on Steel. 5s.

Pickering's History of the Races of Man, with an Ana-
lytical Synopsis of the Natural History of Man. By Dr. Hall.
Illustrated by numerous Portraits. 5:.

or, with the Plates coloured. 7s. 6d.

'.' An excellent Edition 0! a work originally published It. at. 3:. by the
American Government

Pictorial Handbook of London, comprising its Antiquities,
Architecture. Arts, Manufactures. Trade. Institutions. Exhibitions,
Suburbs 8:0. Two hundred and fine Engravings on Wood, by
Brandon, Jewitt. and otlwn: andlarys Map, by Imory. 5:

This volunv contains above 900 mud b undoubtedly the show live
shilling \ciume ever produced.

Pictorial Handbook of Modern Geography on a Popular
Plan. Compiled from the bat authorities, English and Foreign,
and completed to the Present Time. With numerous Tables. and
a GM Index. By Henry G. Bohn. mm by 150 Eu-
gmm'ugoou Woodmdflam'atelapomwdmm 63.

or, with the Maps coloured. 7s. 6d.

mmmrmuuumvaom sold. The plant Neil-amen
b MUM tmpmmmheudeshuududu the "toasters!
wmmemm-m change-which bent-haunts
July-munch.30 Boss's ILLUSTRATED nanny.

Pope's Poetical Works, edited by Ilobeit Carruthers. New
Edition, revised Numerous Engravinga. In 2 volumes. 50. cash.

Homer's Iliad, with Introduction and Notes by the

Rev. J. S. Watson. MA. Illustrated by the entire Series of Flax-

man'o Deiigus. boondlfully manned by Mara (PS130.43qu 800. rise). 58.

Homer's Odyssey, with the Bottle of Frogs and
Mice. Hymns. &e.. by other translators. including Chapman. and
Introduction and New by the Rev. J. 8. Watson. MA. Fla:
man's Dawns. betwh'fully engraved by Mom. 5s.

---- Life, including many of his Letters. By Robert
Cnrruthers. New Edition,rev1sedund enlarged. Illustratwv' u. 53.

The "reading 5 cola. make a com to and d at edition 0 1" 's
Poetical Works and Mudafioiffor 25!. age I 0pc

Pottery nnd Porcelain, and other Objects of Vertu (a Guide
to the Knowledge 0 . Comprising an Illustrated Ontalogue of the
Roma] Collection 0 Works of Art, with the prices at which they
were sold by auction. and names of the possessors. To which are
added. on Inuoduetorv Lecture on Pottery and Pomelain, and an
Engraved List of all the known Marks and Monograms. By
Henry G. Bohn. Numerous Wood Etgrarings. 5s.

_.._.-- or, coloured, 10s. 6d.

l'ront's (Father) Reliques. New Edition. revised and
largely nugiucntul. Twent no spirited Etching>>. by D. Maciioe. RA.
Two volumes in one (near y 600 pages). 7:. 6d. .

Recreations in Shooting. By Craven. Sixty-hm Engmua'ugs
on ll'ood. flfler Hurray. and 9 Engraving: on Steel. chiefly after
A. Cooper, 1L4. 58.

ledding's History and Desegi'fitions of Wines, Ancient and
Modem. New and revised 'tion. Twady beautiful Woodouh.
and fine Frontispioee. 51:.

Robinson Crusoe. With Illustrations by Stothsrd and
Harvey. Twelve bountiful Engraving>> on Steel. and 7407: Wood. 55.

or, without the illustrations. 3s. 6d.
The prettiest Edition extent.

Rome in the Nineteenth Century. New Edition. Revised
by the Author. With Complete Index. Illustrated by 34 fine Steel
Eugnwingn. In 2 Vols. 5.. each.

Southey's Life of Nelson. With Additional Notes, and 0.

General Index. Illustrated with 84 Engraving: on Steel and Wood.
from Designs by Damon. Birket Foster. and others. 50.

Sterling's (Miss) Noble Deeds of Women; or, Exam 105
of Female Courage. FortitudenndVirt'ne. Fonda>> mew um-
tratt'om on Steel. 53.
Stuart and Revett's Antiquities of Athens, and other
Monuments of Greece: to which is added 3 Glossary of Terms
used in Grecian Architecture. Illustrated in 71 Plate: engraved on
Steel. and numerous Woodcut Capitals. 5'.

Tales of the Genii; or, the Delightful Lessons of Horam.
Translated from the Persian by Sir Charles Morell. New Edition,
collated and edited b Philo-juvenis (H. G. Bohn.) Numerous
Woodculu. and 8 Steel ngravingr. after Ward. 5:.

Tnsso's Jerusalem Delivered. Translated into English
8 nserisn Verse. with a Life of the Author. By J. H. Widen.
N1?" Editiog'. Eight Engraving on Steel, and 24 on Wood, by

urdon. .

Walker's Manly Exercises; containing Skating, Riding,
Driving. Hunting, Shooting. Sailing, Bowing. S ' ' . &c.
Tenth Edition. carefully revised by "Craven." Forty-four (ates,
eugruud on Steel, and numerous Woodculs. 5s.

'Wulton's Coniplete Angler. Edited by Edward Jesse, Esq.
To which is added an Account of Fishing Stations, &c.. by Henry
G. Bohn. Upward; of 203 Engraving: on Wood. 53.

----- or, with the further addition of 26 Engravings on
Steel. 70.6d.

Wellington, Life of. By " An Old Soldier," from the
materials of Maxwell. Eighteen highly-finished Engraving on Steel
by the best Artists. 56.

"'lribe's Natural History of Selborne. With Notes by Sir
Willinm Jerdine and Edward Jesse. Esq. Illustrated by 10 highly-
finished Wood E..gmoinga. 55.

or, with the Plates Col-owed. 7s. M.

Young, The, Lady's Book; a Manual of Elegant Recrea-
tions. Av's. Sciences, sud Accomplishments. Fdited by distin-
guished Professors. Twelve Hundred Woodcut Illustrations. and
<<mu! fine Engmu'nga an Sled. 7s. 6d.

or, cloth gilt, gilt edges. 93.
Ingudes Geo! . Immlogy. Onueholosy, Bo , Entomology, Ornl

than.
<<some. . the Recital". may. Ind: Inn-maul
andvoou),Dmdlu. mmmmmpw.ac.kc.( ,32

xn.
Bohn's Classical Library.

Umy'm-m with the STANDARD LIBRARY, 53. per volume (adapting those
marked otherwise).

'Jischylus. Litemlly Translated into English Prose by an
Oxoniun. 33. 6d.

Appendix to. Containing the New Readings given
in Hernnum's posthumous Edition of zEschylus. By George
Barges, MA. 38. 6d.

Ammianus Marcellinus. History of Rome during the
Reigns of Ginstimtius. Julian. Jovianus. Valentininn. and Valens.
Tmnslntul by C. D. Yonge. B.A. With a complete Index. Double

volume. Ts. 6d.
0.- This is a very circumstantial and amusing history. to which Gibbon ex-

presses himself largely indebted.

Apuleius. the Golden Ass; Death of Socrates ; Florida :
and Discourse on Magic. To which is added a Metrical Version of
Cupid and Psyche ; and Mrs. Tighe's Psyche. antispiece. 5s.

Aristophanes' Comedies. Literally Translated, with Notes
and Extracts from Frerc's and other Mctrlcal Versions, by W. J.
Mickie. In 2 vols. 53. each.

Vol. 1. Achnmiuns, Knights. Clouds. Was , Pence.ond Birds. ,_
Vol. 2. Lysistmm, Thcmophorinzusm, regs, Eeclesinzustc.
and Plums.

Aristotle's Ethics. Literally Translated by the Venerable
Archdeacon Browne, late Classical Professor of King's College. 5:.

Politics and Economics. Translated by E. W'al-
ford, MA. With Notes. Analyses, Life. Introductionmnd Index. 53.

Metaphysics. Literally Translated, with Notes,

Analysis Examination Questions and Index. by the Rev. John
H. M'Mahon, MA.. and Gold Maldlist in Metaphysics 1'.C.D. 5:.

History of Animals. In Ten Books. Translated,
with Notes and Index, by Richnrd Cmsswell. M, St. John's
College. Oxford. 59.

-------- Organon; or, Logical Treatises, and the Intro-
duction of P hyry. With Notes. Analysis. Introduction. and
Index. by the v. 0. F. Owen. MA. In 2 vols. 3c. 6d. each.

._.--~ Rhetoric and Poetics, literally Translated, with Exa--
minsn'on Questions and Notes, by an Ozonian. 5o.Bean's cussrcar. LIBRARY. 33

Athenueus. The Deipnosophists ; or, the Banquet of the
gem-negl' Transliged b5 egd D. "ii-laying? With an Appendix of
oetic raginen ren into ' arse various thors.

and General Index. In 3 vols. flinch. y A"

Caesar. Complete, with the Alexandrian, African, and
Spanish Wars. Literally Translated. and accompanied by Notes,
and a very copious Index. 55.

Catullus, Tibullus, and the Vigil of Venus. A Literal

Prose Translation. To which are added Metrical Versions by
Lamb, Grainger. and others. Frmztispz'eos. 5s.

Cicero's Orations. Literally Translated by C. D. Yonge,
BA. 4vols. 5:. each.
Vol. 1. containing the Orations against Venes, 5:0.- Portrait.
Voe. 3; gcau'lme' , Archias' , Agrarian law, Rabirius, Marcus,
y - -

Vol. 3. Orations for his House, Plancius, Sextius, Ccelius, Milo,
Lignrius. &c.

Vol. 4. Miscellaneous Orations, and Rhetorical Works; with
General Index to the four volumes.

on Oratory and Orators. By the Rev. J. S. Watson,
MA. With General Index. 5a.

---- on the Nature of the Gods, Divination, Fate, Laws,
A Republic. &c. Translated by C. D. Yonge. B.A.. and Francis
Barhnrn. Esq. 5s.

Academics, De Finibus, and Tusculan Questions.
By C. D. Yonge. B.A. With Sketch of the Greek Philosophy. 5:.

Ofiices, Old Age, Friendship, Scipio's Dream, Para-
doxes. 8w. Literally Translated, on the basis of Cockman. by Cyrus
R. Edmond; 30. 6d.

Demosthenes' Orations. Translated, with Notes, by C.
Rann Kennedy. In 5 Volumes. 5:. each.

Vol. I. The Olynthisc, Philippic, and other Public Orations.
3s. 6d.

Vol. 2. 0n the Crown and on the Embm.

Vol. 9. Against Leptines. Midiss. Androtion, and Aristocrates.

Vol. 4. Private, and other Orations. viz, against Timocretes,
Aristogiton, Aphobus, Onetor, Zenothemis, Apaturius, Phormio.
Lacritus. Pantmnetus, Nausimachus. Baotus. Spndiss, Phe-
nippus. and for Phormio.

Vol. 5. Miscellaneous Orations. Containing Marceflatus, Leo-
chares, Stephanus 1.. Stephanus IL, Eusrgus, and Muesrbulns.
Olympiodoms, Timotheus, Polycles. Callip us, Nicostratns,
Canon. Callicles. Dionysodorus. Eubulides. Theomnes. Near-a.
and for the Naval Crown; the Funeral Oration; the Erotic
Oration. or the Panegyric upon Epicrates; Exordia; the
Epistles With a General Index to the Fire Volumes.

I)34 norm's CLASSICAL Lreaanr.

Dictionary of Latin Quotations ; including Proverbs.
Maxims. Mottoes. Law Terms and Phrases; and a Collection of
above 500 Greek Quotations. With all the quantifies marked. and
English Translations. 5s.

---------, with Index Verborum (622 pages). (is.

Index Verborum to the above, with the Quanlih'm
and Accents marked (56 pages), limp cloth. ls.

Diogenes Laortius. Lives and Opinions of the Ancient
Philosophers. Translated, with Notes. by C. D. Yonge. B.A. 5s.

Euripides. Literally Translated from the Text of Dindorf.
In 2 vols. 53. each.
\'ol. 1. Hecuba. Orestes. Medea. liippolytus, Alcestis, Baochre.
Heraclidm. Iphigenia in Anlide, and Iphigenia in Tauris.
Vol. 2. Hercules Farens. Treaties. Ion, Andremache. Suppliants,
Helen, Electra. Cyclops, Rhesus.

Greek Anthology. Translated into Literal English Prose

by a Westminster Seholar, and others. With Metrical Versions by
various Authors. 51:.

Greek Romances of Heliodorus, Longus, and Achilles
Tatins, \-iz.. The Adventures of Thmgenes and Charielea: Animus
of Daplrnis and Chloe; and Lover of Clitopho and Lencippe. 5s.

Herodotus. A New and Literal Translation by the Rev.
Henry Cary. M.A.. of Worcester College, Oxford. With Index. 5:.

Hesiod, Callimachus, and Theognis. Literally Translated
intn Prose. with Notes, by the Rev. J. Banks, M.A. To which
are nmx'nded the Metricat Versions of Hesiod. by Elton; Calli-
nrachus, by Tyler; and Theoguis. by Frere. 58.

Homer's Iliad; literally translated into English Prose, by
an Osonian. 58.

~------ Odyssey, Hymns, and Battle of the Frogs and
Mire; literally translated into English Prose, by an Oxonian. 5s.

Horace ; literally translated by Smart. New Edition, care-
fully revised by an Oxoniau. 3s. 6d.

Justin, Cornelius Ne 03, and Eutropins. Liter-ally trans-
lated, with Notes, an Index. by the Rev. J. S. Watson. MA. 5s.

Jnvenal, Persius, Sulpieia. and Lucilius. By L. Evans,
M.A. With the Mctrieal Version by Gifford. Ftonh'apiece. 5s.

Livy. A new and literal Translation, by Dr. Spillan and.
others. In ~1- volumes. 5:. each.
Vol.1. eonhrining Books 1--8.
Vol. 2. Books 9--26.
Vol. 3. Books 27--36.
Vol. 4. Book 37 to the end; and Index to the four volumes.
anan's Pharsalia. Translated, with Notes, by H. T. Riley. 53.

Lucretius. Literally translated into English Prose; with

Notes, by the Rev. J. 8. Watson, MA. To which is adjoined the
Metrical Version by John Mason Good. 53.

Martial's Epigrams, complete. Literally translated into
English Prose: each accompanied b one or more Verse translations
selected from the Works of English oets, and other sources With
a copious Y'n'lex. Double volume (660 pages). 7-. 6d.

Ovid's Works, complete. Literally translated into English
Prose. In 3wlumes. 59. each.
Vol. I. containinghFasti. Tristia. Epistles, &c.
Vol. 2. Metamorp oaes.
Vol. 8. Heroides, Amours. Art of Love. &c. Frontiapiece.

Pindar. Literally translated into Prose, by Dawson W.
Turner. To which is added the Metrical Version, by Abraham
Moore. Portal". 58.

Plato's Works. Translatedulzy the Rev. H. Cary, MA. and
others. In 6 volumes. 5a. .

Vol. 1. containing The Apology of Socrates, Crito, thdo, Gor-
gins, Protagoras. Phaedrus. Theatetus, Enthyphron, Lysis.
Translated by the Rev. H. Gary.

Vol. 2. The Republic. Timmus, and Critias; with Introductions.
Translated by Henrye Davis.

_ Vol. 3. Meno. Euthy mus. The Sophist. Statesman, Cratylus.
Parmenides, and the Banquet. Translated by G. Barges.

Vol. 4. It'hhilebns. Charmidea, mass!) T30 Two Alcibiades, and
Ten 0 er Dialogu' es. Tranala . Bur-gee.

Vol. 5. The Laws. Translated by G. gorges.

Vol. 6. The Doubtful Works: viz. E inomis. Axiochus. Eryxias.
on Virtue. on Justice, Sisyphus. Demodocus and Definitions;
the Treatise of Them Locrus on the Soul of the World and
Nature; Lives of Plato, by Diogenes Laertius. Heaychius. and
Olympiodorus; and Introductions to his Doctrines by Alcinons
and Albinus; Apnleius on the Doctrines of Plato; and Remarks
on Plato's Writings. by the Poet Gray. Edited by G. Barges
and H. G. Bohn. With General Index to the six volumes.

I'lautns's Comedies. Literally translated into English
Prose. with copious Homby B. T. Riley. BA. In 2 vols. 53. each.

Pliny's Natural History. Translated, with copious Notes,
by the late John Bostoclr, M.D., EBB. and II. T. Riley. BA.
With General Index. In 6 vols. 5:. each.

Propertins, Petronius, and Johannes Secnndus. Literally
translated. and accompanied by Poetical Versions. from various
sources. To which are added. the Love iatles of Aristaenetus :
translated by B. Brinsley Sheridan and . Halhed. Edited by
Walter K. Kelly. 5:. 2

D
Qaintilian's Institutes of Oratory; or. Education of an

(inter. Literally tmnalatml. with Notes. &e.. by the Rev. J. S.
Wntmn.M.;\. 5x.

Sallust, Florus. and Velloius l'atcrcnlns. With copious
Nam. Biographical Notices and (mics. by J. 8. Watson. M.A. 5a.

Sophocles. The Oxford translation revised. 5s.

Standard Library Atlas of Classical Geogra why. 221mm
mlmarul Map: <<Immiing lo the latest authorities. \'itli neolnplctn
Index meccataatul). giving the latitude and longitude of every
llm" named in the Maps. Imlwrinl Sv0.. chiefly engraved by tho
. lcssrs. Walker. 7:. till.

Strabo's Geogra by. Translated, with co mionl Notes. by
W. Falconer. .-\ .A.. and H. 0. Hamilton. Ear . \'ith a very copious
halt-x. giving Ancient and llltulcm Names. n 8 vols. 55. well.

Suetonius' Lives of tho 'l'wolve Closure, and other Works.

The tmnslation ol' Thonnmn, revised, with Notes. by T. Fon'stcr.
Four. 53.

Tacitus. Literally translated, with Notes. In 2 vols.
is. each.
Vol. I. The Annals.
\'ol. L'. The History; Gcrmania. Agricola. 830. With Index.

Terence and l'hmdrus. B H. 'I'. Riley. RA. To which
ismluluifimiut's Mctrical crsionot'l'hmdrus. Frontiqzim'. 5x.

'l'hem-ritns. Bion. Mosrhus. and Tyrtmus. By the Rev. J.

Banks, MA. With the Metrical Version: of Chapman. Frontie-
pict'r. .'nr.

'l'lmeyditlcs. Literally translated by the Rev. II. Dale.
In 2 Vols. 3:. 6d. each.

Virgil. Literally translated by Davidson. New Edition,
carefully revised, 38. 6d.

Xenophon's Works. In 3 volumes. 5.9. each.

Vol. 1. containing the Anabasis. or Ex lition of Cyrus. and
Memorabilia. or Memoirs of Socrates. IEnnslntul. with Notes.
by the Rev. J. S. Watson. MA. And aGeogmplIiml Com-
mentary. by W. 1". Ainsworth. F.S.A.. F.R.G.S.. &e. Iv'rmntic-
pu'rt'.

\'ol. 2. Cymprcdia and Hellcaics. By the Rev. J. S. Watson.
M..-\.. and the Rev. N. Dale.

\'cl. 5. ' 'he Minor Works. By the Rev. J. S. 'atson. MIA.8T

xm.
Bohn's Scientific Library.

Uniform with the Gunman Lrsmsr. 5:. per volume (accepting (lam
marked otherwise).

A siz and Gould's Com arativo Ph siolo . Enlarged
gagy Dr. Wright. Upward: 0})400 Engraving; 50.83.

Bacon's Novurn Organum and Advancement of Learning.
Complete, with Notes, by J. Davey. MA. 5:.

Blair's Chronological Tables, Revised and Enlarged. Com-
rehending the Chronology and History of the World. from the eur-
iest times. By J. Willonghby Rosse. Double volume (upwards of

800 pages). 100.

---- or. half bound morocco. 128. 6d.

Index of Dates. Comprehending the principal Facts in the

Chronology and History of the World. from the earliest to the pre
sent time. alphabetically arranged; being a comElete Index to

Bohn's enlarged FAition of Blair's Chronological Te les. By J. W.
Reese. Double volume. 103.

or. half bound morocco. 12:. 6d.

Bolley's Manual of Technical Analysis: a Guide for the
Testi of Natural and Artificial Substances. By B. H. Paul.
100 goodfiagmrings. 5n.

Burner-muss Tourism--Kirby, on the History, Habits, and
Instincts of Animals. Edited. with Notes. by T. Bymer Jones.
firm Eugmn'ngs. marry of which are additional. (In 2 vols.)

Kidd on the Adaptation of External Nature to
the Physictl Condition of Man. 81. 6d.

Whewell's Astronomy and General Physics. eon-
:idered with refierence to Natural Theology. Portrait office Earl
of Brim. 8s. 6d.

Chalmers, on the Adaptation of External Nature
to the Moral and Intellectual Constitution of Man. With Memoir
of the Author. By the Rev. Dr. Cumming. 5a.

Pmut's Treatise on Chemistry. Meteorology, and
the Function of Digestion. Fourth Edition. Edited y Dr. J.
womm 5a.3R nons's sclmmo LIBRARY.

Carpenter's (Dr. W. B.) Zoology; a Systematic View of
the Structure. llabits. Instincts. and Uses. of the principal Fami-
lies of the Animal Kingdom. and ot' the chief forms of Fmil Ro-
mains. New edition. revised and completed to the present time

(under un-angmnont with the Author). by W. 8. Dallas. F.L.S.
With a General index. Illustrated with many hundred fine Wood

lingual-fags. 1112 Vols. (nearly 600 pages each). 60. each.

Mechanical Philosophy, Astronomy, and llorology.
A Popular Exposition. One huadrcdaud eighty-mac Illustrations. 5s.

---- Vegetable Physiology and Systematic Botany.
A complete introduction to the Knowledge of Plants. New edition.
revised (under arnulgement with the Author). by E. Innkester.
M.D.. &e. Several hundred Illualmtiom on mel. 60.

---- Animal Physiology. New Edition. thoroughly
revisul. and in part m-written. by the Author. Uinmmis of 800
mpilul Illuslmlions. (in.

('hess ('ongress of 1862. A ('ollection of the Games played.
and a Selection of the Problems sent in for the Com tition. Edited
by J. Linventhal, Manager and Foreign Correspon out. To which
is prefixed an Account of the Proceedings. and a Memoir of the
British Chess Association. By. J. W. Medley, Hon. Secretary. 7:.

('hcvronl on Colour. Containing the Principles of Har-
mony and Contrast of Colours. and their a plication tn the Arts.
'l'nmslated fmm tho Freneh. by Charles 3 artel. Thin] and only
mmplete Edition. with Intnnluction by tho Translator. Several
Plates. 5x.

or. with an additional series of 16 Plates in Colours. 7c. 6d.

' t'omto's Philosophy of the Sciences. Edited, from the
" Cours de Philosophio Positive," by G. H. Lewes, Esq. 5s.

Ennemosor's History of Magic. Translated from the Ger-
man, by William llowitt. With an Appendix of the most remark-
able and best authenticated Stories of Apparitions. Dreams.
'l'alile-Tuming. and Spirit-Rapping, &c. In 2 vols. 5s. each.

Hand-Book of Domestic Medicine; popularly arranged.
By Dr. Henry Davies. (700 pages). Wit ampleto Index. 5:.

Hand-Book of Games. By various Amateurs and Pro-
fessors. Comprising treatises on all the principal Games of chance.
skill, and manual dexterity. In all. above 40 games (the Whist.
liraaghts. and Billiards being especially comprehensive). Edited
by Henry G. Balm. Illustrated by numerous Diagrams. 5a.

llogg's (Jabcz) Elements, of Experimental and Natural
l'hilomylihy. Containin Mechanics, Pneumatics, Hydmstatics.
llydnin ies. Acoustics. t pties. Caloric. Electricity. Voltaism. and
Magnetism. New Edition, corrected and enlarged. Upward; of
400 ll'oodcuts. 5s.Bean's some-mm menu. 39

Ilind's Introduction to Astronomy. With a. Vocabulary,
containing on Explanation of all the Terms in present use. New
Edition. revised, and enlarged. Nam Engraving. 3;. 6d.

llumboldt's Cosmos ; or, Sketch of 8 Pl: ical Description
of the Universe. Translnted by E. C. Otte an W. 5. Dallas, F.L.S.
Fine Portrait. In 5 vols. 3c. 6d. each. excepting vol. V. 5a.

',' In this edition the notes are placed beneath the text. Humboldt'nnalytical

Summons-and them hitherto so proud are lnclnded' andnswsnd
comprehensive 1mm modded. P '

------ Personal Narrative of his Travels in America.
In 3vols. 5collab.

---- Views of Nature; or, Contemplations of the Sub-
lime Phenomena. of Creation. Translated by E. C. one and H. G.
Bohn. With a fine coloured view of Chimbomzo: a fac-simile Letter
from the Author to the Publisher; translations of the quotations,
nnd o very complete Index. 50.

Humphrey's Coin Collector's Manual; 9. popular Introduc-

tion to the Study of Coins. Highly-finished Engraving. In 2
vols. 58.00011.

Ilunt's (Robert) Poetry of Science; or, Studies of the
Physical Phenomena of Nature. by Robert Hunt, Professor at
the School of Mines. New Edition, revised and enlarged. 5a.

------- Elementary Physics. 53. .
Index of Dates. See Blair's Chronological Tables.

Joyce's Scientific Dialogues. Completed to the present

state of Knowledge by Dr. Griffith (upwards of 600 pages). Nume-
rous Woodcuta. 59.

J ussieu's (De) Elements of Botany. 63.

Lectures on Painting,-by the Royal Academicians, with
Introductory Essay. and Notes by B. Wornnm. Esq. Portraits. 5:.

)Iantell's (Dr. Geological Excursions through the Isle of
Wight and rsetshirc. New Edition. by T. Rupert Jones, Fag.
Numerous beautifully-melded Wooded; and 6 Geological Map. 5:.

Medals of Creation; or, First Lessons in Geology

and the Stud of Organic Remains: including Geological Excur-h

sions. New 'tion, revised. Coloured Plates. and m hundred
beaulw Woodcua. In 2 vols. 15c.

Petrifactions and their Teachings; .an Illustrated

Handbook to the Organic Remains in the British Museum. Nu-

morons beautifid Wood Engraving. 6:.

-------- Wonders of Geology; or. a Familiar Exposition
$3"? PM"??? imam "filmimm

. upert ones, . . ' a a
Plate. and upwards of200 beautiful Woodman. In2 vol: 71.6d. <<ch.40 nonu's scrsu'rrrre uranium

Mor )liy's Games of Chess, being the Matches and best

( utues [flaked by the American Champion. with explanatory and
analytical ates. by J. Mnentlml. Portrait and Memoir. 5-.

ltmnuln-b tartheln tmllmton of on l <<in Mnuomlu extant
in any rum. sn'd has mam 1a. orMmenfinl ggiwrutlm.

(lemted's Soul in Nature, .530. Portrait. 5:.

Richardson's Geology. including Mineralogy and Paleonto-
logy. Revised and enlarged by Dr. '1'. Wright. Ultimate of400
llludmtiom on ll'mxi. 5a.

Selrouw's Earth. Plants. and Man: and Kobell's Sketches
from tho Mineral Kingdom. 'l'mnahrtod by A. llont'rey. FMS.
(Yulouml Map of the (n'cogmphy of Plenty. 5s.

Smith's (l'ye) Geology and Scripture: or. the Relation .
between the Holy Scriptures and sumo parts of Gmlogieal Science.
New Edition. with Life. 5:.

Stanley's ('lassified Synopsis of the Principal Painters of
the Duteh and Flemish Sehools. 5s.

Slaunton's Chess-player's Handbook. .ancrous Diagmms.
5.6.

---- ('hess l'mxis. A Sup ilemeut to the Chess-
player's llandlmok. Containing al the most important mmlem
nnpmverneuts in the ()lwninga. illustrated hv actual Games: a
revimd Codoot' Chess lama: and a Selmtion of Mr. Murphy's Games
in England and France; critically annotutul. (636 pages.) 6!.

---- Chess-pie er's ('ornpaniom Comprising a new
Treatise on 0dr 3. Ctlnt't'luitlll ot' Match Games. and a Selection of
()rigilud Problems. 5:.

Chess Tournament of 1851. Numcmm Illustrations.

 

5r.

Stockhardt's Principles of Chemistry. exemplified in a
series of simple experiments. Ulummh of 270 Illa-(retinas. 54.

Agricultural Chemistry, or Chemical Field Lec-
tures; addremi to Farmers. Translated. with Notes. by Professor
llonl'wy. rues. To whieh is added. a Paper on Liquid Manure.

by J. J. Meehi. Esq. 53.

I're's (Dr. A.) Cotton Manufacture of Great Britain. sys-
tennitieally inventimted; with an introductory View of its oom-
wrativo state in Foreign Countries. New Edition. revised and

mapleted to the present time. by 1'. L. Sinunonds. One huudmt

and fifty Illudmtiom. In 2 Vols. 5:. eoeh.

Philosophy of Manufactures, or an Exposition
of the Factory System of Great Britain. New Edition. continual
to the present time. by P. L. Simmonds (double volume. upwards of
800 pages). 7c. 6d.
XIV

Bell and Daddy's Pocket Volumes.

A Series of Select Works of Fsvourito Authors, adapted for general
reading. moderate in price. compact and elegant in form. and exe-
cuted in a style fitting them to be permanently preserved. Im-
perial 32mo.

Nels Ready. .
llurns's Poems. 2s. 6d.
Songs. 23. 6d.
Coleridge's Poems. 2s. 61!.
Son Songs and Ballads. By Charles Dibdin and others. 28. 6d.

The Midshipman.--Autebiogmphical Sketches of his own

early Career. by Capt. Basil Hell, R.N., F.B.S. From his "Frug-
monts of Voyages and 'l'mvels." 80.

Tho Lieutenant and Commander. Ditto, ditto. 3s.
George Herbert's Poems. 28.

Works. 38.

Lamb's Tales from Shakspeare. 2s. 6d.

Longfellow's Poems. 2s. 6d.

Milton's Paradise Lost. 2:. 6d.

---- llogained, and other Poems. 2s. 6d.
The Robin Hood Ballads. 2s. 6d.

Southey's Life of Nelson. 28. 6d.

Walton's Complete Angler. Portraits and Illustrations. 28(6d.
Lives of Donne, Wotton, Hooker, 6w. 3.9.
White's Natural History of Selbome. 33.

 

 

 

 

In cloth, edge gilt. at 6d. per volume extra: in half morocco.
Roxburgli sty e. at 10. 1mm; in antique or best plain morocco. at is. 6d.
extra.

P n' .
Goldsmith's Poems. "P" "a

Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Poems. '
The Conquest of India. By Capt. Basil Hell, RN.

Henry Vsughsn's Poems.
And others.42

xv.
Bell and Daldy's

Elzevir Series of Standard Authors.

Small feap. 8vo.

Messrs. BELL mid DALI", hnvln been favoured with many requests
thnt their Pocket Volumes shouh be issued in a. lar er size. so as to
he. more suitnhle for Presents and School Prizes. have ever-mined upon
printing New Editions in accordance with these an gestious.

They will he issued under the general title of " .Lzswn Santa," to
distinguish them from their other collections. This general title has
l-uen adopted to indientc the spirit in which they will he prepared; that
is to any. with the greatest [mssihle uceumcy us rogunls text, and the
highest. degree of heuuty that can he nttnined in the workmanship.

They will he printed at the Chisu'iek Press. on fine paper. with rich

mnrgins. and will he issued in tustcl'ul binding at prices varying from
36. (id. to Go.

Must of the \'elunms nlrcudy published in the " Pocxs'r VOLUMES "
will he issued in this Series. mu! others of n similnr character will he

added. Some will contain n highly-tinished l'ortmit. or other Illus-
tuition.

Ready.
Longfellow's l'oems. 4x. (id.

liurns's l'oems. 4s. 6d.
This edition contain: all the copyright pieces in the Ahtine Editiml.
('oleridgo's Poems. 4s. 6d.
Shakspeare's Plays. Carefully edited by Thomas Keight--
ley. Vols. 1. and II. 58. each. Vol. III. immediately.
Th is Edition tt'i" be cmnph ted i n xix volumes before the end of the year.

Shortly.
Milton's Paradise Lost.

Walton's Angler.

--------- Lives of Donne, Hooker, Wootton, Herbert, and
Sanderson.

And others.
Irving's Sketch Book.
-- Tales of n vaeller.
XVI.
The Library of English Worthies.

A Series of reprints of the host Authors. carefully edited and collated
witgcthe l-hirly Copies. and handsomely printed by Whittinghsm
in love.

Bishop Butler's Analogy of Religion; with Analytical
Index. hythe Rev. Edward Steere, LL.D. 12s. Antiquocslt', 11.15.

"The present edltion has been furnished wlth on Index of the Text: of

Seri lure quoted. and an lmlnx or Words uid'l'hinp considernbly fuller thou
any "harm pubUsued."--Edilor's I'rv'aee.rm: ALDINI names or m snmsn sons. 43

Gower's Confessio Amentis, with Life by' Dr. Pauli, and 3
Glossary. 3 vols. 2!. 25. Antique calf. 8L 6:. Only a limited
number of Copies printed.

This important work is so scares that it can seldom be mdm'th
even in large libraries. It is wanting in nearly every collection of
English Poetry.

Herbert's Poems and Remains; with S. T. Coleridge's
Notes. and Life by Izaak Walkm. Revised. with additional Notes.

by Mr. J. Yeovrcll. 2 vols. ll. 1-. Morocco. antique calf or
morocco, 21. 2a.

Sponsor's Complete Works; with Life, Notes, and Glos-
sary. by John Payne Collier. Esq. FHA. 5 vols. 3t. 15:.
Antique calf. 61. 63.

Bishop Jeremy Taylor's Rule and Exercises of Holy Living
nnd Dying. 2 vols. 11. Is. Morocco, antique calf or morocco,

21. 2>>.
Unifonn with the above.

The Physical Theory of Another Life. By Isaac Taylor,
Esq" Author of " Logic in Theology." " Ultimate Civilization," &c.
New Efitiou. 10:. 6d. Antique calf, 21:.

xvn.
The Aldine Edition of the British Poets.

The Publishers have been induced. by the scarcity and increasing value
of this admired Series of the Poets, to prepare it New Edition. very
carefully corrected. and improved by such additions as recent
literary research has placed within their reach. Fcp. 8vo.

Akenside's Poetical Works, with Memoir by the Rev.
A. Dyee, and additional Letters, carefully revised. 5:. Morocco.
or antique morocco, 109. 6d.

Collins's Poems, with Memoir and Notes by W. Moy
Thomas. Esq. 8s. 6d. Morocco. or antique morocco, 80. 6d.

Cowper's Poetical Works, including his Translations.
Edited. with Memoir, by John Bruce. Esq. FSA. 3 vols.

[In the Press.
Dryden's Poetical Works, with Memoir by the Rev. B.
Hooper, F.S.A. Carefully revised. 5 vols. [In the Press.

Gray's Poetical Works, with Notes and Memoir by the
ev. John Mitford. 5:. Morocco. or antique morocco. 10:. 6d.

Shakespeare's Poems, with Memoir by the Rev. A. Dyce.

5:. Morocco, or antique morocco. 108. 6d.44 300KB UNIFORM WITH 1'!!! ALDIXI EDITION 01' THE 9021's.

Thomson's Poems, with Memoir by Sir H. Nicolas, anno.

tuted by Peter Cunningham. Esq" F.S.A., and additional Poems.

artfully revised. 2 vols. 105. Morocco. or antique morocco.
. s.

 

Seasons, and Castle of Indolenee, with Memoir.
Ga. Morocco. or antique moroeoo. Us. 6d.

Kirko White's Poems. with Memoir by Sir H. Nicolas, and

additional Notes. Carefully revised. 5:. Morocco. or antique
morocco, 108. 6d.

Young's Poems, with Memoir by the Rev. John Mitford,

and additional Poems. 2 vols. 105. Morocco, or antique mo-
rocco, ll. 13.

Books uniform will: the Airline Edition of the Poets.

The Thoughts of the Emperor M. Aurelius Anteninus.
Translated by George Long. 6d.

Bacon's Advancement of Lenming'. Edited. with short

Notes. by the Rev. (3. W. Kitcliin, M..-\., Christ Church, Oxford.
(is. Antique eulf. 11:. 6d.

---------- Essays; or, Counscls Civil and Moral, with the
Wisdom of the Ancients. With References and Notes by S. W.
Singer, F.S.A. 51'. Morocco, or antique calf, 10:. 6d.

-- Novum Orgauum. Newly Translated, with short

Notes. by the Rev. Andrew Johnson, M..-\. 6:. Antique calf.
11:. 0d.

Bishop Butler's Analogy of Religion; with Analytical

Introduction and mpious Index, by the Rev. Dr. Shore. (is.
Antique calf, 11:. (id.

------- Complete Works; with Memoir by the Rev. Dr.
Stecre. 2 vols. 12s.

---- Sermons and Remains; with Memoir by the Rev.
E. Steam, LL.D. (is.

'.' This volume mamas some additlnnai remains. which are copyright. and
render it the most template edition extant.

The Works of Gray, edited by the Rev. John Mitford.

With his Corrcslmnilcum- with MrJChute and others, Journal ke t

at Rome. Criticism on the Sculptures. 81c. New Edition. 5 Via .
1 . 58.

The Temple and other Poems; by George Herbert, with

Coleridge's Notes. New Edition. 5:. Morocco. antique calf or
morocco, 10;. 6d.mnuomon CLASSICA. 45

Locke on the Conduct. of the Human Understanding:

editgdd by Bolton Corney. PS31.. 313.81.. 3s. 6d. Antique calf.
80. .

u I cannot think any parent or instructor Jutlfled In mkctlns Input thll
lime treatise Into the hands of a boy about the time when the reasoning
tucultlu become developed."---BC/uC/n

The Scholo Master. By.Roger Aschom. Edited, with

copious Notes. and 3 Glossary, by the Rev. J. E. 3. Mayor.
M.A. 80.

Logic in Theology, and other Essays. By Isaac Taylor,
Esq. 6:.

Ultimate Civilization. By Isaac Taylor, Esq. Gs.
lisliop Jeremy Taylor's Rule and Exercises of Holy Living
and Holy Dying. 2 vols" 2:. 6d. each. Morocco. antique calf or

morocco. 7s. 6d. each. In one volume, 5:. Morocco. antique
calf or morocco, 100. 6d.

Vaughan's Sacred Poems and Pious Ejaculations, with
Memoir by tho ltev. H. F. Lyte. New Edition. 5c. Antique calf

or morocco. 103. 6d. Largo Paper. 70. 6d. Antique calf. 14;.
Antique morocco. X53.

" Preserving all the plety of Gwmc Herbert. they have less or his qualnt and
humus turns. wuh a much larger Infusion of poetic feellng and "pm-ton."--

Lyle.
XVIII.

Bibliotheca Classics.

A Series of Greek and Latin Authors. With English Notes. Bro.
Edited by various Scholars. under the direction of G. Long. Esq..
M.A., Classical Lecturer of Brighton Comic]: and the late Rev.
A. J. Mnclenne. M.A..Hend Master of King ' word's School. Bath.

Aeschylus. By F. A. Paley, MA. 183.

Cicero's Omtions. Edited by G. Long, MA. 4 vols. 81. 43.
Vol. I. 160.; Vol. II. 140.; Vol. Ill'. 163.; Vol. IV. 180.

Demosthenes. By R. Whieton, M.A.. Heed Master of
RochesterGrammnr School. Vol. I. 16:. Vol. II. preparing. '

Euripides. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 3 vols. 168. each.

Herodotus. By J. W. Blakesley, B.D., late Fellow and
Tutor of Trinity College,Cembridge. 2vole. 32s.

Hesiod. By F. A. Paley, M.A. 10.9. M.
Homer. By I". A. Paley, MA. Vol. I. W. -
Horace. By A. J. Mecleane, M.A. 183. '

Juvenel and Persius. By A. J. Macleene, ILA. .143.46 anmmn-amoox. cLAssics.

l'lnto. liy W. ll. Thomson, MA. Vol. l. l'rcparing.
Sophocles. By 1". ll. liloytlos, MA. Vol. I. 183. Vol. ll.

pn-poring.

'l'orcnco. liy E. St. J. Parry, M.A., Balliol College, Ox-
fonl. 13's.

Virgil. By J. Pinning-ton, .\l..~\., Professor of Latin at.

Oxford. .an. l. nmtnining lhc llncolicn mnl (lmrgics. I211.
Vol. II. mntnining thc .'Encid. Books I. to Vl. Hit. Vol. III.

rh'purl'llg.

----

An Atlas of ('lnssicol Gcogmphy. containing '24 Mops: con-
structul by W. llughcs. ulnl (Nlitcil by G. Long. Now l-Riilinn.
with colonml outlincs. and on lmlcx of l'lnccu. Iinpcrinl SW.

128. (id.

XIX.
Grammar-School Classics.

A Scrics of Grcck and Latin Authors. Ncwly Edited. with English
Notes for Sclnxnls. ll'cp. Svo.

.l. ('ncsm'is ('onnncntorii (to Rollo Gollico. Sci-om! ILiIiIion.
lly (i. Long, MA. 58. (id.

t'acsnr do Rollo Gnllico, Books T. to lll. With English

Notcs for Junior Chasm llyG. Long. lll.:\. 23. Gd.

)1. 'l'nllii ('iccronis ('nto Major, Sivo dc Scnectntc, Lac-
lins 8ch dc Aniicitiu, ct l-Ipistolno Sclcctnc. By (1.1.0113. MA.
41!. lid.

Quinti llomtii Flocci Opera Omnio. By A. J. Moclcnnc.
fix. 6d. '

Juvcnulis Satimo XVI. By ll. l'rior, MA. (l'lxpurgntml
Edition.) 13.611.

l'. Ovidii Nosonis Fnstorum Libri Sex. Dy F. A. Paley. 55.

t'. Sallustii Crispi Cotilino. ct Jugurthn. By G. Long.
M..-\. 58.

Taciti Gomsnia at Agricola. '>>y 1'. Frost, M.A. 3s. 6d.CAMBRIDGE GREEK AND LATIN TEXTS. '17

Xenophontis Annlmsis, with Introduction: ('loogmphicnl
nlnl othvr Norma. Itinumry. und 'l'hn'o Mupu mumilvd from rim-Int
mun-3's. lly J. l". hlm'miolnwl. ILA. New Edition. 51.

---- ('yi-opnm'liu. By (l. M. Gorhom, M.A., loto Follow
of Trinity L'ollvgo. L'nunbridgo. 61.
Uniform with the! <<(mm

Tho Now 'l'oshuuont in Greek. With English Notes and
l'n-fm'os. By J. l". Mncmiohm-l. DA. 730 purges. 7n. M.

A Grmnnmr School Atlas of Clawsicnl (loogml'ihy. The

Mops wumtructul by W. Hughes. and edited by G. long. Imp.
Sim. 58.

xx.
Cambridge Greek and Latin Texts.

This scrim is inlvndvd lo uupply for tho usu of Schools and Students
olu'up und m-oumto ulitinns of tho Clnmios, which uhull ho superior
in mwlmnivnl oxm'ution to (ho anmll Gonnuu vditions now current.
in this country. and more nnwcnicnt in form. 16mm

Aeschylus, ox novissimu rcccnsiono I". A. I'uloy. 3s.
Cwsnr do llollo (lullico, roccnsuit G. Long, AM. 2:.

('icoro do Soneolulo ot do Amicitiu at Epistolw Selectm,
"\oonsuit (I. Lung. A.M. lit. 61!.

Euripides, ex roconsiono l". A. l'nloy, Al". 3 vols. 38. 6d.
ouch.

Herodotus, reconsnit J. W. lllnkeslcy, S.T.ll. :3 vols. 7s.

llomtius, ex reconsionc A. J. Muclonno, AM. 2s. 6d.

Lucretius, reoognovit II. A. J. Munro, AJI. 2x. 6d.

Sallusti ('rispi ('utilina ct Juglu'thu, rocognovit G. Long,
M. 13.641.

'l'hucydidos, rcccnsnit J. G. Donaldson, S.T.l'. 2 vols. 7 s.

Virgilius, ox roconsiono J. Conington, A.M. 38. 6d.

Xenophontis Anubasis recensuit, J. 1". Macmichaol, A.l'.
28.611. ,
Novum 'l'estamentum Gmecum Toxtus Steplmnici. 1550.

Auccdunl vurino Incliones cdilionum Bezuo. Elzuviri. anhmnnni.
Tischondorfli, Tresellesii. cumuto I". II. Scrivener. All. 4.. 6d.

Also; on #0. writing paper, for Mfi. notes. Holt bound. gilt
top, 1L1.48

xxx.
Foreign Classics.

With English Notes for Selimln Unifonn with the GRAMMAR Scnoot.
,ULAssles. Fcp. Sm.

Aventures do 'l'elenmquo. par Fenelon. Edited by C. J.
Delille. Serum! leliliun, revised. in. 64!.
Select Fables of La Fontuine. Third Elih'on, revised. Edited
by F. (inse. MJ'. 3!. '
" None need nuw be afraid to Introduce this eminently l-'reneh author. ellln-r on

mwum M' the dinleuily uf unmluling him. or the m'mnlollul licence of thought

um! expreimlen In uhh'h he imlulges. 'l'he n-nderlngs or hllmlulllc [manages are
unumnlly good. llllll the purity ef'liugliph wrl'wl."--- .uhmaum.

Gel'lllilll llnllnds from lihluud, Goethe, und Schiller, with
lntmduetious to each l'u-In. copious I'prlnnntury Notes, nnd Bio-
grupllit'nl Notices. Edited by U. L. llielefeld. lls. lid.

l'ieeiuln. by X. ll. Saintine. Edited by Dr. Dubnc. Se-

rum! Edition. "win-d. Zia. (id.

'l'hht Inlensllng Mary has been seleeted n'llh the intention of providing for
Nhonlx nnd young perm-n5 n gum-I HMTIIIII'" of mnlenllmmry French literature,
free flow the wleclsmu which an! n'eqneully met. Mill in writers of a past. nae.

Schiller's \Vullenstein, complete 'l'ext. Edited by Dr. A.
Buehheilu. timid.

llistoire do Charles X] I. per Voltaire. Edited by L. Diroy.
Third I'ilitiun, revised. 3:. M.

In is \'ols.. or. five. 31. 12s.

llume, Sniollett. and llnghes's History of England, from
the lnvusinn of Julius Cmsur lo the 'Aecesaion of Queen Victoria.
New ulitinn. containing llisturieul llluslmtinus. Autographs. and
Portraits. enpiunu Notes, and the Author's Inst. Com-etiona and Im-
prm'enients.

0r Sqmmh'ly.

llnnu-'n Portion to 1688. In 6 Vols. 11. let.

Smolletl's l'urtiun to me. In .1 Vols. 16x.

llughes's l'orlion In 1837. In 8 vols. ll. 12:.

In 7 Vols. Svo. fill. 138. 6d.

History of England, from the Accession of, George III. to
the Accession of Queen Victoria. By the Rev. '1'. S. Hughes. BI).
New ulitioumluioet entirely re-u'ritten. -

 

_ wst: I'RISTED BY \\'ll.l.l.\)l (LOWE! AS" "XS, STANFORD SHIT."
A81) "MIXING cums.