Publisher, of Songs, Ballads.
Apd Toy Books. No. 27 Chatham Street. N Y,

J. WRIGLEY.ROBIN SON CRUSOE.

 

I was born of a good family in the city of
Yark, where my father settled, utter having
gained a handsome estate by merchandise. My
head was filled with rambling thoughts; and
being one day at Hull, I met with one of my
companions, who was going to sea. and he ea--
sily persuaded me to go with him.On the Isl. of September, 165], I went on
board a ship for London; but no sooner was the
vessel, on! ofthe 'Humber, than the wind began
to blow, and the sea to rise in a most terrible
manner. I cannot express the horror of mind
with whieh I was seized, expecting every mo-
ment the ship to go to the, bottom. ' But after
much hezard we got to landfand walked to
Yarmouth,wlwre we was received with human-
ity l remainded some time in doubt what course
to take; but having money in my pocket, I
travelled to London by land. On: my arrival
in that city, I contracted an acquaintance with
the master of a ship who had been on the coast
of Guinea, he taking a fancy to me, gave me the
liberty of trading for myself. This was one of
the most unhappy voyages I ever made; for af-
ter we had passed the line, a violent" hurricane
drove us upon a rock, I reached the shore, and
being overcome with fatigue, I laid downandva: ' 4'3..."
' . 4 _

a ' #% lbw/PS2?' .- - I
.V I..'l(SSs"_:"3"" "*5"

-,___._..

 

slept soundly. When i awoke. next morning,
it was broad day. and the storm had abated.
I swam towards the ship, which was at no great
distance, and to my inexpressible joy found the
most of the provissions where dry. I immedi~
ately made a raft and let down three seamen's
chests, and filled them with bread, some dried
goats flesh, and three Dutch cheeses, I also let
duwu the carpenter's chest, andt'ound two fowl-
inu-pieces, and two pistols, with some powder,
and two old rusty swords; and after much la-
bour, safely landed it. I had now been thirteen
syad on shore, and eleven times on board the
dihs; but the last time, the wind began to rise,
pna'_in the morning not a yestage of the ship
saw to be seen; I then wen'tin search of'a place
where to pitch my dwelling. Having found a
convenient spot I drew a half circle, which ox-
tended about twenty yards, and drove stakes
into the ground; I thendut some boards across,
and covered them with the branches of trees
and stopped up the whole with clay. The en.
trance was by a ladder to go over the top, whicl.
when I was in, I drew up- after me. so that lwas perfectly safe. I then took a view of the
island; and at about two miles distance from
my habitation, found some fine savannahs, and
a little further a variety ot fruit, melons upon
the ground, and vines covered with clusters of
grapes. I proceeded with my discoveries, and
came to an opening that seemed to descend to
the West, where every thing was in such con-
stant verdure, that it looked like a beautiful
. garden. I carried some. grapes and a few limes
back with me; but the grapes were spoiled bet
fore I got home. I went the next day and ga-
thered a large quantity of grapes and hung
them upon the out h'ranches of the trees, that
they might dry and cure in the sun; but as for
the limes and melons, I carried as mnay as I
could well stand under. 1 was so enamoured
with this place, thatl built myself a bower,
fenced with a double hedge; and this country
house, as I called it, cost me two month's
labour; but I hardly began to enjoy my habita-
tion, when the rains came on and I was obligedto retreat to my old one, taking with me my
grapes, which now lit-come fine raisins of the
sun. When the ruins were over, I mad a visit
to my bower where I found the stakes I set for
my defence were shot up into trees, which ]
pruned, and made as much alike as possible;
and they became a complete shade. This was
my work in the dry season ; and to employ my-
self when I could not go abroad, I made has-
kets, having when a child taken much delight.
to see a basket maker. In one. of the dry sea-
sons I took another ramble, armed with my gun
and hatchet, when I had passed the. valley in
which stood my bower, I came within view of
the sea; and it being a clear day, I plainly dis-
covered land; but whether island or continent
I could not tell; I guessed it could not be less
than twenty leagues off. I imagined it was
some savage coast, and such indeed it proved.
In this journey I catched a parrot, having
knocked it down with a stick, brought it home
with me, and taught it to speak. And whichserved to beguilc the dulness ofmy solitude. I
used frequently to visit a boat which I had col-
trived to build; and one day when l was going
out in it I perceived the print ofa man's naked
foot on the sand ; this filled me with many fears
and when I got home, I began to double my
fortifications. After this one morning .very
early I climbed upon a hilljust behind my hab-
itation, and discovered about thirty savages on
the sea shore, dancing round a fire; I saw two
miserable wretches dragged out of a conoe, one
of whom was immediately knocked down and
three or four of them began to cut him up in
order to roast his flesh for their horrible feast.
Meantime the other starting from them, ran
with incredible swit'tness towards .me. This
very much frightened me, as three of them
followed him. Now thought I is the time for
me to gain a companion.

Snatching my gun, I put. myself between the
pnrsuers and their prey. The poor creature I
intended'to save, upon my beckoning, stopped.
The first of his pnrsuets I knocked down, andat the other I lrt fly and killed him. 1 mad:
signs to him to come to me, which he obeyed
throwing himself at my feet, and putting one
of my feet upon hishead; 1 took him to my
cave and permitted him to lie down on some
straw. Next morning-I took him out with me,
acd called him Friday in hOnour of the. day I
effected his deliverance. I now repeated the
anniversary of my landing for the 27th year.
After this I, renewed my intention of taking
a voyage to the Continent. Friday assured me
1 should meet ,with good treatment from the na-
tives; and the Spaniards ofl'ered to go over with
himhefore hand to'settle matters for my recep-
tion. I therefore'despatched my two ambassa-
dors. Friday ran hastily to me, exclaiming,
'they are come! they are 'come-l, I perceived
at the distance of abodt league and a half, a
boat standing in for shore. By the help of my
glass, I soon discovered they were not my. am-
bassadors, 'hut conjectured they belonged to a
ship anchored at some distance, which appeared to he English built. Four men leaped on
shore, brining two with them who appeared to
be prisoners. Considering that I had desPera-
does to deal with, it appeared most prudent to
defer making any attempt till night. Waiting
therefore till I judged the sailors were taking
their repose, I approached the two unhappy
men; they endeavoured to shun me, but on my
addressing them in English, 'don't be afraid---
you have a friend nearer than you imagine--ac-
quaint me with your disiress, & I will endeavour
to serve you;' one of them replied, ' I was mas-
ter of the ship which lies yonder at anchor; my
men mutinied, and we think it a favour that
they spared our lives. We resolved on an im-
mediate attack.' The two men fired, and fortu--
nately killed the ringleader, and wounded
another, the rest cried for quarter. I resolved
to leave them in possession of the island, and
that I should return with the captain to Eng
land. Taking with me my man Friday, my mo-hey, my dog, and my parrot. Thus I left this
solitary island, after living upon it for twenty-
eight years. We had not left the island three
days, when we saw a great number of canoes
filled with negroes, who came very near us, on
which we made signs for them to put back,
which they did. I ordered Friday to speak to
them when instantly they discharged a great
flight of arrows, & killed poor Friday, no other
man being in their sight. I gave them a broad--
side, which overset a many of their canoes, and
the rest fled qnirkly out of sight. After a pros-
perous voyage, we landed in Old England, after
I had been absent from my native Country thir-
tyvseven years.1' . "
1'1"

@&@&&&@&&&'
1% J. WRIGLEY.

:fi BOOKSELLER AND PUBLISHER, A

27. Chatham Street.
OPPOSITE CITY HALL PARK

NEW YORK.
OFFERS FOR SALE,

WHOLESALE & RETAIL,

A large assortment of colored
TOY BOOKS (St PRIMERS

Also a great variety of

SONGS, AND BALLAD'S.

CONVERSATION, AGE, ANB SMALL PLAY-
ING CAms ALPHABET W001) BLocKs 6w

On the most reasonable terms,

FOR CASH.

N. B. Also publishes in the season a
'\ a. large assortment of Comic and Sen

g timental Valentines.

E 3165:" "'31:! "9' \vflm "$.57" \r'r iffib' ';' ':,"

AEEEAEEEEAAQAEE
WWWEEWEWWEEWEEEE