"IF YOU COME NEAR THE BOAT I'LL'SHOOT YQU." Page :2THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE .

BY
DANIEL DEFOE

WITH SEVENTY-NINE ORIGINAL ILLUSTRATIONS BY

WALTER PAGET

MCLOUGHLIN BROTHERS
NEW YORK
WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family,
though not of that country, my father being a foreigner, of
Bremen, who settler] first at Hull: he got a good estate by merchan--
dise, and leaving oll' his trade, lived afterwards at York ; from whence
he had married. my mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a
very good family in that country, and from whom I was called
Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual. corruption of Words in
England, we are now called, nay, we call. ourselves, and write our
name, Crusoe; and so my companions always called me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my
head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts : my father
had given me a- competent share of learning, and designed me for the
law; but l Would be satisfied with. nothing but going to sea; and my
inclination to this led me so strongly against the will, nay, the
commands, of my father, and against all the entreaties and persuasions
of my mother and other friends, that there seemed to be something
fatal in that propension of nature, tending directly to the life of
misery which was to, befall. me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me excellent counsel
against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one morning
into his chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and expoatulated
very warmly with me upon this subject: he asked me what reasons,
more than a more wandering inclination, I had for leaving my
father's house and my native country, where I might be well
introduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune by application
and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was men
of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring, superior fortunes on
the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to make themselves
famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common road; that
these things were all either too far above me or too far. below me;
that mine was the middle state, or what might be called the upper
station of lowlife, which he had found by long experience was the
best state in the world, the most suited. to human happiness, not
exposed to the misery and hardships, the labor and suiterings of the
mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with pride, luxury,
ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind. He told me, I
might judge of the happiness of this state by this one thing, viz., that
this was the state of life which all other peoPIe envied; that kings
have frequently lamented the miserable consequence of being born to
great things, and wished they had been placed in the middle of the
two extremes, between the mean, and the great; that the wise man
gave his testimony to this, as the just standard of true felicity, when
he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.

After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate
manner, not to play the young man, nor to precipitate myself into
miseries which. Nature, and the station of life I washorn in, seemed
to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking
my bread; that: he would do well for me, and endeavor to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had just been recommending to
me; and that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it must
be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it ;' and that he should have
nothing to answer 101', Playing thus discharged his duty in warning
me againstmeasures which he knew would be to my hurt.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed who could
be otherwise? and I resolved not think of going abroad any more, but.
to settle at home according to my father's desire. But, alas! a few
days were it all 01?; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's
further importumties, in a few weeks after I resolved to run quite away
from him. However, .I (lid not act quite so hastily as the first heat of
my resolution prompted, but Itook my mother at a time when I
thought her a little more pleasant than ordinary, and told her that
my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I
should never settle to anything with resolution enough to go though
with it, and my father had better give me his consent than force me
to go without it. This put my mother into a great passion ; she told
me she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon
any such subjects; that for her part, she would not have so much
hand in my destruction; and I should nevci have it to say that my
mother was willing when my father was not.

It was not till almost a yeal after this that I broke loose. Being
one day at Hull, and one of my companions being going by sea. to
Landon in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with them, I
eonSulted neither father or mother any more, nor so much as sent them
word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as they might, n-'ithOut
asking God's blessing, or my father's, without any consideration of
circumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the
lst of September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for London.

Never any young adventurer's misfortunes began sooner or con-
tinued longe1 than mine. The ship was no 13001191 got out of the
IIumber than the Wind began to blow, and the sea to rise in a
most fiightful manner; and, as I had never been at sea before, I was
most inexp1essibly sick 111 body, and terrified 1n mind . In this agony
I. made many vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to
spare my life in this one voyage, if e1 e1 I got once my foot upon (11y
land agai11,I would go directly home to my father, and neve1 set it
into a ship again while I lived.

Those wise and sobe1 thoughts continued all the while the storm
lasted, and indeed some time after; but the next (lay the wind was
abated, and the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to it. A
charming line evening followed; the Sun went. down perfectly clear,
and rose so the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the

most deli htful that ever I saw. _
I had s ept well in the night, and was no more sca--smk; but very
chocrlnl, looking with wonder upon the 3ch that was so rough and
terrible the day before, and could be so calm and so pleasant in so
little at time after. And now, lost; my good resolutions should
continue, my companion who had enticed me away comes to me.

 

"'Yov'mz nor .\ FRESH-WATER annex."

" \Vcll, Bob," says he, clapping me upon the shoulder, "how do
you do after it? I warranty you were frighted, wer'nt you, last night,
when it blew but a capful of Wind? _"

"A cap-fill d'you call it? " said I ; " 'twas a. terrible storm."

"A storm, you fool, you ! " replies he; " do you call that a storm?
why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship and sea-room, and
we think nothing of such a squall oi wind as that; but you're but a
. fresh-water sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a bowl. of punch, and
we'll forget all that ; (l'ye see what charming weather 'tis now ? "

To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all
sailors ; the punch was made, and I wasmadc half dnuik with it;
and in that one night's Wickednoss I drowned all my reflections upon
my past conduct, all my resolutions for the future.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yamouth Roads.
Here we were obliged to come to anchor, and here we lay, the wind
continuing contrary, viz., at south--west, for seven or eight days. The
eight day, in the morning, the wind increased, and we had all hands
at work to strike our top-masts, and make everything snug and close,
that the ship might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went
very high. indeed, and our ship rode Ioreeastlo in, shipped several seas,
and we thOught once or twice our anchor had come home ; upon which
our master ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that. we rode with two
anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the. better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; and now I began to
see terror and amazement in the face even of the seamen themselves.
Towards evening the mate and hoatswain begged the master of our
ship to let them cut away the foremast, which he was very unwilling
to do; but the heatswain protesting to him that if he did not, the ship
would fetindcr, he consented ; and when they had cut away the fore-
most, the main--mast stood so loose, and shook tho-ship so much, they
were obliged to out that away also; and make a cleal'__dcolr.

And one must judge what a condition I must be in; atoll this, who
was but a young; sailor, and who had been in such a frighthefore at
but a little. In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of our
distresses, one of the men that had been down to see, cried out me had
sp1ung a leak; another said there was four feet waterin the hold.
Then all hands were called to the pump.

We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and though the storm began
to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we
might run into any port, so the master fired guns for help; and a
light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to -6 ROBINSON GRIT-50E.

help us. Our men cast a rope over the stern with a buoy'to it, and
then veered it out a great length, which they, after much labor and
hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close under our stern, and
got all into their boat. It was Lt) no purpose for them (31' us, after we
were in the boat, to think of reaching to their own ship ; so all agreed
to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as much as we
could.

W e wor>> not much more than a Quarter of an hour out of our ship
till we. saw her sink, and then I understood [or the first time what. was
meant by a ship l'oundering in the sea. I'must acknowledge I had
hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me. she was sinking.
While we were in this condition, the men yet laboring at the ear to
bring the boat near the shore, we could see a. great many people run-
ning along the strand, to assist us when we should come near ; but we
made but slow way towards the shore ; nor were we able to reach the
shore till being past the lighthouse at Winterton, the shore falls oilc to
the west-ward, towards Creme. llere we got. all safe on shore, and
walked afterwards on foot to Yarmonth: where, as unfortunate men,
we were used with great humanity.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have gone
home, I had been happy. But my ill fate pushed me on now with an
obstinacy that nothing could resist. Having some money in my pocket,
I travelled to London by land ; and tliere,-as well as on the road, had
many struggles with myself what course of life I should take, and
whether I should go home or go to sea.

It was my lot first of all to'fall into pretty good company in London,
which does not always happen to such loose and misguided young
fellows as I then was. I first get acquainted with the master of a
ship who had been on the coast of Guinea; and who having had very
good success there, was resolved to go again ; this captain taking a
fancy to my conversation, told me if I would go the voyage with him,
I should be at no expense; I should be his messmate and his compan-
ion ; and il I could carry anything with me, I should have all the
advantage of it that the trade would admit.

I embraced the offer ;_and entering into a strict friendship with this
captain, who was an honest, plain-dealing man, I went the voyage
with him, and carried about :15 40 in such toys and trifles as the
captain directed me to buy. This PS40 I had mustered together by
tho assistance of some of my relations whom I corresponded with, and
who, i believe, got my father, or at least, my mother, to contribute so

much as that to my first, adventure.

"w: WALKFJ) 0:: mm To
v Ammm'u. "

 

This vus [he only voyage which T may say was successful in all my
adventures, and which 1 Owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend
Lho (:z-mein; for I brought home five pounds nine Ounces of gold-dust
for my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return, almost.
PS300 ; and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have

since so completed my ruin.
I was now sot up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great
"'suizrmsuu 1x was any or run
MORNING."

 

misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same voy-
age again. I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his mate
in the former voyage, and had now got the command of the ship.
This was the unhappibst voyage that ever man made; for though I
did not carry quite PS100 of my new-gained wealth, so that I had
PS200 left which I had lodged with my friend's widow, who was very
just to me, yet I PS011" into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the
first was this, viz., our ship making her course towards the Canary
Islands, was surprised in the gray of the morning by a Moorish, rover
of. Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail he could make.
Aboat three in the afternoon he came up with us, and to cut short
this melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three
of our men killed, and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and
were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moore.
The usage I had there was notso dreadful as at first I apprehended ;
nor was I carried up the country to the Emperor's court, as the rest
of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper
prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his
business. When he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his
little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house;
and when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie
in the cabin to look after the ship.

Hero I meditatod nothing but my escape, and what method I might
take to efiect it ; but found no way that had the least probability in it.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself, which

i put the thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in my
head. My patron lying at home longer than usual Without fitting out
his Ship, he used constantly to take the ship's pinnace, and go out
into the road a--lishing; and as he always took me and a young
Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I
proved very dextorous in catching fish, insomuch that sometimes he
would send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the
Moresco, as they called him, to catch a. dish of fish for him. ,

it happened one time that, going arfishing with him in a calm
mowing, a fog rose so thick, that thOugh we were not half: a league
from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing we knew not whither
or which way, we labored all day, and all the next night; and when
the morning came, we found we had pulled out to sea instead of
pulling in for the shore. How-
ever, we got well in again,
though with a. great deal of
labor, and some danger.

But our patron resolved he
would not go e--fi shing any more
Without a compass and some
provision ; so he ordered the
carpenter of his ship to build a
little state-room or cabin, in the
middle of the long-boat, which
had in it room for him to lie
with a slave or two, and a table
to eat on, with some small
lockers to put in some bottles
of such. liquor as he th0ught fit
to drink ; and partioulerly his
bread, rice, and coffee. -

It happened that he appointed "1 move!) may nax-renous."10 _' ROBINSON causes.

to go out in this boat, with two or three Moors of some distinction in
that place, and he had provided a larger store of provisions than
usual; and had ordered me to get. ready three fusilsii with powder
and shot, which were on heard his ship, for that they designed some
sport of fowling as well as fishing. I got all things ready as he had
directed ; and waited the next morning with the boat, when by-and-by
my patron came on board alone, and told me his guests had put 01?
going, and ordered me, with the man as usual, to go out with the boat
and catch them some fish.

This moment, my former notions of. deliverance darted into my
thoughts, for now Ifound l was likely to have a little ship at my
command; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself,
not. for fishing business, but for a i-voyage. My first eontrivanee was
to make a pretence to speak to the Moor, to get something for our
subsistence on board; for I toldfihmn we must not presume to eat of
our patrons bread. He said, that'Was true; so he brOuoht a large.
basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind, and three jars with flesh water,
into the boat. I knew where my patron's ease of bottles stood, and I'
conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore. I
conve eyed also a great lump of beeswax into the boat, with a paleol
of- twine or thread, a hatchet, a sag--it, and a hammer, all of which were
of great use to us afterwards, esfi'eeiallv the wax to make candles.
Thus fuinished with everything needful, we sailed out of the port to
fish

After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for when I had
fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see them
Isaid to the Moor, " This will not do; we must stand farther off."
He, thinking no harm, agreed, and I ran the boat out near a. league
farther, and then brought her to as if I would fish; when, giving the
boy the helm, I stepped to where the Moor was, 'and making as if I
stooped for something behind him, I took him by surprise with my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken in, telling me he would go all over the world with
me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he would have reached
me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which I stepped

* Fusil, u. French word, meaning a light musket or firelock."'rms ms mum INDEED." ( p. 15 ).
into the cabin, and fetching one of the fending-pieces, I presented it
at him, and told him I had done him no hurt, and if he would be
quiet I would do him none; "But," said I, " you swim well enough
to reach the shore, and the sea is calm; make the best of your way to
shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you come near the boat, I'll
shoot you through the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty."
So he turned himself about, and swam for the shore, and I make no
doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.

When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called " Xury,
and said, "me, if you will be faithful to me, I'll-make you a. great
man ; but if you will not-stroke your face to be true to me " (that is,
swear by Mahomet and his father's "bee rd), " Imust throw you into
the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that- I could not mistmst him, and he swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with me. >>

While I was in the View of the Moor tluit was swimming, I stood
directly out to to sea, that they might think me gone towards the
Straits' '3" month. But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
changed my course, that I might keep in With the shore; and having
a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a. smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail
that. I believed by the next day at three 0 'cloglt 1n the aftemoon, when
I first made land, I could not be less than one hundred and fifty miles
beyond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, that I would not
stop till I had sailed in that manner five days ',t- and then, the Wind
shifting to the southward,_;l concluded also that if any of our vessels
were in chase of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured
to make to the coast, and Carrie to an anchor in the mouth of a little
river, I knew not what nor where. 1 neither saw nor desired to see
any people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh Water. We came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as
it was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was quite
dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and
howling of wild creatures, of we knew not What kinds, that the poor
boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore
till day. " Well, Xury," said I, " then I won't; but it may be we may see

* Straits, the Straits of Gibraltar.
men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions." " Then we give
them the shoot-gtm," says Xury, laughing, " make them run wey." Such
English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. However, I was
glad to see the boy so cheerful, and as his advice was good, I took it.
We dropped our little anchor, and lay still all. night: I say still for

 

"W2 mum) OCR 3m."

We slept none ; for in two or three hours we saw vast great creatures
(we knew not-what in call them), of many sorts, come down to the
sea--shore, and 11m into the water, wallowing and washing themselves
and they made such hideous howlings and yellings that I never indeed
heard the like. '
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too; but we
were both more frighted when we heard one mighty. creature come-
swimming towards our boat. Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor
and row away. " No," says I, "Xury, we can slip our cable, with the
buoy to it, and go to sea; they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner
_ said so but I perceived the creature, within two oars' length. I '
immediately stopped to the cabin-door, and taking up my gun, fired
at him; upon which he turned about and swam towards the shore
again. .

But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises and hideous cries
and howlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher within the country, upon the noise or report of the gun. This
convinced me that there was no going on shore for us in the night
upon that coast; and how to venture on shore in the day was another
question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages,

had been as had as to have fallen into the paws ol' lions and tigers.

': Be that as it w0uld, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or
other for water. Xury said, if I would let him go on shore with one
of the jars, he would find if there was any water, and bring some to
me. I asked him why he would go? why I should not go, and he
stay in the boat? The boy answered with so much afiection, that
made me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild mans come, they eat
me, you go wey." "Well, Xury," said I, " we will both go, and if
the wild mans come, we will kill them, they shall eat. neither of us."
So we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thoaght was proper,
and waded on shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for
for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, but the boy, seeing a
low place about a mile up the cormtry, rambled to it, and by and by
I saw him come running towards me. I thought he was pursued, and

V I ran forward towards him to help him; but when I came nearer to

_ him, I saw something hanging over his shoulders, which was a .
creature that he had shot, like a bare, but difierent in color, and
longer legs ; however, we were very glad of it, and it was very good
meat ; but the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he
had found good water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains forROBINSON (meson , 1:)

water, for a little higher up the creek where we were, we found the ~
water fresh when the tide was out, so we filled our jars, and prepared
to go on our way.

' I knew very well. that the Islands of the Canaries, and the Cape
de Verd Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But I knew not
where to look for them. My hope was that if I stood along this coast
till I came to that part. where the English traded, I should find some
of their vessels upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve
and take us in. >>

Once or twice in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pieo of Tenerilfe,
being the hightop of the mountain Tenerilfe in the Canaries; and had
a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but having
failed twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the see also
going too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first
design, and keep along the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, and once in
partieular, being early in the morning, we came to an anchor under a
little point of land, which was pretty high; and the tide beginning to
flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more
about him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me.
that we had best. go farther elf the shore; " for," says he, " look,
yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, last asleep.'T
I looked where he pointed, and saw a terrible great lion that. lay on
the side of the shore. " Xury," says I, "you shall go on shore and
kill him." Xury looked frighted, and said, " Me kill! he eat me at
one mouth; " one mouthful he meant. However, I said no more to _
the boy, but bade him be still, and took our biggest gun, and aimed.
as well as I could with the first piece to have shot him in the head,
but the slug hit his leg about the knee, and broke the "bone. He
started up growling at first, but finding his leg broke, gave the most
hideous roar that ever I heard. I fired again, and shot him in the
head, and had the pleasure to see him drop.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food ; and I was very
sorry to lose the charges of powder and shot upon a creature that
was good for nothing to us. I hethought myself, however, perhaps
the skin of him might be of some value to us; and I resolved to take '
off his skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work with him. lt
took us up both the whole day, but at last we got. oil the hide of him,
and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun efieetually dried it
in two days' time, and it afterwards served me to lie upon.

After this stop, we made on to the southward continually for ten
or twelve days. My design in this was to make the River Gambia
01' Senegal; that is to say, anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where
I was in hopes to meet with some Eumpean ship; and if I did not,
I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or
perish there among the negroes. When I had pursued this resolu-
tion about ten days longer, as I have said, I began to see that the
land was inhabited; and in two or three places, we saw people stand
upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive they were quite
black, and stark naked. I'was once inclined to have gone on shore
to them; but Xury said to me, " No go, no go." However, I hauled
in nearer the shore, and I found they ran along the shore by me a.
good way: they had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had
a long stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they could throw
them a great way with good aim: so I kept at a distance, but
talked with. them by signs as well as I could ; and particularly made
signs for something to eat: they beckoned tome to stop my boat,
and they w0uld [etch me same meat. Upon this, I lay by, and two
of them ran up into the country, and in less than half an hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and
some corn, but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I would
not venture on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us ;
but they took a sat / way for us all, for they brought it to the shore
and laid it down, and went and stood a great way off till we fetched
it on board, and then came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make
them amends ; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfully: for while we were lying on the shore, came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other from the mountains to-
wards the sea. The man that had the lance or dart did not fly from
them, but the rest did. The two creatures ran directly into the
water, and swam about; at last one of them began to come nearer our
heat than at first 1 expected; but I lay ready for him, forI had
loaded my gun with all possible expedition. As soon as he came

.1.3.

. ROBIKSON GRUBOE. 1'7
fairly within my reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the head : he
immediately made to the shore; but between the wound, which was
his mortal hurt, and the strangling of. the water, he died just before
he reached the shore. '

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures
at the noise and fire of my gun. But when'they saw the creature
dead, and that I made signs to them to come to the shore, they took
heart and came to the shore, and began to search for the creature.
I found him by his blood staining the water; and by the help of a
rope, they dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most
curious leopard.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and the noise of
the gun, swam to the shore, and ra'n up directly to the mountains
from whence they came. I formd quickly the negroes were for eat--
ing the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as
a favor from me; which, when I made signs to them that they might
take it, they were very thankful for. Then I made signs to them for
some water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning its bottom "
upward, to show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it
filled. They called immediately to some of their friends, and there
came two women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and
burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this they set down for me, as before,
and I sent Xury on shore with my jars and filled them all three.

I was new furnished with roots and com, such as it was, and wa-
ter; and leaving my friendly negroes, I made forward for about
eleven clays more, till I came in sight of the Cape de Verd Islands.
On a sudden, Xury cried out, " Master, master, a. ship with a sail! "
and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, thinking it must
needs be some of his master's ships sent in pursue us. I immediate--
1y saw, that it was a Portuguese ship ; upon which I stretched out to
the sea as much as I could, resolving to speak with them if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way, but that they would be gone by before I could
make any Signal to them; they, it seems, saw me. by the help of
their perspective glasses, so they shortened sail to let me come up.
I was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's ensign on
board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal of distress, and fired
a gun. Upon these signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by
for me ; and in about three hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, audio
French, but I understood none of them; but at last a Scotch sailor,
who was on board, called to me; and I answered him, and told him
I was an Englishman, that had made my escape out of slavery from
the Home at Sallee; they then bade me come on board, and very
kindly took me in, and all. my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will believe, that
I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and
almost holieless condmition as I was in; and I immediately ofi'cied all
I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliv eian;ce but
he generously told me, he would take nothing from me, but that all
I had should he delivered safe to me, when 1 came to the Blazils.

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the per-
formance to a tittle ; for he ordered the seamen that none should
offer to touch anything I had: then he took everything into his own
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of thorn, that I
might have them even to my three earthen Jars.

. As to my beat, it was a veiy good one; and that he saw, and told
me, he would buy it of me for the ship's use. He ofiered me also
sixty pieces of eight for my boy Xury, but I was very 10th to sell
the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring
my own. However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to
be just, and oifered me this medium, that he would give the boy an
obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christian: upon
this, and. Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the captain
have him. .

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and I arrived in the
Bay do 'l'odos los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in about twenty-two
days after. The generous treatment 'the captain gave me, I can
never enough remember: he would take nothing of me for my pass-
age, and what I was willing to sell, he bought of. me: in a word, I
made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all-my cargo;
and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, but being recommended to the house of
a. good, honest planter, I lived with him some time, and acquainted
myself, by that means, with the manner of their planting and mak-
:ing of. sugar; and. seeing how well the planters lived, and how they
got rich suddenly, I resolved, I would turn planter among them; re-
solving, in the meantime, to find out some way to get my money,
which I had left inLon-
don, remitted to me. To
this purpose, I purchased
as much land as my
money would renall, and
formed a. plan for my
plantation and settle-
meat.

I had a. neighbor, a.
l'ortnguese of Lisbon,
but born of English par-
ents, whose name was
Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was,
My stock was but low,
as well as his; and we
rather planted for food
than anything else, for
about two years. How--
ever, we began to in-
crease, so that the third
year we planted some
tobacco, and made each
of us a large piece of
ground ready for plant-- "I Boucnr m: A NEGRO SLAVE."
ing canes in the year to come.

I was in some measure settled before the captain departed from
the Brazils. One day I went to him and told him what stock I had
in London, desiring his help in getting it remitted; to which be
readily consented, but would only have me send for half of my
money lest it should miscarry.

His kindness to me was great, for he not only procured the
money I had drawn for, but sent me over a servant, with a cargo of_
salable goods, together with tools, iron work, and utensils necessary
for my plantation. I found means to sell the goods at a very great
advantage, so that I was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbor,
and the first thing I did, I bought me a negro slave, and a European
servant also : I mean another besides that the captain sent me.

I went on with great success in my plantation, and had Icon-
tinued in. the station 1 was now in, I had room for all the happy
things to have yet hefallen me, for which my father so earnestly
recommended a quiet, retired life. But I must go and leave the
happy View I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new
plantation, only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising
taster than the nature of the thing admitted ; and thus I cast myself
down again into the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man
fell into. 1:.

Having lived almostfifour yea'fs in the Brazils, and beginning to
thrive and prosper very .well upon my plantation, 1 had contracted
acquaintance and fricn'ifii'p among my fellow-planters, and, in my
discourse among them,I had frequently given them an account of
my two voyages to the'hoas't of Guinea, the manner of trading with
the negr'oes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon the coast
for triflcs_--such as'beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of
glass, and the like--not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, elephants'
teeth, etc., but negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great
numbers. '

It happened, being in company one day with more merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earn--
estly, three of them came to me the next morning, and told me that
they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea ; that they had all
plantations as well as I, and were straitened for nothing so much as
servants; that they could not publicly sell the Degrees when they
came home, so they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the
negroes on shore privately, and divide them among their own plan--
tations; and the question was, whether I would go their super-cargo
in the ship, to manage the trading part; and they oficred me that .I.
should have my equal share of the negroes, without providing any
part of the stock.

I could not resist the offer, and told them I would go if they
would look after my plantation in my absence, and would di3pose of
it as I should direct, if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do.
The ship being fitted out, I went on board in an evil hour again,
the 1st of September, 1850, being the same day eight years that I
went from my father
and mother at Hull.
The same day I went
on board we set sail,
standing away to the
northward upon our
own coasts, with de-
sign to stretch over
for the African
coast. We had very
good weather, all the
Way upon our Om
coast till we came
to the height of '
Cape St. Augustine;
' from whence, keep-
ing farther off at
sea, we lost sight of
land, and steered as
if we were bound
for the isle F eman-
do de Noronha. In
this course we
passed the line in
about twelve (lays' time, and were, by our last observation, in seven
degrees twenty--two minutes northern latitude, when avielent tor-
nado, or hurricane, took us quite out of our knowledge. For twelve
days together we could do nothing but drive, and during these
twelve days, Ineed not say that I expected every (lay to he swal-
lowed up ; nor did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
About the twelfth day, the weather ahating a little, the master made
an observation as well as he could, and found that he was in about
eleven degrees of north latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees

 

" 11:0me ovmi THE CHARTS."
 

"COMMITTED QURSRLVIIS T0 GOD'S MERCY AND TH]! WILD SEA."

of longitude difference west from Cape St. Augustine; so that he
found he was gotten upon the. coast of Guiana, and no"r he began to
consult with me What course he should take ' for the ship was leaky,
and very much disabled, and he was for going directly back to the
coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of the
sea-coast of America with him, we resolved to stand away for Barba-
does; which we might easily perform, as we imped, in about fifteen
days' sail ; whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the
coast of Africa without some assistance'both to our ship and "to our:
selves. ? '

With this design we exchanged our course, in order to watch some
of our English islands, where I hoped for relief , but our .vqyage was
otherwise determined; for a second storm came upon us,Whi(,-l1 car-
1ied us away with the same impetuosity westwaid, and drove us out
of the way of all human commeice. ~

In this distiess, the wind still blowing ve1y hind, one of 6111 men
early one morning cried out, "Land!" and we had no sooner run
out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereaboutein the
world we were, than the ship struck upon a. sand, and in a moment,
the sea broke over her in such a. manner that we expected we should
all have perished immediately.

We knew nothing where we were, and we could not so much as
hope to have the ship hold many minutes Without breaking in pieces,
unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, shOuld turn immediataly
about.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the ship's boat,
and with the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the
side; and getting all into her, let go, and committed ourselves, being
eleven in number, to God's mercy and the wild seas.

After we had wired, or rather driVen, about a league and a half, a.
raging wave, mountain--like, came rolling astern of us, and took us
With such a fury that it ovemet the boat at once. Thoth I swam
Very well, yet I. could not deliver myself. froi-n the waves so as to
draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather carried me,
a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went back,
and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead with the water I
took in. Seeing myself nearer the mainland than I expected, 1 got
upon my feet, and endeavored to make on towards the land as 'fast
as I could, before another wave should return and take me up again;

 

"I was now LANDED."
but T soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea
come after me as high as a great hill.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could feel myself carried
with amighty force and swiftness towards the shore a very great
way. I was covered with water a good while, but not so long but
I held it out, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood still a few
moments to recover breath, and then took to my heels, and ran with
What strength I had, fart-her towards the shore. But neither would
this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after
me. again; and twice more 1 was lifted up by the waves and carried
forwards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well~nigh been fatal. to me; for the
sea dashed me against a piece of a. rock, but 1' recovered a little, and
resolved to hold fast by the rock, till the wave went back. Now, as
the waves were not so high as at fiist, being nearer land, I held my
hold till the waves abated, and then fetched another run, which
bmug'hb me so near the shore that the next run I took I got to Lhe
mainland; where l: elambered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me
down upon. the grass, quite out of the reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and
than}: God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was some
minutes before scarce any room to hope. I walked about on the
shore, lifting up my hands, and my whole being, as I may say,
wrapt up in a contemplation of my delivereince; reflecting upon all

 

"snons THAT wane nor arrows."
   
   
 

my comrades that were
drowned, and that there
should not be one soul
saved but myself; for, as
for them, I never saw
them afterwards, or any
Sign of them, except three
of their hats, one cap,
and two shoes that were not
feiiows.

A-[ter I had solaced my mind
with the comfortable part of my
condition, I began to look round
me, to see what kind of place I
_ was in, and what was next to be

.1, 17m. my mum>> done; and I soon hand my com--

forts abate, for I was wet, had

no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink, to com-
i'ort me; neither did I see any prospect before me but that of perish-
ing with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts. 'In a word, I
had nothing about me but aknife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little to--
bacco in a box. Night coming upon me, I began, with a heavy
heart, to consider What would be my lot if there were any ravenous
beasts in that country. All the remedy that ofiered to my thoughts,
at that time, was to get up into a thick bushy tree, which grew near-
me, and where I resolved to' sit all night, and consider the next day
what death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. Being
excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as,
I believe, few could have done in mv condition.

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abal.';9d but that which. surprised me most was, that the ship was
lifted oil in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling
of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at
first mentioned, wherel had been so bruised by the wave dashing
me against it. '

When I came down PS10111 my apaitment in the 1.,ree I looked about.
me again, and the first thing I found was the boat, which lay about
two miles on my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the
- shore to have got to her but found a neck, or inlet, of water __be-
tween me and the boat; so I came back for the present, being 1no1e
- intent upon getting at the ship, when: I hoped to find something PS01

my pxesent subsistence.

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the tide ehbed
so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship
I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and
took the water. When I came to the ship, I espied a small piece of
repe, hanging down, and by the help of that rope got up into: the
forecastle of the ship. I found that all the ship's provisions were
dry, and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread--room,
and filled my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went about other
things;

Now Iwanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be v ery necessary to me.

We had several spare yards, and a spare topmast or two in the
ship; and I flung as many of them overboard as I. could manage,

. tying every one with a rope, that they might not drive away. When
this was done I went down the ship's side, and tied four of them to-
gether at both ends, as in the form of a raft, and laying two or three
short pieces of plank upon them, crossways, 'I found I could walk
upon it very well, but that it was not able to' bear any great weight.
80 I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare t0p~"I ESPIED A sum. mac: or non." (p. 26).
mast into three lengths, and added thorn to my raft, with a great
deal of labor and pains.

My- next care was what to load it with, but I was not long con-
sidering this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I
could get, and three of the seamen's chests, which I had broken open
and emptied. The first of. these 1 filled with bread, rice, three
Dutch chooses, live pieces of dried goat's flesh, and a little roumindor
of European com. I found several cases of, bottles balanging to our
skipper, in which were some cordial waters; and, in all, about five
or six gallons of arrack. Those I stowed by themselves. While I
was doing this,l found the tide began to flow, though very calm;
and I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat,
which l had left on shore upon the sand, swim away. As for my
breaches, which were only linen, and open--knead, I swam'on board
in them and my stockings. However, this put me upon rumm. " g
for clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more than I
wanted for present use, for I had other things which my eye was
more upon; as, first, tools to work with on shore, and it was alter
.long searching that 1 found out the carpenter's chest, which was in--
dead a. very useful prize to me.

My next care was for some "ammunition and arms. There were
two very good fowling pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols.
These I secured first, with some powder--horns, a small bag of shot,
and two old rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of pow-
der in the slgip, but knew not where our gunner had stowed them ;
but with mildli search I. found them.

Having found two or three broken oars, belonging to the boat, and
besides the tools which were in the chest, two saws, an axe, and a
hammer, with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or thereabouts,
my raft went very well, only that I found it drive a little distant
from the place where I had landed before.

Then there appeared beforeme a' little opening of the land. 1
found a strong current of the tide set into it; so I guided my raft as
well as I could, to keep in the middle. of the stream.

But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, for,
knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at. one end of it
upon a shoal, and not being aground at>> the other end, it- wanted but
 

"wm! THIS CARGO 1 m TD am."

a. little that all my cargo had slipped on' towards the end that was
afloat, but holding up the chests with all my might, T. stood in that
manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of the water
brought me a little more upon a. level; and a little. after, the Water
still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust her oil, and then driv~
ing up higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little
river. I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore, and
at length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to
which, with great pain and dilliculty, I guided my raft, near a flat
piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow over; and
so it did. As soon as I found water enough, I thrust. her upon that
flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her, by sticking
my two oars into the ground--one on one side, near one end, and one
on the other side, near the other end ; and thus I lay till the water
ebbed away, and left my rail. and all m y cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place
[or my habitation. There was a hill not above a. mile from me, which
rose up very steep and high. I took out one of the fowllllg--plCCGS,
and one of thc pistols, and a horn of powder; and thus armed, I
traveled for discovery up to the top of that hill, Where I saw that l
was in an island environed every way with the sen: no land to be
seen except some rocks, which lay a great way off, and two small
islands, less than this, which lay about three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I. was in was barren, and uninhabited,
except by wild beasts. Yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds; neither, whenl killed them, could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great. bird,
which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. I had
no sooner fired but frOin all parts of the. wood there arose an innumer-
able number of [owls of many sorts, making a confused sorezuning
and crying, every one according to his usual note, but not one of
them of any kind that I knew. As for the creatn re I killed, I took
it to be a kind of hawk; Its flesh was Carrion, and {it for nothing.
I came back to my wit, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore,
which took me up the rest of the day. What to do with myself at
night I knew not. However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and
made a kind of hut for that night's lodging.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things
out of the ship which would be useful to me, and I resolved to make
another voyage on board the vessel, if possible.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft; and
brought away several things very useful to me; as, first, in the3A

ROBlNSON CRUSOE. u
carpenter's (N .
stores I'found \K " 3L}! % -'>>-deg' git-<<"f
two or three \1 '* pg' 7:}
bags full of nails and <<r ,;;- .
spikes, a great. screw-jack, a <<PS1 \
dozen or two of hatchets, and, 9' .
above all, that most useful thing '4- 9%
called a grindstono. Besides
these things, I took all the men's
clothes that 1 could find, and 3 Spare
fore-topsail, a hammock, and some
bedding; and with this I loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe
on. shore, to my very great comfort.

I was under some apprehension
during my absence from the land, that
at least my provisions might be.
devoured on shore; but when I
came back I found no Sign of
any visitor; only there
sat. a crea-
ture like a
wild eat up--
on one of the
the chests,
which, when
I came to-
wards it, ran
away a. little
distance, and
then stood
still. I pre--
sented my
glm to her,
but, as she
did not un-
derstand it,
she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away ,
upon 11 hieh I tossed her a bit of biscuit, and she went to it, smelled
at it, and ate it, and looked (as pleased) for more; but I thanked. her,
and could Spare no more: so she mar chad off.

Havinga not my second cargo on shore, I went to work to make me
a little tent, with the sail, and some poles which I cut for that pul-
pose; and him this tent I b1'011glrt, everything that-I knew would
spoil either with lain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests and
caske up in a o1 role round the tent, to f01 tlfy it from ally sudden at--
tempt, either from man 01- beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and anempty chest set up on end without; and
spreading one of the beds upon the ground, I went to bed for the
first time, and slept very quietly all night. I was very weary and
heavy; [or the night befo1e I had slept. little, and had labored very
hard all day.

While the ship sat upright .111 that postu1e,I thought I ought to
get e1 erything out of her t.hal I. could; so everf'day, I went on
board, and brought away something or other After I had made five
or six such voyages as these, and thought. I had nothing more to
expect PS10m the ship that was worth my meddling with--I say, after
all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, three large runlots of
mm, or spirits, a. box of fine sugar, and a barrel of line flour. I got
all this safe on shore also, though at several times.

The next day Imade another voyage, and got. two cables and a
hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could get: and having cut
down the spritsail yard, and the mizzen yard, and everything I could
to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy goods and came
away. But my good luck began to leave me, for this raft was so 1111-
wieldy, and so overladen, that after I was entered the little cove,
where I had landed. the rest of my goods, it. overset, and threw me
and all my cargo into the water. However, when the tide was out, I
got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though
with infinite labor. After this, I went every day on board, and
'brOught away what I could get.

Preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I feund the Wind began
to rise. However, at low water I went on board, and though I
thought I had rummaged the cabin so efieotually that nothing more
could he found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one
of which I found two or three razors, and one pair of large scissors,
with some ten or a dozen of good
knives and forks; in. another I found
about thirty-six pounds value in
money. I smiled to myself at the
sight of. this money. " Oh, drug!"
said I aloml, "what art thou good
for? Thou art not worth to me--no,
not the taking 011' the ground; one
of: those knives is worth all this heap.
However, upon second thoughts, I
took it away; and wrapping all in a
piece of canvas, I began to think of
making another raft; but
while ,1. was preparing
' this, 1 found the sky
overcast, and the wind
began to rise, and in a quar-
ter of an hour it blew a fresh
gale from the shore. It pres-
ently occurred to me that it.
was in vain to pretend to make
a. raft with the wind off shore.
Accordingly, I let myself
down into the water, and swam
across the channel which lay
between the ship and the
sands, and even that with
"mm m mummy m" difficulty enough, partly with
the weight of the things I had

about me, and partly from the roughness of the water.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my
wealth about 'me very secure. It blew very hard all that night, and

in the morning, when I looked out, behold, no more ship was to be
seen.
My thoughts were new wholly employed about securing myself
against either savages, or wild beasts, if any were in the island ; and
I had many thoughts of the method how to do this, and whether I
shOuld make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth; and,
in short, I resolved. upon both.

I found a. little plain on the side of a rising hill, Whose front to--
wards this little plain was steep as a house--side, so that nothing
could come down upon me from the top. On the side of the rock
them was a hollow place, 1-1-0111 a little way in, like the enhance or
door of a cave , but there was not really any cave or nvay into the
100k, at all

On the flat of the green, just below this hello; e, I resolved to
pitch my tent. Before I set up my to t, I dre , elf--circle before
the hollow place, which took in ab en yards ire. its semi-diameter
hem the rock, and twenty yards, 8 diameter from its beginning
and ending.

In this half--ciiclo I pitched two 101113 of strong stakes, driving them
into the ground till they stood Veiy firm like piles. ' Then 1 took the
pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and laid them in rows
between these two rows of stakes, 11p to the top, placing other stakes _
in the inside, leaning against them, about two feet and a half high,
- like a spui to a post; and this fence was so strong that neithe1 man
n01 beast could get into it or 0ch it.

The entrance into this place I made to bexnot by a door, but by a.
short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I Lifted
over after me; and sonas completely fenced in and fortified, as I
thOught, from all the world. Into this fence, or fortress, with in--
finite labor, I carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, of which you have the aecmint ab0ve; and I made me a
large tent also, to preserve me from the mine, that in one part of
the yea1 1119 very Violent there.

Into this Ienl I brought all my provisions, and everything that

would spoil by the we! , and having thus inelosed all my goods, I
made up the entrance, and so passed and re-passed, as I said, by a.
short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the mck, and
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out throagh my
tent, I laid them up Within my fence, in the nature of a terrace, so
that it raised the ground within about a foot and a. half; and thus
T made me a cave, just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house.

While this was doing, 1 went out at least once every day with my

 

"x waxrnn "ammo THAT HE comm FRTOH ME."

gun, to see if I could kill anything fit for food ; and I presently dis-
cove1ed that there were goats in the islawud The first shot I made
among these creetmes, I killed a she--goat, which. had a. little kid 1w
her. When the old one fell, the kid stood stock-still by hei, till I
came and took her up ; and not onlv so, but when I carried the old
one with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my in--
closure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my
arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame;
but it would not eat ; so I was forced to kill it and eat it myself.
These two supplied me with flesh a great while.

It came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time
for want of books, and pen, and ink, and should even forget the
Sabbath--day from the working days; but to prevent this, I out it
with my knife upon a large post, in capital letters; and making it in-
to a great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first. landed, 'viz.,

"I came 011 shore here 011 the 30th of September,1659."

Upon the sides of this squaie post I out every day a notch with
my knife, and e'v'eiy seventh notch was as long again as the 1est, and
every fiist day of the month as long again as that long one- and thus
I kept my calendar.

In the next place, we are to observe that among the many things
which I brought from the ship .in the sex oral voyages which, as
above mentioned, Imiade to it, I got several things of less value, but
not at all less useful to 111e, which I omitted setting down befeie , as,
in 111111;" 111st, pens, ink, and paper: ,_:severa1 pa1cels 1n the captain' s,
mate's, gunners, and (iii'p'enter's keeping; three or four compasses,

. some mathematical instruments, charts, and books of navigation,
three Bibles, and several other books; all which I carefully secured.
And I must not forget that we had in the ship a dog and two cats,
of whose history I must have occasion to say semething in its place,
for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped
out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore to me the day after
I went on shore with-my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me
many years; I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any com--
pany that he could make up to me. X

The want of tools made every work I did go on heavily; and it was
near a whole yea1 befme I had entirely finished my little pale, or $111-
1'ounded habitation. But what need I have been concerned at the
tediousness oi: anything I had to do, seeing I had time aneugh to do
it in? nor had I any other employment, except the ranging the is--
land to seek for food. I have already described this habitation,
which was a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong
pale of pests and cables; but 1 might now rather call it a wall, for
I raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about two feet thick, on
the outside; and after some time (I think it was a year and a half)
I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered
it with boughs of trees, and such things as I could get to keep out
the rain, which I found at some times of the year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale,
and into the cave which I had made behind me. But I must observe,
too, that at first this was a. confused heap of goods, which, as they
lay in no order, so they took up all my place; I had no roam (.0
turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and worked farther
into the earth; for it was a
loose, Sandy rock, whiCh
yielded easily to the labor I
bestowed on it: and so when
I found I was pretty safe as to
beasts of prey, I worked side-
ways, to the right hand, into
the rock, and then turning to
the right again, worked quitc'
out, and made me a door to
come out on the outside of my
pale or fortification. .

And now I began to apply .
myself to make such necessary
things as I found I most
wanted, particularly a chair
and a table. I had never
handled a tool in my life; and yet, in time, by labor, application,
and contrivauce, I found, at last, that I wanted nothing but I could
have made it, especially if 1 had had tools. However, I made abun-
dance of things even without tools; and some with no more tools
than an adze and a hatchet, which, perhaps, were never made that
way before, and that with infinite labor. For omi'nple, if I wanted
a board, I had no other Way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge
before me, and how it flat on either side with my axe, till I had
brought it to be as thin as a plank and then dub it smooth with my
adzc.

During this time I made rounds in the woods for game every day,
when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries in these
wrilks of something or other to my advantage; particularly I found
a kind. of, wild pigeons, which build, not as wood--pigeons in, atrec,
but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and taking

 

"A run or wn.>> J'IGIEOXS,"'38 110131113011 meson.

some young ones, I endeavored to breed them up tame, and did so;
but when they grew older they flew all away, which perhaps was at
fiist for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them; how--
ever, I frequently found their nests and got thei1 young ones, who 11
were very,3 wood meat.

It happened that, rummaging my things, I found a. little bag
which had been filled uith corn for the Ieedinn' of poultry. I saw
nothing 1n the. bag but husks and dust; and being willing to haxe
the bag PS01 some other use, I shook the husks
of corn out of it. on one side of my fortifica--
tion, wider the rock.

I threw this stuff away, taking no my
tice of anything, and not so much
as remembering that I had thrown
anything there, when, about a month
after, or Lhereabouts, I saw some few
stalks of something green shooting
upon the ground,
which I fancied
might- be some plant.
I had not. seen; but
1 was surprised and
__ perfectly astonished
'jwhen, after a, little
longer time, I saw
about ten or twelve
ears come Out which
were perfectly green
barley, of the same
kind as our Europe-
zm--nay, as our
English barley.

It is impossible
to express the aston-
ishment and confu--
' sion of my thoughts

"1 ms svnrnmu AND reanmu u remixes." on thls deg C c a 510 n 1aomizsorv onuson. 89

and I began to suggest that God had miraculously caused this grain
to grow without any help of seed sown, and that it was so directed
purely for my sustenance in that wild miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes.
and I began to bless myself that. such a prodigy of Nature should
happen upon my account; and this was the more strange to me be--
cause I saw near it still, all along by the side of the rock, some other
straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and which I
knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa when I was ashore there.
Not doubting but that. there was more in the place, I went all over
that part of the island, peering in every corner and under every '
rock, to see for more of it, but I could not find any. At last it oc-
Curred to my thoughts that I had shaken the bag of chickens' meat.
out in that place; and the wonder began to cease.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may he sure, in their
season, which was about the end of June ; and laying up every corn,
I resolved to sow them all again, hoping in time to have some quan-
tity, sufficient to supply me with bread. But it was not till the
fourth year that I wmdd allow myself the least grain of this corn to
eat, and even then but sparingly. I

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks of
rice, which 1 preserved with the same care, and whose use was of the
same kind 01 to the same purpose, viz.I to make me bread, or rather
food; for I found ways to cook it up without baking, thOugh I did
' that also after some time.

Not long after the wall of my castle was finished, I had almost had
all my labor Overthrown at once, and myself killed. The case was
thus :-----As T was busy just in the entrance into my cave, I was ter-
ribly frightened with a most dreadful surprismg thing indeed: for,
all 011 a sudden, I found the earth came tumblng down from the roof
of my cave, and two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in
a frightful manner. I ran forwards to my ladder, and not thinking
myself safe there neither, I got over my wall. I was no sooner
stepped down upon the firm ground, than I plainly saw it. was a
terrible earthquake; for the ground I stood on shook three times at
about eight minutes' distance, with three such shocks as would have
overtluned the strongest building that could be. supposed to have
stood upon the earth. I was like one dead or stupified ; and the mo--
tion of the earth made my stomach sick like one that was tossed at
sea.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time,
I began to take courage;
and yet I had not heart
enough to get over my wall
again, but still eat upon the
ground, greatly cast down
and diaconsolate, not know-
ing what to do. While I sat
' thus, it grow cloudy, as if it
would ruin; soon after that,
the wind aroae so that in less
than half an hour it blew a
most dreadful hurricane of
Wind. This held about
three hours, and then began
to abate; and than in two
hours more it was calm, and
began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon
the ground very much terri--
fied and dejected; when on
a. sudden it came into my
thoughts that these winds
and rain being the conse-
quonees of the earthquake,
the earthquake itself was
spent and over, and I might-
venture into my cave again. I went in and sat don-11in my tent;
but. the rain was so violent that my tent was ready to be beaten
down with it; and I was forced to go into my cave, though very
much afraid it should fall on my head. It continued raining all
that night, and great part; of the next day, so that I. could not stir
abroad; but my mind being more composed, I began to think of
what I had best to do; concluding that I must consider of building -

   
 

"AT LENGTH I commvnn A WHEEL."
me some little hut in an open place which I might surround with a
wall. In the meantime it occurred to me that it would require a
vast deal of time for me to do this, and that I must be contented to
run the venture where lwas, till. I had formed a. camp for myself,
and had secured it so as to remove it.

The next morning I began to consider of means to put this resolve
in execution; but I was at a great less about my tools. 1 had three
large axes, and abundance of hatchets, but with much chopping and
cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches, and dull;
and though Ihad agrindstone, leould not turn it and grind my -
tools too. At length I contrived awhecl with a string to turn it
with my foot, that I might have bothmy hands at liberty.

0n the morning of the first of May, I found a barrel of gunpowder
and some pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on
shore by the late hurricane; and looking towards the wreck, I
thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to. I
went out on the sands as near as I could to the wreck, and feund,
that the forecastle had parted from the stern, and that whereas be;
fore I could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck with--
out swimming, I could now walk quite up to her when the tide was
out. As the ship was more broken Open than formerly, many things
came daily on shore.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of moving my
habitation, and I busied myself in searching whether-I could make
anyway into the ship; but I found nothing was to be expected of
that kind, for all the inside of it was choked up with sand. How--
ever, as 1 had learned not to despair of any thing, 1. resolved to pull
everything to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that every-
thing I could get from heruwould be of some use or other to me.

I continued this work every, day to the 15th of June, except the
time necessary to get food; and by this time I had gotten timber,
and plank, and iron-work enough to have built a good heat, if I had
known how; and I also got, 'at several times, and in several pieces,
near one hundredweight of sheet lead.

One day during this time I went a--fiahing, hut caught not one
fish that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when, just go-
ing to leave 03, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a long
line of some
rope--yarn, but
had no hooks;
yet frequent--
ly I c'ught
fish enough,
. as much as I
cared to eat;
all which I
dried in the
Sun, and ate
them dry.

Going down
to the sea-side
on the 16th
of June, I found a large tor-
toise or turtle. This was the
first I had seen. I found in
her three score eggs; and
her flesh was to me, at that
time, the most savory and
pleasant; that; ever I tasted
in my life.

The rain fell for some
days, and I felt ill and shiv--
ering, as if the weather had
' been cold. I had no rest all
"""rnight; had. violent pains in
my head, and feverish.

I The. next. day I was very ill;

{lighted almost to death
with the apprehensions of
my sad condition--to be
sick and no help: prayed to
God, for the first time since
the storm off Hull, but scarce knew what I said or why; my
thoughts being all confused.

   
 

"I CAUGHT A YOUNG nomxm."
The next day I was a little
better, but on the next day
after that I was very had
again, and so it wont, turn
about, for se\- oral days. One
'gd'w ghat I felt somewhat bet,
' efj'harv'ing no victuals to eat,
I)???>> took my gun, but found
11inle very week; however,
94"" I'killod a. she-goat, and with
much difficulty, got; it home,
and boiled some of it, and
ate.

On June 27th, I had. the
agile again so violent; that I
lay abed all day and neither
aLo nor drank. I was ready
to perish for thirst; but so

   
 
  
  
 
    
  
   
   

  

weak I had no
strength to stand
up, 01' to get my-
self any water to
drink. Frayed to
God again, but was
light-headed; and >>>>>
when I was not, ----- A
I was so ignorant

that I knew not

What to say; only

'I lay and cried, " Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have
mercy upon me! " I suppose I did nothing else for two or three
hours: till the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not awake till

"' .\ man Tommy; on -mm."
far in the ninrht. When I awoke, I found myself much reireshed,
but weak, and exceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my
whole habitation I was Ieiced 10 lie till morning, and went to sleep
again In this second sleep, I had this teirible dream: I thought
that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside of my wall, where I
set when the storm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw 3 1113.11,
descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and light
upon the ground : lie was all over as bright as a flame, so that I could
but just bear to look towards him: his countenance was most inex<<
pressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe ; when he
stepped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled,
just as it had done before in the e111 thqnake, and all the air looked,
to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with flashes of fi1e. He
was no sooner landed upon the ea1th but he moved forwards towards
me, with a. long spear or weapon in his hand to kill me; and when
he came to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me--or I
heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the terror
of it. All that I can say I. understood waee' his :--" Seeing all these
things have not brought thee to rcpent'incefiiitm thou 'shalt die; " at
whieh words, I thought he lifted up the spear: that was in his hand
to kill me

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should
be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this te1ri.ble \ision.
New is it any more possible to describe the impression that remained
upon my mind when I awaited, and found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What Ihad received, by the
good instruction of my father was then worn out by an uninterrupted
series, for eight yoms, of sea-faring wickedness, and a constant con-
versation with none but such as were, like myself, wicked and pro--
fane to the last degree. I do not remember that I had, in all that
time, one thought that so much as tended either to looking upwards
towards God, 01 inwards towards a. reflection upon my own ways ,
but a certain stupidity of soul, 111thout desire oI good, or conscience
of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me.

"New, " said I alo11d,"my deal Iather' 5 words are come to pass;
God's justice he's overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a
posture or station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy ;
but I would neither see it myself, not learn to know Ithe blessing of
it, from my parents. I left, them to mourn over my folly ; and now I
am left to mourn under the consequences of it. I refused their help
and assistance, who would
have lifted me into the
world, and would have
made everything easy to
one; and new I have difi'i--

  
 
 
 

"Bgouzo 11' 0): THE cons."

culties to struggle with too great for even nature itself to support,
and no assistance, no help, no comfort, no advice." Then I cried
out, "Lord, be my help, for Iam in great distess." This was the
first prayer, if I might call it so, that I had made for many years.
Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had had, and
the fit being entirely off, I got. up; and though the fright and terror
of my dream was very great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague
would return again the next day, and nonr was my time to get some--
thing to refresh and support myself when I should be ill: and the
first thing I did, I filled a large square case-bottle with water, and
set it upon my table, in reach of my bed'; and to take off the chill or
aguish disposition of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint of
rum. into it, and mixed them together. Then I got me a piece of the
goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little. I
walked abou1,hu1. was veiy weak, and 1111hal xery sad and heavy-
lieartedin the sense of 1111' miserable condition, d1oading the return
of my distemper the next day. '
After I had eaten, I. tried to walk, but found myself so weak that
I could hardly carry the gun, for I never went. out without- that; so
I went out but a little way, and sat down upon the ground, looking
out upon the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and
smooth. As I sat there, some thoughts such as these occurred to
me :--" What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so much?
Whence is it produced '? And what am I, and all the other creatures,
wild and tame, human and brutal? "Thence are we? Sure we are
all made by 501119 secret Fewer, who formed the earth and sea, and
ziir and sky. And who is that ? " Then it followed most; naturally--
"It is God that has made it all. Well, but then," it came on strong--
ly, "if God has made all these things, He guides and governs them
all, and all things that concern them; for the Being that could make
all things must certainly have power to guide and direct them. If
so, nothing can happen, in the great circuit of his works, either
without His knowledge or appointment.
"And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows that
I am hole, and am in this dreadful condition, and if nothing hap--
pens without His appoin1.ment,Helns appointed all this to befall
me." Immediately i1. followed--"Why has God done this to me?
What; have I done to be thus used? " My conscience presently
checked Inc in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed, and methought
it spoke to me like a voice, " Wretch,dos1 thou ask what. thou hast
done? Look back upona '1dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself,
what thou hast not done? Ask,wh.y1s it that thou wert not. long
ago destroyed '? Why weir. thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads?
killed in the fight, when the ship was taken by the Sallee man-of-AA

ROBINSON CRUSOE. _ 4'!

war ? devoured by the wild beasts off the coast of Africa? or
drowned here, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou,
ask, ' What have I done? ' " I was struck dumb with these re
fiections, as one astonished, and had not a word to say, but rose up
pensive and sad, Walked back to my retreat, and went up over my
wall, as if I had been going to bed ; but my thoughts were sadly dis-
turbed, and I had no inclination to sleep ; so I sat down in my chair,
and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. New, as the appro--
hensions of the return of my distemper terrified me very much, it
occurred to my thought that the Brazilians take no physio but their
tobacco for almost all distempers, and I had a piece of a. roll of to-
bacxm in one of the chests.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this chest I found a
cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, via, the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay
there too, I took out one of the Bi blos which I mentioned before, and
which to this time I had not found leisure, or so much as inclination;
to look into. Having opened the book casually, the words first that
occurred to me were these, " Call upon Me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me." These Words were
very apt to my case, and made some impression upon my thoughts
at the time of reading them, though not so much as they did after--
wards; for, as for being delivered, the thing was so remote that I be-
gan to say, as the children of Israel did when they were promised
flesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in the Wilderness ? " so I began
to say, " Can God Himself: deliver me from this place?" However,
the Words made a great impression upon me, and I mused uporn them

_ very. often.

It. grew new late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head so
much that I inclined to sleep: so I went to bed. But beforeI lay
down, I kneeled and prayed to God to fulfill. the promise to me, that
if. I called upon Him in the day of trouble, He would deliver me.
After my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in
which I had steeped the tobacco; immediately upon this I went to
bed ; and I found presently it flew up into my head violently; but I
fell into a sound sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must
necessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, .
to this hour I am partly of opinion that I slept all the next day and
night, and till almost three the day after; for otherwise] know not
how I should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of. the week,
as it appeared some years after I had done. Wl'ien I awaked I found
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful;
when I got up I was stronger the'm'I was the day before, and my
stomach better, for I was hungry ; and, in short, I had no lit the next
day, but continued much altered for the better.

I had now been in
this unhappy island
above ten months; all
possibility of deliverance
from this condition
seemed to be entirely
taken from me; and I
firmly believed that no
human shape had ever
set foot upon that place.
. Ho ving now secured
tiny habitation, as I
thought, fully to my
mind, I had a great dev
sire to make a more
perfect discovery of the
island, and to see what
other productions I
might find, which yet I
knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of
July that I began to
take a more particular
_ survey of the island it-
self.1 went up the
creek first, Where, as I
hinted, I brought my
rafts on shore. I found,
"x Win" or ran mums FIRSE" after I came about two(p. 50.)

"x DBSOENDED A mm: ON THE sum or ran Dmcxovs VALLEY."
miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it was no
more than a little brook of running water, and very flesh and good.
On the banks of this brook, I found many pleasant savannahs or
meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and on the rising
parts of them, next to the higher grounds, where the water, as it
might be supposed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of tobacco,
green, and growing to a great and very strong stalk; there were di--
vers other plants, which I had no notion of or understanding about,
and might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I searched for the cassava foot, which the Indians in all that.
climate made their bread of, but I could find none. I saw large
plants of aloes, hut did not. then understand them. I saw several
sugar-canes, but wild and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I con-
tented myself with these discoveries [or this time, and came back?"

The next day, I went up the same way again; and after going
something further than I had gone the day before, I found the coun- .
try heeame more woody than before. In this part I found different
fruits, and particularly I found melons upon the ground, in great
abundance, and grapes upon the trees: the vines had spread indeed
over the trees, and the clusters oi grapes were just new in their
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I
found an excellent use for these grapes: and that was, to cure or
dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are
kept, which I thought would he, as indeed they were, as wholesome
and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my habitation,
but. took my first contrivance, and got. up into a. tree, where l slept
well; and the next morning proceeded upon my discovery, travelling
nearly four miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley, keep--
ing still due north. At the end of this march I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the West ; and a little spring
of fresh. water, which issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran
the other way, that is, due east; and the country appeared so fresh,
so green, so flourishing, overt-hing being in a constant verdure, or
flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted garden. I descended
alittle on the side of that delicious valley, and I saw here abun-
dance of cocoa-trees, orange and lemon, and Citron-trees; but all
Wild, and few hearing any fruit, at least, not then. However, the
green limes that, I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very
wlzolesoum; and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing. I found 110w

 

"i suwxin xv mum."

>4 l' had business enough to gather and carry home; and I resolved t6
lay 'up a store, as well of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish my-
sell for the wet season, which I knew was approaching.

l contemplated wiLh great. pleasure the Iruitfulnesfi of that valley,
and the pleasantness 'of the situation; the security from storm on
that side of the water, and the wood; and concluded that, I had
pitched upon a place to fix my abode which was by far the__worst
part; of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of remov--
ing my habitation, and to look cut [or a place equally safe as whe1e ,
now T was situate, if possible, in that pleasant, fruitful part of the
island.

This thought ran along in my head, but when I came to a nearer
view of it, I considered that 1 was now by the seaside, where it was
at least possible that something might happen to my advantage; and
that the same ill late that brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretches to the same place; and to inclose myself among
the hills and woods in the center of the island was to anticipate my
bondage, and to render such an affair not only improbable but
impossible ; and that therefore I ought not by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamored with this place that I spent much of
my time there for the whole remaining part of the month of July;
and though, upon, second thoughts, I resolved as above not to re
move, yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and Surrounded it at a.
distance with a strong fence; and here I lay very secure, sometimes
two or three nights together.

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my labor,
but the rains came on, and made me stick close to my first habita--
tion; for though I had made me a tent like the other, with a piece
of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of a. hill
to keep me from storms, n01 a cave behind me to retreat into when
when the rains were extraordinary.

On September 30th I cast up the notches on my post, and found I
had been on shore three hundred and sixty-- l--ive days. I kept this
day as a. solemn Inst, setting it'apart for religious exercise, confess--
ing my sins to God, and praying to Him to have mercy on me'
through Jesus Christ; and having'not tasted the least refreshment
for twelve h0.us,e even till the going down of the sun, I then ate a
biscuit-cake and a. bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the
day as I began it.

I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice
which I had so surprisingly found spring up, and now I thought it a
proper time to sow it, after the rains. Accordingly, I dug up a
piece of ground as well as Icould, and dividing it into two parts,
I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my
thoughts that I weald not sow it all at first, because I did not know
when was the proper time for it, so I. sowed about two--thirds of the
need. It- Was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not
one grain of that I'sewed this time came to anything; [or the dry
months following, it had, no moisture to assist its growth, and. never
came up at all till the wet season had come again, and then it grew
as if it had been newly sown. Finding my first seed did not grow,
which I easily imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground, to make another trial in, and 'I dug up a piece of
ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in Feb--.
ruary, a little before the vernal equinox; and this, having the rainy
months of March and April to water it sprang up very pleasantly,
and yielded a very good crop; but. having part of the seed left only,
and not daring to sow all that I had got, I had but a small quantity
at last, my whole crop not amormting to above half a peck of each
kind. But by this experiment I was made master of my business,
and knew exactly when the proper season was to sow, and that I
might expect two seed-times and two harvests every year. While this
corn was growing I made a little discovery, which was of use to me
afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, I made a visit up the
country to my bower. The fence or double hedge that I had made
was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I had out off of
some trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out and grown with
long branches. Iwas surprised, and yet very well. pleased, to see
the young trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them up 1.0 grow
as much alike as I could ; and it is scarcely credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into, in. three years; so that it was a complete
' shade, Sufficient to lodge under all the dry season. This made me
resolve to cut somomore stakes, and make me a hedge like this in a
semicircle round my wall '(I mean that of my first dwelling), which I
did ; and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight
yards distance from my first fence, they grew presently, and were
at first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for a
' defense also, as I shall observe in its order.
I found new that the seasons of the year might generally be di-
vided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but into the rainy
seasons and the dry seasons. After I had found, by experience, the
ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish
myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go
out, and I sat within doors as much as possible during the' wet
months. In this time I found much employment, and. very Suitable
also to the time, for I found great occasion of many things which I
had no way to furnish myself with but by hard labor and constant
application; particularly, I tried many ways to make myself. a has--
ket, but all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so brittle
that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to
me new that when I was a boy I used to take great delight in stand-
ing at a basket--maker's, in the town where my father lived, to see
them make their Wicker-ware; and, I had by this means so full
knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted nothing but the ma-
terials; when it came into my mind that the twigs of that tree {rem
whence I cut my stakes that grew might possibly be as tough as the
osiers in England, and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the next day
I went to my country house, and cutting some of the smaller twigs,
I feund them to my purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon
I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I soon found. These I set up to dry, and when they were fit
for use, I carried them to my cave; and here, during the next sea--
son, I employed myself in making, as well as I could, a great many
baskets, and though I (lid not finish them very handsomely, yet- I
made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose.

I mentioned before that I had a great mind to see the Whole island;
and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to Where I built my
bower. I new resolved to travel quite across to the sea--shore on
that side; so, taking my gun, ahatehet, and my dog, I began my
journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower stood, I
came within view of the sea to the west, and it being a very clear
day, I fairly deseried land.---whether an island or a continent I could
not tell; but it lay very high, at a. very great distance; by my guess,
it could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I saw abundance of parrots on that side of the island where I now
was, and fain would I have caught one, if. possible, to have kept it
to be tame, and taught it to speak to me. I did, after some pains-
taking, catch a young parrot, for. I knocked it down with a stick, andhaving recovered it, I brought it home; but it was some years be.
fore I could make him speak; however, at last, .I taught him to call
me by name very familiarly

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in the low

 

"1 xNooxnn 11' DOWN wrm A s'rxcx."

ground hares and foxes; but they differed greatly from all the other
kinds I had met with, nor could I satisiy myself to eat them. But,
I had no need to be vonturoue, for 1 had no want of food and of that
which was very good, too, especially these three sorts, viz-., goats,
pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise, which, added to my grapes, Leader).-
hall Market could not have furnished a table better than I in pro-
portion to the company. As soon as I came to the sea-shore I was
surprised to see that I had taken up my lot on the Waist side of the
island, for here, indeed, the shore was covered with innumerable
turtles, whereas, on the other side I had found but three in a year
and a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls of many
"fie 3?>> kinds, some of which I

"-' <<Fr We ' had not seen before, and
- many of them very good
meat, but such as I knew
not the names of, except
" those called penguins.

Although I confess this
side of the country was
much pleasanter than
mine; yet. I had not the
least inclination to remove,
for as Iwas fixed in my
habitation it became natu-
ral to me, and I seemed all the
while I was here to be as it were
upon a journey, and from home,
However, I traveled along the
shore of the sea tmvarcls the east,
'I suppose about twelve miles, and
then setting up a, great pole upon
the shore for amarli, I concluded
I would go home again, and that
the next journey I took should be
on the other side of the island east
from my dwelling, and so round till T. came to my post again.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it,
and 1 running in to take hold of it, caught it, and saved it alive
from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could, for I
had often been musing whether it. might not be possible to get a kid
or two, and so raise a breed of fame goats, which might supply me
when my powder and shot should be spent. 1 made a collar to
this little creature, and witha string, which 1 made of some rope-
yarn, which I always carried about me, I led him along, though

     
 

     

"AN mmxn-r: NUMBER OF run-Ls."
with some difiiculty, till I came to my bower, and there I inelosed
him and left him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from
whence I had been absent above a. month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my
old hutch, and lie down in my hammock--bed. I reposed myself here
a week, to rest and regale myself after my long journey ; during
which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of mak-
ing a cage for my Poll. Then I began to think of the poor kid
which I had pent in Within my little circle, and resolved to go and
fetch it home, or give it some food; accordingly I went, and found .
it was almost starved for want of food. Having fed it, I tied it as
I did before, to lead it- away; but it was so tame with being hungry
that I had no need to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog; and
as T. continually fed it, the creature became so leving, so gentle, and
so fond, that it became from that time one of my domestics also, and
would never leave me afterwards.

My third crop of barley and rice was promising very well, when
on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies
of. several sorts, which it was scarcely possible to keep from it; as,
first, the goats and hares, which, tasting the sweetness of the blade,
ate it so close that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk. This
I saw no remedy for but by making an inclosure about it with a
hedge, which _I did with a great deal of toil; and shooting some of
the creatures in the day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, Where he would stand and bark
all night long , so in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and
the corn grew very strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined before, while my corn was in the blade,
so the birds were as likely to ruin me new, when it was in the ear;
for going along by the place to see how it ihrove, I saw my little
crop surrounded with Iowls, of I know not how many sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let
fly among them, for I always had mya dun with me. I had no sooner
:shot but there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen
at all, hem among the corn itself.

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I was no
sooner out of. their sight but the thieves dropped down one by one
into the corn again. I fired again, and killed three of them. This
was what I wished _ for; so I took them up, and served them as we
serve notorious thieves in England, viz", hanged them in chains, for

a terror to
'3' others. It
-

Nr- ~' is impos-
% sible to

"imagine

  
   
 
  

this should
have had
such an ef-
fect as it
had, for
the fowls would not only
not come at the corn, but,

in short, the fox-sock all
that part of the is and. This l

was very glad of, and about the
latter and of December, I reaped
my com.

.I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a
sickle to out it down, and all Icould do
was to make one out of one of the broad-
swords which- I saved among the arms
out of the ship. However, I reaped it
in my way, for 1 cut nothing ofi but the
ears, and carried it away in a. great- has-
ket which I had made, and so rubbed it
out with my hands; and at the end. of
all my harvesting, I found that out of my
half~peek of seed I had near two bushels of rice, and above two
bushels and a half of barley. _

It is a little wonderful, and What I believe few pimple have thought

much upon, viz., the strange multitude of little things necessary in
providing the one article of bread. I, that was reduced to a mere
state of nature, found this to my daily discouragement.

" I was>> AGAIN. "
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade. or shovel to
dig it. Well, this I conquered by making me a wooden spade, but
this did my work but inawooden manner. When the corn was
sown, I had no harrow, but was forced to drag a great heavy bough
of a tree over it. When it was growing, or grewn, I wanted many
things to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home,
thrash, part; it from the chall, and save it. Then I wanted a mill to
grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and
an oven to bake it in; and all these things I did without, as shall be
observed; and yet the corn was an inestimable ceinl'ort and advant-
age to me too. I had new seed encugh to sow above an acre of
ground. I sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, and
fenced them in with a good hedge. This work was not so little as
to take me up less than three months, because great part of that
time was of the wet season, when I could not go abroad. Within--
deor---that. is, when it rained and I could not go out--~I had a great
employment upon my hands, as follows --
viz., I had long studied, by some means or
other, to make myself some earthen Vessels,
which, indeed, I wanted sorely. However,
considering the heat of the climate, I did
not doubt but if I could find out any clay,
I mightbotch up some such pot as might,
being dried by the sun, be strong enough
to bear handling, and to hold anything that
was dry and required to be kept so. '

The clay I found, but it would make the
reader laugh at me to see what odd; mis-'
_ shapen, ugly things I made; how many
cracked by the heat of the sun, and fell in
pieces when they were removed, so that
with about two months' labor I could'not
make above two large earthen ugly things
(I cannot call them jars). '

Although I miscarried so much in my de-
sign for large pots, yet Imade several smaller things with better
success, such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and Pipkins'

 

"1 union>> mm m 0mm."
the sun baking them very hard. Getting a. hint by finding a broken
piece of one of my earnhenwme vessels in the lire, burnt. as hard as a
stone, I afterwards managed to balm several pots so hard that I
could boil meat and make broth in them. .

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to beat some corn
in, a. mill to grind it being out of the question. But all the SLUHGS of

 

"wmr onn, mssmflm, UGLY THINGS x mum."

the island being of a Sandy, crumbling nature, I resolved to look out
a great; block of hard wood, which havng found I formed it with my
axe and hatchet, and Lhcn with the help of fire made a hollow in it.
After this I made aheavy pestle of iron-Wood, and than laid them
by in readiness for my next crop of corn. r

The next thing to be made was a sieve, to sift my meal. Linen I
had none left but what was more rags. I had goat's hair, but, 1 could
not weave or spin it. At last I remembered that I had some neck--
rzlmhz-z of calico or muslin of the sailors, which I had. saved from the
ship, and with these 1' made three sieves, small, but proper enough
for the work.

The wan": of an oven T supplied by making some earthen vessels
very broad but. not deep. When I wanted to bake I made a great
tire upon the hearth, and when the wood was burned into live coals,
I draw them forward upon the hearth so as to cover it all over till it
became very hot; then, sweeping them away, I set down my loaveS,
and turning down an earthen pot upon them, drew the coals all
around the outside of the pot to keep in and add to the heat, and in
this way I. baked my barley loaves as well as if I had been a com-
plete pasti'yacook.

These things took me up the most part of a year, and what inter~
vale I had were given to managing my new harvest; for I reaped my
corn in season, and carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my
large baskets, till I had time to rub it out.

All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which I had seen
from the other side of the island ; and I was not without secret
Wishes that I was on-l'lshore there, faneying that, seeing the main-
land and an inhabited country, I might find some way or other to
convey mysell lie-@613 and perhaps at last find some means of escape.

Then I thought I would go and look at our ship's boat, which lay
on the high ridge of heachy rough sand, where it had been thrust
by the storm when we were first cast away. But it lay bottom up-
Ward, so I had to dig the sand from under it and turn it over with
the help of. wooden levers. When I had done this, 1. found it was all
in vain, for '[ had not the strength to get it to the water to launch it.

This at length set me upon thinking whether it was not possible
for me to make a canoe, such as the Indians make of the trunk of a
tree. I found one that was just. fit for it which grew not far from
the shore. Twenty days was I hacking and bowing this tree at the
bottom to fell it ; I was fourteen more getting the branches elf, and
a Whole month shaping it like the bottom of a boat. As for the in-
side I was three weeks with a. mallet and chisel clearing it.

N othing' remainmi but to get it to the water, but all my devices
to get it into the water failed me. T first dug the ground to make a
smooth deelivity from the boat to the sea, so as to let. it. slide down;
but I could then no more stir this heat than the other. Then I re-
solved to dig a canal to bring the water up to the boat. I began the
work, but on calculating how deep and broad it. would have to be,
I found it would take me ten or twelve years to dig it, so I gave it

over, seeing too late the folly of beginning; a work before we count
the cost. '
In the middle
of this work I;
finished my
fouith year in
this place, and
kept my anni- -
versary with mi;
'even greater de-
votion than ever
before, for now I
had so little hope
of ever leaving
the island, that I
looked upon the world
as a thing with which
I had nothing to do.
But I was separated
from its wickedness, '1
too; I had naming to 3%
covet; I might. c311 my- I
sell king or emperor of the
whole country of which I
had possession. ,I had tim-
ber enougl'). to have built a
fleet of ships; and I had
grapes enough to have
made wine, or to have cured
into raisins, to have loaded
that fleet When it had
been built. '

But all that. I could make
use of was all that was
valuable; I had enough to

 
 
  
    

"x 3mm nae m GROUND TO MAKE a
eat and to supply my wants, woo" mommy

and what. was all the rest
to me. The money I had lay by me as sorry, useless stuff, which I
would have freely given for a handful of peas or beans.
My clothes began to decay mightily, and of linen I had had name
for a good While except some shirts which I found in the seamen's
chests. There were also several thick watch coats of the seamen's,
but they were too hot to wear till I make jackets out of them. I had
saved all the skins of the four-footed creatures that I killed, and out
of. these, I made, first, a great cap [or my head, with the hair on the
outside to shoot off the
rain, and afterwards I
made me a suit. of clothes '
wholly of these skins---
that is' to say, a waist-
coat, and breeches open
at the knees, and both
loose; for they were
rather wanting to keep
me cool than to keep me
warm. After this I
spent a great deal of
time and pains to make
an umbrella, covering it
with skins; which was
a most useful thing to
me, as well for tho heat
of the sun. as for the rain.

I cannot say that af>>
her this, for five years,
any extraordinary thing }
happened to me, but I lived on in the same course as before. My
chief employment, besides my yearly labor of planting my barley and
rice and curing my raisins, was to make me a canoe, this time (I
such-a size that by digging a canal to it of six feet wide and four
feet deep, I brought it into the creek.

The design. I had in view when T made the first boat was to ven-
ture over to the other shore, but the size of this was not. at all suit-
able to that purpose, so my next design was to make a tour round
the island. I put up a. little mast in my boat, and made a sail for
it out of some of the ship's sails which I had in store. Then I made

 

"x men an: A son" or CLOTHES."
lockers to hold food and kept it dry, and a rest for my gun with a

flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my
captivity, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer

 

"I BROUGHT 11' mo was exam."

than I expected ; for though the island itself was not very large, yet
when I came to the east side of it, I found a great ridge of rocks lie
out about two leagues into the sea; and beyond that a shoal of sand
lying d1y half a league m01e, so that I was obliged to go a great. say
out to sea to double that point

I am a warning to all rash and ignorant pilots, for I was no sooner
come. to that point but I found myself in a great depth of water;
running like the sluice of a mill. It hurried me farther and farther
out, there was no wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with
my paddles signified nothing. I began to give myself over for lost,
and looked upon my solitary island as the most pleasant place in the
world, to be in which was all the happiness my heart could wish for.
However I worked as hard as I eculd, and, to my joy,'about noon a
breeze sprang up. I spread my sail and stood away to the north as
much as I could, and in a few hours came within a mile of tho shore,
where soon after I got to land. When I was on shore, I fell on my
knees, and gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay
aside all thoughts of my deliverance by boat.

I found a convenient harbor for my boat, and taking nothing but
my gun and umbrella, I began my march homeward. On my way
I lay down to rest, being quite spent with fatigue, and fell into a
deep sleep. But judge, if you can, what a surprise I must have been,
in when a voice woke me out of my sleep, and called my name several

.times, " Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe ! poor Robin Crusoe! " At first
I was dreadfully frightened, but as soon as I awoke thoroughly, I saw
my Poll sitting at the top of the hedge, and knew that it was he that
spoke, and did but say the words I had taught him. Calling him by
name, the sociable creature came to me, and satbe my thumb as he
used to do, and kept on talking to me as if he were overjoyed to see
me ; and so I carried him home with me.

1 had now had enough of rambling to sea, and for near a year I led
a. very sedate retired life, feeling resigned to the decrees of Provi--
deuce, and wanting nothing but society.

My powder beginning to fail, I set mysalf to study some art to
trap and snare the goats alive, for I saw that if I expected to supply
myself with goat's flesh, when I had no p0wder or shot left, breeding
some up tame was my only- way; when, perhaps, I might have them
aboutmy house like a flock of sheep. At last I had my desire, for
making pitfalls and traps, baited with barley and rice, I found one
morning, in one of them, an old he~goat, and in another, three kids,
one male and two females. The old goat was much too- fierce for
me, so I let him go ; then I took the kids home. It was a good while
before they would feed; but throwing them some sweet corn, it
tempted them, and they began to be tame.

I saw that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else they would
always run wild when they grew up, and that the only way for this
was to have some ihelosed piece of ground well. fenced. I began
with the idea of inclosing such a space that my fence must have
been at least two miles about, but it struck me that in so great a
space, the kids would soon be as wild as if they had the whole island

 

"1 mm. o.\' m guns."

to run in, so I inclosed apiece of ground about one hundred and
fifty yards in length, and one hundred in breadth, which would
maintain as many as I should have in any reasonable time.

It. took me three months to hedge in this piece. In about a year and
ahalf I had a flock of twelve goats, and in two yems more I had
three-and-forty, and after that I inc-losed five pieces of ground to feed
them in, with gates and pens to take them as I wanted them.

I had now not only goat's flesh to feed on, but milk too, for now
' I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a
day. What a table was here spread for me in a wilderness where I
saw nothing at first but to perish for hunger! How like a king I
dined, too, attended by my servants'! Poll, as if he had been my
favorite, was the only person permitted to tall: to me ; my dog, old,

' but faithful, sat always at my right hand, while my two cats set at

 

"now use A use I mxsn."

each side of the table, expecting a bit from my hand now and then
as a mark of special favor. With this attendance and in this plenti--
ful manner I lived; neither could I be said to want anything but
society; and of that, in a short time after this, I was likely to have
too much.

I had now two plantations in the island, one my little fortification,
under the. rock, with the cave behind it, and the wall about it. The
piles with which I had made the wall were grown so large that there
was notthe least'appearance of any habitation behind them. Besides
this I had my country seat, or little bower, as I called it, where my
grapes flourished, and where I had my enclosures for my goats.

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and
the place where I had laid up my boat, I
generally stayed and lay here in my way
thither, for I used. frequently to visit my
boat. Sometimes lwent out in her to di--
vert myself, but no more hazardous voyages
would I go, scarcely ever above a stone's
cast or two from the shore, I was so appre-
hensive of being hurried out of
my knowledge again by the cur-- '"
rents or winds, or any oth--
er accident. But nor-rd
came to a new
scene of my life.

It happened
one day, about
noon,' going to--
wards my boat,
I was exceed-
ingly surprised
with the print '
of a. man's naked
foot on the ' '
shore, which
was very plain "
to be seen on .

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

the sand. I
stood like one
thunders t ru ck ,

or as if I had "I run a? noun-rm SEA-r."

seen an appari-

tion. I listened, I looked round me, but I could hear nothing nor

see anything; I went up to a. rising ground, to look farther; I went

up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one : I could see no

other impression but that one. I went to it again to see if there..1". M "N
"mmmI'. u n
" l-lflgw1

 

"I swoon mu; om: mxnnnsmucx." (p. 88.)
were any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but
there was no room for that, Ior there was exactly the. print. of a foot
--toes, heel, and every part of a foot. How it came thither I knew
not, nor could in the least imagine. But after innumerable fluttering
thoughts, likea man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came
home to my fortification, terrified to the last. degree.

When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it over after
this), I fled into it like one pursued. I had no sleep that night; and
I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself. Sometimes I
fancied it must he the devil; and reason joined in with me upon
this supposition: for how should any other thing in human shape
come into the place? But then to think that Satan should take hu-
man shape upon him in such a place, where thorn could be no man-
ner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind him,
and that even [or no purpose too, for ho could not be sure I should
see it--this was an amazement the other way. I easily argued my-
self out of all [car of its being the devil; and I presently concluded
then that it must. he some more dangerous creature viz . that it must
be some of the savages of the mainland over against me, who had
wandered out to sea in their canoes, and either driven by the cur-
rents or by contrary winds, had made tho island, and had been on
shore, but were gone away again to sea; being as loth, perhaps,
to have stayed in this desolate island as I would have been to have
had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very
thankful in my thought that I was so happy as not to be thoreahouts
at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by which they would
have concluded that. some inhabitants had been in the place, and
perhaps have searched farther for me. Then terrible thoughts
racked my imagination about their having found my boat, and, that
there were people here; and that, if so, I should certainly haw them
come again in greater numbers, and devour me; that it it should
happen that they should not find me, yet they would find my in-
closuro, destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock of tame
goats, and I should perish at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all that former Con--
fidence in God, which was founded upon such Wonderful experiencenonmsox cnnson. '71

as I had had of His goodness, new vanished ; as if He that had fed
me by miracle hitherto, could not preserve by His power the pro--
vision which he had made [or me by His goodness.

How strange a checker-work of Providence is the life of Ina-n ! and
by what secret (littering springs are the affections hurried about,
as dillering circumstances present! To--day we love what to--mon'oni
we hate; to--day we seek what to--morrow we shun; to-day we desire
what to--morrow we fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of.
This was exemplified in me at this time in the most lively manner
inniginahle; for T, whose only affliction was, that I seemed banished
from human society, was now ready to sink into the gmund at but
the shadow or silent appearance of a man having set his foot on the
island.

' One morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts
about my danger from the appearance of savages, I found it discom-
posed me very much; upon which those words of the Scripture came
into my thoughts : " Call upon Me in the day of trouble: I will de-
liver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me." Upon this, rising cheerfully
out 01' bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance : when I had done
praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to road, the first words
that presented to me were, " \Vait on the Lord : be of good courage,
and He shall strengthen thy heart: wait, I say, on the Lord." It is
impossible to express the comfort this gave me, and in return, I
thankfully laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least, not
on that occasi011.|

In the middle of these reflections, it came into my thoughts one
day that this loot might be the print of my own foot, when I came
on shore from my boat. 1 considered that I could by no means tell
for certain where I had trod, and where I had not; and that if, at
last, this was only the print of my own feet, I had played the part
of those fools who try to make stories of specters and apparitions,
and then are themselves frighted at them more than anybody else.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I had
not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so thatI began
to starve for provision ; for I had little or nothing within doors but
some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that. my goats wanted
to be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion; and the
poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of it.
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing
but the print of one of my own feet, I began to go abroad again, and
Went to my country-house to mill: my flock ; and having seen nothing,
I began to be a little bolder, and to think there was really nothing
in it but my own imagination ; but I oeuld not persuade myself fully

 

"my mums mvxmsxox."

of this till I should go down to the shore again, and see this print of
a foot, and measure it by my own. But when I came to the place--
first, it; appeared evidently to me that when I laid up my boat, I
could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabonls : secondly, when
I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so
large by a great deal. Both these things filled my head with new iin--
aginations, and I went home again, filled with the belief that some
_.man or men had been on shore there; 01', in short, that the island
was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my care so large as
to bring a. door through again, which door, as I said, came out be--
yond where my fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely con
sidering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification,
in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just
where I had planted a double row of trees about twelve years before,
these trees having been planted so thick before, there wanted but few
piles to be driven between them, that they should be thicker and
stronger, and my wall would be soon finished. Through seven holes
in this wall I contrived to plant muslcets, of which 1 had got seven on
shore out of the ship; these, I say, 1 planted like cannon, so that 1
oeuld fire all the seven guns in two minutes' time.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for a
great way, full with sticks of the osier-lilre wood, which I found so
apt to grow, leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall,
that I might have room to see an enemy, and they might have no
shelter from the yoang trees, if they attempted to approach my outer
wall.

Thus, in two years' time, I had a. thick grove ; and in five or six
years' time I had a wood before my dwelling grown so monstrous
thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly impassable: and no
man, of what kind. soever, would ever imagine that there was any
thing beyond it, much less a habitation.

Another measure of prudence that I took was to seek out some re-
tired spots on the island, Where I might inelose a, few of my goats,
half a dozen in each place, so that if any disaster happened to the
flock in general, 1 might be able to raise them again. I completed
one such inclosure, and went about the whole island, searching for
another place to make such another deposit; when, wandering more
to the west point of the island than I had ever done yet, and looking
out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance.
I had found a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me; and this
was so remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though I
looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer. I
Was presently convinced that the seeing the print of a man's foot was
not such a strange thing in ' the island as I imagined ; and but that
it was a special providence that I was cast upon the side of the is-
land where the savages never came, I should easily have known that
nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from the main, when
they happened to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that
 

"A PLACE WHERE THERE "A" URI-2N A HRH HAIIH,"

side of the island for harhor: likewise, as they often met and fought
in their canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners, would luring
them over to this shore, where, according to their dreadful customs,
being all cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of which here-
after.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, be-
ing the S. W. point. of the island, I was pcrfcctly confounded and
amazed; nor is it possible for me to ixpress the horror of my mind,
at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones
of human bodies; and particularly, I observed a. place where there
had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, where I suppoaml
the savage wretchcs had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon
the bodies of their fellow-creatures. I could not. hear to stay in the
place a moment; so I got up the hill again with all the speed I
could, and walked on towards my own habitation.

I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my own (circle
for almost two years after this : when I say my own circle, I mean by
it my three plantations, viz., my castle, my county-seat (which I
called my bower), and my inclosure in the woods. Time, however
began to wear off my uneasiness, and I began to live just. in the
same composed manner as before, only with this difference, that I
used more caution, and kept my eyes more about me than I did be-
fore, lcst lshould happen to he soon by any of these people; and
particularly I was more cautious in firing my gun, lest any of them,
being on the island, should happen to hear it; though I never went.
out without it, and carried in addition two pistols and a broadsword.

rl'he terror I had been in about the savages diverted my invention
from my own conveniences, and now my thoughts were all of how 1
might- (lestrOy some at these cannibals when they were at. their
bloody entertainments, and if possible save the victims they should
bring hither to ('lestroy. To put my design into execution, I sought
a place where unwn 1 might. behold every action of the savages. I
found such a pla'fieiu'the side of a. hill, and here I bestowed two
muskets, each of which was loaded with a brace of slugs and four or
five small bullets; a fouling-piece, charged with a handful of the
largest shot ; and my pistols, with about four bullets in each. Every
morning I made a tour to the top of the hill, which was about. three
miles from my castle, to see if I could observe any boat-3 on the sea.
But alter having watched in vain for two or three months, I not. only
grew tired of this hard duty, but began to doubt that I had a right
to meditate the. killing of the savages, and to fear that in attempting
it 1 might only bring,r upon myself certain destruction. Religion
joined in with this prudent consideration, and Iconcluded that I
would be going quite beyond my duty in destroying creatures who
were innocent as to me, however guilty they might be towards one
another. This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a
greater satisfaction to me than that. I had not been suffered to do a
thing which I now saw so much reason to believe would have been
sinful murder, and I gave most humble thanks to God that He had
thus delivered me from. blood-guiltiness.

In this state of mind I cmrtinued for near a year after this. I re--
moved my boat which was on the other side of the island to a little
cave under some high rocks on the east end of the island, that there
might not be near the place where the savages landed any shadow of
human presence. Besides this I kept myself more retired than ever,
and seldom left my cell except when I Went out to milk my goats and
manage my little flock in the wood. which was quite out of danger
on the other side of the island.

I now care-d not to drive a nail, chop a stick, fire a gun, or make a

 

"10 sin: n: 1 com 039mg m nous."

fire, lost either the noise be- heard, or the smoke betray me. For
this reason I did all the work requiring fire at my new apartment in
the woods, when, aft-era while, I found by acoident a natural cave
in the earth which proved to be a great convenience to me.

It was while I was cutting some wood to make charcoal that I dis-
covered this cave ; and before I go on I must observe the reason for
my making this charcoal, which was that I could use-it to bake and
cook without making a smoke. While I was cutting wood one day,
I perceived, behind a very thick branch of brushwood, a kind of hol-
low place. I looked into the mouth of it,
and found it was so large that I could

Stand upright in it. But I made more

haste out than 1' did in, for I saw two
shining eyes of some creature which
twinkled like stars. When I re--
cov'ered a. little from my surprise,

1 plucked up courage, and tak-

ing a flaming firohrand, I
rushed in again, and found
there was no cause
for fear, for the eyes
were those of an old
goat, which. was dy-
ing, indeed, of old age.
I stirred him a little
to see i[ I could get
him out, but he was
not able to raise him,--
self, so I let him lie
there.

I found the cave to
be about twelve feet
wide, but there was a
pliicc at the farther
side of it, that went in
still farther, but so
low that I had to creep
on my hands and feet
to go in. I gave up
my search for that
time, but came the
next day provided
with candles, and
when I got to the 0nd of the low passage, I found the roof rose to
the height of near twenty feet.

As the light of my two candles shone on the sides and roof of this

  
  
  
 
 
 
 

"1 811mm>> um A firm."
cave, it made a most glorious sight, for the walls reflected a hundred
thousand lights to me, as if they had been made of diamonds and
other precious stones. What was in the rock to cause this, lime-w
not. The place was a most delightful grotto, and I resolved to bring
here some of the things I was most anxious about, particularly my
magazine of powder, and my spare arms. The old goat died in the
mouth of the cave the next day aft-er I discovered it, and I found it
easier to bury him on the spot where he expired than to drag him
out.

I was now in the twenty-third year of residence in this island, and
was so naturalized to the place and the manner of living that, could
l but have enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come to the
place to disturb me, I could have been content to spend the rest of
my time there. I had some little amusement which made the time
pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than it did before : first, I
had taught my Pol], as I noted before, to speak; and he did it so
familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, that it was. very
pleasant to me. My dog was apleasant and loving companion to
me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of more
' old age. As [or my cats, they multiplied to [hat degree, that I-was
obliged to shoot or drive them into the woods, except two or three

favorites. Besides these I always kept two or three household kids
amet me, whom I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had two
'more parrots, which talked pretty well, and would all call " Robin
Crusoe," but none like my first. I had also several tame seaafimvls,
that I caughtupon the shore, and cut. their wings; and the little
stakes which I had pL'n'itod before my castle--wall being now grown
up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees,
and bred there, which was very agreeable to me.

It may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with my story to
make this just observation from it: viz-., how frequently, in the
course of our lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun,
and which, when we are fallen into, is the most. dreadful to us, is
oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by which
alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen into.
I could give many examples of this in the course of my unacouut--
able life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in

. aROBINSON cnoson. 79

' the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
third year; and this, being the southern solstice, was the particular
time of my harvest, and required me to be pretty much abroad in the
fields, when, going out pretty early in the morning, even before it.

 

"mom on some mm was rm; slums."

was thorough daylight, I was Surprised with seeing alight of some '
fire upon the shore at a distance from me of about two miles towards
the end of the island where I had observed some savagee'had been,
as before, and not on. the other side, but, to my great affliction, it
was on my side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised with the sight, and filled'with my
usual apprehension that the savages would find my works and im-
provements. In this extremity I returner] directly to my castle, and
pulled the ladder after me, making all things look as wild and natu-
ral as I possibly could. Then I prepared myself within for defense,
loaded my muskots and pistols, and commended myself to the Divine
protection, resolved to defend myself to the last gasp. Two hours
after, impatient for intelligence, I mounted to the top of the hill,
Where, laying myself down, with my perspective glass l perceived
no less than nine naked savages, sitting round asmall fire, eating,
as I supposed, human flesh. with their two canoes hauled on shore,
waiting for the flood of the tide to carry them ofi again.

It is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into,
but when I considered that their coming must always be with the
current. of the ebb, I became more easy, being fully satisfied that I
might go abroad with safety all the time of the flood, if they were
.not before landed. Before they went oil", I could see by their pos-
tures and gestures that they were dancing, and they kept this up for
an hour or more.

When I saw them gone, I took two guns upon my shoulders, and
placing a couple of pistels'in my belt, with my great sword hanging
by my side, I went to the hill where I had discovered the first ap--
pearance of all, and then saw that there had been three canoes more
of the savages on shore at that place, which with the rest were now
making over to the main land.

Going down to the shore, 1 could see the marks of horror which
the dismal work they had been abOut had left behind it; and so
filled. was I with indignation, that I began again to premeditate tak~
ing revenge on the first that came there, let them be as many soever.
It then appeared to me that the visits they made to this island are
not very frequent, it being fifteen months before they came again;
yet all this while I was 'very uneasy, lest they should come upon me
by surprise.

It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well
as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, that it blew. a very great
storm of wind all day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder,
and a very foul night it was after it. As I was reading in the Bible,
and taken up with very serious thoughts about my present condi-
tion, I was surmised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, filed at
sea. Istarted up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, mounting .
my ladder, got to the top of the hill the very moment that a flash
of fire bade me listen for a second gun which, accordingly, in about
half-Ia minute, I heard; and by the sound, knew that it was from
that part of the sea where I was driven out with the current in my
boat. I immediately considered that this must be some ship in
distress. I had the presence of mind, at that minute, to think that
though I could not help them, it might be they might help me; so I
brOught together all the dry wood I could get at hand, and set it on
fire upon the hill. As soon as over my fire blazed up, I heard an-
other gun, and after that several others. I plied my fire all night
long, till daybreak; and when, the air cleared up, I saw something
at a. great distance at sea, full east of the island, Whether a sail or a
hull I could not distinguish.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and presently concluded that
it was a ship at anchor; and being eager to be satisfied, I ran to-
. wards the south side of the island, to the rocks where I had formerly
been carried. away with the cmrent; and getting up there, I eculd
plainly see the Wreck of a ship cast away in the night upon those
concealed rocks which. I found when I was out in. my boat.

It was now calm, and I had a. great mind to venture cut in my boat
to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on board that
might he useful to me. But that did not altogether press mc so
much as the possibility that there might be yet some living creature
on board, whose life I might not only save, but might, by saving that
life, comfort my own to the last degree; and this thought clung so
to my heait that I could not be quiet night or day, but I must ven--
ture out in my host on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God's providence, I thought the impression was so strong upon my
mind that it oculd. not be resisted.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle,
and loading mysell with everthing necessary, went down to my boat,
got the water out of her, got her afloat, and loaded all my cargo in
her. Praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing or
paddling the canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost pOint
of the island on the north--east side. And now I was to launch out
into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture. I looked on
the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island
at a. distance, and my heart hogan to fail me; for I foresaw that if I
was driven into either of those currents, I should he carried perhaps
out of reach or sight of the island again.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind that I began to give over
my enterprise ; and having hauled my boat into a. little creek on the
shore, I stepped out, and sat down upon a rising bit of ground, very
pensive and anxious. As I was musing, I could perceive that
the tide was turned, and the flood came on; upon which, my going
was impracticable for many horns. Upon this, presently it occurred
to me that I should go up to the highest piece of ground I could find,
and observe, if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay. 1
cast my eye upon a little hill from. whence I had aclear view of the
currents, or acts of the tide, and which way I was to guide myself in
_ my return. Hero 1 found that as the current of ebb sot Out close by
the South point of the island, so the current of the flood set i 11 close
by the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing to do but to
keep to the north of the island in my return, and I should do well
enough. ' '

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next morning, to
set out with the first of the tide. I first made a little out to sea, full
north, till T began to feel the benefit of the Current, which set east-- '
ward, and having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went, at a
great rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up
to it. The ship, which, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between
two rocksg'nll the stern. and quarter of her were beaten to pieces by
the sea; and her mainmast and foremost were broken short off; but.
her head and bow appeared firm. When I came close to her, a dog
appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and,
as soon as I called him, jiunped into the sea to come to me: I took
him into the boat, but found him almost dead with hunger and
thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he devoured it like a.
ravenous wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the snow ; I then
gave the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I would have
let him, he would have burst himself. After this I went on board;
but the first sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook--
room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one an--
other. I concluclcd, that when the ship struck, the sea broke so con- '
tinually over her, that the men were strangled with the constant
rushing in of the water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in
the ship that had life. I saw several chests, which I believed be~
longed to some of the seamen; and I got two of them into the boat,
without examining what was in them. Had the stern of the.- ship
been fixed, and the fore-part broken ofl', I am persuaded I might
have made a good voyage; for, by what I found in these two chests,
I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on board.
I found, besides these chests, a. little cask full of liquor, which I
got into my boat with much dilliculty. There were several muskets
in the cabin, and 2. great powder--horn, with about four pounds of
powder in it. As for the iiuiskete, I had no occasion for them, so I

 

"Mum: T0 "Hummus PAkricumRs.'

left them, but tool: the powder--horn. I took a fire~shovel and tongs,
which I wanted extremely, as also two little brass kettles, a copper
pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this cargo, and
the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make home again; and
the same evening, about an hour within night, I reached the island
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that night
in the boat; and in the morning I resolved to harbor what I had got
in my new cave, and not carry it home to my castle. Alter refreshing
myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine the par-
ticulars. '

When I came to open the chests, I found several things of great
use to me: for example, 1 found. in one a line case of bottles, filled
with cordial waters. I found some very good shirts, and about a.
down and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and colored neck--
cloths. Besides this, when 1 came to the till in the chest, I found
there three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven
hundred pieces in all; and in one of them, Wrapped up in a paper,
six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold; I
suppose they might all weigh near a pound. In the other chest
were some clothes, but of: little value; but, by the circumstances, it
must have belonged to the gunner's mate ; though there was no pow-
der in it, except two pounds of fine glazed powder, in three small
flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their lowing-pieces 011 occasion.
Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of any use
to me; for as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it
was to me as the dirt under my feet; however, 1' lagged this money
home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before which I
had brought from our own ship.

lIax 111g now brought all my things on shore, and seemed them, 1
went back to my boat, and rowed 01 apaddled her along the shole to
her old harb01,n-herc I laid her up, and made the best of my way to
my old habitation, where I found everything sale and quiet. I
never knew Whether any were saved out of that Ship or no; and
had Only the affliction, some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned
bay come on shore at: the end of the island which. was next to the
shipwreck. He had no clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to
direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of.

I began now to repose myself, live after my old.fashion, and take
care of my family aliairs; and for awhile I lived easy enough, only
that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked out oftener, and
did not go abroad so much; and if, at any time, I did stir with any
freedom, it was always to the east part of the island, where I was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go
' without so many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammuni--
tion as I always carried with me if I went the othel way I lived in
this condition near two years more; but my unlucky head, that was
always to let me know it was born to make my body miserable, was
all those two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it were
possible, I might. get. away from this island.

On one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four-end--
I.wentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitude, I was
lying in my bed or hammock, awake, very well in health, but could
by no means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep. It is impossible

 

"'mi: coarse 05' A mowxnn 80V."

and needless to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that
whirled through that. great thoroughfare of tho brain--tho memory
'---in this night's time: I ran over the whole history of my life in
miniature, to my coming" to this island, and also of that part of my
life since I came to this island. In my reflections upon the state of
my case since I came on shore on this island, I was comparing the
happy posture of my affairs in the first years of my habitation here,
with the life of anxiety, fear, and care, which I had lived in ever
since. I had seen the print of a foot in the sand. Then I came to re--
flect seriously upon the real danger I had been in for so many
years, and how I had walked about in the greatest security, and
with all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but the
brow of ahill, agreat tree, or the casual approach of night, had
been between me and the worst kind of destruction, viz, that of fall-
ing into the hands of. cannibals and savages, who would have seized
011 me with the same VleVV as I would on a goat or a. turtle.

"@1611 these thOuWhts we1e over, my head was [or some time taken
up in. considering the natuie of these savages; and it occuncd to me
to inqui1e what pint of the World these wretches lived in? how far-

off the coast was from whence they came. " and Why I might not
order myself and my business so that. I might be as able to go over
thither as they were to come to me? I never so much as troubled m y-
self to consider what I should do with myself when I went. thither;
but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over
in my'hoat to the mainland. I looked upon my present condition as
the most miserable that c'ould possibly be ; that I was not able to
Lhrow myself into anything,'but death, that could be called worse;
and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with
relief; or [might coast along, as I did on the African shore, till I
came- to some inhabited country, and Where I might find some relief;
and, after all, perhaps I might fiall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I could but
die, which wOuld put an end to all these miseries at. once. I was
agitated greatly by'these thoughts; all my calm of mind seemed to
be suspended; and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts
to anything but the project of a voyage to the main.

When this had agitated my theughls for two hours or more, with
such violence that it: set my very blood into a ferment, Nature, as if
I had been fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts of it,
threw me into a sound sleep. One would have thought. I should
have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything relating to it: but
I dreamed that as .I was going out in the morning as usual, from my
castle, I saw upon. the shore two canoes and eleven savages, coming -
to land, and that they brought with them another savage, whom
they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the
savage that they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his
life ; then I thought, in my sleep, that he came running into my lit-
tle grove before my fortification, to hide himself; and that I, seeing
him alone, and not perceiving that the others sought him that way,
showed myself to him, and smiling upon him encouraged him : that
he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon
which I showed him my ladder, made him go up it, and carried him
into my cave, and he became my servant; and that as soon as I had
got this man, I said to myself, " Now I may certainly ventm'eto tho

 

"'nm' mum ALL mxcmc norm) mm mm."

mainland, for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me
what, to do, and whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go' -

for fear of being devoured ; what places to venture into, and What to ' '

escape." I waked with this thought : and was under such inexpressi-
ible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream,
that the disappointments which I felt upon coming to myself, and
finding that. it was 110 more than a dream, were equally extravagant
the other way, and threw me into a deep dejection of spirits.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion: that my only way to
go about an attempt for an escape was, if possible, to get a savage
into my possession; and, if possible, it should be one of their prison--
ers, whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither
to kill. I resolved, if possible, to get one of these savages into my
hands, cost What it would. My next thing was to contrive how to
do it, and this indeed was very dime-uh. to resolve on; but as I could
pitch upon no probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon
the watch, to see them when they came on shore, and leave the rest
to the event; taking such measures as the opportunity should pre-
sent.

About a year and a half after I entertained those notions (and by
long musing had, as it were, resolved them 'll into nothing, for want.
of an occasion to put them in execution), I was surprised one morning
early by seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on my
side the island, and the peeple who belonged to them all landed and
out. of my sight. Seeing so many, and knowing that they always
came four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell hour
to take my measures, to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed;
so lay still in my castle, perplexed and. (liscomlorted. l-lowever,l
put myself into all the same postures for an attack that I had former-
ly provided, and was just ready for action, if anything had presented.
Having waited a. good while, at length, being very impatient, I set.
my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the
hill; standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not perceive me. Here I observed, by the
help of my perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty in
number; that they had a. fire kindled, and that they had meat
dressed. How they had cooked it, I knew not, or what it was; but
they were all dancing round the fire.

While T. was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my perspective,
two miserable wretehes dragged from the beets. I perceived one of
them immediately fall ; being knocked, down, I suppose, with a club,
or wooden sword, for that was their way; and two or three others -
were at work immediately, preparing him for their cookery, while the
other victim was left standing by himself, till they should be ready
for him. In that very moment, this poor wretch, seeing himself a.
little at liberty, started away from them, and ran with incredible
swiftness along the sands, directly towards me. I was dreadfully
frightened, that I must acknowledge, when I perceived him run my
way; and especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the
whole body. However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to
recover when I found that not above three men followed him ; and
still more was I encouraged when I found that he outstripped them
exceedingly in running, and gained ground on them. i
There was between them and my castle, the creek, which I
mentioned often in the first part of my story, where I landed my
cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily
swim over; but when the savage escaping came thither, he made
nothing of it; but, plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, or theme-bouts, landed, and ran with exceeding strength and
swiftnese. When the three persons came to the creek, I found that
two oPS them could swim, but the third could not, and that, standing
on the other side, he looked at the others, but went no farther, and
soon after went softly back again. I observed that the two who
swam were yet more than twice as long swimming over the creek
-than the fellow was that fled from them. It. came very warmly upon
my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was the time to get me
a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant; and that I was
plainly called by Providence to save this poor creature's life. I im--
mediately ran down the ladder with all possible expedition, fetched
my two guns, and getting up again, I crossed towards the sea; and
having a. very short out, and all down hill, clapped myself in the way
between the pursuers and the pursued, hollooing aloud to him that
fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as much frightened at
me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come back ;
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol--
lowed ; then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down
with the stock of my piece. I was 10th to fire, because I would not
have the rest hear ; t-hOugh, at that distance, it would not have been
easily heard. Having knocked this fellow down, the other who pur--
sued hirn stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced to--
wardshim; but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow -
and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me ; so I was then obliged
to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed .him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled was so frightened with the fire and noise
ofmy piece that he stood stockstill.' I made signs to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way; then stopped
again, and their a little farther, and stopped again ; and I could then
perceive that he stood trembling. I smiled at him, and looked
pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer; at length, he
came close to me ;.and then he kneeled down, laid his head upon the
ground, and, taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head ; this,
it seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave forever. I took
him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all I could
But there was more work to do 3%; fer I perceived the sax-awe whom
I had knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and
began to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the
savage, that he was not dead ; upon this he spoke some words to me,
and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they were
pleasant to hear; for they were the firsts'ound of a. man's voice that
' I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-five years. But
there was no time for such reflections now ; the savage who was
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up on the ground,
and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid. He made a mo--
tion to'me to lend him my sword, which I did. He no sooner had it
but he runs to his enemy, and at one blow cut oil his head as clevei-
13;, no executioner in Germany could have done it sooner or better;
which I thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe,
never saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will
even cut of heads with them. When he had done this, he comes
laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again,
and laid it down, with the head of the savage that he had killed, just
before me. But that which astonished him most was to'know how I
killed the other Indian so far ofi'; so pointing to him, he made Signs to
me to let him go to him; and I bade him go, as well asI could.'
When he name to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him,
touring him first on one side, then on the other. He took up his bow
and arrows, and came back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned
him to follow me, making signs to him that more might come after
them.

o
I carried him, not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the
farther part of the island ; so I did not let my dream come to pass in
that part, that he came into my grove for shelter. Here I gave him
bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I
found he was indeed in great. distress for from his running ; and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go and lie down to
sleep. 0

H e was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with
straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall and well shaped , a,n(l as I
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very good counten-
ance, not a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed 11) have something
very manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and softness
of a European in his countenance, too, especially whenhe smiled. His
hair was long and black, not curled like wool; his forehead very high
and large; and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes.
The color of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny.

After he had slumbered about half an hour, he awoke and came
out of the cave to me; for I had been milking my goats, which I had
in the inclosure just by : when he espied me, he came running to
me, laying himself down again upon the ground, with all the possible
signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making a great many ges-
tures to show it. I understood him inmany things, and let him know
I was very well pleased with him. In a little time I began to speak
to him, and teach him to speak to me; and, first, I let him know his
name should be FRIDAY, which was the day I saved his life: I called
him so for the memory of the time. I likewise taught him to say
Master, and then let him know that was to be my name; I likewise
taught him to say Yes and No, and toknow the meaning of them. I
gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it
he'lore him, and sop my bread in it ; and gave him a cake of bread to
do the like, which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it
was very good for him. I kept there with him all that night ; but,
as soon as it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let
him know I would give him some clothes; at which he seemed very
glad, for he was stark naked. I then led him up to the tap of the hill
to see if his enemies were gone, and, pulling out my glass, I looked,
and saw plainly the place where they had been, but no appearance of
them or their canoes; so that it was plain they were gone, and had
left their two comrades behind them, without any search after them.

We came back to our castle, and. there I fell to work for my man
Friday ; and. first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I
had out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, which I found in. the
wreck, and which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well; and
then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would
allow (for I was now grown a tolerably good tailor) ; and I gave him
a cap which I made of hero's skin, very convenient, and fashionable
enough ; and thus he was clothed, for the present, tolerably well.

The next day, I began to consider where I should lodge him; and,
that I might do well .for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I
made a little tent for him in the vacant place between my two fortifi--
cations. As there was a door or entrance there into my cave, I made
a formal framed door--case, and a door to open in the inside, which I
barred up in the night, taking in my ladders, too ; so that R'iday
could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without
making so much noise in getting over that it must needs awaken me.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more
faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me; without
passion, sulleness, or design, his affections were tied to me, like these
of a child. to a. father. _

I was greatly delighted with my new companion, and made it my
business: to teach him everything that was proper to make him use-
ful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make him. speak, and
understand me when I Spoke; 'and he was the aptest scholar that
ever was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and
so pleased when he could but understand me, or make me under~
stand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. And now
my life began to be so easy that I began to say to myself, that could
I but have been safe fiom more savages, I cared not if I was never
to remove from the place while I lived.

One morning I took him out with me to the woods. I went, in-.
deed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home
and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the
shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I eatehed held of Fri--
day: "Hold," said I, "stand still; "and made signs to him not to
stir: immediatelyI presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the
kids. The poor creature was sensibly surprised; trembled, and
shook, and looked so amazed that I thought he would have sunk
down. He did not see the kid I shot at,
or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up
his waiesteoat, to feel whether he was not
wounded; and, as I found, presently,
theught I was resolved to kill him: for
he came and kneeled down to me, and
embracingmy knees, said a great many
things I did not understand; but I could
easily see. the meaning was to pray me
not. to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him

 

    
 
 
 
    
  

that I would do him
no harm; and taking
him up by the hand,
--'- laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid
' which I had killed,-
beckoned -to him to
run and fetch it, which
he did.
He would not so
much as touch the gun
for several days after; but he would speak to it and talk to it, as if it
had answered him, when he was by himself; which, as I afterwards
learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him. I brought home the
kid, and the same evening I took the skin oil, and stewed some of

"I x-nnsnxmn xv FIRCB."7A

ROBINSON CR-USOE. 95

the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had begun to eat
some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked
it very well. Having thus fed him with broiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the
kid: this I did by hanging it before the fire on a string, setting two
poles up, one on each side of the fire, and one across on the toP, and
tyingthe string to the cross-stick, letting the meat turn continually.
This Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste the
flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I
could not; but understand him.

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and sift-
ing it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he soon
understood how to do it as well as I. After that I let him see me
make my bread, and bake it, too; and in a little time Friday was
able to do all the work for me, as well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider that, having two mouths to feed instead
of one, I must plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do; 2301
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in the same
manner as before, in which Friday worked very willingly and very
hard; and I told him that it was for corn to make more bread, be-
cause he was now with me, and that I might have enough for him
and myself too. He let me know that he thought 1 had much moTe
labor upon me on his account than I had Iormyseli; and that he
would work the harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of al-
most everything I had. occasion to call for, and of every place .1 had
to send him to, and talk a. great deal to me ; so that, in short, I began
now to have some use for my tongue again, which, indeed, I had _
very little occasion for before; that is to say, about speech. Besides
the pleasure of talking to him, ll hada singular satisfaction in the
fellow himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared to me more
and more every day, and l began really to love the creature ; and on
his side I believe he loved me more than it was possible for him ever
to love anything before.

1 onee asked him if the nation he belonged to never conquered in
battle, and when he told me that they did, I asked whether they ate
the men they took. "Yes, my nation eat mans too," he answered.
He told me then that. he had been among the savages who used to
come on shore on. the farther part of the island. I asked him how
far it was from. O'lll' island to the shore, and whether the canoes were
not often lost. He told me there was no danger; no canoes ever
lost. He told me that up a. great way beyond the moon (that was,
beyond the setting of the moon) there dwelt white bearded men, like
me ; by which I understood he meant the Spaniards.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this island,
and get among these white men: he told me, " Yes, yes, I might go
in two canoe." I could not understand what he meant by " two
canoe," till at last, with great diflieult -, I found he meant it must be
in a large, great boat, as-big as two canoes. This part of Friday's
discourse began to relish with me very well; and from this timel
entertained some hopes that, one time or other, I might find an op-
portunity to make my escape from this place, and that this poor
savage might be a means to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that
he began to Speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to
lay a foundation of religimis knowledge in. his mind; particularly I
asked him one time who made him. The poor creature did not un-
derstand me at all, but thought I had asked him who was his father :
but I took it by another handle, and asked him who made the sea,
the gmund we walked on, and the hills and woods. He told me,
f' It was one Benamuekee, that lived beyond all ; " he could describe
nothing of this great person, but that he was very old, "much older,"
he said, "than the see or the land, than the moon or the stars." I
asked him, then, if this old person had made all things, why did not
all things 'WOl'SlllI) him? He looked very grave, and, with a perfect
look of innocence, said, "All things said '0!' to him." I asked
him if the people who die' in his country went away anywhere. He
said, "Yes; they all went to Benamuckee." Then I asked him
whether those they ate up went thither too. He said, " 7es."

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the
true God: I told him that the great Maker of all things lived there,
pointing up towards heaven; that He governed the world by the
same power and providence by which He made it; that He was
omnipotent, and could do everything for us, give everything to us,
take everything from. us; and thus, by degrees, ] Opened his eyes.
He listened with great attention, and received with pleasure the no-
' Lion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of
making our prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even into
heaven.
,T._had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in. all the meth-

    

. were

"I Asmn am ONE mm mm MADE am."

ods I look for this poor creature's instruction, and must acknowl-
edge, What I believe all that act upon the same principle will find,
that, in laying things open to him, 1 really informed. and instructed
myself in many things that I either did not know, or had not fully
considered before, but which, occurred naturally in my mind upon
searching into them, for the information of this poor savage. The
conversation which employed the hours between Friday and me was
such as made the three years which we lived there together perfectly
and completely happy, if any such thing as complete happiness can
be found in asublunmy state. This savage became at good Chris-
tian, a much better than I; though I have reason to hope, and bless
God for it, that we were equally penitent, and comforted, restored
penitents. We had here the Word of God to read, and no farther
of from His Spirit to instruct than ill we had been in England.

I also acquainted Friday with my own story, or at least so much
of it as related to my coming into this place ; howl had lived there,
and how long: I let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, 01
gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave him a.
knife, with which he was wonderfully delighted; and I made him a
belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we Wear hangers
in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which
was not only as good a weapon in some cases, but much more use-
ful upon many occasions.

I gave him an account of the wreck which 1 had been on board of,
and showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we es-
caped, and which was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing
this boat, Friday stood musing a great While, and said nothing. I
asked. him what it was he studied upon. At last, says he, "Me see
such boat like come to place at my nation." I did not understand
him for a good 'while -, but at last I understood by him that a boat,
'euch' as that had been, came on shore upon the country where he
lived. I presently imagined that some Bumpean ship must have
been cast away upon their coast, and the boat might get. loose and
drive ashore; but I never once thought of men making their esoape
from a. wreck thither, so I only inquired after the description of. the
boat. .

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me bet.-
ter to understand him when he added with some warmth, " We save
the White mans from drown." ' 'hen I presently asked if there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he said ;
"the heat full of white mans." I asked him how many. He told
upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what became of them.
He told me that they lived still there; that they had been there about
four years; that the savages left them alone, and gave them victuals
to live. I asked him how it came to pass that they did not kill them
and eat them. He said, " No, they make brother with them; " that
is, as I understood him, a truce; and then he added, "They no eat
mans hut when make the war-tight ; >" that is to say, they never eat
any men but such as come to fight with them, and me taken in
battle _

It was after this some considerable time, that being upon the my
of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I have said
I had, in a. clear day, discoveled the main or continent of America:
Friday, the weathe1 being v01) serene, looks
very earnestly towards the mainland, and, in
a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping and
dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at

 
   
  
  
  
  

some distance from him.
I asked him what was
the matter. "Oh, joy!"-
says he; " oh, glad!
there see my country, there my
nation!" I. observed an extra-
ordinary sense of pleasure ap--
poured in his; 'fa'ce' as if he had " UPON 15mm"; r1115 no", 10111)." groan

a. mind to be in his own country 1111er1; A car." wanna"

again. This observation of mine

made me, at first-,1101. so easy about my new man Friday as I was be--
fore; and I made no doubt but that, if Friday could get back to his
own nation again, he would not Only forget all his religion, but all
his obligation to me, and would be forward enough to give his coun--
trymen an account of me, and come back, perhaps, with almndred
or two of them, and make 3 102131. upon me. But I wronged the poor,
honest; creature very much, 101 which I was very son'y afterwards.
W hile my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every day
pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts
which I suspected were in him; but I found everything he said was
so honest and so innocent, that I could find nothing to nourish my
suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he made .me at last en-
tirely his own.

One (In), walkinrr up the same hill, but the weathe1 being hazy at
sea, so that we could not see the continent, 1 called to him, u'nd
said, " Friday, do not you wish yOurself in your own COuntry, yOur
own nation ? " " Yes," he said, "I be much 0 glad to be at my own
nation." " What would you do there?" said I: " would you turn
wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be a savage, as you were be-
fore? " He looked full of concern, and shaking his head, said, " No,
. no ; Friday tell them to live good; tell them to pray God; tell them
to eat corn--bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man again." "Why,
then," said I to him, "they will kill you." He looked grave at that,
and then said, " No, no; they no kill me, they willing Llove learn."
He meant by this, they would hewilling to learn. He added, they
learned much of the " bearded mans " that came in the boat. Then I
asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that, and told
me he could not swim so far. ' I told him I would make a. canoe for
him. He told me he would go, if Iwould go with him. "I go ! "
says l ; " why, they will eat me if I come there." " No, no," says he,
" me make them no eat you ; me make them much love you." Then
he told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen
white men, or boarded men, as he called them, who came on shore
in distress. . I

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and see
if I could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I made no
doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese. So, after some days, I took
Friday to work uguin, by way of disco-inse, and told him I would
give him about to go back to his own nation; and I, accordingly,
carried him to my frigate, and showed it him, and we both went in- '
to it. I found he was a. most dexterous fellow at managing it, and
would make it go almost as swift and fast again as I could. So
when he was in, I said to him, "\Vell, 110w, Fiiday, shall we go to
your nation ? " ,He looked very dull at my saying so; which it seems
was because he thought the boat too small to go so far. I then told
him I had a. bigger; so the next day I wont to the place where the
first boat lay which I had made, but which I could not get into the
Water. He said that was big enough; but then, 1131 had taken no
care of it, and it had lain two or three and twentyyears there, the
sun had split and dried it, that it was rotten.

Upon the Whole, I was by this time 50 fixed upon my design oi go-

' ing over with him to the continent, that I told him we would go and
make one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He answered
not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked him what
was the matter With him. He asked me again, " Why you angry
mad with Friday ?--what me done? " I asked him what he meant.
I told him I was not angry with him at all. " No angry!" says he,
repeating the words several times; " why send Friday home away to
my nation? " "Why," says I, "Friday, did not you say you wished
you were there ? " "Yes, yes," says he, "wish we both there ; no
wish Friday there, no muster there." In a word, he would not think
of going there without me. "I go there, Friday? " says I; "what
shall I do there? " He turned very quick upon me at this. "You
do great deal much good," says he; " you teach wild mans be good,
sober, tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new
life." "Alas, Friday ! "' says I, "thou knowest not what thou sayest ;
I am but an ignorant man myself." " Yes, yes," says he, " you
teachec me good, you teacheo them good."

So I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own emin-
try was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of
my doing them good; a thing which I had no notion of mysetf. But
stillI found a. strong inclination to my attempting an escape, founded
on the supposition that there were seventeen bearded men there; and
therefore, without any more delay, I went to work with Friday to
find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or
canoe, to undertake the voyage. At last, Friday pitched upon a
tree; for I found he knew much better than I what kind of wood was.
fittest forit. Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity 01' this
tree out, to make it into a boat, but I showed him how rather to out
it with tools; which, after I. had showed him how to use, he did very
handily; and in about a month's hard labor, we finished it and made
it very handsome. After this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's
time to get her along, as it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers
into the water.

When she was in the water, though she was so big, it amazed me-
to see with what dexterity and how swift my man Friday could

. manage her, turn her, and paddle her along.

is So I asked him if hex-vould, and n we might
venture over in her. " Yes," he said ; " we ven-
ture over in her very well, thOugh great blow
wind." However, I had a farther design that
he knew nothing 01', and that was to make a
mast and a. sail, and to fit her with an anchor
and cable. Iwas ncar two months rig-
ging and fitting my mast and sail, and a.
rudder to the stern of her to steer with.
After all this was done, I had my man
Friday to teach as to what belonged to
the navigation of my boat; for, though'
he knew very well how to paddle the

   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 

canoe, he knew
nothing of what. he
longed to a. sail and a
rudder; and was amazed
when he saw me' work the
boat to and again in the sea.
However, with a little use, I
made all these things famil-
iar to him, and he became
an expert sailor.

I was now entered on the
seven--and-twentieth year of
my captivity in this place, .
and I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the same

" INCH BY men UPON GREAT ROLLERS."
thankfiilness to God for His mercies as at first. The rainy season
was in the meantime upon me, when I kept. more within doors than
at other times. I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, Where I made my man Friday dig a
little (lock, just big enough. to hold her, and when the tide was out,
we made a. strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water out.
Thus we waited for the months of November and December, in
which I designed to make my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, I was preparing daily
for the voyage, and the first thing I did was to lay by aoertain
quantity of provisions, being the stores for our voyage ; andintcndcd,
in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our
boat. I was busy one morning upon something of this kind, when
I called to Friday, and hid him go to the sea--shore, and seeif he
could find. a. turtle or a. tortoise, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the sake of the eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday
had not been gone long when lie-came running back, and. flew over
my outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the
steps he set his feet on; and beforeI had time to speak to him, he
cries out to me, " 0 master! 0 master! 0 Borrowl 0 bad ! "
"What's the matter, Friday?" said I. -"Oh! ymider, there." says
he; " one two, three (linens; one, two, three! " " Well, Friday," says
I, " do not be frightened." I saw the poor fellow was most terribly
scared, for nothing ran in his head but that they were come back to
look for him, and would cut him in pieces, and eat him. Said 'I,
_" Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday? "
" Mo shoot," says he ; " but there come many great number." " No
matter for that," said I, again; "our guns will fright those we do
not kill." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he '
would defend me, and stand by 'me, and do just as I bid him. He
said, " Me die, when you bid die, master." I made him take the two
fowling--pieces and load them with largeswan-shot as big as small
pistol--bullets. Then I took four inuskets, and loaded them with two
slugs and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with
a bmce of bullets each. I hung my great sword by my side, and gave
Friday his hatchet, WhenI had thus prepared myself, I t00k my
perspective glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I
could discover ; and I found quickly by my glass that there were one-
and--twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes ; and that their
whole business seen-ned to he the triumphant banquet upon these
three human hodies. I observed also that they landed not where
they had done when Friday
made his escape, but nearer to
my creek, Where the shore was
low, and where a thick wood
came close almost down to the
sea. ' This, with the abhor--
rence of the inhuman errand these
wretches came about, filled me
with. such indignation that I re-
-- solved to go down to them, and
, kill them all.

In this hit of fnryI took first
and divided the arms which I had
charged between us; I gave Fri--
day one pistol to stick in his gir-
dle, and three guns upon his
shoulder, and I took one pistol. and
the other three myself; and in
this posture we marched out. i.
took a. small bottle of rum in my
poolwt, and gave Friday a. large
bag with more powder and hul--
lets. I made a. circle to my right
hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into
the wood, so that I might come within shot of them before I should
he discovered. '

While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning,
I began to ask myself what occasion, much less what necessity, I
was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who, as to
me, were innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own
disaster, being in them a. token, indeed, of God's having left them to
such inhuman courses, but did not call me to take upon me to be a.
judge of their actions, much less an executioner of His justice.

 

"IN THIS rosruxr. we Manama) our"
These things were so Warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way
as I went, that I resolved I would only go and place myself near
them that. I might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would
' act then as God should direct;

With this resolution I entered the wood, and marched till I came
to the skirt of the wood on the side which was next' to them. Here
I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree which was
just at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring
me word if he could see there plainly what they were doing. He did
so, and came immediately back to me, and told me that they were
all about their lire eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and
that another lay bound upon the sand at little from them, whom he
said they would kill next. He told me it. was not one of their
nation, but one of the bearded men whom he had told me of, that
came to their country in the boat, and this fired the very scul with-
in me.

There was another tree, which, by going a little way about, I saw
I might come at undiscovered, and that then I should be within half
a shot 01' them; so going back abOut twenty paces, I got behind some
bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other tree, and then
came to a little rising grmmd, which gave me a full view of them at
the distance of about eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of: the dreadful
wretches sat on the ground, all close huddled together, and had just
sent. the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him,
perhaps limb by limb, to their fire, and they were stooping down to
untie the hands at his feet, 'I turned to Friday; "Now, Friday,"
said I, " do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." So 1 set
down one of the muskets and tho loading--piece upon the ground, and
Friday did the like by his, and with the other musket I took my aim
at the savages, bidding him do the like ; then asking him if he was
ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at them," said I; and at the
same moment I fired also.

Friday killed two of them, and wounded three more; and I killed
one, and Wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in. a dreadful
consternation. I threw down. the piece, and tool: up the lowling-
piece, and Friday did the like. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I.
" Yes," says he. ." Let fly, then," said I, " in the name of God 5 " and
with than: I fired again among the amazed wretclies, and so did Fri-
day; and so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling and

screaming like mad creatures.
I rushed out of the wood and showed myself, and Friday close at
my foot. I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too,

 

"1 mum ,mmz AMONG THE numb wurcxss."

and running as fast as I could, I made directly towards the pom- vic--
tim, who was lying upon the beach The two butchers who were just
going to work with him had jumped into a. canoe, and three more of
the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade him step
forwards and fire at them.

While Friday fired at them, I pulled out. my knife and cut the
rushes that bound the poor victim; and loosing his hands and feet, I
lifted him up. He was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand
or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him,
making signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a
piece of bread, which he ate. Then I asked him what. countryman he
was, and he said Espagnole; and being a. lit-
tle recovered, let me know, by all the signs he
could possibly make, how much he was in my
debt for his deliverance. " Seignior," said 1,
with as much Spanish as Icould make up,
"we will talk afterwards, but'we must fight
now ; if you have any '
strength left, take this
pistol and sword, and
lay about
yen." He
took them
very thank--
fully; and
no s o o n e r
had he the
arms in his
hands, but,
as if they
11 a d p u i.
new vigor
into hi 1n, _;
he flew up- '
on his mur~
deters like
a fury, and
h a. d c u 1;
two of them "nmama MY swoxn on or ms mum."

in pieces in an instant.

_ I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, and called to Fri-
day, and bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired, and
fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged, which he
rlid with great swiftness; and then giving him my musket, I sat
down myself to load all the 1'th again, and bade them come to me
when they wanted. While I was loading these pieces, there
happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one of their great wooden swords.
The Spaniard had fought this Indian a good while, but the savage
being a stout, lusty fellow, had thrown him down, being faint, and
was wringing my sword out of his hand; when the Spaniard wisely
quitted the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage
through the body, and killed him upon the Spot.

Friday, being now left tolhis liberty, pursued the flying wretches,
with no weapon inhis hand but his hatchet; and with that he dis--
patched all he could come-up with; and the Spaniard coming to me
for a gun, I gave him one of the l'owling--pieees, with which he pur--
sued two of the savages, and wounded them both; but, one of thorn
plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all his might off to two
who were left in the canoe; which three in the canoe, with one
wounded, that we knew not whether he died or no, were all that es-
caped our hands, of one-and-Lwenty.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot,
and Friday would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and
pursue them; and, indeed, I was very anxious about their escape,
lest, carrying the news home to their people, they should come back
perhaps with two or three hundred of the canoes, and devour us by
mere nudtitude; so I consented to pursue them by sea, and running
to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me;
but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor
creature lie there, bOund hand and foot:

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
hound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not
stand or speak. When Friday came to him, I bade him Speak to
him, and tell him. of his deliverance; and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram; which, with the news of his
being delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when
Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his face, it would have
moved any one to tears to see how Friday kissed him, embraced
him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, and, jumped ahmit like a
distracted creature. It was a good while before 1 could make him
tell me what was the matter; but when he came a little to himself,
he told me that it was his father.110 nonmson ennson

It- is not easy for me to express how it. moved me to see what filial
affection had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his father,
. and of his being delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe
half the extravgances of his affection after this ; for he went into the
boat, and out of the boat, a great many times: when he went in to
him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his fa-
ther's head close to his bosom half an hour together, to nourish it;
then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and stilt with
the binding and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; and I,
perceiving what the case was, gave him some ruin out of my bottle
to rub them with, which did them' a great deal of good.

This action put an end to our puISuit of the canoe with the other
savages, and it was happy for us that it did, for it blew so hard
within two heurs after, that I could not suppose their boat could
live, or that they ever reached their own. coast.

But. to return to Friday; I asked him if he had given his father
any broad. He shook his head, and said, "None; ugly dog eat all
up self." I then gave him a cake of bread, out 01' a little pouch I
carried on purpose. I had in my pocket also two or three bunches
of raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He had
no sooner given his lather these raisins, but I saw him come out. 01'
the boat, and run away as if he had been bewitched. In a quarter
of an hour' Isaw him come back again, though not so fast as he
went; and, as he came nearer, I found he had been Quite home for
an earthen jug, or pet, to bring his father some fresh water, and that
he had got two more cakes of bread : the bread he gave me, but the
water he carried to his father.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was
any water left; he said " Yes ; " and l bade him give it to the poor
Spaniard, and l sent one of the cakes, that Friday brought, to the
Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself
upon a green place under the shade 01' a tree; and whose limbs were
also very stiff. I went to him and gave him a handful of raisins: he
looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankful--
ness that could appear in any conntenance ; but was so weak, that he
could not stand up on his feet; so I bade him sit still, and caused
Friday to rub his ankles with mm, as he had done his father's. 'nosinsox cause 11 111

I then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if. he
could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him to our
dwelling, Y<<here I would take care of him. But Friday, a lusty
young fellow, took the Spaniard quite up on his back, and carried
him away to the boat, and then lifted him quite in, and set him
close to lug father; and presently stepping out again, launched the
boat elf, and paddled it along the shore till he brought them both
safe into our creek. and leaving them in the boat, runs away to
fetch the other canoe. He had it in the creek almost as soon as 1
got to it by land, and then I made a kind of hand--barrow to lay our
guests on, and Friday and I carried them up both together up0n it
between us.

But when we got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification,
it was impossible to get them ever; so I set to work, and Friday and
I, in about two lioure' time, made a tent, covered with old sails, in
the space without our outward fence; and here we made them two
beds. As soon asI had given my two weak rescued prisoners a place
to rest them upon, I began to think of making some provision for
them. I ordered Friday to kill a yearling goat, and cutting off the
hinder quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, .1 made them a
very good dish of flesh and broth. I carried it all into the new tent,
and having set a table there for them, I sat down, and ate my own
dinner also with them, and, as well asI could, cheered them and en-
couraged them. Friday was my interpreter, especially to his father,
and, indeed, to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the lan'
guage of the savages pretty well.

I set Friday to inquire of his father what he theught of the escape
of the savages in that canoe, and whether we might expect a return
of them, with a power too great to resist. His first opinion was, that
the savages in the boat never could live out the storm which blew
that night they went all ; but as to what they would do if they came
on shore, it was his opinion that they were so dreadfullly frightened
with the manner of their being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that
he believed they would tell the people they were all killed by thun-
der and lightning, not by the hand of man. And this old savage
was in the right; for, as I imderstood since, by other hands, the
savages never attempted to go over to the island afterwards; they
were so terrified with the accounts given by those four men (for it
seems they did escape the sea), that they believed whoever went to
that enchanted island w0uld be bestroyed with fire from the gods.

In a little time, I began to take my former thoughts of a voyage
to the main into consideration; being assured, by Friday's father,
that I might depend upon good usage from their nation, on his ac-
count, if I would go. But my thoughts were a little suspended when
I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood
that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who,
having been cast away and made their escape to that side, lived there
at. peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very sore put to it for
necessaries, and, indeed, for life.

T. asked him if they had formed no design of making any escape.
He said they had many consultations about it; but having neither
vessel, nor tools to 'build one, nor provisions of any kind, their coun-
cils always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought
they would receive a proposal from me, which might tend towards an'
escape; and whether, if they were all here, it. might not be done. I
was persuaded, I said, that we might, with so many hands, build a
bark large enough to carry us all away. I told him with freedom, I
feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage of me, if I put my life in
their hands; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature
of man, nor did men always square their dealings by the obligations
they had received, so much as they did_ by the advantages they ex~
pected.

He answered that their condition was so miserable, and that they
were so sensible of it, that be believed they would abhor the thought
of'ueing any man unkindly that should contribute to their deliver-
ance ; and that, if I pleased, he would go to them, with the old man,
and discourse with them about it and return again, and bring me
their answer; that he would make conditions with them upon their
solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under my direction, as
their commander and captain; and be guided wholly and absolutely
by my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as I in-
tended ; and that he would bring a contract from them, under their
hands, for that purpose.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if
possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them
to treat. But when we had got all things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himself started an objection which had so much prudence
in it that I could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his ad--
vice, put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year.
The case was thus: he saw what stock of corn and rice I had laid
up ; which was not sufficient, without good husbandry, for my fami-
ly, now it was increased to four; and much less would it be sufficient
if his countrymen should come over. So he and me he thought it
would he more advisable to let him and the other two dig and culti--
vate some more land, as much as I could spa-re seed to sow, and that
we should wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of. corn
for his cotmtrymcn, when they should come.

His advice was so good, that I could not but he very well pleased
with his proposal, as well as satisfied with his fidelity ; so we fell to
digging, all four of us, and in about a months time, we had got as
much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two-and--twenty bush-
els of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice.

While waiting for the harvest I marked out several trees Which I
thought fit for Out work, and I set Friday and his father to cut them -
down. I showed them with what pains I had hewed a large tree in-
to a. single plank, and I caused them to do the like, till they had _
made about a dozen large planks of good oak. At the same time,
I contrived to increase my little stock of tame goats as much as I
could ; and the season {or eiu-ing the grapes coming on, I caused
such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that we could
have filled sixty or eighty barrels.

It was now harvest, and mu crop in good order; it was not the
most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was
enough to answer our end, though all the sixteen Spaniards had
been on shore with me. So now, having a full supply of food for
all the guests expected, the Spaniard and the old savage Went away
in one of the canoes which. they were brought in, when they came
as prisoners tohedevoured by the savages. I gave them provisions
of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves for many
days, and Sufficient for all the Spaniards for about eight days' time ;
and wishing them a good voyage, I saw them, go, agreeing with them
aboutasignal they should hang out at their return, by which I
should know them again when they came back, at a distance, before
they came on shore.

' [t was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforscen accident intervened, I was fast asleep in my
hutch one morning, when Friday came running into me, and called

 

"HY EYS PLALNLY DISCOVERED A SHIP LYING AT ANCHOR."

aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they are come!" Upon
which, regardless of danger, I jumped up, put on my clothes, and
buried through my little grove; when, looking toward the sea, I
saw a boat about a league and a. half distant, standing in for the
shore, with the wind fair. I observed that they did not come from
the side on which the land lay, but from the southernmost end of
the island. I bade Friday to lie still, for these were not the people
we looked for, and then I climbed to the top of the hill to take a bet-
ter view. With the help of my perspective glass! I plainly discoveredRom-neon censor}. ' 115

a, ship lying at anchor at almut two leagues and a half distance from
me. It seemed to be an English ship, and the boat appeared to
be an English long-boat.

The joy of seeing a. ship was such as I cannot describe, and yet
seine secret doubts hung about me--I cannot tell from whence they
came--bidding me keep on my guard. It was not long before I saysr
the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a, place where they
might conveniently land ; and at last they ran their boat on shore up-
on the beach at a'bOut a half a mile from me.- New 1 was fully satis-
fied they were Englishmen, in all eleven men, three of Whom were
unarmed and bound. When the first four or five jumped on shore,
they took these three out of the boat as prisoners; and one of the
three, I could perceive, used the most passionate gestures of on-
treaty, affliction, and despair, while the other two showed great
concern.

I knew not the meaning of this sight, and was greatly perplexed.
Friday called out to me, " 0 master l ' you see English mans eat
prisoner as well as savage mans." " Why, Friday," says I, " do you'

think they are going to eat them then? " " Yes," says Friday, " they
will eat them." "No, no," says I, "Friday; I am afraid they will
murder them, indeed ; but you may be sure they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but
stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every mo-
ment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw one
of the villains lift up his arm with a great sword, to strike one of the
poor men. After I. llfld observed the outrageous usage of the three
men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows um scattering
about the land, as if they wanted to see the country. I observed also
that the other men had liberty to go where they pleased; but they
sat down all three upon the ground very pensive, and looked like
men in despair.

It was just at the top of high water when these people came on
shore ; and while they rambled about, the water ebbed considerably
away, leaving their boat aground. When they attempted to launch
'her, they found it past their strength, and I heard one of them say
aloud to another, calling them off from the boat, " Why, let her alone,
J aek, can't you? she'll float next tide." I knew it was no less than
ten hours before the boat could float again, and by that time it would
be. dark, and I nnght be at more liberty to see their motions, and to
hear their discourse, if they had any. In the meantime, I fitted my--
self up for a battle, as before, though with more caution, knowing
that I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first.

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt
till it was dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I
found they were all gone straggling into the Woods, and, as I
thought, were all laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed men,
too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, had, however, sat
down under the shelter of a. great tree, at about a quarter of a mile
from me, and, as I. thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon
this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn something of
their condition; immediately I marched, my man Friday at a good
distance behind me. I came as near them undiscovered as I could,
and then, before any. of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Span--
ish, " \Vhat are ye, gentlemen? " They started up at the noise, but
were ten times more confounded 'when they saw me, and the un-
eouth figure that. I made. They made no answer at all, but I
thought I perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to
them in English; " Gentlemen," said I, " do not be surprised at me:
perhaps you may have a friend near, when you did not expect it."
" He must be sent directly from heaven, then," said one of them very
gravely to me, "for our condition is past the help of man." "All
help is from heaven, sir," said I: " but can you put a stranger in the
way to help you? for you seem to be in some great distress. I saw
you when you landed; and when you seemed to make application to
the bmtesZthat came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword
to kill you." --

The poor man looked like one astonished, and returned, " Am I
talking to God, or man? Is it a. real man, 01' an angel?" " Be in no
fear about that, sir," said I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve
you, he would have come better clothed, and armed- after another
manner than you see me in; pray lay aside your fears ; I am a. man,
an Englishman, and dissposed to assist you ; you see 1 have one ser--
vant only; we have arms and ammunition. ; tell us heel)"; can We
serve you? What is your case?" "Our case, sir," said he, "is too
long to tell you, while our murderers are so near us ; but, in short,
sir, I was commander of that ship; my men have mutinied against;
me; they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder mo, and, at
last, have set me on shore in this desolate place, with these two men
with me--one my mate, the other a passenger--where we expected

of
t
a

    

"'mmr Am: 1m, Gmnxznm."

n

to pcris . " Where are your enemies? " said I ; " do you not know
where they are gone? " " There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a
thicket of trees; " my heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and
heard you speak; if they have, they will certainly murder us all. "
" Haxe they any fire-arms. 9 " said I. He answered, "They had only
Iwo pieces, one of which they left' 111 the boat." " Well then," said
I, " leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep; it is an easy thing
to kill them all; but shall we rather take them prisoners? " He
told me there were two desperate villains among them that it was
scarce safe to Show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he
believed all the rest would return to their duty. I asked him which
they were. He told me he could not at that distance distinguish
them, but he would obey my orders in anything 1 would direct.
' Well," says I, " let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they
awake, and we will resolve further." So they willingly went back
with me till the woods covered us from them. _

" Look you, sir," said I; "if I venture upon your deliverance, are
you willing to make two conditions with me?" He anticipated my
proposals by telling me that both he and the ship, if recovered,
should be wholly directed and commanded by me 'in everything.
" Well, " said I, "my conditions are but two: first, --that while you
stay on this island with me, you will not pietend to any authority
llele; secondly,
my man to England passage free,"

He gave me all the assurance that amen. could devise that he
would comply with these most reasonable demands. "Well, then,"
said I, "here are. three muskets for you, with powder and ball ; tell
me next what you think-is proper to he done." He olfered to be
wholly guided by me, and I told him I thought the best method was
to fire on them at once as they lay, and if any were not killed at the
first volley, and offered to submit, we might save them. He said
that he was loth to kill them, if he could help it ; but that those two
W016 inconigible villains, and if they escaped, we should be undone
still, for they mould go on board and bring- Ihe whole ship's com--
pany, and destioy us all.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and
soon after we saw two of thomon their feet. I asked him if either
of them were the men who he had said were the heads of the mutiny.
He said, "No." -" Well, then," said I, "you may let them escape.
Now, if the rest escape you, it is your fault." The two men who
were with him then made some noise, at which one of the seamen,
who was awake, turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to
the rest ; but it was too late then, for the moment he cried out they
fired--I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his piece.

_ They had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one
of them was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded ;
but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly forhelp to the other; but the captain, stepping to him, told him it was
too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his vil-
laiuy, and with that word knocked him dewn with the steak of his
musket, so that he never spoke more: there were three more in the
company, and one of them was slightly wounded. By this time I

  
 
 

was come; and when they
saw their danger, and that it
was in rain to resist, they
begged for mercy. The cap-
tain told them he would spare their lives ii they would swear to be
faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying
her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all
the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired; and he
was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not
against, only I obliged him to keep them heund hand and foot
while they were upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain7s mate to the
boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars and sails,
which they did; and by and by three straggling men, that were
(happily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the
the guns fired ; and seeing the captain, who before was their prison-
er, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and so
our victory was complete. -.

"THEY 326cm r03 MERCY."
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
another's circumstances. I began first, and told him my whole his-
tory, which he heard with an attention even to amazement. After
this communication was at an end, I carried him and his two men in--
to my apartments, where I refreshed him with such provision as I
had, and showed them all contrivances I had made during my long,
long inhabiting that place.

I told him this was my castle and my residence, but that I had a
seat in. the (fOuntl'y, as most piinces have, whither I could retreat
upon occasion, and I would show him. that too another time; but at
present our business was to consider how to recover the ship. He
agreed with me as to that, but told me he was perfectly at a less
what measures to take, for that there were still six--and--twenty hands
on board, who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which
they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it
now by desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that if they
were subdued they should be brought to the gallows as soon as they
came to England, or to any of the English colonies, and that, there--
fore, there weiild be no attacking them with so small a number as
we were.

I mused for some time upon what he said, and found it was every
rational conclusion, and that therefore something was to be resolved
on very speedily, as well to draw the men 011 boaid into some snare
PS01 their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying
us. Upon this, it presently on -cur1e(l to me that in a little while the
ship's crew, wondering what \1 as become of. theil comrades and of
the heat, would certainly come on shore in their other boat to look
for them, and that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and he
too strong for us: this he allowed to be rational Upon this, I told
him the first thing we had to do was to stave the boat, which lay up-
on tho beach, so that they might not carry her ofi', and taking every-
thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim.
Accordingly we went on board, took the arms which were left on
board out of her, and knocked a great hole in her bottom. Then we
heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that the tide would not
float her elf at high water mark. Presently we heard the ship fire a
gun, and make a waft with her ensign as a signal for the heat to
come on board: but no heat stirred; and they fired several times,
making other signals for the boat. At last, when all their signals
and firing proved fruitless, and they feund the boat did not stir, we
saw them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat Out, and row
towards the shore; and we found, as they approached, that there
were no less than ten men in her, and that they had fire-anus with
them.

The captain knew the persons and characters of all the men in the
boat, of whom, he said, there were three very honest fellows, who,
he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being over-
powered and frightened ; but that as [or the boatswain, who it seems
was the chief officer among them, and all the rest, they were as out-
rageous as any of the ship's crew.

We had, upon the first appearanee of the boats coming from the
ship, considered of separating our prisoners; and had, indeed, se-
cured them effectually. 'lhvo of them, of whom the captain was less
assured than ordinary, Isent with Friday and one of the three de-
livered men to my cave, where they left them bound. The other-
prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept pinioned, indeed,
because the captain was not free to trust them; but the other two
were taken into my service, upon the captain's recommendation, and
upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us ; so with them
and the three honest men we were seven men, well armed; and I
made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough with the ten
that were coming, considering that the captain had said there were
three or four honest men among them also. As soon as they got to
the place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat into the
beach. and came all on shore, hauling the beat up after them.

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their other
boat; and it was easy to see they were under a. great Surprise to find
her stripped, as above, of all that was in, her, and a. great hole in her
bottom. After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two
01' three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if they
could make their companions hear; but all was to no purpose: then
they fired a volley of their small arms. They were so astonished at
receiving no answer to this, that, as they told us afterwards, they re-
solved to go all on board again to their ship, and let them know that

"'4'2'.
the men were all murdered; and the long-boat staved; accordingly,
they immediately launched their boat again, and got all of them on
board.

They had not been long put oil with the boat, when we perceived
them all. coming on shore again; but with this new' measure in their '
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz,, to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into
the country to look for their fellows. The seven men came on shore,
and the three who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance
from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them ; so that it
was impossible for us to come at them in the boat. Those that came
on shore kept close together, marching towards the top of the little
hill under which my habitation lay. When they were come to the
brow of the hill where they could see a great way into the valleys and
woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and where the island
lay lowest, they shouted and ha-Ilooed till they were weary: and not
caring, it seems, to venture far from the shore, they sat down to-
gether, undera tree, to consider of it. , -

At length, we saw them all start up, and march down inwards the
see: it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions of the danger of
the place, that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give their
companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage
with the ship. I

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it to
be as it really was, that they were for going back again; and the
captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the
apprehension of it: but I presently thought of a stratage'm to fetch
'them back again, and which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered
Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little creek westward,
and halloo out, as loud as they could, and that as soon as they heard
the seamen answer them, they should return it again '; and, then
keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others
hallooed, to "draw them far into the island, and then wheel about
again to me by such ways as I directed.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the'mate hal-
looed; and they presently heard them, and, answering, ran along the
shore towards the voice they heard, when they were presently stopped
by the creek, where, the water being up, they could not get over, and
called for the boat to come up and set them over; as, indeed, I
expected. When they had set themselves over, I observed that they
took one of the three men out of her, to go along with them, and left
only two in the boat. This was what I wished for; and I took the
rest with me, and crossing the creek, we Surprised the two men
before they were aware. One of them was not so hearty in the mutiny
as the rest of the crew; and, therefore, was easily persuaded not only
to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely with us. In the
meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed their
business with the rest that they drew them on till they left them
where they could not reach back to the boat. before it was dark.

We had nothing new to do but to watch for them in the dark, and
to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It was
several hours after Friday came back to me before they came back
to their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them complain how
lame and tired they were; which was very welcome news to us. At-
length they came up to the boat; but it was impossible to express
their confusion when they found their boats fast aground in the
creek, the tide ebbcd Out, and their two men gone. We could hear-
them call to one another in the most lamentable manner, telling one
another they were got into an enchanted island; that they should all
be murdered, or else carried away and devoured. After some time,
we could see them by the little light there was, running about,
wringing their hands like men in despair. My men would lain have
had me give them leave to fall upon them at once in, the dark; but to
-make-sure of them, I ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon
their hands and feet, as close as they oeuld possibly, before they
offered to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain, who
was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, came walking towards
them, with two more of the crew; and the captain and Friday,
starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was killed
upon the spot; the next man was shot in the body, and fell just by
him, though he did not die till an hour or We after; and the third
ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my
whole army, and I made the man they had left in the boat. and WhC
was now one of us, call them by name, to try if I could bring them
to a parley. So he calls out as loud as he could to one of them, " Tom
Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Who's
that? Robinson?" for it seems he knew the voice. The other an-
swerec , " Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms '
and yield, or you are all dead men this moment." "Who must we
yield to? Where are they?" says Smith again. "Here they are,"
says he; "here's our captain and fifty men with him, have been
hunting you these two hours; the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is
wounded, and I am a. prisoner; and if you. do not yield, you are all.
lost." " Will they give us quarter then ? " says Tom Smith, " and we
will yield." "I'll go and ask, if you prm-nise 1.0 yield," said Robin--
son : so he asked the captain; and the captain himself then calls out,
" You, Smith, you know my voice ; if you lay down your arms im--
mediately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all but Will
Atkins."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, " For God's sake, captain, give
me quarter; what have I done? They have been all as bad as I z "
which, by the way, was not true; for, it seems, this Will Atkins was
the first man that laid hold of the captain, when they first mutinied,
and used him barbarously, in tying his hands and giving him in--
juricms language. However, the captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy: by which
he meant me, for they called me governor. In a word, they all laid
down their arms, and begged their lives; and Ieeut the man that.
had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them all; and then
my great army of fifty men, which, with those three, were in all but
eight, came up and seized upon them, and upon their boat; only
that I kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of state.

I ordered Atkins and two more of the worst of them to be con-
fined separately from the others, and in the meming the captain en--
tered into a parley with these letter, saying that though the governor
had given them quarter for the present, yet if they were sent to Eng-
land they w0uld all be hanged; but that if they would join in an
attempt to recover the ship, he would have the governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.

Any one may guess how such a. proposal would be received by men
in their position ; they fell down on their knees to the captain, and
promised, with the deepest imprecations, that they weiild be faithful
to him to the last drop, , '
and would go with him : deg
all over the world. ,
"76 now made our ar-- "
rangements for the ex--
pedition. The captain
furnished his two boats,
stopped the breach of
one, and manned them.
That we might be very
secure, T. told him to 3,
choose out five of the
seven men of the gang
last captured, and tell
them that the governor
would keep the other
two and the three al-
ready confined, as hos-
tages for the fidelity of
the others, and that if
they proved unfaithful,
the five hostages should
be hanged in chains
ashore. Friday and I
remained ashore to take
charge of the prisoners,
while the captain put
his passenger in com--
mand of One boat, with
four men under him;
and himself, his mate,
and five more, went in the other. The attack was made at midnight.
As soon as they came within call of the ship, the captain made
Robinson hail them, holding them in achat till they came to the
ship's side; when they entered her, and completely surprised those

 

"m: OM'I'MN MADE nomusox mm raw."
on board. The rebel captain was shot through the head, so that he
never spoke a word more; upon which the rest yielded, and the
ship was taken ellectually without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven '
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give
me notice of his success. Having heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it having been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very
sound, till 1 was something surprised with the noise of a gun; and
presently starting up, I heard a man calling me by the name of
" Governor! Governor!" and presently I knew the captain's voice;
when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and, point--
ing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and
deliverer," says he, "there's your ship; for she is all yours, and so
are we, and all that belongs to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and
there she rode, Within little more than half a mile of the shore. I
was at first ready to sink down with the surprise; for I saw my de-
liverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all things easy, and a
large ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to go. At
first, for some time, Twas not able to answer one word; 'but as he
had taken me in his arms, I held last by him, orI should have fallen
to the ground. In a little while alter, I recovered my speech; then
I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced
together.

Nothing remained now but to determine what to do with the
prisoners, for I found that the captain was uneasy about taking
them on board, even bound in irons as malefactors. I told him that
I would undertake to bring them to make it their own request that
he should leave them upon the island. "I should be very glad of
that," said he. '

So I dressed myself in one of the captain's suits of clothes, and
caused the prisoners to be brought before me. I told them I had
got a full account of their villainous behavior, and pointed out to
them how Providence had ensnared them in their own ways; that
they thought that they had set the captain on shore in a barren, un--
inhabited island, but it had pleased God so to direct them that it was
inhabited, and that the governor was an Englishman. I asked them
what they had to say why I should not execute them as pirates, as9A

' 'v.
'23.;

 

1'1 '1'"

"me new. emu>>: hAS sum' runuuan mm mm." (p. 126).
they could not doubt I had authority to do. They said they had
nothing to say but that the captain had promised them their lives
when they were taken, and they im-

plored my mercy. I told them I had
resolved to take passage with the cap-
tain to go to England; and as for
him, he could carry them only as , '
prisoners, to be tried for mutiny, the - A395>>
penalty for which would be the gal-- "
Iowa. The only way that I could see \
by which they might escape this fate

was for them to remain on the island.
If they desired that, I had some in-

 

 

 
   
  
  
  

"x snowsn mm mm mm _CAYL'AIN
mxcmc AT THE man--mu."

clination to give them their lives, if they thought they could shift on
shore. They said they would much rather venture to remain there
thanbe carried to England to be hanged, and seemed thankful to
have the liberty of choosing.

I told the captain I would stay that night to prepare my things,
and desired him to go on board the ship , telling him to cause the
new captain, who was kill,ed to be hanged at the yard~arm, that these
men might see him.

When thishad been done, Isent again for the men, and talked
with them seriously of their circumstances. I shew-ed them the new
captain hanging at the yard-arm, and told them that they had noth-
ing less than that to expect if they were carried to England. When
they had all declared their willingness to stay, I told them my whole
story, charging them to be kind to the Spaniards that were expected,
giving tliem'all my arms, and inlorming them of everything neces--
sary for their subsistence.

Having done all this, I went on board ship the next day, Friday
going with me. We prepared to sail, but did not weigh anchor that
night. The next morning early, two of the five men came swim-
ming to the ship's side, desiring the captain to take them on board,
even though he hanged them afterwards, so barbarously had the
other three used them. Upon which I prevailed upon the captain to
take them in, and being severely whipped, they proved more honest
for the future. Thus I bade farewell to this island, carrying along
with me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat's skin cap; set--
ting sail December the 19th, 1686, aftertwenty eight years,-. two
months, and nineteen day's residence, that same day and month that
I escaped from Salee, landing in England, June 1], H587, after five-
and--thirty years absence from my country, which. rendered me alto-
together a stranger there.

T. found my first captain's widow alive, but in very poor circum<<
stances. Soon after, I went down to Yorkshire, where I found that
all of my family had died, except two. sisters, and two of the chil-
dren of one of my brothers. I learned that no provision had been
made for me, as it was concluded that I. had long since been dead.
Thus my circumstances would. have been very poor had not my
partner conducted the affairs of my plantation in the Brazils in the
most honorable and profitable manner during my absence, so that I
found myself possessed of PS 50,000, besides an income of PS 1000 a
year.' Idiscovered my excellent fiiend, the Portuguese captain ; and
as he was in needy circumstances, I showed my gratitude for his"
past'kindness by a yearly allowance of money sufficient to support
him.

Not liking to go to live in the l3razils,1' determined to sell my
plantation there and settle in Englagnd and marrying a young lady
of a very good family, I seemed to bid adieu to my loving inclina-
tions I had two sons and one daughter , and buying a farm m the
county of Bedford, I led the life of a country gentleman, and was as
happy in my retirement as the greatest'monarch in the world.

But in the midst of this my happiness, I was suddenly plunged in--
to the greatest sorrow by the loss of my dear wife. She had been
the stay of all my afiairs, and the centre of all my enterprises, and I
was to the last degree desolate in the world by the loss of her. I
was like a ship withOut a pilot that could only run before the wind;
my country delights had no longer a relish, and were like music to
one that has no car, or food to one that has no taste. In aword, I
left my farm, and in a few months returned to London.

When I came to London I was still as uneasy as I was before. I
had nothing to do but saunter about like an idle person, and this '
was the sort of life which was most specially my aversion. It was
now the beginning of the year 1694; and at this time one of my
nephews, who had. been brought up to the sea, and for whom I. had '
obtained command of a ship, was returned from a voyage to Bilboa.
He came to me one morning, telling me that some merchants of his
acquaintance had proposer] to him to go on a. voyage for them to the
East Indies and China, in the manner of private traders, "and now,
uncle," said he, " if you'll go thither with me, I'll engage to land
you uponyour own island to see the state of your little kingdom."

I had an irresistible desire for the voyage, and the scheme hit so
exactly with my temper, that I told him I would go with him. He
was ready to sail about the beginning of J anuary 1694-5 ; and I, with
my man Friday, went on board on the 8th. We took along a con--
siderable cargo of all kinds of things necessary for my colony, and
some workmen whom I proposed to place there as inhabitants : via,
two carpenters, a smith, a tailor, and a very handy, ingenious fellow
who was a. general mechanic, whom we called our J ack--of--alLTradcs.
When we set sail we had a fair wind for some time, but one night-
the mate, having the watch, told us he saw a flash of fire, and heard
a gun fired. At this we all ran on deck, from whence we saw a great
light, and as there was no land that way, we knew it must be some
ship on fire at sea, which could not be far off, as we had heard the
sound of the gun.

 

"TIIR smr anw W."

The wind being fair, we stood toward it, and in half an hour we
oeuld plainly see that it was a great ship on fire in the middle of the
sea. I immediately ordered that five guns should be fired, and we
then lay by, waiting for daylight. On a sudden, to our great terror,
the ship blew up in the air; and in a few minutes all the fire was
cut, and the rest of the ship sunk. I caused lights to be hung out,
and we kept firing guns all night, to let the survivors, if there should
be any, know that help was not far off. At eight o'clock the next
morning, we found by the aid of our glasses, that two of the ship's
boats were out at sea, both thronged with people. They had seen
us, and had done their utmost to make us see them, and in half an
hour we came up with them. We took them all aboard, sixty-four
persons in all.

On inquiry we found that it was a French. ship. It would be hard
to deseribe the Scene that took place when these poor people came on
board. There were some in teais, some raving like lunatics; some
ran a'beut stamping their feet, others wringing their hands; some
were singing and laughing, many quite dumb ; several were swoon-
ing and ready to faint; and a few were crossing themselves, and
giving God thanks.

Among them there was a young French priest who labored to com-
pose those around him; persuaded, ontreatecl, argued with them, and
did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of their reason; and
with. some he had success, though others were for a time out of all
control of themselves.

The next day they had cahned, and were quite another sort of
people. We began to consult with their captain what had best be
done with them, and after considering different plans, it was at last
settled that we should take them to Newfoundland. It was about a
Week after this that we made the banks of Newfoundland, where, to
shorten my story, we put the French people on board a bark, which
they hired there to carry them to France; that is, all except five
who, with the priest, wished to join me.

We had not Set sail. long, when we fell. in with a ship that had
been blown out to sea by a storm, and had lost her masts, and worse
than all, her crew were almost starved for want of provisions. The
mate, who was in command, came on board our ship, and brought
six men with him. The poor wretches were so weak that they could
hardly sit to their ears. I ordered food to be given them, and they
rather devoured than ate it. I also forgot not the starving crew that
were left on board but sent them a. supply of bread and meat.

There were a youth and a young girl, passengers in the ship, who,
the mate said, he thought must be dead; 'but he had not had the
heart to go near them, for he had nothing to relieve them with. 1
went aboard their ship, and "found they were faint for the want of
food, and at the very brink of death, but on being fed carefully they
soon recovered. At their own request, I took them on board with
us, so that now we had eight more on board than when we set out.
In three months from the time when
lloft. home, I came fair on the south
side of my island, and brought the ship
safe to an anchor, broadside with the
little creek where my old habitation v
was.

I called Friday and asked him
if he knew where he was. He
looked about a little, and present-
1y, clapping his hands, cried,
" Oh, yes; oh, there--oh, yes; oh, i ' I
there!" and fell
dancing and cap
pering like a. mad -

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

fellow; and I had
much. ado to keep
him from jumping
into the'sea, to swim
ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday,"
says I, "do you
think we shall find
_ - , anybody here? Do
-; ' i _' _ ' . -y0u ihink we shall
. i - ' . ~~ see your father?"
_"7hen I named his
" father, the poor af-
fiectionate creature
looked dejected.
"No, no," said he,
"mm mm: nnouem SIX mm WITH am." shaking his head:
"he long ago die,
long ago ; he much old man." " But shall we see any one else theii ? "
I said. He had better eyes than I, it seems, for he pointed to the
hill above my house, and cried, "Yes, yes, me see much man there,
and there! " I looked, but I saw nobody, but the fellow was right,
as I found upon inquiry the next day, and there were five or six men
all together, who stood to look at the ship, not knowing. what to

think of us.

As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused three guns to
be fired, to give them notice we were friends, and soon we perceived
a smoke arise from the side of the creek. I then went on shore in a

 

,. u '
"seamen

gunman" '
. .

 

"--a

'1 CAME mm 0N we SOUTH SIDE OF MY 15mm."

boat, with the priest and Friday, and hung out a. white flag of peace.
The first man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had
saved. I ordered nobody to leave the boat at first but myself, bu I.
there was no keeping Friday on it, for he had spied his father at a
distance. It would have made any man shed tears to have seen this
poor fellmv's joy when he came to his father. He kissed him, took
him up in his arms, set him down by a tree, then stood and looked at
him, as one would look at a picture, and all the while he would be
talking to him, and telling him one story or another of his travels.

As to my friend, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, he came at-
tended hy one more, carrying a. flag of truce also. He had no notion
of its being me till I spoke to him. "Seignior," said I, do you not"Do YOU nor xxow XE?" (z).'134).
know me ? " Then he came forward and embraced me, and took me
to my old habitation. I could no more have found the place than if
I had never been there; for they had planted so many trees, and
these had grown so big, that the place was inaccssiblc, except by
such windings as they themselves only, who made them, could find.

I inquired the reason for all those fortifications, and he told me I
would say there was need enough of it, when they had given me an
account of how they had passed their time since their arriving in the
island. .

He had sent the man who attended him to call his comrades, and
this man now come with eleven more. My friend, pointing to them,
said, " These gentlemen, sir, all owe their lives to you ; " upon which
they all came up to me, one by one, not as if they had been sailors,
and the like, but as if they had been noblemen, and I a. monarch re--
ceiving their homage.

Then there was a long story to hear of all that had been done in.
the island since I. left it. But I must first tell of something that
happened at the tiEnETng. my departure which lomitted in my pre-
vious aecount. When we were on the point to set sail there hap-
pened a quarrel on board of om- ship, which could not be suppressed
till we laid two of the nmsl. refractory follows in irons. The next
day these two men stole each of them a. musket and some other
weapons, and took the ship's pinnace and ran away with it to join
their companion rogues ashore. As soon as we found this. I ordered
the long--boat on shore with twelve men and the mate, and away they
went to seek the rogues; but they could find neither them nor any
of the rest, for they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat.
These two men made their number five; but the other three villains
were so much more wicked than they, that in two or three days they
turned the new-comers out of doors, nor could they, for a good
while, be persuaded to give them any food. '

When the Spaniards came, the three gave them 'provisions, and
other relief, as I had ordered them to do, and they agreed very well-
for some time. The Spaniards had to do all the work, however,
while the Englishmen did nothing but ramble about the island,
Shooting parrots and catching tortoises. The Spaniards would have
been satisfied with this, had the others but; let them alone; but like
the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves, neither would
they let others eat. Their difierences were at first trivial, but at last
it broke out. into open war, and went beyond the bounds of meson
'and common sense.

The Spaniards, when they first came, would have persuaded the

 

" BAD": 1m: mums STAND mm"

three English brutos to take their countrymen in again, but they
would not hear of it; so the two lived by themselves, in huts which
they built on the north shore of the island. The Spaniards gave
them some corn for seed, aild some of the peas. I had left them; and
they dug, planted, and inclosed after the pattern I had set for them
all, and began to live pretty well.

But when the three rogues saw this, they came, in were bad humor,
to insult and bully them. They said that the island was theirs, and
that they should build no houses on their land unless they would
pay rent. The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, asked
them to come in and sit down, and see what fine houses they had_
built, and tell them what rent they demanded. But one of the three

' said they sh0u1d see they were not in jest, and taking a firehrand he
put it to the side of their hut, and would have set it on fire if one of
the honest men, as I shall call them for distinction, had not trod it

' out with his feet. The fellow was :in such a. rage at this, that he mm
9.1. him with a pole he had in his hand, and would have killed him if
he had not run into the hut. His comrade followed, and both seized
their muskets and came out again. Before the other two could help
him, the fellow that began the quarrel was knocked down with the
stock of a musket, and then the two honest men stood together, and
presenting their pieces, bade the others stand ofi. Then the others
began to parley, and at last consented to take their wounded man
and hegone.

They afterwards came back and trod down the com, and shot the
goats and kids, and plagued them night and day in this manner.
One day, when the two men were out, they came and pulled down
both huts, and tore up all their household stuff, and, in a word,
sacked and plundered everything as completely as a horde of Tartars
would have done. Then they came back to the Spaniards, and told
them what they had done, and one of them, stepping up to one of the
Spaniards, insulted him grossly. The Spaniard was abrave man,
and a strong one as well, and having no weapon, knocked him down
with a blow of his flat. The rest of the Spaniards then interfered,
secured the other two, and took their arms from them. Then the
fellows began to cool, and gave the Spaniards better words, but the
Spaniards told them that if they would live peaceably they would do
them no harm, but that they could not have their arms again.

Some time after this, it happened one night that the Spaniard
govemor, as I shall call him--that is, the Spaniard whose life I had
saved, and who was new leader of the rest--found himself uneasy
and could get no sleep ; though he was perfectly well in health. He
lay still for some time, but as he did not feel at ease, he got up and
took a look out. But as it was too dark to see far, and he heard no
noise, he returned and laid him down again; but it was all one, he
could not- sleep; his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and he
knew not for what.

The noise he made waked up another of them. whom the governor
told how it had been with him. " Say you so ? " said he. " What if
some mischief were brewing near us! Let us go and look abroad."
They then set off to the top 0f the hill where T, used to go, and from

 

"xxocxim Hm new): mm A nmw or ms FIST."

thence were surprised with seeing a light as of fire, and hearing the
voices of a great number of men.

The governor and the man with him, surprised at this sighL, ran
back immediately and raised their fellows, and when they heard the
news, they could not be persuaded to stay within, but must all run
out to see how things stood. They were in great perplexity what to
do, but at last resolved to send the old savage, Friday's father, out
as a. spy, while it was still dark, to learn who they were and when
they meant to do. After he had been gone an hour or two, he _
brought word that. he had been among them undiscovered; that they
were of two nations, who were at war with one another, and had had
abattle in their own. country; and that both sides had come, by
more chance, with their prisoners, whom they intended to devour, to
the same place. He believed that they would have another battle as
soon as it was daylight ; and so it was, for in a shalt time they could
perceive, by the noise, that the two little armies were engaged in a
bloody fight. The fight went on for two hours, and at the end the
conquered side fled to their canoes and got off to sea. rl'he victors
made little pursuit, but drawing themselves into abody gave two
great screaming shouts by way of triumph. The same day, about
three o'clock in the a.tte1noon,_they also marched to their canoes.
And thus the Spaniards had the island again free to themselves,
their fright was over, and they saw no savages for several years
after.
n took the three reprobates that they would go over
whence the savages came, to seek their fortunes.
glad enough to get rid of them, and let them
take one of .ats, and gave them arms, and provisions enough
for a month;.. on they bade them "Ben eeyajo .' " no man ever
thought of seeing them any more. But behold, after twenty-two
days' absence, one of the two honest Englishmen, being engaged in
his planting work, secs flu'ee strange men coming towards him with
guns upon their shoulders.- They proved to be the three wanderers, .
and gave an account of their voyage ina few words. They said
they had reached land in two days, and that the savages were very
courteous and friendly to them; and that they gave them roots-and
dried fish to eat, and were so kind as to press on them a gift of some
prisoners whom they were feeding to make them fat for the next.
feast. The Englishmen, barbarous as they were, did not care for a
feast of this sort, but dared not refuse the gift for fear of oifending
the savages, so they brought the prisoners back with them--three
men and five women.

The governor asked them what they intended to do with the
women, and how they intended to use them, whether as servants or
wives. 'They answered that they would use them as both, and the
end of the matter was that the five Englishmen took them every one
a- wife, and the men were kept as slaves, to do the hard work. To

   
   
  
  

. The Spa-nia- ,
avoid qua-n'elling, they drew lots among them to decide which should
have first choice of'the women for his wife.

Some time alter this, there came on shore, early one morning, five
or six canoes full of savages. Our men all kept within doors, as was
prudent, till after the canoes had gone oil. Then some of them
peeped abroad again, and going to theplace where the savages had
been, they found three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep on
the ground. This was a Surprise, and what to do with them was a

 

"Tuners summon mm comm TOW/mos um."

troublesome question, but. the governor's advice was to keep them as
prisoners, and Sell them at labor, although there was little for them to
do. This was done, but. Lhrough negligence in guarding them, one
ran away to the woods, and they could never hear of him any more.
They had good reason to believe he formd his Way home, in the
canoes of some savages who came to the island in a few days, and
after carrying on their revels as usual, went away. So they might
well fear that if this fellow got. home safe, he would certainly give
his comrades an account. that there were people in the island, and
where they might be found. And so it came '00 pass, for in less than
two months, six canoes full of savages, with seven or eight men in a
canoe, came to the north side of the island, where they never used to
come before. They Janded about an hour after sunrise, at a con--
venient place, aborit a mile from the habitation of. the two English-
men, where this escaped man had been kept. By good luck they
had never let him see any of the other habitations, and he did not
know that there were so many people on the island. The two Eng~
' lishmen saw the canoes while they were along way off, so that it
- was above an hour before they landed. Now, having great reason
to believe they were betrayed, the first thing they did was to bind
the two slaves which. were left, and cause two of the three men whom
they brought with the women (who, it seems, proved very faithful to
them) to lead them, with their two Wives, and whatever they could
carry away with them, to a retired place in 'the woods. Then they
opened the fences, leaving their goats to straggle in the woods
whither they pleased, and sent the other slave they had of the three
who came with the women, away to the Spaniards to give them the
alarm and ask for help. In the meantime, they took their arms and
retreated. towards the place in the wood where their wives were, but
keeping a watch on the savages to see which way they went. They
had not gone far, when they could see irom a rising ground the army '
of their enemies come on directly to their habitation, and in a mo-
ment more, could see all their huts and household stuff flaming up
together, to their great grief and mortification. They kept their
station for a while, till they found the savages spread themselves all
over the place, like wild beasts looking for prey. Then they went
on and did not halt till they came to a thick-grown part of firewood,
where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and large, and
in this tree they both took their post.

They had not been there long when two of the savages ran that
way, and alittle way farther they espied three more coming after
them, and five more beyond them, all running as if they knew where
they stood. The poor men made up their minds to let the first two
pass, and then take the three and the five in line, as they came up,
but to fire only one at a time, as perhaps the first shot might hit
them all three.

So the man who was to fire put three or four bullets into his
piece, and from a. hole in the tree took asure aim, and waited till10A

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 143

the three savages came so near that he could not miss them. They
soon saw that one of the three was the runaway savage, and they
resolved that he should not escape. At the first shot two of the
savages l'ell dead, and the third had a scratch in the shoulder, and
being dreadfully frightened, though not so much hurt, sat down up-
on the ground, screaming and yelling. When the live men that

new

 

were behind heard the sound of the gun, and the savage's cries, they
' stood still at first, as if bewildered. So our two men both shot off

their guns into the midst of them, and then ran up and bound
them safe with rope.

They then went to the place where their wives and slaves were, to
see if all was well there, and found that thougl'i the savages had
been quite near that place, the}7 had not found it. While they were
here, seven of the Spaniards came to their assistance, and told them
that the others were gone in a. body .to defend their bower, in ease
the savages should have roved ever to that'sicle of the country.
They then went back, with all possible caution, to their ruined plan-
tation ; but when they came in sight of the sear-shore, they feund the
savages all embarked and gone to sea.

They set to work to rebuild their huts, and as all the rest helped
thorn, they were soon in a way to thrive once more. For five or six
months they saw no more of the savages. But one day a fleet ap--
peared of no less than eiglit--and-tiventy canoes, full of savages armed
with bows and arrows, great- oluhs, wooden swords, and such like
implements of war, and our people were put into the utmost con-
sternation. .

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what
to do. And as they knew that their being concealed was their only
safety, they resolved first of all to take down the huts which were
built [or the two English-nan, and drive away their goats to the old

' cave, for they supposed the savages would go straight there as soon
as it was day, to play the old game over again. -

The next morning they posted themselves near the plantation of
the two men, to await for their coming. As they guessed, so it hap-
pened : these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of
the island, came ranging along the shore, directly to the place.
When they came within range of the guns, our men let fly among
the thickest of the crowd, with six or seven bullets in each charge.
The surprise among the savages was inexpressihle ; they were fright-
ened to the last degree to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their
men killed and hurt, but see nobody that did it.

Our men then fell on them in three bodies, using the butt--ends of
their muskete, their swords, armed stoves, and hatchete, and laid
abmxt them so well that their foes set up a dismal screaming, and
fled tosave their lives which way soever they could. As our men
did not care to pursue them, they all got together to the seaside
Where they landed, and where their canoes lay.

But their disaster was not yet at an end, for it blew aterrible
storm that evening llrom the sea, so that it was impossible for them
to go olf; nay, the storm continuing all night, their canoes were
most of them driven so high upon the shore that it required infinite
toil to get them off ; and some of them were even dashed to pieces.
At daybreak our men wefit forth to find them, and when they saw '
the state of affairs, they got some dry wood together and set fire to
the boats. At the sight of this the savages raised ahicleous cry,
after which they ran about the island like distracted men, so that.
our men did not know what. at first to do with. them, for they trod
all the corn under foot, tore up the vines and grapes, which were
then almost ripe, and did our men an immense amount of damage.

 

"' cans mmma'Awm 1'32: SHORE."

At last. they brought 01d Friday to them, who told them how kind
the others would be to them; that they would grant. their lives, and
give them part of the island to live in, if they would keep in their
own bounds; and that they simuld have corn to plant and make it
grow for their bread. '.l.'.he poor wretches closed with the proposal
at once, and. were the most faithful fellows to their words that could
be thought. of; for except when they came to beg victuals and di-
rections, they never came out of their bounds, and were the 'most
subjected, innocent creatures that over were heard of.

From this time the colony enjoyed perfect tranquillity till I 'came
to'visit them. After hearing his account of all these occurrences, I -
told the governor that I had not come to carry any of them off, but
to establish them there; and that I had brought a supply of all
things neceseary, as well for their convenience as their defense;
and that persons were with me who could assist them in those things
in which at present they were in want.

We'appointed the next day to dine all together; and we made a
splendid feast. The ship's cook and his mate came on shore to dress
it. We brought on shore our salt beef and pork, some French
claret, and some English beer; and the Spaniards added to our feast
live whole kids, which the cooks roasted ; and tlireelof them were _
sent to the seamen that they might feast on fresh meat as we did on
salt.

I brought my cargo of goods, and divided equally among them the
goods for Wearing that I had brought ; among them a large quantity
of linen to make shirts, and some thin English stuffs for coats, which
I judged fittest for the heat of the climate. ThenI presented the
tailor, the smith, the two carpenters, and above all my Jack-of-all--
Trades. The tailor, to Show his concern for them, went to work at
once, and made them every one a light coat.

In the way of tools, I gave every man a spade, a shovel, and a
rake, and to each separate place a piclcaxe, a crow, a broad axe, and
a saw. Besides these there were general stores of all sorts (if imm--
work, which they were to use as they were required.

I carried on shore with 1110 the young man and the maid whom we
had brought from the ship where they were near starving ; and when
they saw things so well ordered, both of them desired to be left on
the island. The girl had been well brought up, and every one on
the ship gave her a good word. They had a little plot of ground al--
lotted to them, on which they had habitatione built.

One day the French priest came to me to say that he had,
[or-med a desire to stay on the island that he might endeavor to make '
Christians of the 'poor savages, who were there. He could do noth-
ing, however, without an interpreter, and he asked if Iwould leave
my man Friday there to serve in this othe. I felt that I could not
part with Friday, and I told thepriest that even if Icould have
made up my mind to leave Friday, I was quite sure that Friday
would not part from me. But-tho zealous clergyman was not to be
easily discouraged: his thoughts ran upon the conversion of the
savages, and Iain would he have stayed upon the island to have un--
dertaken it; but I convinced him, first, that his undertaking was
impracticable in itself; and, secondly, that perhaps Iwould put it
into a way of being clone in his absence to his satisfaction.

 

"MADE THEM EVERY ONE A IJGHT' GOAT."

Having brought the allairs ol the island into good order, I was
preparing to depart, when one day the young man I had taken out
of the Iamished ship's company came to me and said that if it, would
not be objectionable to me, he desired to have the clergyman per--
form a. marriage ceremony-before I went away. I guessed that it was
the Wish of the young man to wed the maid who had been saved
along with himself from the ship, and I began to persuade him not
to do anything of the kind rashly, as the girl was not in the same
rank of life as he had been brought up in, and was considerably
older than he. But he told me with a smile that I was mistaken in
my guess, for it was the Jaok--of--all~'l'racles that wished to wed the
maid. I was pleased. when he married the match, for I thought high--
ly of the Timon, and the maid was an excellent young Woman. We
married them 1.1m same day, and I appointed her and her husband
a handsome large space of ground for their plantation.

 

" WE )mmmn 1mm TEE sum mm."

The island was now allotted in this manner: The Spaniards had
my original habitation, with its plantations along the side of the
crock; the English lived in the north--east part; whilo all the
extreme east end of the island was left uninhabited, so that if the
savages ahould land on it, they might come and go without dis-
turbing anybody; and no doubt they were afterward ashore, and
went away again, for I never heard that the planters were attacked
or disturbed any more.

Having now done with the island, I left them all in a flourishing
condition, and went on board my ship again on the 6th of May; and
as they were all resolved to stay on the island, I promised to send
them further relief when I could find an opportunity.

The next day, giving them a. salute of five guns at parting, we set
sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints in the Brazils in about
twenty-live days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but
this: that about three days alter we had sailed, we were driven some--
thing out of our course, and once or twice our men cried out, " Land

 

"(mum 1mm A 5.1mm on' rm; aims."

to tho eastward ! " but whether it was the continent or islands we
could not tell by any means. But the third day, towards evening,
we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards the land with something
very black; not being able to discover what it was, till after some
some time, our chief mate, going up the mainshrouds alittle Way,
and looking at them with a. perspective, cried out it was an. army.
I could not imagine Whut he meant by an army, and thwarted him H.
little hastily. " Nay, sir," says he, " don't be angry, for 'Iis an army,
and a. fleet too ; for I believe there are a thousand canoes."

W'o were becnlmed and the current was hearing 'us toward them;
so I_ gave orders to come to an anchor and furl all our sails. As for
the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear but fire, and
therefore they should get their beats out, and fasten them, one close
by the head, and the other by the stern, and man them both well,
and wait the issue in. that posture; this I did, that the men in the
boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to put out any fire
these savages might endeavor to fix to the outside of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came
up with us. When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck
with wonder and astonishment, and seemed to intend to row round
us; but we called to our men in'the boats not to let them come too
near them. 'This very order brought us to an engagement with
them, without our designing it; for five or six of the large canoes
came so near our long~boat, that our men beckoned with. their hands
to keep them back, which they'understood very well, and went back ;
but at their retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from these
boats, and one of our men in the long-boat was very much wounded.
However, 1 called to them not to fire by any means; but we handed
down some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently
set up a kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the

' arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again. -

About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body astem
of us, and so near that I easily 'found they Were some of my old
friends, the same sort of savages that I had been used to engage
with; and in a short time more they rowed a little farther out to sea,
till they came directly broadside with us, and then rowed down
straight upon us, till they came so near that they could hear us
speak; upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
should shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns ready ; but be-
ing so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon the
deck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to know what they
meant; which accordingly he d id. Whether they undemteod him or
not, that I knew not; but as soon as he had called to them, six of
them, who were in the foremost or highest heat to us, turned their
canoes from us, and steeping down, showed us their naked backs ;'
whether this was a defiance or challenge we knew-not, or whether
it was done in mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest: but im--
mediately Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily
for him, poor fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their arrow-1'
and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday, no other man be-
ing in their eight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than three
arrows, and a'bOut three more [ell very near him; such unlucky
marksman they were !
_ I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and compan-
ion, that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with Small
shot, and four with
great, and gave
them such a. broad-
side as they had
never heard in
their lives before,
to be Sure.

I nan neither tell
11 o w m a n y w e
killed nor how

  
    
 

at this broadside,
but sure such a
fright and hurry
never were seen' . i
among such a. mul- v' _
titucle'; there were V
thirteen or fourteen
of their caneoe split
and overeat in all,
and the men all set
til-swimming: the
rest, frightened out
of their Wits,
scoured away as fast as they could, taking but. little care to save those
Whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot; so l. suppose that
many of them were lost; and (.mrmen took up one poor fellow swim--
miug for his life, above an hour after they were all gone.

A ln'eeze soon springing up, we weighed, and set sail for the
Brazils. 'l'lie priSOner whom'we took on board would not eat or
speak at first, and we all fancied he would starve himself to death,

" KILLED POOR FRIDAY."
" mm was): swan A xmomsmm."
But. when we had taught him to say a l'ew words, he told us that the
savages had. come out, with their king to have a. great. battle, and all
they wished was to have us look at the grand sight. And. it. was for
this that Friday was killed! Now . mat I name the poor fellow once
more, I must take leave of him, the most; grayehil, faithful, and of-
fectionate servant that man ever had !

We went on with a fair wind to All. Saints' Day. Here. 'I. had a
sloop set up which I had brought. with me from l'lngland, in order
to send to my island the further relief I had promised.

One of our seamen oll'ered to go with the sleep and settle there if
the governor would give him land for a plenum-ion. I encouraged
him to go, and gave him the prisoner for his slave. I found another
man, too, who would like. to go, having been unjustly persecuted by
the :uiLhoriLies of this place. I put him on board, with his wife, two
daughters, and his small stock of goods. Along with them, besides
stores and tools, I sent three milch cows, five calves, two mares, and
a horse, all of which, as I heard, arrived safe and sound.

I have now no more to say of my island, 2151 had left"; for the
last time, but. my travels were not yet at an end. From the Brazils
we went direeLly to the Cape of Good Hope, and from there sailed
for the coast of India. When we reached the Bay of Bengal, I
parted from the ship in which I came, and with two of the crew for
servants remained on land. Here I made the acquaintance- of several
merchants, some. French, two Italians, 01 rather Jews, and. one *"
Englishmen. I had some English goods with me of value, which I
disposed of to advantage.

When I had been here ahOul. nine months, my. English friend
made a proposal to me to hire a. ship, and go on a trading v0) age to -
the Spice Islands and Cochin China. I agreed and we got a ship and
men to work. her, and set out. When we had exchanged our wares
we came back, and soon made another vogage, which also turned out
very profitably. In short, I spent from first. be last, six years in this
country, trading from port, to port, with very good success.

Our last. voyage was to a. port in the north of China. Having had
some troublesome experiences with pirates, we seized a. chance we
had to sell our vessel to a Japanese merchant, and resolved to con-
tinue in that part of the world for a while, to see What sort of a. land
it. was. First we went ten days' journey to the city ul' Nuiiiluin
which is well worth seeing. indeed. Tl. is regularly built, and they
say it has a milliuu of people. in it. From Nanquin wo went. to
Pekin, the. journey taking twenty-live days. Here we had an opper--
{unity to jain a large caravan of traders who were going to make. a
journey m'ei'land to Moscew in Russia. As we could readily mulch
our Way thence In England, and by laying ina stock of Chinese
goods in lake with us couhl make the journey very profitable, the
pmject suited us well, and we decided to go.

It- wns the beginning of February when we met out. Our cargo
lnm'leii eighteen camels, mul we had 5: horses besides. The com-
pany nmzilnered upward of one hundred and twenty men, well armed
to pmtet': thm'nselvcs [mm the Tan-rm lim'des who pillage defenseless
travellcm in those regions. Some- ol Our [may ware: Scots, whose
company we were very glad In huvu, as they were men of 1mg: ex-
perience in this businesa

Our guides were. five) in number, and we put all our money in a
common shrink, to pay the expensas of the road. We named officers
in draw us {Lil up, and give the ward of command in case of an at.-
tack, and this we found needful when the time cmun.

The road on this side of thebonutry is full of putters, and clay-
nmkcrs - ~tlmt; is people who temper the clay for the China ware.
One of our glides said he \vzmhi glmw me one thing which was not
to be seen in all the warld beside. 1 wished to kuowwhat it was,
and he told me it was a gentleman's house built of China wm'e.
"How big is it?" said I. "Can we carry it in a box upon a
camel?" "prm a cmnel!" said be; "why there is a family of
thirty people lives in it."

I was curimm to sea it, and when I came to it I found that it was
a timber house, but was plastered with the clay that makes China
ware. The outside upon which the sun shone, was glazed, and
painted with blue figures on a. white. ground, and looked very well.
The inside walls were lined with tile: of the finest China, painted
handsomely in a variety of calms. The floors were of the same com-
position1 and the roof also was covered with tiles, but these were of
a deep shining black. I should have been glad to see more of this
house if I hail not been on the journey, for share were fountains and.541'

a": w

8

'08, ONE 01' um: BLBW A 5032'.

"1m max AS THEY sAw
fish-ponds in the garden, all paved with the same, and porcelain
statues set up on the walks. This odd sight kept me two hours he-
hind the caravan, for which the leader made me pay a fine.

11: two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a for-
tification against the Tartars'; and a. very great work it is, going over
hills and mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are impass--
able, and the precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or
indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could hinder them.
They tell us its length is near a thousand English miles, but that the
country is five hundred in a straight measured line, which the wall
bounds, without, measuring the windings and turnings it takes; it is
about four fathoms high, and asgnany thick in some places.

I stood still about an hour (tree, (without trespassing our orders,
for the caravan was that long in'passing the gate), to look well at it,
and the guide of the caravan, who had been extolling it for the wou--
der of the world, was eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it
was an excellent thing to keep out the Tar-tars; which he happened
not to understand as I meant it, and so took it foracomplin-ient.
What .Treally meant was that it was good for nothing but to keep
out 'I'artars ; [or an army of our people, with a good train of artillery,
would batter it down in ten days.

A few days further travel brought us to aInmre thinly populated
part of the country, and here I began to see the need of the caravan

>> keeping together, for we observed troops of the Tartar robbers rov--
ing about. We first caught? sight of them one day that our leader
gave some or us leave to go hunting,---or what they'call htmting in
this country, which is really but driving of sheep. The creatures
go in large flocks, and are wild and swift of foot, but will not run
far.

In pursuit of this game, it was Our hap to meet with about forty
of the Tartars, and we found they were a me re horde of wild fellows,
on poor lean horses, and with little skill in. fighting. As soon as
theyisaw us, one of them blew ahem very lend. It- seemed that
this was to call their friends about them, for another troop of the
same size soon appeared.

One of the Scots was with us, and he said that we had nothing to
do but charge on them at once. We told him to load, and we would
follow. The Taa'tars stood gazing gt us like a more mob; but as
soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows at us, which
fell short. We halted and fired, and then galloped up at full speed
with swords in hand. As soon as we came up to them, they fled in
great confusion. The only stand was made by three of them on em-
J'ight, who did all they could by signs to call to the rest. of them to
come back. The brave Soot, our leader, galloped up close to the

 

" KILLED THE. SECOND my 815 PISTOL."

three, and with his gun knocked one of them from his horse, killed
the second with his pistol, and the third rim away; and thus ended
our fight. Wehad not a man hurt; but as for the Tartars, five of
them were killed, several wounded, and the rest driven off simply by
the noise of our guns. '

Thus we went on our way, now and then meeting other hordes of
Tartars, with whom we had to fight, and Whom we always overcame
with little difiiculty. When we reached Tobolski, the capital of Si-
beria, my partner and I concluded to winter there, instead of going
on with the rest of the caravan toiMoscow.
Late m the following spring, we made 01x1 way to Amhangel, on
the White Sea. .We were obliged to wait at this place six weeks for
the arrival of a ship. The first that sailed was bound for Hamburg,
and we took passage for that port. There we found a good sale for
our goods, and had a large Sum of money to divide between us. _

To conclude: having stayed near four months _in Hamburg, I came
from thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the packet,
and arrived in London the 10th of January, 1705, having been ah--
sent from Englgynd ten'years and nine months. And'here I resolved
to prepare for aLlonger journey than all those, having lived a life of
infinite variety seventy-two yeah", and learned suificiently to know"
the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our days in
peace. 'qqhv,~rp,wwg,x - r- .- -.~