THE

 

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

0F

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

OF YORK. HARINEB.

xufisrunn 1m: " .

 

.
.'.'.)".:~ I
P

311: woon ENGRAVINGS man ORIGINAL1LSS9 _,~._ ,5
DESIGNS, "a

A }'$.."'- ' '

BY M a. STARLING.

 

HALIFAX
HARTLEY AND WALKER.

"

. ' .'4 .
1837. .
'g'. 'r' I
5

 

p
'1 x- _. .,
- 3&I>>SSSSJ

?
. z
1' ' '1 "c
, {I " #r
4 . _ ,
' '*'~Irs~'? "3>>.
v ,. y 3"" 1!}: .1':
. {51LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

ROBINSON Causon Saxrwanchn--To face title.
" And the next run I took I got to the mainland."

Snoors A Bum
ON THE ISLAND...... Page 54

"I believe it was the first gun thathadbeenfired
there since the creation."

 

Causon RANGING ON THE ISLAND 104

"Found melons on the ground, and grapes on the
trees." '

I MAKING A Fran As SIGNAL TO A

\' wnEcKOOIOOOOOOOOO0.00.0009... 204

"As soon as ever myfire hlued up Izheard another -
gun.' '

a "Ibadehimgotothetree, andhringmewordifhe
could see plainly what they were 60mg." .

LEAVING was ISLAND. . . . . . .. . . .. , .319." .
' "When I took leave of an. Island, Icarried onboard ,

forreliisi ues, the greatgoatskin cap I hadmade,
myum India, an eof myparrots."

Ar'rAcmNo rm; SAVAGEs.......... 262 ;

new" 2'" '" lfit be inquired by what charm it is that these Sun-
?hlsmc AnvnN'runns should have instantly pleased, and
always leased, it will be found that few books have ever so
an mingled amusement with instruction."

(humans.BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

OI

DANIEL DE FOE.

+

Tnoncn tens of thousands haveperuaed the-mpri
Adventures of Robinson Crunch-though it has hang

the youn and charmed the ed, macaw-me
astound the erudite, such attention paid to
the production, that com ' .er little has been known of
the author. Two hun ubheationa flowed from hll pro-
lificpen, amidthewreeko time, man haveperiahed.afew

however yet survive as monuments of e genius that inspired.

them, but Ronxxeon Cacao: having alreadyfound itlwayinc
toeverypartofthecivilizedworld, aeemedeatinedto
when the monument shall have mouldmd, or the

edmarbie beeomeobliterated, the leaning and fame <<it! 1 '

author.
Daniel de Foehneeordingtothe heatauthority, waaborn'

inlfifil th hhubirthhasbeenamgned' toldfigand
eomebi degSSSSmemm Hienamewaeorigiiunynlng

Foe,but mwmmofimunknowntoothemhealddedthe ,_
prefix De, caning himself DeFoe. James Foe, iii-{atlas}- _

wasabutcherinthe paneh' ofSt.Giiee, deg
appears tohave been a noneonformist. Hm

the:
origin ofDe Foe, 'one.great advantagewu derivedfromthat

regnrdforrehgw' nwhichwaeim tedinhia thfulmind,
combined with a firmness of ehwter and inteyg'ity of eono'
duct to apnarent in his future life.

Themgmaipm-poeeof DeFoe'a parent-was, thatheghould

entetthe ' ,thebiuofhiemind,however,inehnedto~'

polities, ndat ageoftwenty-oneheeommeneedhillite-
raryeareeraaananthor. 'lheflntproduchondhiapenwaa
enfifled"8pecuhnn0npe--gownornm;a,amhu
{or the young Academies. New Poyl'd'. With on

W . .' ~ .'(23'4'ifl'8bi'hvi. um 01'

some of the late high-flown sermons: to which is added an
essay towards a sermon of the newest fashion. By a Guide
to the Inferiour Clergie. Ridentem diseere Verum Quis
vetat? London, 1682." It is impossible, nor would it be
deemed of general interest, to enumerate the titles of De
Foe's works in this sketch of his life; the singular title of his
first roduction will be read with interest. The pamphlet
was ' cted against one of the most noted writers of that
day, Roger L'Estrange; it is said, that "in this work De
Foe indulged in' rather intemperate lan age, and while vin-
dicating the dissenters, reflected in too ostile and indiscrim-
inate amanner upon the established clergy."

Early in the summer of 1685, the Duke of Monmouth made
his rash attempt upon England, landing at Lime, in Dorset-
shire. De Foe, exchanging his pen for the sword, ranged
himself beneath the banner of the usurper, and proved him-
self able to wield either weapon to the discomfiture of his
opponents. The ill-fated Duke, qualified as he might be to
ornament the court, or be serviceable to the country, was
defeated in his enterprize, taken prisoner, and suffered an
horrible death. Luckily for De Foe, he escaped those bar-
barous cruelties and legal persecutions which were entailed
upon the Duke's followers.

The horrors of war, or the total wreck of Monmouth's
party, induced De Foe to enter into the more peaceable busi-
ness of a hosier. This trade he carried on for ten years,
during which time he was admitted a liveryman of London.
The conduct of James, in re ealing the test act and supplant-
ing protestant by popish o lcers, threw the country into a
state of feverish excitement and roused the indignation of De
Foe, who endeavoured to warn the dissenters of the machina-
tions of the reigning monarch. At the revolution, De Foe

artook of the pleasures of that great event. During the

ilarity of that moment, the Lord Mayor invited King \Vil-
ham to partake of the city feast on the 29th of October, 1689.
Every honor was paid to the Sovereign of the peo le's choice.
A regiment of volunteers, composed of the c iie citizens and
commanded by the Earl of Petcrbough, attended the King
and Queen from \Vhitehall to the Mansion House. Among
these troopers was De Foe. For several subsequent years our
author seems to have engaged but little in litics, havin
launched out to a very considerable extent in c Spanish and
Portuwuese trade. The sun of prosperity, however, did not
beam Tong upon his path; the most prudent merchant may
become entangled in his speculations, and notwithstanding
his foresight or integrity, be involved in embarrassment. Such;

run AUTHOR. vii

was the case with De Foe: in 1692 he fled from his creditors,
and a commission of bankruptcy was taken out against him:
this was the act of a single creditor, and it was eventually
superseded, those to whom he was most indebted agreein to
accept a composition on his single bond. The kindness us
shewn him was well repaid, for not only did he fulfil this eu-
gagcment but every farthing of the original demands of his
creditors was voluntarily paid.

De Foe did not confine himself to prose alone; after the
accession of \Villiam to the throne, our author published a
satirical poem, entitled "The True-born Englishman," which

rocured him an introduction to the monarch of the real

his satire was a reply (using his own words) to " avile,
horred amphlet, in very ill verse, written by one Mr. Tutchin,
and ed ' the Foreigners ;' in which the author, who he
was then I knew not, fell personally on the king himself, and
then on the Dutch nation. And after having reproached his
majesty with crimes that his worst enemies could not think
of without horror, he sums up all in the odious name of F0-
re'_ er. This filled me with a kind of rage ainst thebook,

an gave birth to a trifle, which I never co d hope should '

have met with so general an acceptance as it did; I mean
" The True-born Englishman." The hackneyed and oft
quoted verse forms the opening lines of this poem :--

" \Vherever God crects a hcuse of prayer,
The Devil always builds a chapel there;
And 'twill be found upon examination,
The latter has the largest congregation."

The conclusion of this m contains atruth which will
receive the ready assent 0 all classes.

" What is't to us what ancestors we had ?
If good what better? or what worse, if bad 1
Examples are for imitation set,
Yet all men follow virtue with regret.

Could but our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their offspring thus degenerate;
How we contend for birth and names unknown,
And build on their ast actions, not our own;
They'd cancel reco , and their tombs deface,
And openly disown the vile degenerate race:
For fame of families is all a cheat,
'Tis personal virtue only makes us great."viii. mm or

Ofthiscelebrated DeFoeinllttlenmrethanthree
ears ublished four 'tions,selling them atone shilling each.
n ad 'tion to this, some unprincipled. individual from mer-

cenary motives fpirated the poem, and it was understood that
in the streets 0 London alone eighty thousand of the pirated
co ies were sold.
edeathof William in l702was asourceof griefto De
Foe, but opened a wide field for extolling that monarch, We
must however hasten with our sketch, and introduce our an-
thor as occupying ahi hbut unenviable sifuation. No sooner
had Anne ascended t e throne of England, than scenes of
turmoil ensued between the religionistsof the da . Public
attention was excited, and from the violence 0 the high
church party, was fanned in a ferment rather than soothed
and quieted. During such stirring times it would have been -'
impossible for De Foe's Pen to have remained idle. When
he saw the church party predominant, and the dissenters ex-
to insult, and their reachers subjected to the rude
interference of the mob; w en. to use his own lan in
his " Christianity of the High Church considered." flew
a person of hi hChurch principles who observed, "a little time
and pains sh compel all to be of one religion; and as for
those who are obstinate, I hope Queen Mary's bonfires will
blaze again in Smithfield, that they [the Dissenters] may be
all extirpated and nota soul left ;" when, we repeat, such a
state of things as these existed, we should have wondered in-
deed had not De Foe exerted his utmost ability against such
bigotry and intolerant persecution.

Cloaking himself in the garb of an high churchman, he
furiously attacked the Dissenters, employing the most cut-
ting sareasms, and the bitterest iron , in a pamplet which he
entitled, "The Shortest Way with t e Dissenters: or propo-
sals for the establishment of the Church."

Heimitated so finely the writers of that day, and expound-
so well the sentiments with which the Tory fanatics had
insulted true religion, that the church art were actually
deceived, nay one of the clique was so , that the mea-
sure was thus proposed for sending eve dissenting minister
to the gallows, that he wrote a note 0 thanks to the book-
seller who had forwarded him the pamphlet, adding, " I
have such a value for the book, that next to the Holy Bible,
and the sacred comments, I take it for the most valuable
piece I have."

In examining the reasons urged in favor of the Dissentem,
De Foe writes, " They are very numerous, they say, and we
cannot suppress them. To this may be answered, 1. TheyTEE AUTHOR. IX.

arenotasnumeronsas the Protestants in France-nine
the French Kingefi'ectuallycleared thenation otthemat
once, and we don't find that he misses them at home. But
lam not of opinion th are so numerous as ispretended._
Those mistaken people 0 the church, who misled and delu-
ded by the wheedling artifices to join with them, make their
partythe greater. But these will opentheireyes when the
lgovernment shall set hearh'ly about the work, and come 03
rom them as some animals, which they say always deserta
house when it is likely to fall. 2. The more numerous the
more dangerous, and therefore, the more need to suppress
them. 3. If we allow them, only because we cannot sup-
Bress them, then it ought to be tried whether we can orno.
ut I amof o inion, 'tis easy tobe done, and could pre-
scribe ways an means if it were proper, but I doubt notthe
government will find effectual methods for rooting the con-
tagion out of the land." A ' he says,--" 'tis vain to trifle
in this manner. The light oolish handling of them by fines
is their glory and advantage. If the gallows instead of the
com ter, and the gallies instead of the fines, were there-
w of going to a conventicle, there would not be so many
sufierers. The s irit of martyrdom is over. They thatwill
to church to chosen sherifis and mayors, would go to
ort churches rather than be hanged. If one severe law was
e and punctually executed, that whoever was found at a
conventicle should be banished the nation and the preacher
be hanged, we should soon see an end of the tale; they would
all come to church ; and one age would make us allone again."

I will not e upon the chagrin of the church party,
when the object o the book was discovered, sumee it to say'
that greatas had beentheir applause, stillgreaterwastheir
fierce and deadly indignation. They sounded an'alsnn
through the nation, w ' a royal proclamatiOu was issued for
the discovery of the author, and the book was burnt by the
common hangman. De Foe at length was dragged tojus-
tice, and basely found guilty of composing and publishing a
seditious libel; he was condemned to paliyl a fine of two hun-
dred marks, stand three timesinthep' o , bennpnsoned
during the Queen's pleasure, and then fin sureties for his
good behaviour for seven years. .

But the blood thirstiness of his enemies was not satiated,
neither could they ding-ace De Foe. The people were his
friends, and in vain s the court, or the government itself,
fight against a firm, united, free-born . Del-'90 'tis
truewas exalted tothe pillory, but the peop e adorned itwith
roses; they protected him from abuse, they shouted hisx LIFE OF

raises, and prepared an entertainment when he was taken
own, thus converting a shameful exhibition into a triumph.
De Foe however sufl'ered severely, in a ficuniary point of
view, from the conduct of government; ing irnmured in
prison, his temporal concerns declined, and ere long he was
deprived of a handsome income, and saw himself surrounded
by a wife and six children depending solely upon the exertions
of his pen for their bread. From the prison he published
various works, and commenced " The Review," Feb, 19th,
1704. This eriodical was published in 4to, and was intend-
ed to treat 0 news, foreign and domestic; of politics, Brit-
ish and European; of trade, particular and universal. But
De Foe foresaw, from the aversion of the age to any tedious-
ness of writing, that however profitable, it must be diverting
if read by the multitude. \Vith this design he instituted a.-
Scandal Club, which discusses questions in divinity, morals,
war, trade. language, poetry, manners. love, marriage, drunk-
enness and gaining. Amidst these labours our author pub-
lished " The Storm." In this work De Foe exhibits consi-
derable ability in explaining the natural causes of wind, and
in delivering the Opinions of the ancients that this Island was
more subject to storms than other parts of the world.

In the month of August, of the same year, De Foe was
liberated at the instance of Mr. Harley, afterwards Earl of -
Oxford, who coming into office at that time, represented his
case to the Queen, who not only ranted him ardon, but
sent a sum of money to his wife an children, an another to
discharge his fine and prison expenses.

Upon his release Dc Foe retired to St. Edmunds Bury, in
Suffolk. This retreat did not screen him from the hand of
persecution, in s ite of which he published "a Hymn to Vie-
tory." In 1705 ie published a second volume of the author
of the "True-born Englishman," in which are several origi-
nal pieces of oetry. This was a year of great disquietude to
our author; ormerly he had to complain of the persecutions
of government, but now he suffered from those of party.

Torrents of abuse were showered upon him, violence and
threats were used, and while at Exeter in the month of Octo-

ber, a project was formed to send him asasoldier to the army;
that failing, some of the ma ' trates determined to appre-
hend him as a vagabond; an this stratagem proving futile,
actions at law were commenced against him for fictitious
debts. Such brutes and savages once were Englishmen!
In his work " The Review" these circumstances are com-
mented u n. The scene of his life changes, for in 1706 De
Foe, at t e recommendation of Harley, wassent on a Mis-
   

sion to Scotland respecting its Union with England, a mea-
sure which he had previously warmly advocated. After an
absence of about sixteen months he returned to England,
when his services obtained for him an appointment with a
fixed salary.

His " History of the Union" appeared in 1709, awork
teeming with incident, and interestin in whatever point of
view it may be contemplated. The istory seems to have
been little noticed when it first appeared; for as the reface
states, "it had many difiiculties in the way; man actions
to encounter and arties to please." Yet it was repu lished in
1712; and a third) time in 1786. The exact minuteness with
which he describes what he saw and heard on the turbulent
stage, and on which he was no mean performer, is extreme-
ly interesting. He introduces the highest peers and the
lowest peasants, s ' g and acting, according as they were
each actuated by t eir characteristic passions; and while the
man of taste is a mused by his manner, the man of business
may draw instruction from the documents which form an
appendix, and are interspersed in every page.

The residence of De Foe was now at N ewington, in some-
what comfortable circumstances; his employment consisted
chiefly in writing for " The Review." \Vith regard to this
publication Gay has unjustly remarked. " the poor Review is
quite exhausted [in May 1713 it was relinquished] and grown
so very contemptible, that though he has provoked all his
brothers of the quill, none will enter into a controversy with
him. The fellow who had excellent natural parts, but wanted
a small foundation of learning, is a lively instance of those
wits, who as an ingenious author says, will bear but one
skimming." W'e wonder that an author like Gay should
form such an opinion of De Foe. " Bear but one skimming 1"
How many times has the Family Instructor, and Robinson
Crusoe been skimmed, and yet there remains a rich cream 7

\Ve now approach an interesting era in the life of De Foe,
at least as regards the town from which the present work

emanates; for it is no small boast that Halifax formed an .

habitation for such awriter as De Foe, and especiallmhen it
is stron ly conjectured that the principal part of ' most
splendi production,---Robinson Crusoe--was written here.
Upon Harley's resignation, and the agitation of the times,
the mind of our author gradually declined from politics, and
to avoid the clamour of arties, he withdrew to the North of
England: or it may be e fled the metropolis on account of
his political writings. Acco deg to tradition he resided at
the Rose and Crown, in Cheapsi e, cultivating an acquain-

 

," uxii. 'Lu'E or

tance with Dr. Nettleton a renowned physician and author,
and Mr. N. Priestley, a dissenting minister, ancestor of the
celebrated Dr. Priestley.

Observing the conduct of the Jacobite party, and how they
insinuated the Pretender's right, he observes " I set pen to
paper again, by writing 'A Seasonable Caution :' and to ope
the eyes of the poor ignorant country people, ledgave awa
this all over the kmgdom, as gain was not intend ." Wi
the same laudable p ose he wrote three other pamphlets
" What, if the Preten er should come ?" " Reasons against
the succession of the House of Hanover," and " What, if
the Queen should die ?" " Nothing could be more plain, [he
says] than that the titles of these were amusements, in order
to put the book into the hands of those people, who had been
deluded by the Jacobites." And yet for these pam hlets
was De Foe arrested and put upon his trial before the ar of
the Queen's Bench! Here he had to explain to the brainless
wights who had originated the absurd trial, thatthe intention
of these pamphlets was not to advance the Pretender's cause,
but in favor of the House of Hanover. The Queen however
granted De Foe her royal pardon, and this outrageous prose-
cution terminated. ~

Four years after the fublication of the Family Instructor, a
work containing one o the most valuable and useful systems
of practical morality in the English language, a peared ran
grand production of our author's gemus: " e Life and
strange and surprising Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, of
York, Mariner: who lived eight and twenty years all alone in
an uninhabited island on the coast of Oronooque; having
been cast on shore by shipwreck, wherein all the men pe ' h
but himself. \Vith an account how he was at last strangely
delivered by pirates. Written by himself. London, 1719."

It would be presumption in us to criticise upon so a
work: the most brilliant eulogium would seem frigi and
would add nothing to that fame which the work has gained
both in this and other lands. The wisest and the greatest,
among poets, philosophers, and critics, have lauded the
author and his performance, and have exhibited both to the
admiration of the world. It may be interesting information
to the reader to know that Robinson Crusoe passed through
four editions in four months, a circumstance at that time
unprecedented in the annals of literature.

Great as must have been the satisfaction of De Foe in wit-
nessing so rapid a sale, and such an unquenchable demand
for his production, grief was mingled with that satisfaction.
Envious individuals were found who basely attempted to

..---_~.,>> .. ,..p. >>u"'w'~" " ' w" a ' ' "'""'"""wwrgw

ran wruoa. xiii.

snatch the budding laurel from his brow. While some avowed
the materiel of the work was surreptitiously obtained from
the of one Alexander Selkrr' k, others strenuously de-
nied De Foeto be its author. _ In 1711 considerable atten-
tion wasexcited by the narrative of this Alexander Selkirk, a
Scottish sailor, who in consequence of a quarrel with his
commander had been set on shore on the deserted island of
Juan Fernandez, where he lived in solitude u of four
years. Returnin home, Selkirkused to relate adventures
at a cofi'ee-house n London, where De Foe doubtless heard
his strange narration. Steele in his paper of "The English-
man," Dec. 1713, communicates some further particulars of
Selkirk ;--"he could discern that he had been much sepa-
ratedfrom compan , fromhis aspectand gesture. There was
a strong but c seriousness in his ooks, and a certain
disregardtotheordinarythingsabouthim, asifhehadbeen
sunk in thou t. Theman frequentlybewailed his return to
the World, w 'ch could not, he said, with all its enjoyments,
restore him to the trauma, 'ty of his solitude." DeFoecould
not fail 'of being struck y these interesting particulars, and
with these facts before him and the vision of Selkirk in aha
lonely isle, Robinson Crusoe was doubtless suggested. ln
" Curiosities of Literature," (1st series) vol. iii. p. 282, we
have the following remarks :---" In this artless narrative [SeL
kirk's] we may discover more than the embryo of Robinson
Crusoe. The first appearance of Selkirk, ' a man clothed in
goats' skins, who looked more wild than the first owners of
them.' The two huts he had built, the one to dress his
victuals, the other to sleep in : his contrivance to get fire, by
rubbing two ieces of pimento wood together; his distress for
thewant of read and salt, till he came torelishhismeat
without either; his wearin out his shoes, till he grew so
accustomed to be without em, that he could not for a long
time afterwards, on his return home, use them without incon-
venience; his bedstead of his own contriving, and his bed of
skins; when his gunpowder failed, his teaching himself

y continualexercisetorun as swiftlyas the goats; hrs fallin

from a precipice in catching hold of a t, stunned an
bruised, tillcoming to hissenseshe found a goat dead under
him: his tamingkids todiverthimselfby dancingwiththem
andhiscats; hisconvertinga nailintoaneedle; hissewing
w skins with little thongs of the same; and when his
' e was worn to the back, contriving to make blades out of
some iron hoops. His solacing himself in this solitude by
singing psalms, and preserving a social feeling in his fervent
prayers. And the habitation which Selkirk had raised, to-~

xiv. LIFE or

reach which, they followed him with difficulty, ciimbing up
and creeping down many rocks, till they came at last to a
pleasant spot of ound full of grass and trees, where stood
is two huts, an his numerous tame goats showed his soli-
tary retreat; and, finally, his indifference to return to a world
from which his feelings had been so perfectly weaned. Such
were the first rude materials of a new situation in human na-
ture: an European in a primeval state, with the habits or
mind of a savage."
Selkirk then "only supplied the man of genius with that
which lies open to all; and which no one had, or perhaps
could have converted into the wonderful story we possess, but
De Foe himself.' ' That De Foe pillaged the papers ofSclkirk,
as some have said, is impossible, for he had none. And that
the author of Crusoe was guilty of imposing upon public
credulity by a feigned story is equally based upon error.
Though the work of De Foe was not hurried carelessly into
the literary world, yet the stirring narrative of Selkirk was the
rough marble block, out of which he chiselled so beautiful and
symmetricala statue. Crusoe was not without his retotypc,
for ' the artless narrative which suggested the wor (, we find
th ery sufferings and privations literally detailed. Even the
person of Friday (according to a celebrated author) is not a
mere coinage of the brain :----" a Musquito Indian, described
by Dampier, was the protot) e." His striking descriptions
of sea-faring life were foun cd upon passages in his own
history, and in his own person he suffered shipwreck by the
loss of a vessel in which he was a shareholder. "'hile from
his familiarity with imprisonment, his acquaintance with
foreign countries, his experience in trade, his reverence for
reli on, his sufferings and afflictions, we have traced out to
us t e peculiar features of his own mind. In every point of
View we regard Robinson Crusoe as one of his most pleasing
performanccss, and to use the words of Sir \Valter Scott :--
" Society is for ever indebted to the memory of De Foe, for
his production of such awork. in which the ways of Providence
are simply and pleasingly vindicated, and a lasting and useful
moral is conveyed through the channel of an interesting and
deli rhtful story."

T ough De Foe was fast declining: in years, The " History
of Moll Flanders" : 'l'hc " Life of Colonel Jaque" ; The
" Life and Piracies of Captain Singleton"; with " Dickory
Crooke," " Duncan Campbell," and a host of others, were
published in rapid succession. Each work cvincing such an
air of real matter of fact, and plain, uuvarnishcd truth, that
the author seemed bereft of imaginatory capability, or inven-
   

tion. In proof of this the reader must pardon another refer-
ence to the work for which this biogra hxcal sketch is penned ;

such is its unpretending and nut style, that we cannot
conceive the narrative to be other than true; while the lan-
guage is so simple and familiar, that even the school-boy
nnds the narration perfectly co-cqual with his capacity, and
imagines, in the imperfection of his understanding, that it
required but little ability to write such a life. Subsequent to
the above works, and yielding to none in its seeming veracity,
appeared The " History of the Plague," before referred to,
an considered by many, and by some even in the present
day, as an authentic document, and a true recital of that great

national calamity.
Notwithstanding the profits accruin from the rapid sale

of his works, De Foe was still doome to misfortune, and
his sufferings were the more ignant as his difficulties arose
from his own family. His aughters were exceedingly kind
and affectionate; but Sophia, who in l729 had married Mr.
Baker, the celebrated natural philosopher, was particularly
endeared to her father. His son, however, possessed an
. hard, unfeeling heart, and in the end proved himself a dis>>
honest and treacherous wretch. To this son De Foe hid
conveyed his property, for the understood and avowed pur-
pose of appropriation to hiswifc and two unmarried daughters.
l'he persecution of some relentless creditor rendered this pro-
ceeding necess . De Foe was pounced upon by this brutal
creditor, arreste and throvm into prison. He regained his
liberty, after a limited confinement, but the shameless con-
duct of his unnatural son struck a death-blow to the heart of
the parent. The following extract from one of his letters to
Mr. Baker, will lay bare the keen anguish of his soul :--

" It is not the blow I received from a wicked, perjured, and
contemptible enemy, that has broken in upon my spirit. But
it has been the injustice, unkindness, and I must say inhu-
man feeling of my own son, which has both ruined my family,
and in a word, has broken my heart. I depended upon him,
I trusted him, I gave up my two dear unprovided children
into his hands: and to crave, as if it were an aims, what he
is bound under hand and seal, besides the most sacred pro-
raises, to supply them with, himself at the same time living
in a profusion of plenty. It is too much for me. Excuse
my infirmity, I can say no more; my heartis too full. I only

ask one thing of you as a dying request :--Stand by themlwhen .

1 am gone."
It was not long ere Mr. Baker was called to fulfil this dying
request; on the 24th of April, 1731, De Foe diedin the parishxvi. mm or run AUTHOR.

in which he was born, leaving a widow, who didnot long sur-
vive him, and six children. Thus-ended the days of one of
the most successful of British authors! Thus perished all
of Daniel De Foe that could die. Afterthe varied vicissitudes
of 70 years, in which he had home the brunt of glorious con-
flict for the people's rights, bashed in the sunshine of the
royal smile, or m the cause of truth and justice had endured
the indignation and iron hand of an offended government,
the author of works which have immortalized his name, and
given glory to the country where he lived, hastened to the
grave forsaken, penniless, broken-hearted. But Ronmson

30803 is imperishahle, and the genius, piety and benevo-
lence, as well as the name of its author, lives with it.

Halifax, Dec. 1836.

Latingt'; '1
 

CHAPTER. I.

FAMILY OF CBUSOE--HE ELOPES FROM 818 FA.
BEETS--VOYAGE TO GUINEA--CAPTIVITY AT
SALLEE--AND ESCAPE FROM THE M0038.

I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York,
of a good family, though not of that country, my
father being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first
at Hull; he got a good estate by merchandize, and,
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at- York, from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations
were named Robinson, a very good family in that
country, and from whom I was called Robinson
Kreutznaer; but by the usual corruption of words
in England, we are now called, nay, we call our-
selves, and write our name, Crusoe ; and so my com-
panions always called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was a lieu.
tenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot, in. t
Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous'C. .5. a PS3:
lenel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle seas .
Dunkirk, against the Spaniards: what became of -
my second brother, I never know, any more than. -
my father ormother knew of what was become of me. .4

Being the third son of the family, andnot bred to . ' 5.";
any trade, my head began tobe filled very earlywith- '
rambling thoughts : my father who was very aged, _
had given a competent share of learning, as far am. 1?:
bonsaeducation and a country freeoschool generally.

B ' ,.

" _. 1'1... l. ' .h.

.L'Jfilx

_;-i-x~a;e;2.;.\3 . .- .2 ADVENTURES or

goes and designed me for the law; but I would be
satisfied with nothing but going to sea, and my in--
clination to this led me so strongly against the will,
nay, the commands of my father, and against all the
entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in
that propensity of nature tending directly to the
life of misery which was to befal me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was
my design. He called me one morning into his
chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and
expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject;
he asked me what reasons, more than a mere incli-
nation, I had for leaving his house and my native
country, where I might be well introduced, and had
a prospect of raising my fortune by application and
industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told
me it was for men, either of deSperate fortunes, or
such whose aflluence enabled them to attempt it,
who went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enter-
prize, and make themselves famous in undertakings
of nature out of the common road; that these things
were all either too far above me, or too far below
me; that mine was the middle state, or the upper
station of low life, which he had found by long ex-
perience was the best state in the world, and most
suited to human happiness, not exposed to the mi-
series and hardships, the toil and sufferings of the
labouring part of mankind, and not embarrassed
with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the
great. He told me, 1 might judge of the happiness
of this state, by this one thing, that this was the
state of life which all other people envied; that
kings have frequently lamented the miserable con-
sequences of being born to great things, and wishedROBINSON cnus OE. - 3

they had been placed between the two extremes,
the mean and the great; that the wise man gave his
testimony of this as the just standard of true felicity,
when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.

He then pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, nor
to precipitate myself into miseries which the station
of life I was born in seemed to have provided against,
and that if I was not easy and happy in the world,
it must be my own fault that must hinder it, that he
should have nothing to answer for, having thus
discharged his duty in warning me against measures
which he knew would be to my hurt. But that if I
would stay and settle at home, he would do every
thing in his power for me. He concluded with tell-
ing me, I had my elder brother for an example, to
whom he had used the same persuasions to keep
him from going into the Low Country wars, but
could not prevail, his young desires prompting him
to run into the army, where he was killed : and
though he would not cease to pray for me, yet he
would venture to sav, that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me, and I would have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
advice when there mightbe none to assist me in my
recovery.

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
proved truly prophetic, that the tears ran down his
face very plentifully, and especially when be men-
tioned my brother who was killed: and when he
spoke of my having leisure to repent, and mine to
assist me, he was so moved, that he broke of the dis-
course, and told me, his heart was so full, he could
say no more.

I was sincerely affected with this advice, as indeed
who could be otherwise? and I r'esolved notto think

B 2
of going abroad any more, but to settle at home ac-
cording to my father's desire. But, alas! a few
days wore it all off; and I took my mother, ata time
when I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary,
and told her, that my thoughts were so entirely bent
upon seeing the world, that I should never settle to
any thing with resolution enough to go through with
it, and my father had better give me his consent
than force me to go without it; that I was now
eighteen years old, which was too late to go appren-
tice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; and that if
she would Speak to my father to let me go one voy--
age abroad, if I came home again and did not like
it, I would go no more, and I would promise by a
double diligence to recover that time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion: she
told me, she knew it would be to no purpose to speak
to my father upon any such subject; that for her
part she would not have so much hand in my des-
truction; and I should never have it to say, that
my mother was willing when my father was not.

It was almost a year after this, being one day at
Hull, where I went casually, and without any de-
sign of making an elopement, I met one of my com-
panions who was going by sea to London, in his
father's ship, and pressing me to go with them, tell-
ing me it should cost me nothing for my passage, I
consulted neither father or mother, nor so much as
sent them word, but leaving them to hear of it as
they might, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the
first of September, 1651, I went on board a ship
bound for London; never any young adventurer's
misfortune, I believe, began sooner, or continued
longer than mine. The ship was no sooner out of
the Humber, but there arose a violent storm, and
as I had never been at sea before, I was most inex-l)

mat

nosmsox" csusos. 5

pressibly sick in body and terrified in mind; 'I
thought the judgments of God deservedly followed
me for my disobedience to my parents. It was then
only I called to mind the good advice of my father,
how easy and comfortable was a middle state oflife;
and if it pleased God to set me on dry land once
more, I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go
home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the
while the storm continued, and indeed some time
after; but the next day the wind was abated, and
the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to
it: however I was very grave for all that day, being
still a little sea sick: but towards night the weather
cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming
evening followed; the sun went down perfectly clear,
and rose so the next morning; having little or no
wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it,
the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that
I ever saw.

I had slept well in the night. and was now no
more sea-sick, but very cheerful, looking with won-
der upon the sea that was rough and terrible the day
before, and could be so calm and so pleasant in so
little time after. And now, lest my good resolutions
should continue, my companion, who had indeed
enticed me away, comes to me, " Well, Bob," says
he, clapping me upon the shoulder, " how do you do
after it '9 I warrant you were frighted, wa'n't you,
last night, when it blew but a capfull of wind?"
"A capfull d'you call it 1" said I, " 'twas a terrible
storm." "A storm, you fool, you!" replies he, "do
you call that a storm 1" " Why it was nothing at
all: give us but a good ship and sea.room, and we

.think nothing of such a sQuall of wind as that; but,

you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob. Come, let us
make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that.
D'you see what charming weather 'tis now 'l" To
make short this sad part of my story, we went the
way of all sailors : the. punch was made, and I was
made half drunk with it, and to that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my
reflections upon my past conduct, and all my resolu-
tions for the future. Inaword, as the sea was return-
ed to its smoothness of surface,and settled calmness,
by the abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my
thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of
being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and
the current of my former desires returned, I entire-
ly forgot the vows and promises that 1 made in my
distress. I found indeed some intervals of reflection
and the serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour
to return again sometimes; but I shook them off,
and roused myself from them, as it were from a
distemper; and applying myself to drinking and
company, soon mastered the return of those fits,
(for so I called them); and I had, in five or six days,
got as complete a victory over conscience, as any
young fellow that resolved not to be troubled with
it could desire. But I was to have another trial for
it still; and Providence, as in such cases generally
it does, resolved to leave me entirely without ex-
cuse: for, if I would not take this for a deliverance,
the next was to be such a one, as the worst and most
hardened wretch among us would confess both the
danger and the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into
Yarmouth Roads: the wind having been contrary,
and the weather calm, we had made but little way
since the storm. Here we. were obliged to come to
an anchor: and here we lay, the wind continuingROBINSON cavson. 7

contrary, viz. at southwest, for seven or eight days:
during which time a great many ships from New,-
castle came into the same roads, as the common
harbour where the ships might wait for a Wind for
the river.

We had not however, rid here so long, but we
should have tided it up the river, but that the wind
blew too fresh; and, after we had lain four or five
days, blew very hard. However, the roads being
reckoned as good as aharbour, the anchorage good,
and our ground-tackle very strong, our men were
unconcerned, and not in the least apprehensive of
danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after
the manner of the sea: but the eight day in the
morning the wind increased, and we had all hands
at work to strike our top-masts, and made every
thing snug and close, that the ship might ride as
easy as possible. By noon, the sea went very high
indeed, and our ship rid forecastle in,shipped seve.
ral seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor
had come home: upon which our master ordered
out the sheet anchor, so that we rode with two an-
chors ahead, and the cables veered out to the better
end. ~

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed: and

now I began to see terror and amazement in the - "

faces even of the seamen themselves. The master
though vigilant in the business of preserving the
ship, yet, as he wentin and out of his cabin by me,
I could hear him, softly tohimself, say several times,
'Lord be merciful to us! we shall be all lest: we
shall be all undone!' and the like. During these
first hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin,
which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my
temper. I could ill resume the first penitence, which
1 had so apparently trampled upon, and hardened
myself against. I thought the bitterness of death
had been past; and that this would be nothing too,
like the first. But when the master himself came
by me, as I said just now, and said we should be
all lost, I was dreadfully frighted. I got up out of
my cabin, and looked out ; but such a dismal sight
I never saw; the sea went mountains high, and broke
upon us every three or four minutes. When I could
look about, I could see nothing but distress round
us. Two ships that rid near us, we found had cut
their masts by the board, being deep loaden; and
our men cried out, that a ship, which rid about a
mile a head of us, was foundered. Two more ships,
being driven from their anchors, were run out of
the roads to sea, at all adventures, and that notwith
a mast standing.

Towards the evening, the mate and boatswain
begged the master of our ship to let them cut away
the foremast, which he was very unwilling to do;
but the boatswain protesting to him, that if he did
not, the ship would founder, he consented: and when
they had cut away the fore mast, the maimmast
stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they
were obliged to cut her away also, and make a clear
deck.

The storm continued with such fury, that the sea.
men themselves acknowledged they had never seen
a worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep
loaden, and so wallowed in the sea, that the seamen
every now and then cried out, she would founder.
It was my advantage in one respect, that I did not
know what they meant by founder, till I inquired.
However, the storm was so violent, that I saw what
was not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and
some others more sensible than the rest, at their
prayers, and expecting every moment when the ship..-~--------.--...

- V o H. A-.."

. . .., ___",_,_ v... T. . ww-

nosmson causes. 9

would go to the bottom. In the middle of the night,
and under all the rest of our distresses, one of the
men that had been down on the purpose to see,
cried out we had sprung aleak: another said, there
was four feet water in the hold. Then all hands
were called to the pump. At that very word, my
heart, as I thought, died within me; and I fallback-
wards upon the side of the bed where I sat, into
the cabin. However, the men roused me, and told
me, that I that was able to do nothing before, was
as well able to pump as another : at which I stirred
up, and went up to the pump, and worked very
heartily. While this was doing, the master, seeing
some light colliers, who, not able to ride out the
storm, were obliged to slip and run away' to sea,
and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as
a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what that
meant,was so surprised, that I thought the ship had
broke, or some dreadful thing happened. In a word,
I was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As
this was a time when every body had his own life
to think of, nobody minded me, or what was be.
come of me: but another man stepped up to the

pump, and, thrusting me aside with his foot, let me ' ~

lie, thinking I had been dead; and it was a great
while before I came to myself.

The master continued firing guns for help; and
a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us,
ventured a boat out tohelp us. It was with the at
most hazard the boat came near us: but it was im-
possible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie
near the ship-side, till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our
men cast them a rope over the stem with a buoy to
it, and then veered it out a great length,which they
afier much labour and hazard, took hold of; and

wash. '2. 3

' {A
'u
*h.

I

' .33

I
:5.

"seem
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all
into their boat.

We were not much more than a quarter of an
hour out of our ship, but we saw her sink: and then
I understood, for the first time,what was meant by
a ship thundering in the sea. I must acknowledge
I had hardly eyes to look np,when the seamen told
me she was sinking; for, from that moment, they
rather put me into the heat, than that I might be
said to go in ; my heart was, as it were, dead with-
in me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind,
and the thoughts of what was yet before me.

\Vhile we were in this condition, the men yet la.
bouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore,
we could see (when our boat mounting the waves,
we were able to see the shore) a great many people
running along the strand to assist us, when we
should come near. But we made but slow way to-
wards the shore; nor were we able torth the shore,
till, being past the light-house at Winterton, the
shore falls off to the westward towards Cromer :
and so the land broke off a little the violence of the
wind. Here we got in; and, though not without
much difficulty, got all safe on shore; and walked
afterward on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortu-
nate men, we were used with great humanity, as
well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned
us good quarters, as by particular merchants and
owners of ships; and had money given us suflicient
to carry us either to London, or back to Hull, as we
thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to
Hull, and have gone home, I had been happy, and
my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's pa.-
rable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for,
hearing the ship I went away in wast cast away in
Yarmouth roads, it was a great while before he had
any assurance that I was not drowned.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me be-
fore, and who was the master's son, was now less
forward than I. The first time he spoke to me after
we were at Yarmouth,which was not till two or three
days, for we were separated in the town to several
quarters; I say, the first time he saw me, it appear.
ed his tone was altered: and, looking very melan-
choly, and shaking his' head, asked me how I did:
and telling his father who I was, and how I had
come this voyage only for a trial, in order to go
farther abroad; his farther turning to me with a
very grave and concerned tone, " Young man," says
he, " you ought never to go to sea any more; you
ought to take this for a plain and visible token, that
you are notto be a seafaring man." " Why sir,"said
I, " will you go to sea no more '9" " That is another
case," said he; "it is my calling, and therefore my
duty; but, as you made this voyage for a trial, you
see what a taste Heaven has given you of what you
are to expect if you persist: perhaps all this has
befallen as on your account, like Jonah in the ship
of Tarshish. Pray," continues he, " what are you!
and on what account did you go to sea 3" Upon
that I told him some of my story; at the end of
which he burst out with a strange kind of passion.
" What had I done,"says he," that such an unhappy
wretch should come into my ship? I would not set
my foot in the same ship with thee again for a thou.
sand pounds !" This indeed was, as I said, an ex-
cursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by
the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could

' have authority to go. However, he afterward talked
very gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my
father, and not tempt Providence to -my ruin; told

--u 'wv'v ' ~I-----.--w--w1--
me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against
me: "young man," said he, "depend upon it, if
you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet
with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till
your father's words are fulfilled upon you."
' We parted soon after; for I made him little an--
swer, and I saw him no more: which way he went,
I know not. As for me, having some money in my
pocket,I travelled to London by Land; and there,
as well as on the road, had many struggles with my-
self, what course of life I should take, and whether
I should go home, or go to sea.

That evil influence which carried me first away
from my father's house, which hurried me into the
wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune,
and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon
me, as to make me deaf to all good advice, and to
the entreaties, and even the commands. of my fa.
ther: I say, the same influence, whatever it was,
presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to
my view; and I went on board a vessel bound to
the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly call
it, a voyage to Guinea.

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then
was; the devil, generally, not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early : but it was not so with
me. I first fell acquainted with the master of a ship
who had been on the coast of Guinea, and who,
having had very good success there, was resolved
to go again. This captain, taking a fancy to my
conversation, which was not disagreeable at that
time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the world, '
told "me, if I would go the voyage with him, I should
be at no expense; I should be his messmate, and
his companion, and if I could carry any thing with
me, I should have all the advantage of it that the
trade would admit, and perhaps I might meet with
some encouragement.

I embraced the offer, and, entering into a strict
friendship, with this captain, who was an honest
plaimdealing man, went the voyage with him; and
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the
disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I
increased very considerably; for I carried about
401. in such toys and trifles as the captain directed
me to buy. This 401. I had mustered together by
the assistance of some of my relations whom I cor-
responded with, and who, I believe, got my father,
or at least my mother, to contribute so much as that
to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in'all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain;
under whom I also got a competent knowledge of
the mathematics, and the rules of navigation; learn.
ed how to keep an account of the ship's course,take
an observation, and, in short, to understand some
things that were needful to be understood by a sai-
; lor: for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took
delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made
me both a sailor and a merchant: for I brought
' home five pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my-
adventure, which yielded me in London, at my re-
turn, almost 3001.; and this filled me with those
aspiring thoughts which have since so completed
my ruin.

onet, even in this voyage, I had my misfortunes

too;particularly that l was continually sick, being
thrown into a violent caleuture by the excessive heat
of the climate, our principle trading being upon the

u'q";"'
.1
coast, from the latitude of 15 degrees N. even to
the line itself.

I was now set up for 8 Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again:
and I embarked in the same vessel with one who
was his mate in the former voyage, and had now got
the command of the ship. This was the unhappi-
est voyage that ever man made; for though I did
not carry quite 1001, of my newgained wealth, so
that I had 200l. left, and which I lodged with my
friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell
into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the
first was this; viz. our ship, making her course to--
wards the Canary islands, or rather between those
islands and the African shore, was surprised in the
gray of the morning by a Moorish rover of Sallee,
who gave chase to us with all the sail she could
make. \Ve crowed also as much canvass as our
yards would spread, or our masts carry, to have got
clear; but, finding the pirate gained upon us, and
would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we
prepared to fight; our ship having twelve guns, and
the rogue eighteen. About three in the afternoon
he came up with us, and bringing to by mistake,
just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our
stern. as he intended, we brought eight of our guns
to bear on that side, and poured in a broadside upon
him, which made him sheer off again, after return-
ing our fire, and pouring in also his small shot from
near two hundred men which he had on board.
However, we had not a man touched, all our men
keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and
we to defend ourselves; but, laying us on board the
next time upon our other quarter, he entered ninety
men upon our decks, who immediately fell to cutting
and hacking the decks and rigging. We plied them
with some small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and
such like, and cleared our decks of them twice.
However, to cut short this melancholy part of our
story, our ship being disabled,and three of our men
killed, and eight wounded. we were obliged to yield;
and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port
belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended; nor was I carried up the coun-
try, to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men
were, but was kept by the captain of the rover as
his proper prize, and made his slave, being young
and nimble, and fit for his business. At this sur-
prising change of my circumstances, from a mer--
chant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly over-
whelmed; and now I looked back upon my father's
prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable,
and haxe none to relieve me, which I thought was
now so effectually brought to pass, that I could not
be worse. and now the hand of Heaven had over.
taken me, and I was undone without redemption.
But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was
' to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this
storv.

As my new patron or master had taken me home
to his house, so I was in hopes that he would take
me with him when he went to sea again, believing
that it would be some time or other his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portugal man of war; and
that then I should be set at liberty. But this hope
of mine was soon taken away; for when he went to
sea, he lefl me on shore to look after his little garden,
and do the common drudgery of slaves about his

house; and when he came home again from his

cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin, and look
after the ship.

tvw'16 anvznrvnns or

After about two years, an odd circumstance pre-
sented itself, which put the old thought of making
some attempt for my liberty again in my head.
My patron lying at home longer than usual, without
fitting out his ship, whicho as I heard, was for
want of money, he used, constantly once or twice a
week sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to
take the ship' s pinnace, and go out into the road a
fishing; and as he always took me and a young
Maresco with him to row the boat, we made him ve-
ry merry, and I proved very dexterous in catching
fish; inasmuch that sometimes he would send me
with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth the
Maresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish
for him.

I happened one time, that going a fishing with
him in a calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that
though we were not half a league from the shore,
we lost sight of it; and, rowing we knew not whither
or which way, we iaboured all day, and all the next
night; and when the morning came, we found we
had pulled off to sea, instead of pulling in for the
shore, and that we were at least two leagues from
the land. However, we got well in again, though
with a great deal of labour, and some danger: for
the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning:
but particularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved
to take more care of himself for the future; and,
having lying by him the long-boat of our English
ship which he had taken, he resolved he would not
go a fishing any more without a compass, and some
provision : so he ordered the carpenter of his ship,
who was also an English slave, to build a little state'-
room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat, like
that of a barge, with a place to stand behind it to
ROBINSON causos. l7

steer, and haul home the main-sheet; and room he.
fare for a hand or two to stand and work the sails.
She sailed with what we call a shouldenofamutton-
sail; and the boom jibbed over the top of the cabin,
which lay very snug and low, and had in it room
for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat
on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles
of such liquor as he thought fit to drink : particu-
larly his bread, rice, and coffee.

We were frequently Out with this boat a fishing;
and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him,
he never went without me. It happened one day,
that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either
for pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of
some distinction, and for whom he had provided ex-
traordinarily, and had therefore sent on board the
boat over night a lar er store of provisions than
usual; and had orde me to get ready three fusils
with powder and shot, which were on board his ship;
for that they designed some part of fowling as well
as fishing.

I got all things ready, as he had directed; and
waited the next morning with the boat washed clean,
her ancient and pendants out, and every thing to
accommodate his guests: when, by and by, my pa-
tron came on board alone, and told me his guests
. had put off going, upon some business that fell out,
' and ordered me with the man and boy, as usual, to
go out with the boat, and catch them some fish, for
that his friends were to sup at his house. He com-
manded me too, that as soon as I got some fish, I
should bring -it home to his house. All which I
prepared to do.

'This moment my former notions of deliverance
darwd into my thoughts, for now I found I was like
, to have a little ship at my command: and my masv

' e18 anvsmnas or

ter being gone, I prepared to furnish myself. not
for fishing business, but for a voyage; though I
knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whither
I would steer; for any where to get out of that place
was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to
speak to this Moor, to get'something for our sub-
sistence on board: for I told him we must not pre-
sume to eat of our patron's bread. He said, that
was true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or
biscuit, of their kind, and three jars with fresh wa-
ter into the boat. I knew where my patron's case
of bottles stood, which, it was evident by the make,
were taken out of some English prize, and I convey.
ed them into the boat, while the Moor was on shore,
as if they had been there before for our master. I
conveyed also a great lump of beeswax into the
boat, which weighed about half a hundred weight,
with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw,
and a hammer, all of which were of great use to us
afterward; especially the wax to make candles.
Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently
came into also. His name was Ishmael, whom they
called Muley, or Moley ; so I called to him; " Mo-
ley," said 1, "our patron's guns are all on board the
boat: can you not get a little powder and shot? it
may be we may kill some alcomies (a fowl like our
cuflews) for ourselves: for I know he keeps the
gunner's stores in the ship." "Yes," says be, "I'll
bring some." Accordingly he brought a great lea-
ther pouch, which held about a pound and a half of
powder, or rather more; and anonher with shot, that
had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat. At the same time I had found
some powder of my master's in the great cabin, with
which I filled one of the large bottles in the case,g

 

nosmsox causoa. 19

which was almost empty, pouring what wasin it into
another; and thus furnished with every thing need.
ful, we sailed out of the port to fish. The castle,
which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we
were, and took no notice of us ; and we were not
above a mile out of port, before we hauled in our
sail, and sat us down to fish. The wind blew from
the N. N. E. which was contrary to my desire: for
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have
made the coast of Spain, and atleast reached to the
bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which
way it would, I would be gone from that horrid place
where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time, and catched no-
thing (for when I had fish on my hook, I would not
pull them up, that he might not see them), I said to
the Moor, "This will not do: our master will not
be thus served. We must stand farther off." He,
thinking no harm, agreed: and beingin the head of
the boat, set the sails, and, as I had the helm, I run
the boat out near a league farther, and then brought
her to, as if I would fish : when, giving the boy the
helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor was,
and making as if I stooped for something behind
him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his
twist, and tossed him clean overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and
called to me, begged to be taken in, telling me he
would go all over the world with me. He swam so
strong atter the boat, that he would have reached me
very quickly, there being but little wind; upon
which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of
the fowling pieces, I presented it at him, and told
him I had done him no hurt, and if he would be
quiet, I would do him none : "But," said I, " you

swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is
c 2
calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I
will do you no harm ; but if you come near the boat
I'll shoot you through the head, for I am resolved
to have my liberty." So he turned himself about,
and swam for the shore, and I make no doubt but he
reached it with ease, for he was an excellent swim-

mer.
I could have been content tohave taken this Moor

with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was
no venturing to trust him. When he was gone, I
turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said
to him, "Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I'll
make you a great man; but if you will not stroke
your face to be true to me," that is, swear by Maho-
met, and his father's beard, "I must throw you into
the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke
so innocently, that I could not mistrust him; and
swore to be faithful to me, and go all over the world

with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to see with the boat, rather
stretching to windward, that they might think me
gone towards the Strait's mouth (as indeed any one
that had been in their "its must have been supposed
to do); for who would have supposed we were sailed
on to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of Negroes were sure to sur--
round as with their canoes, and destroy us; where
we could never once go to shore, but we should be
devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless sava-
ges of human kind '9

But, as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
changed my course, and steered directly south and
by east, bending my course a little towards the cast,
that I might keep in with the shore; and, having a
fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I
made such sail, that I believe, by the next day at
three o 'clock 1n the afternoon, when I first made the
land I could not be less than 150 miles south of
Sallee, quite beyond the emperor of Morocco' 8 do-
minions,' or indeed of any other king thereabouts,
for we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore,
or come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till
I had sailed in that manner five days; and then
the wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also
that if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they
also would now give over; so I ventured to make to
the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a
little river, I knew not what or where, neither what
latitude, what country, what nation, or what river.
I neither saw nor desired to see any people: the
principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came
into this creek in the even1ng,resolv1ng to swim on
shore as soon as it was dark, and discover the coun.
try; but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such
dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, antimowling

of wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that.
the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged>>

of me not to go on shore till day. "Well ,any, "
said I, "then I won't; but it may be we may 860
men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
" Then we may give them the shoot gun," says Xury,
laughing, " make them run way." Such English
Xury spoke,by conversmg among as slaves. How.
ever, I was glad to see the boy so cheertul, and I
gave him a dram (out of our patron' s case of bottles)
to cheer him up. After all Xury' 8 advice was good,
and I took it: we dropped our little anchor, and lay
still all night, I say still, for we slept none, for in

~.

,6.

'l

. :'h

"J .41 .
't .'e
two or three hours we saw vast great creatures, we
knew not what to call them, of many sorts, come
down to the seashore, and run into the water, wal-
lowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of
cooling themselves : and they made such hideous
howlings and yellings, that I never indeed heard
the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was
I too; but we were both worse frighted when we
heard one of the mighty creatures come swimming
towards our boat : we could not see him, but we
might hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous
huge and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion,
and that it might be for aught I know. Poor Xury
cried out to me to weigh the anchor, and row away.
" No," says I, " Xury, we can slip our cable with a
buoy to it, and go to sea; they cannot follow us far."
I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature
(whatever it was) within two oars length, which some-
thing surprised me; however I immediately stepped
to the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired at
him, upon which he immediately turned about, and
swam towards the shore again.

But it was not possible to describe the horrid
noises, and hideous cries and howlings that were
raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as higher
within the country, upon the noise or report of a
gun ; a thing, I have some reason to believe, these
creatures had never heard before. This convinced
me that there was no going on shore for us in the
night upon that coast, and how to venture on shore
in the day, was another question too; for, to have
fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had been
as bad as to have fallen into the paws of lions and
tigers; at least we were equally apprehensive of the
danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint
in the boat; when or where to get t6 it, was the
point. Xury said if I would let him go on shore
with one of the jars, he would find if there was any
water. and bring some to me. I asked him why he
would go, why I should not go, and he stay in the
boat. The boy answered with so much afi'ection
that made me love him ever after. Says he, " If
wild man's come, they eat me; you go way." "Well.
Xury," said I, "we will both go; and if the wild
mans come, we will kill them; they shall eat nei-
ther of us." So I gave Xury a piece of rush-bread
to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case of hot-
tles, which I mentioned before, and we hauled the
boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper,
and waded on shore, carrying nothing but our arms,
and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fear-
ing the coming of canoes with savages down the
river: but the boy seeing a low place, about a mile
up the country, rambled to it, and by and by I saw
him come running towards me. I thought he was
pursued by some savage, or frighted with some wild
beast, and I ran forward towards him to help him ;
but when I came nearer to him, I saw something
hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
that he had a shot, like a ham, but different in co-
lour, and longer legs. However, we were very glad
of it, and it was very good meat; but the great joy
that p00r Xury came with, was to tell me he had
found good water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterward that we need not take

such pains for water, for a little higher up the one]:

where we were, we found the water fresh when the -
tide was out, which flows but a little way up : so we

Essa "l .
filled our jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed,
and prepared to go on our way, having seen no
footsteps of any human creature. in that part of the
country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd Islands also, lay not far off from
the coast. But as I had no instruments to take ob-
servations to know what latitude we were in, and did
not exactly know, or at least not remember what la-
titude they were in, I knew not where to look for
them, or when to stand off to sea towards them,
otherwise I might now easily have found some of
these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood
along this coast till I came to that part where the
English traded, I should find some of their vessels
upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve
and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I
now was must be that country which, lying between
the emperor of Morocco's dominions and the Ne-
groes, lies waste and uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone ,
farther south, for fear of the Moors; and the Moors
not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its
barrenness, and indeed both forsaking it because of
the prodigious number of tigers, lions, leopards,
and other furious creatures which harbour there, so
that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where
they go like an army, two or three thousand men at
a time; and indeed for near a hundred miles toge-
ther upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste
uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing but
howlings and roarings of wild beasts by night.

Several times we were obliged to land for fresh
water, after we had left this place; and oncein par-
ticular, being early in the morning, we came to an
anchor under a little point of water, which was
pretty high, and the tide beginning to flow, we lay
still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more
about him than, it seems, mine were, calls softly to
me, and tells me that we had best go farther 03' the
shore, "For," says he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful
monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep." I
looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful mon-
ster indeed; for it was a terrible great lion, that lay
on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece '
of the hill, that hung as it were a little over him.

. ." Xury," said I, " you shall go on shore, and kill

him." Xury looked frighteJ, and said, " Me kill!
He eat me at one mouth!" one mouthful he meant.
However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him
be still, and took our biggest gun, which was almost
musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge of
powder, and with two slugs, and laid it down; then
I loaded another gun with two bullets, and the third
(for we had three pieces) I loaded with five smaller
bullets. I took the best aim I could with the first .
piece, to have shot him in the head; but he lay so 35
with his leg raised a little above his nose, that the '
slug hit his leg about the knee, and broke the bone.
He started up growling at first, but finding his leg
broke, fell down again, and then got upon three legs,
and gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard.
I was a little surprised that I had not hit him on
the head: however, I took up the second piece im-
mediately: and, though he began to move off, fired
again, and shot him into the head, and had the plea.
sure to see him drop, and making but little noise,
he lay struggling for life. Then Xury took heart,
and would let me have him go on shore. " Well,
go," said I. So the boy jumped into thd' water,

';
and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore
with the other hand, and coming close to the crea.
ture, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and
shot him into the head again, which dispatched him
quite,

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food ;
and I was very sorry to lose three charges of pow-
der and shot upon a creature that was good for no-
thing to us. However, Xury said he would have
some of him; so he comes on board, and asked me
to give him the hatchet. " For what, Xury ?" said
I. "Me cut ofl' his head," said be. However, Xury
could not cut off his head; but he cut off a foot;
and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous
great one.

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the
skin of him might one way or other be of some va-
lue to us; and I resolved to take off his skin if I
could. So Xury and I went to work with him; but
Xury was much the better workman at it, for I
knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it took us both
the whole day; but at last we got off the hide of
him, and, spreading it on the top of our cabin, the
sun effectually dried it in two days' time, and it
afterward served me to lie upon.

After this stop, we made on to the southward con-
tinually, for ten or twelve days, living very sparing-
ly on our provisions, which began to abate very
much, and going no oftener into the shore than we
were obliged to for fresh water. My design m this
was to make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to
say, any where about the Cape de Verd, where I
was in hopes to meet with some European ship;
and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to
take, but to seek for the islands, or perish there
among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships fromf

(

ROBINSON causes, 27

Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea,
or to Brasil, or to the East Indies, made this cape
or those islands, and, in a word, I put the whole of
my fortune upon this single point, either that I
must meet with some ship or must perish.

\Vhen I had pursued this resolution about ten
days longer, as I have said, I began to see that the
land was inhabited; and in two or three places, as
we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore
to look at us; we could also perceive they were
quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined
to have gone on shore to them, but Xury was my
better counsellor, and said to me, " N 0 go, no go."
However, I hauled in nearer the shore, that Imight
talk to them, and I found they ran along the shots
by me a good way. I observed they had no wea- '
pons in their hands, except one, who had a long
slender stick, which Xury said was alance, and that
they would throw them a great way with good aim :
so I kept at a distance, but talked with them by
signs as well as I could, and particularly made signs
for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop
my boat, and they would fetchme some meat. Upon
this I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and
two of them ran up into the country, and in less
than half an hour came back, and brought with them
two pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as is the
produce of their country ; but we neither knew what
the one or the other was. however we were willing
to accept it. But how to come at it, was our next
dispute, for I was not. for venturing on shore to them,
and they were as much afraid of us; but they took
a safe way for us all, for they brought itto the shore,
and laid it down, and went and stood a great way
off, till we fetched it on board, and then came close
to us again.
'We made signs of thanks to them, for we had
nothing to make them amends; but an opportunity
offered that instant to oblige them wonderfully; for
while we were lying by the shore, came two mighty
creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it)
with great fury, from the mountains towards the
sea: whether it was the male pursuing the female,
or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could
not tell any more than we could tell whether it was
usual or strange; but I believe it was the latter,
because, in the first place, those ravenous creatures
seldom appear but in the night; and, in the second

place we found the people terribly frighted, especi-

ally the women. The man that had the lance or
dart did not fly from them, but the rest did. How-
ever, as the two creatures ran directly into the water,
they did not seem to offer to fall upon the Negroes,
but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam a-
bout as if they had come for their diversion : at last
one of them came nearer our boat than at first I
expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had load-
ed my gun with all possible expedition, and bade
Xury load both the others. As soon as he came
fairly within my reach, I fired,and shot him directly
into the head. Immediately he sunk down into the
water, but he rose instantly, and plunged up and
down as if he was struggling for life; and so indeed
he was. He immediately made to the shore; but,
between the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and
the strangling of the water, he died just before he
reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of ,

these poor creatures at the noise and fire of my gun :
some of them were even ready to die for fear, and
and fell down as dead with the very terror. But
when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the
water, and that I made signs to them to come to
the shore, they took heart and came to the shore,
and began to search for the creature. I found him
by his blood staining the water, and by the help of
a rope, which I flung round him, and gave the Ne.
groes to haul,they dragged him on shore, and found
that it was a most curious leopard, spotted and fine
to an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up
their hands with admiration, to think what it was
I killed him with.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire,
and the noise of the gun, swam to the shore, and
ran up directly to the mountains from whence they
came, nor could I at that distance know what it
was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating
the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have
them take it as a favour from me, which, when I

I made signs to them that they might take him, they
1 were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to

work with him, and though they had no knife, yet-

with a sharpened piece of wood they took off his

. skin as readily, nay, much more readily, than we
would have done with a knife. They offered me
some of the flesh, which I declined, making as if I
would give it them, but made signs (for the skin,
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a

>> great deal more of their provision, which though I

5 . did not understand, yet I accepted. Then I made-

; signs to them for some water, and held out one of
i 1 my jars to them, turning its bottom upward, to shew
' that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it fil-
' led. They called immediately to some of their

   
  

great vessel made of earth, and burnt,as I suppose,
5 in the sun: this they set down for me, as before,
and I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled

friends, and there came two women, and brought a .v v ' "r v v - ' " , r'zwrmwr'wrsww

30 anvsmunss or

them all three. The women were as stark naked
as the men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as
it was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes,
I made forward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance -
of four or five leagues before me, and, the sea being
very calm, I kept a large ofling to make this point;
at length, doubling the point at about two leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side
to seaward; then I concluded, as it was most cer.
tain indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and
those the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd
Islands. However. they were at a great distance,
and I could not tell what best to do; for if I should
be taken with a fresh wind, I might neither reach
one nor other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I step-
ped into the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having
the helm, when on a sudden the boy cried out,

" Master, master, a ship was a sail !" and the foolish
boy was frighted out of his wits, thinking it must
needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue
us, when I knew we were gotten far out of their
reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately
saw not only the ship, but what she was; viz. that '
it was a Portuguese ship, and as I thought, was
bound to the coast of Guinea for N egrces. But '
when I observed the course she steered, I was soon .
convinced they were bound some other way, and did I
not design to go any nearer to the shore, upon which '
I stretched out to sea as much as I could, resolving
to speak with them if possible: so they shortened
sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this,
and as I had my patron's ancient on board, I made
a waft of it to them for asignal of distress, and fired
a gun, both which they saw; for they told me they
saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun.
Upon these signals they very kindly brought to, and
lay by for me, and in about three hours time I came
up with them.

They asked me what I was in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French; but I understood none of
them : but at last a Scots sailor, who was on board,
called to me, and I answered him, and told him, I
was an Englishman, that I had made my escape
out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee. Then they
bade me come on board, and very kindly took me
in, and all my goods.

 

CHAPTER II.

CRUSOE SETTLES IN THE BRAZILS--HB WN'IUBBS
TO MAKE ANOTHER VOYAGE, AND 18 SHIP-
WRECXED UPON A DESOLATB ISLAND.

Ir was an inexpressible joy to me, that any onewill
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it,
from such a miserable and almost hopeless condition
as I was in. I immediately ofl'ered all I had to the.

captain of the ship, as a return formy deliverance; .
but he generously told me, he would take nothing

from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe
to me when I came to the Brazils. " For," says he,
" I have saved your life on no other terms than as
I would be glad to be saved myself; and itmay one
time or other be my lot to be taken up in the same
condition. Besides," says he, " When I carry you
to the Brazils, so great a way from your own coun-
try, if I should take from you what little you have;
you will be starved there, and then I only take away
that life I have given. N o, no," says he, "Signor
Inglese [Mn Englishman], I will carry you thither
in charity, and these things will help you to buy
your subsistence there, and your passage home
again." '

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was
just in the performance to a tittle; for he ordered
the seamen that none should offer to touch any thing
I had: then he took every thing into his own pos-
session, and gave me back an exact inventory of
them, that I might have them again, even so much
as my three earthen jars.

As to my boat it was a very good one, and that
he saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the
ship's use, and asked me what I would have for it.
I told him he had been so generous t0degme in every
thing, that I could not offer to make any price of
the boat, but left it entirely to him; upon which he
told me he would give me a note of his hand to pay
me 80 pieces of eight for it at Brazil, and when it
came there, if any one ofl'ered to give more, he would
make it up. He offered me also 60 pieces of eight
more for my boy, Xury, which I was loath to take;
not that I was not willing to let the captain have
him,but I was very loath to sell the poor boy's liber.
ty, who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring
my own. However, when I let him know my rea-
son, he owned it to be just, and cfi'ered me this
medium, that he would give the boy an obligation
to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christian.
Upon this, Xury saying he was willing to go to
him, I let the captain have him. a

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and
arrived in the Bay de todos los Santos, or All Saints '
Bay, in about twentydwo days after. And now I_was once more delivered from the most miserable of
all conditions of life; and what to do next with my.

' self, I was to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me I
can never enough remember : he would take nothing
of me for my passage, gave me 20 ducats for the

, leopard's skin, and 40 for the lion's skin, which I
had in the boat, and caused every thing I had in
the ship to be punctually delivered to me; and what

I was willing to sell, he bought, such as the case

of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump

of bees wax, for I had made candles of the rest:
in a word, I made about 220 pieces of eight of all
my cargo, and with this stock I went on shore in
the Brazils.
, I had not been long here, but being recommend-
" ed to the house of a good honest man like himself,
who had an ingenio, as they call it, that is a plan.
tation and a sugaahouse, I lived with him some time,

  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
    
   

manner of their planting and making of sugarg.

_. f grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get lie
"X, cence to settle there, I would turn planter among .

l way to get my money which I had left in London
.i remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of
g. letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
{. that was uncured as my money would reach, and
":3 ormed a plan for my plantation and settlement,
'3: ad such a one as might be suitable to the stock

hich I proposed to myself to receive from England.

m of English parents, whose name was Wells,
. d in much such circumstances as I was. I call

.. neighbour, because his plantation lay next to
n

and acquainted myself by that means with the-

and seeing how well the planters lived,and howth V _' .X '

1; them; resolving, in the mean time,to find out some -

I had a neighbour a Portuguese of Lisbon, but .
mine, and we went on very sociably together: my
stock was but low as well as his, and we rather plant-
ed for food than any thing else for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land began
to come into order, so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of
ground ready for planting canes in the year to come;
but we both wanted help; and now I found, more
than before, I had done wrong in parting with my
boy, Xury.

I used to look upon my condition with the utmost
regret. I had nobody to converse with, but now
and then this neighbour: no work to be done but
by the labour of my hands; and I used to say, I
lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate
island, that had nobody there but himself. But
how just has it been, and how should all men reflect,
that, when they compare their present condition
with others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them
to make the exchange, and be convinced of their
former felicity, by their experience ! I say, how
just has it been, that the truly solitary life I reflect.
ed on in an island of mere desolation should be my
lot, who had so often unjustly compared it with the
life which I then led, in which, had I continued, I
had, in all probability, been exceedingly prosperous
and rich !

I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend,
the captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went
back; for the ship remained there in providing her
loading, and preparing for her voyage, near three
months; when, telling him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly
and sincere advice: " Signor Inglese," says he (for
so he always called me), " if you will give me let.
tors, and a procuration here in form to me, with
orders to the person who has your money in London,
to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I
shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this
country, I will bring you the produce of them, God
willing, at my return: but, since human affairs are
all subject to changes and disasters, I would have
you give orders for 1001. sterling which, you say,
is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first, so that if it come safe, you may order the rest
the same way, and if it miscarry, you may have the
other half to have recourse to for your supply. "

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was
the best course I could take; so I accordingly pre-
pared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had
left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese
captain, as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how
I had met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the
humanity of his behaviour, and what condition I
was now in, with all other necessary directions {or
my supply; and when this honest captain came to
Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English
merchants there, to send over not the order only, but.
a full account of my story to a merchant at London,-
who presented it effectually to her; whereuponshe,
not only delivered the money, but out of her own
pocket sent the Portugal captain a very handsome.
present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London vested this 1001. in
English goods, such as the captain had written for,
sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought
them all safe to me to the Brasils; among which,
without my direction (for I was too young in my

D 2
business to think of them), he had taken care to
have all sorts of tools', iron work, and utensils ne-
cessary for my plantation, and which were of great
use to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, for I was surprised with the joy of it; and
my good steward, the captain, had laid out the 51.
which my friend had sent him for a present for him-
self, to purchase and bring me over a servant, under
bond for six years' service, and would not accept of
any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I
would have him accept, being of my own produce.

Neither was this all; but my goods being all
English manufactures, such as cloth, stufl', baize,
and things particularly valuable and desirable in
the country, I found means to sell them to a very
great advantage; so that I may say, I had more
than four times the value of my first cargo, and was
now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean
in the advancement of my plantation; for the first
thing I did, I bought me a Negro slave and a Eu-
ropean servant also: I mean another besides that
which the captain brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great success in
my plantation: I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco
on my own ground, more than I had disposed of
for necessaries among my neighbours, and these
fifty rolls being each of above 1001b. weight, were
well cured and laid by against the return of the fleet
from Lisbon, And now increasing in business and
wealth, my head began to be full of projects and
undertakings beyond my reach, such as are indeed
often the ruin of the best heads in business.

Having now lived almost four years in the Bra
sils, and begin 1 " to thrive and prosper very well
upon my plan . :n, I had not only learned the
language, but. had contracted acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as
among the merchants of St. Salvadore, which was
our port, and that, in my discourse among them,
I had frequently given them an account of my two
voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of tra-
ding with the Negroes there, and how easy it was
to purchase upon the coast, for trifles, such as
beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like, not only gold-dust, Guinea grains,
elephant's teeth, &.c. but Negroes for the service of
the Brasils, in great numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but especially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes, which was a
trade at that time not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos,
or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal,
and engrossed in the public stock, so that few Ne-
groes were bought, and those excessive dear.

It happened, being in. company one day with
some merchants and planters of my acquaintance,
and talking of those things very earnestly, three of
them came to me the next morning, and told me
they had been musing very much upon what I had
discoursedvof with them the last night, and they
came to make a secret proposal to me; and, after
enjoining me secrecy, they told me that they had a
mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they
had all plantations as well as I,and were straitened
for nothing so much as servants; that as it was not
a trade that could not be carried on, because they
could not publicly sell the Negroes when they came
home, so they desired to make but one voyage, to
bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide
them among their own plantations; and, in a word,
the question was, whether I would go their super-
cargo in the ship, to manage the trading part upon
the coast of Guinea: and they offered me that I
should have my equal share of the Negroes, without
providing any part of the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed,
had it been made. to any one that had not had a set-
tlement and plantation of his own to look after,
which was in a fair way of coming to be very con-
siderable, and with a good stock upon it. But for
me that w as thus established, and had nothing to do
but go on as I had begun for three or four years
more, and to have sent for the other 100]. from
England, and who in that time, and with that little
addition, could scarce have failed of being worth 3
or 40001. sterling, and that increasing too; for me
to think of such a voyage, was the most preposterous
thing that ever man, in such circumstances, could
be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer,
could no more. resist the offer, than I could restrain
my first rambling designs, when my father's good
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them
I would go with all my heart, if they would under.
take to look after my plantation in my absence,
and would dispose of it to such as I should direct,
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and
entered in writings or covenants to do so; and I
made a formal will, disposing of my plantations and
effects, in case of my death, making the captain of
the ship that had saved my life, as before, my uni-
versal heir, but obliging him to dispose of my effects
as I had directed in my will: one half of the pro-
duce being to himself, and the other to be shipped
to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve
my effects, and to keep up my plantation. Had I
used half as much prudence to have looked into my
own interest, and have made a judgement of what
I ought to have done and not to have done, I had
certainly never gone away from so prosperous an
undertaking, leaving all the probable views of a
thriving circumstance, and gone upon a voyage to
sea, attended with all its common hazards; to say
nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular
misfortunes to myself.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the
dictates of my fancy, rather than my reason: and,
accordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo
furnished, and all things done as by agreement by
my partners in the voyage, I went on board man
evil hour again, the lst of September, 1659, being
the same day eight years that I went from my father
and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebelto their
authority, and the fool to my own interest.

Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried six
guns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his
boy, and myself. We had on board no large cargo
of goods, except of such toys as were fit for our
trade with the Negroes; such as beads,bits of glass,
shells, and odd triflcs, especially little looking.
glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.

The same day I went on board, we set sail, stand-
ing away to the northward upon our own coast, with
design to stretch over for the African coast, when
they came in about ten or twelve degrees of northern
latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of their
course in those days. We had very goodyeather,
only excessive hot all the way upon our ownicoast
till we came to the height of Cape St. Augustino,
from whence keeping farther off at sea, we lost sight
of land, and steered as if we were bound for the
Isle of Fernand de Norouba, holding our course
N. E. by N. and leaving those isles on the east.
In this course we passed the line in about twelve
days' time, and were by our last observation, in 7
degrees, 22 minutes,northern latitude, when a vio-
lent tornado or hurricane took us quite out of our
knowledge: it settled in the north-east, from
whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for
twelve days together we could do nothing but drive:
and scudding away before it, let it carry us wherever
{ate and the fury of the winds directed: and during
these twelve days, I need not say that I expected
every day to be swallowed up: nor did any in the
ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress we had, besides the terror of- the
storm, one of our men died of the calenture, and
one man and the boy washed overboard, About
the twelfth day, the weather ab'ating a little, the
master made an observation as well as he could,
and found that he was in about ll degrees of north
latitude, but that he was 22 degrees of longitude
difference west from Cape St. Augustino; so that he
found he was gotten upon the coast of Guiana, or
the north part of Brasil,beyond the river Amazones,
towards that of the river Oronoque, commonly cal-
led the Great River: and now he began to consult
with me what course he should take, for the ship
was leaky, and very much disabled, and he was for
going directly back to the coast of Brasil.

I was positively against that; and. looking over
the charts of the sewcoast of America with him,
we concluded there was no inhabited country for us
to have recourse to, till we came within the circle
of the Caribbee islands, and therefore resolved to
stand away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping of! at '
sea, to avoid the indraught of the Bay or Gulf of

1, Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in

j' about fifteen days' sail: whereas we could not pos-

. sibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa,

f without some assistance both to our ship, and to

5 ourselves.

i With this design, we changed our coast, and
. . steered away N. W. by W. in order to reach some '
of our English islands, where I hoped for relief;
but our voyage was otherwise determined; for, be-
ing in the latitude of 12 degrees, 18 minutes, a
second storm came upon us, which carried us away
.1 with the same impetuosity westward, and drove usso

, out of the very way of all human commerce, that

had our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were

- rather in danger of being devoured by savages,

it than ever returning to our own country. ...

i In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
one of our men, early one morning, cried out,
" Land. "' and we had no sooner run out of the cabin
'- to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the
~: world we were, but the ship struck upon a sand,

hand in a moment, her motion being so stopped,
{:41 the sea broke over her in such a manner that we

; expected we should all have perished immediately ,

if. and we were even driven into our close quarters,

' to shelter us from the very foam and spray of the

1 sea.

f It is not easy for any one, who has not been in
51the like condition, to describe or conceive the con-
sternation of men in such circumstances. We knew

.5 nothing where we were, or upon what land it was

E we were driven, whether an island or the main,

,: whether inhabited or not inhabited and as the rage

1.; of the wind was still great, though rather less than

5' at first, we could not so much as hope to have the

i

'mfl.'

a,
ship hold many minutes without breaking in pieces,
unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn
immediately about. In aword, we sat looking upon
one another, and expecting death every moment,
and every man acting accordingly, as preparing for
another world, for there was little or nothing more for
us to do in this: that which was our present comfort,
and all the comfort we had, was, that contrary to
our expectation, the ship did not break v et, and that
the master said the wind began to abate.

N ow, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off,
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had
nothing to do but to think of saving our lives aswell
as we could. We had a boat at our stern, just be-
fore the storm, but she was first staved by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and in the next place she
broke away, and either sunk or was driven of to
sea, so there was no hope from her. We had ano-
ther boat on board; but how to get her off into sea,
was a doubtful thing. However, there was no room
to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in
pieces every minute; and some told us she was
actually broken already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lay 5 hold
of the boat, and with the help of the rest of the
men, they got her flung over the ship's side, and
getting all into her,let go, and committed ourselves,
being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the
wild sea; for though the storm was abated consi.

derably, yet the sea went dreadfully high upon the .

shore, and might well be called, " Den wild zee,"
as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for
we all saw plainly that the sea went so high, that
7' nosmson causos. 43

he boat could not escape, and that we should be
nevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had
' one; nor, if we had, could we have done any
:' hing with it; so we worked at the oar towards the
4 and, though with heavy hearts, like men going to
xecution; for we all knew, that when the boat
ame near the shore, she would be dashed in a
housand pieces, by the breach of the sea. How-
} j, ver, we committed our souls to God in the most
_-arnest manner; and the wind driving us towards
, he shore, we hastened our destruction with our
wn hands, pulling, as well as we could towards
.. nd.
,3? After we had rowed or rather driven, about a
l 3.- ague and a half as we reckoned it, a raging wave,
. ountain like, coming rolling astern of us, and
_ " ulainly bade us expect the ' coup de grace.' In a
, ord, it took us with such a fury,that it overset the
' _ oat at once, and separating us as well from the
j- oat as from one another, gave us not time hardly
'3 say, " O God! " for we were all swallowed up in
SS moment.
'2, Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
'5 mm I felt when I sunk in the water, for though
f; swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
" mm the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave
- ! aving driven me, or rather carried me a vast way
:_ on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went
ack, and left me upon the land almost dry, but
is. alf dead with the water 1 took in. I had so much

I ,1. oresence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing

;. yself nearer the main land than I expected,I got
i pm: my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards
1; he land, as fast as I could, before another wave
' hould return, and take me up again. But I soon
f; A

ound it was impossible to avoid it, for I saw the4 4 anvnm'uazs or

sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as
furious as an enemy, which I had no means or
strength to contend with; my business was to hold
my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I
could, and so by swimming to preserve my breath-
ing, and pilot myseli towards the shore, if possible;
my greatest concern now being that the wave, as it
would carry me a great way towards the shore when
it came on, might not carry me back again with it,
when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again, buried me
at once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body,
and I could feel myself carried with a mighty force
and swiftness towards the shore a very great way;
but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim
still forward with all my might. I was ready to
burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt my-
self rising, up, so, to my immediate relief, I found
my head and hands shoot out above the surface of
the water; and though it was not above two seconds
of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved
me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I
was covered again with water a good while, but not
so long but I held it out, and finding the water had
spent itself, and began to return, I struck forward
against the return of the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments to
recover breath, and till the water went from me,
and then I took to my heels, and ran with what
strength I had, farther towards the shore. But
neither would this deliver me from the fury of the
sea, which came pouring in after me again, and
twice more was I lifted up by the waves, and car-
ried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well near been
fatal to me; for the sea having hurried me along
    
   
    
    
    
    
   
      
 
   
  

_ ; before, landed me, or rather dashed me, against
f piece of rock, and that with such force as it left
' e senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own
' liverance; for the blow taking my side and breast,
at the breath, as it were, quite out of my body,
d had it returned again immediately, I must
'tve been strangled in the water; but I recovered
little before the return of the waves, and, seeing
should be covered again with the water, I resolved
1 .- hold fast by a piece ofthe rock, and so to hold my
'eath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now,
- the waves were not so high as at first, being near
ud, I held my hold till the wave abated, and then
tched another run, which brought me so near the
ore, that the next wave, though it went over me,
. it did not so swallow me up as to carry me away;
' 1d the next run I took, I got to the main land,
_ here, to my great comfort, I clambered up the
' ms of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass,

'M

f l was now landed, and safe on shore, and began
i u look up and thank God that my life was saved,
_ a case wherein there was some minutes before
' carce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible

'1 he has the altar about his neck, is tied up, and
ust going to be turned off, and has a reprive brought
3 0 him; I say, I do not wonder that they bring a
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in
the contemplation of my deliverance, making a
thousand gestures and motions which I cannot de-
scribe, refiecting upon all my comrades that were
drowned, and that there should not be one soul
saved but myself: for, as for them, I never saw
them afterward, or any sign of them, except three
of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that werehot
fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could
hardly see it, it lay so far off; and considered, Lord!
how was it possible I could get on shore !

After I had solaced my mind with the comforta-
ble part of my condition, I began to look round me,
to see what kind of place I was in, and what was
next to be done, and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deli- .
verance; for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me,
nor any thing either to eat or drink to comfort me,
neither did I see any prospect before me, but that
of perishing with hunger, or be devoured by wild
beasts: and that which was particularly afflicting to
me, was, that I had no weapon either to hunt and
kill any creature, for my sustenance, Or to defend
myself against any other creature that might desire
to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing
about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little
tobacco in a box: this was all my provision, and
this threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that for
a while I ran about like a madman. Night coming -
upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider '.
what would be my lot, if there were any ravenous >>._, _~v A ---.._ .. u;.,-.
353* V 1' ' ' ' :-

aonmson causoa. 47

beasts in that country, seeing at night they always
come abroad for their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time, was, to get up in a thick bushy tree, like a
fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and where I
resolved to sit all night, and consider the next day
what death I should die; for, as yet, I saw no pros.
pect of life. I walked about a furlong from the
shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to drink,
which I did to my great joy; and having drank,
and put a little tobacco in my mouth, to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it,
endeavoured to place myself so as that, if I should
sleep, I might not fall; and having cut me a short
stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up
my lodging; and having been excessively fatigued,
I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as I be,
lieve few could have done in my condition; and

found myself the most refreshed with it that I think-

I ever was on such occasion.

When I waked, it was broad day, the weather
clear, and the storm abated, so that the sea did not
rage and swell as before: but that which surprised
me most, was, that the ship was lifted off, in the
night, from the sand where she lay, by the swelling
of the tide, and was driven up almost as far asthe
rock, which I first mentioned, where I had been so
bruised by the dashing me against it. This being
within about a mile from the shore where I was, and
the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished
myself on board, that, at least, I might save some
necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartments in the
tree, I looked about me again; and the first thing
I found was the boat, which lay as the wind and
the sea had tossed her upon the land, about two
miles on my right hand. I walked as far as I could
upon the shore, to have got to her,but found a neck
or inlet of water between me and the boat, which
was about half a mile broad; so I came back for the
present, being more intent upon getting at the ship,
where I hoped to find something for my present
subsistence.

A little after noon I found the sea very calm;
and the tide ehbed so far out, that I could come
within a quarter of a mile of the ship; and here I
found a fresh renewing of my grief; for I saw evi-
dently that if we had kept on board we had been all
safe, that is to say, we had all got safe on shore,
and I had not been so miserable as to be left en-
tirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now
was. This forced tears from my eyes again; but
as there was little relief in that, I resolved, if pos-
sible, to get to the ship; so I pulled all my clothes,
for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the
water; but, when I came to the ship, my dilficulty
was still greater to know how to get on board; for
as she lay aground,and high out of the water, there
was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I
swam round her twice,and the second time I espied
a small piece of rope, which I wondered I did not 4.
see at first, hang down by the fore chains, so low as .
that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and, by
the help of that rope, got up into the forecastle of
the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her bold, but that
she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand or
rather earth, that her stein lay lifted up upon the
bank, and her head low almost to the water; and
by this means all her quarter was free, and all that
was in that part was dry: for you may be sure my
first work was to search and to see what was spoiled,w C/W-*'\'.>>'w_ '

 

aonmson onusoa. 49

and what was free: and first I found that all the
ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the
water; and being very well disposed to eat, I went
to the bread--room, and filled my pockets with bis-
cuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I
had no time to lose. I also found some rum in the
great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which
I had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what
was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat
to furnish myself with many things which I fore.
saw would be very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was
not to be had; and this extremity roused my appli.
cation. We had several spare yards, and two or
three large spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or
two in the ship; I resolved to fall to work with these,
and flung as many of them overboard as I could
manage for their weight: tying every one with a
rope, that they might not drive away. When this
was done, I went down the ship's side, and pulling
them to me, I tied four of them fast together at
both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft;
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon
them crossways, I found I could walk upon it very
Well, but that it was not able to bear any great
weight, the pieces being too light. so I went to
work, and, with a carpenter's saw, I cut a spare
top-mast into three lengths, and added them to my
raft, with a great deal of labour and pains; but
the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries en-
couraged me to go beyond what I should have been
able to have done upon another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any rea-

sonable weight. My next care was what to load it

with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from

\ the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering

I:
this; I first laid all the planks or boards upon it
that I could get, and having considered well what
I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's
chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and
lowered them down upon my raft. The first of these
I filled with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we
lived much upon, and a little remainder of Euro-
pean corn, which had been laid by for some fowl's,
which we brought to sea with us : but the fowls were
killed: there had been some barley and wheat to-
gether, but to my great disappointment, I found
afterward that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all.
As for liquors, I found several cases of bottles be~
longing to our skipper, in which were some cordial
waters, and in all about five or six gallons of arrack :
these I stowed by them selves, there being no need
to put them into the chest, nor any room for them.
While I was doing this, I found the tide began to
flow, though very calm, and I had the mortification
to see my coat, shirt. and waistcoat, which I had
left on shore upon the sand, swim away; as for my
breeches, which were only linen and opemknee'd,
I swam on board in them and my stockings. How-
ever, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of
which I found enough, but took no more than I
wanted for present use, for I had other things which
my eye was more upon: as first, tools to work with
on shore, and it was after long. searching that I
found out the carpenter's chest, which was indeed
a very useful prize to me, and much more valua
ble than a ship-loading of gold would have been at
that time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as
it was, without losing time to look into it, for I
knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and

.AA'-\__ A
arms. There were two very good fowling pieces in
the great cabin, and two pistols; these I secured
first, with some powder horns, a small bag of shot,
and two old rusty swords. I knew there were three
barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where
our gunner had stowed them, but with much search
I found them, two of them dry and good, the third
had taken water; those two I got to my raft, with
' the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well
freighted, and began to think how I should get to
shore with them, having neither sail, oar, or rudder,
and the least capfull of wind would have overset all
my navigation. '

I had three encouragements. First, a smooth,
and calm sea. Secondly, The tide rising and set-
ting in to the shore. Thirdly, What' little wind
there was, blew me towards the land. And thus, ha.
vin g found two or three broken oars belonging to the
boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest,
I found two saws, an axe, and a hammer, and with
this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or thereabouts,
my raft went very well, only that I found it drive a
little distant from the place where I had landed be-
fore, by which I perceived there was some indraught
of the water, and consequently I hoped tofind some
creek or river there, which I might make use of as
a port' to get to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before
me a little opening of the land. I found a strong
current of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft
as well as I could, to keep in the middle of the
stream. But here I had like to have suffered a sec
cond shipwreck, which, if I had, I think verily
would have broken my heart; for knowing nothing
of the coast, my raft run aground, at one end of it,

upon a shoal, .not being aground at the other end,
1-: 2
it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped
off towards that end that was afloat, and so fallen
into the water; I did my utmost by setting my back
against the chests, to keep them in their places, but
could not thrust off the raft with all my strength;
neither durst I stir from the posture I was in, but,
holding up the chests with all my might, stood in
that manner near half an hour, in which time the
rising of the water brought me. a little more upon a
level; and a little after, the water still rising, my
raft floated again, and I thrust her off with the oar
I had, into the channel, and then driving up higher,
I at length found myself in the mouth of a little
river, with land on both sides, and a strong current
of tide running up. I looked on both sides for a
proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing to
be driven too high up the river, hoping in time to
see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place
myself as near the coast as I could.

At length I Spied a little core on the right shore
of the creek, to which with great pain and diflicul-
ty I guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that
reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust her
directly in; but here I had liked to have dipped all
my cargo in the sea again; for that shore lying
pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there was no
place to land, but where one end of the float, if it
ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink
lower, as before, that it would endanger my cargo
again. All that I could do, was to wait till the tide
was at the highest, keeping the raft with my car,
like an anchor, to hold the side of 1t fast to the shore,
near a flat piece of ground, which I expected the
water would flow over; and so it did. As soon as
I found water enough, (for my raft drew about a
foot of water,) I thrust her upon that flat piece of
ground, and there fastened or moored her, by stick-
ing my two broken oars into the ground, one on
one side near one end, and one on the other side
near the other end; and thus I lay till the water
ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe
on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow
my goods, to secure them from whatever might
happen. Where I was, I et knew not; whether on
the continent, or on an is and; whether inhabited,
or not inhabited; whether in danger of wild beasts,
or not. There was a hill not above a mile from me
which rose up very steep and high, and which seem-
ed to overtop some other hills, which lay as in a
ridge from it northward. I took out one of the
fowling pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn of
powder, and, thus armed, I travelled for discovery
up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with
great labour and difficulty got up, I immediately
saw my fate, to my great affliction : viz. that I was
in an island, environed every way with the sea, no
land to be seen, except some rocks,which lay a great
way off, and two small islands, less than this, which
lay about three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited,
except by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw
none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds, neither, when I killed them, could I
tell what was fit for food, and what not. At my
coming back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw
sitting upon a tree, on the side of a large wood. I
believe it was the first gun that had been fired'there
since the creation of the world.' I had no sooner
fired, but from all the parts of the wood there arose
an extraordinary number of fowls, of many sorts,
making a confused screaming and crying, every one
according to his usual note; but not one of them of
any kind that I knew. As for that creature I kill-
ed, I took it to be a kind of hawk, its colour and
beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws
more than common: its flesh was carrion, and fit
for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore,
which took me up the rest of the day. \Vhat to do
with myself at night, I knew not, nor indeed where
to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the ground,
not knowing but some wild beast might devour me,
though I afterward found there was really no need
for those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on shore, and made a kind of a but for that night's
lodging: as for food, I yet saw not which way to
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where I
shot the fowl. .

I now began to consider that I might yet get a
great many things out of the ship, which would be
useful to me, and particularly some of the rigging
and sails, and such other things as might come to
hand, and I resolved to make another voyage on
board the vessel if possible; and as I knew that the
first storm that blew must necessarily break her all
in pieccs, I resolved to set all other things apart,
till I got every thing out of the ship that I could
get: then I called a council, that is to say, in my
thoughts, whether I should take back the raft, but
this appeared impracticable, so I resolved to go as
before, when the tide was down, and I did so, only
that I stripped before I went from my hut, having
nothing on but a checkered shirt, a pair of linen
drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first,
I neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so
hard; but yet I brought away several things very
useful to me; as first, in the carpenter's store I
found two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a
great screw jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and,
above all,that most useful thing called a- grindstone:
all these I secured, together with several things be.
longing to the gunner, particularly two or three iron
crows, and two barrels of musket bullets, seven mus.
hats, and another fowling piece, with some small
' quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small
shot, and a great roll of sheet lead; but this last
was so heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it over

- the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes
that I could find, and a spare fore topsail, hammock
and some bedding; and with this I loaded m-r so.
oond raft, and brought them also all safe to shore,
to my very great comfort.

I was under some apprehensions during my ab-
sence from the land, that at least my provisions
might be devoured on shore; but when I came back
I found no sign of any visitor, only there sat a crea-
ture like a wild cat upon one of the chests, which,
when I came towards it, ran away to a little distance,
and then stood still. She sat very composed and
unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she
had a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented
my gun at her; but as she did not understand it,
she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she of.
for to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit' of
biscuit, though by the way I was not very free of it:
for my store was not great. However, I spared her
a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled of it, and
eat it, and looked (as pleased) for more: but I
thanked her, and could spare no more; so she

marched ofl'. '

Having got my second cargo on shore (though I
was fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring
them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being
large casks,) I went to work to make a little tent
with the sail and some poles which I cut for that
purpose; and into this tent I brought every thing
that I knew would spoil, either with rain or sun;
and I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a
circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden
attempt, either from man or beast.

\Vhen I had done this, I blocked up the door of
the tent with some boards within, and an empty
chest set up on end without, and spreading one of
the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols,
just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I
went to bed, for the first time, and slept very quietly
all night, being very weary and heavy; for the
night before I had slept little, and had laboured very
hard all day, as well to fetch those things from the
ship, as to get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds no.w that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was
not satisfied still, for while the ship sat upright in
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing
out of her that I could: so every day, at low water,
I went on board, and brought away something or
other. But particularly the third time I went, I
brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as

also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, '

with a piece of spare canvass, which was to mend. " '~noamsou 030303. 57

the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gun.
powder. In a word, I brought away all the sails
first and last, only I was fain to cut them in pieces,
and bring as much at a time as I could; for they
were no more useful to me for sails, but as mere
canvas only.

But that which comforted me more still, was, that
at last of all, after I had made five or six such voy-
ages as these, and thought I had nothing more to
expect from the ship that was worth my meddling
with, I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead
of bread, three large runlets of rum or spirits, abox
of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour: this was sur-
prising to me, because I had given over expecting
any more provisions, except what was spoiled by
the water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that
bread, and wrapt it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces
of the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got
all this safe on shore also, though at several times.

The next day I made another voyage: and now
having plundered the ship of what was portable,
and fit to hand out, I began with the cables; and
cutting the great cable into pieces, such as I could
move, I got two cables and a haulser on show, with
all the iron-work I could get; and having cut down
the sprit sail-yard, and the mizen yard, and every
thing I could to make a large raft, I loaded it with
all those heavy goods and came away. But my
good luck began to leave me, for this raft was so
unwieldy, and so overladen, that afterI was entered
the little cove, where I had landed the rest of myg
goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I didg'
the other, it overset, and threw me andall my cargo
' 3 into the water. As for myself, it was no great bands,
idiot I was near the shore: but as to my cargo it was
great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I ex-

w

 

   

o- .
0'

*1 '0'
" *5

p;-
pected would have been of great use to me. How.
ever when the tide was out, I got most of the pieces
of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with
infinite labour, for I was fain to dip for it into the
water, a work which fatigued me very much. After
this, I went every day on board, and brought away
what I could get.

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had
been eleven times on board the ship, in which time
I had brought away all that one pair of hands could
well be supposed capable to bring, though I believe
verily, had the calm weather held, I should have
brought away the whole ship, piece by piece. But
preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I found

the wind began to rise; however, at low water I

went on board; and though I thought I had rum-
maged the cabin so effectually, as that nothing more
could be found, yet I discovered a locker with draw-
ers in it, in one of which I found two or three ra-
zors, and one pair of large scissors, with ten or a
dozen good knives and forks: in another, I found
about thirty-six pounds value in money, some Eu-
ropean coin, some Brasil, some pieces of eight, some
gold, some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "0
drug !" said I, aloud, "what art thou good for? Thou
art not worth to me, no, not the taking off the ground.
.One of those knives is worth all this heap. I have
no manner of use for thee: even remain where thou
art, and go to the bottom as a creature whose life is
not worth saving!" Hohever, upon second thoughts
I took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of
canvas, I began to think of making another raft;

but while I was preparing this, I found the sky__.. '

overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quar ~
ter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore '
it presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to -
pretend to make araft, with the wind off shore, and *
- that it was my business to be gone before the tide 1
of flood began, otherwise I might not be able. to
reach the shore at all: accordingly I let myself
down into the water, and swam cross the channel,
which lay between the ship and the sand, and even
that with difficulty enough, partly with the weight
of the things I had about me, and partly the rough-
'ness of the water, for the wind rose very hastily,
and before'it-was quite high water it blew a storm.
But I got to my little tent, where I lay with all
my wealth about me very secure : it blew very hard
all that night; and in the morning, when Ilooked
out, behold, no more ship was to be seen! I was a
little surprised, but recovered myself with this satis-
factory reflection; viz. that I had lost no time, nor
abated any diligence, to get every thing out of her
that could be useful to me; and that indeed there
was little left in her that I was able to bring away,
if I had had more time. I now gave over any more
thought of the ship, or of any thing out of her, ex-
cept what might drive on shore from her wreck, as
indeed divers pieces of her afterward did; but those
things were of small use to me.
CHAPTER III.

CRUSOE BUILDS AN HABITATION--BE COMMENCES
A JOURNAL. TERRIBLE EARTHQUAKE, WHICH
DESTROYS HIS HOUSE AND LEAVES HIM
AGAIN DESOLA'I'E.

Mr thoughts were now wholly employed about se-
curing myself against either savages, if any should
appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island;
and I had many thoughts of the method how to do
this, and what kind of dwelling to make; whether
I should make me a cave in the earth, or a tent
upon the .earth 5 and, in short, I resolved upon
both; the manner and description of which it may
not be improper to give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my
settlement, particularly because it was upon a low
moorish ground near the sea, and I believed would
not be wholesome, and more particularly because
there was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to
find a more healthy and more convenient spot of
ground.

I consulted several things 1n my situation, which
I found would be proper for me; first, Health, and
fresh water, as I just now mentioned, secondly,
Shelter from the heat of the sun; thirdly, Security
from ravenous creatures, whether man or beast;
fourthly, A view to the sea, that if God sent any
ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for
my deliverance, for which I was not willing to ba-
nish all my expectation yet.

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front to.
wards this little plain was as steep as a house side,
so that nothing could come down upon me from the

o
4'

l
top. On the side of this rock there was a hollow
place, worn a little way in, like the entrance or
door of a cave, but there was not really any cave or
way into the rock at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was
not above a hundred yards broad, and about twice as
long, and lay like a green before my door, and at the
end of it descended irregularly every way into the
low grounds by the sea-side. It was on the N.N.W.
side of the hill, so that it was sheltered from the
heat every day, till it came to a W. and by 8. sun,
or thereabouts, which in those countries is near the
setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a halfcircle be.
fore the hollow place, which took in about tenyards
in its semi-diameter, from the rock, and twenty
yards in its diameter, from its beginning and end.
mg.

In this half.circle I pitched two rows cf strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till they stood
very firm like piles, the biggest end being out of
the ground about five feet and a half, and sharpen-
ed on the top; the two rows did not stand above

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut
in the ship, and laid them in rows upon one ano-
ther, within the circle between these two rows of

|
J six inches from one another.

 

stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the in.

half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence was
so strong, that neither man nor beast could get

into it, or over it. This cost me a great deal of
time and labour, especially to cut the piles in the

.. woods, bring them to the plebe, and drive them into
' ' the earth. _

side, leaning against them, about two feet and a'
The entrance into this place I madeto be, not by
a door, but by a short ladder, to go over the top ;
which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me;
and so I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as
I thought, from all the world, and consequently
slept secure in the night, which otherwise I could
not have done: though, 'as it appeared afterward,
there was no need of all this caution from the ene-
mies I apprehended danger from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammuni-
tion, and stores, of which you have the account
above; and I made me a large tent also, which, to
preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the
year are very violent there, I made double, viz.
one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above
it; and covered the uppermost with a large tar. '
paulin, which I had saved among the sails.

And now I lay in a hammock, which was indeed 1
a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the '

 

ship.

I next began to work my way into the rock; and ,
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down, .
out through my tent, I laid them up within my
fence in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised
the ground within about a foot and a half; and :'
thus I made me a cave just behind my tent, which
served me like a cellar to my house.

It cost me much labour, and many days, before I

 

all these things were brought to perfection. It
happened, after I had laid my scheme for the setting'
up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of
rain falling from a thick dark cloud, a sudden flash
of lightning happened, and after that, a great clap
of thunder, as is naturally the efl'ect of it. I was (
not so much surprised with the lightning, as I was n
with the thought which darwd into my mind as
swift as the lightning itself: 0 my powder! My

very heart sunk within me, when I thought, that at
one blast all my powder might be destroyed; on
which, not my defence only, but the providing me
food, as I thought, entirely depended : I was no-
thing near so anxious about my own danger; though

had the powder took fire, I had never known who
had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that
after the storm was over, I laid aside all my works,
my building and fortifying, and applied myself to

make bags and boxes to separate my powder, and.

to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hopes,
that whatever might come, it might not all take fire
at once, and to keep it so apart, that it should not
be possible to make one part fire another. I finish.
ed this work in about a fortnight, and I think my
powder, which in all was about 1401b. weight, was
divided into no less than a hundred parcels. As
to the barrel that had been wet, I did not appre-
hend any danger from that, so I placed it in my
new cave, which in my fancy I called my kitchen;

and the rest I hid up and down in holes among the _ , "
rocks, so that no wet might come to it, markingvery 7 '

carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I
went out at least once every day with my gun, as
wellto divert myself, as to see if I could kill any

dhingfit for food, and, as nearas I could to acquaint
myself with what the island produced: The first
time I went out, I presently discovered, that there
were goats in the island, which was a great satis-
faction'to me; but then it was attended with this
misfortune to me, viz. that they were so shy, so

subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the disicul. '-- 1" u. --- '7'!" {v--Vu-vfi-K

64 anvauruass or

test thing in the world to come at them; but I was
not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might -
now and then shoot one, as it soon happened; for
after I had found their haunts a little, I laid wait
in this manner for them: I observed, if they saw
me in the valleys, though they were upon the rocks,
they would run away as in a terrible fright; but if
they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon
the rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence
I concluded, that by the position of their optics,
their sight was so directed downward, that they did
not readily see objects that were above them. So
afterward I took this method: I always climbed the
rocks first, to get above them, and then had fre-
quently a fair mark. The first shot I made among
these creatures, I killed a she goat which had a._
little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which
grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell, the
kid stood stock still by her till I came and took her-
up; and not only so, but when 1 carried the old
one with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed
me quite to my enclosure; upon which I laid down
the dam, and took the kid in my arms, and carried
it over my pale,- in hopes to have bred it up tame;
but it would not eat; so I was forced to kill it, and
eat it myself. These two supplied me with flesh a
great while; for I ate sparingly, and saved my
provisions (my bread especially) as much as possi-
bly I could.

I must now give some little account of myself,
and of my thoughts about living, which it may well
be supposed were not a few. I had a dismal proso'
pect of my condition; for as I was not cast away
upon that island without being driven, as is said,
by a violent storm quite out of the course of our in.
tended voyage, and a great way, viz. some hun.
dreds ofleagues, out of the ordinary course ofthe
.trade of mankind, I had great reason to consider it
as a determination of Heaven, that in this desolate
place, and in this desolate manner, I should end
my life. The tears would run pleutifully down my
face, when I made these reflections; and some-
times I would expostulate with myself, why Provic
deuce should thus completely ruin its creatures,
and render them so absolutely miserable, so with-
out help, abandoned, and so entirely depressed,

that it could hardly be rational to be thankful for

such a life !
But something always returned swift upon me to

check these thoughts, and to reprove me 3 and par-
ticularly one day, walking with my gun- iu my
hand by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon the
subject of my present condition, when reason, as it
were, put in, expostulating with me the other way,

""" hus: Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is .

t e, but pray remember, where are the rest of you 2
Did not you come eleven or you into the boat 3
where are the ten? why were not they saved, and
you lost? why were you singled out? is it better to
be here or there? And then I pointed to the sea.
All evils are to be considered with the good that is
in them, and with what worse attended them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was
furnished for my subsistence, and what would have
. been my case, if it had not happened, which was a
hundred thousand to one, that the ship floated from
the place where she first struck, and was driven so
near to the share, that I had time to get all these
things out of her,> What would have been my
case,it' I had been to have lived in the condition in
- which I at first came on shore, without necessaries
of life, or any means to supply and procure them 3
r 9

'mfg i;

'_\IF.7~
Particularly, said I aloud (though to myself) what
would I have done without a gun, without ammuo.
nition, without any tools to make any thing, or to
work with? without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any
manner of coverings? And that now I had all
these to a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way
to provide myself in such a manner, as tolive with-
out my gun when my ammunition was spent, so
that I had a tolerable view of subsisting without
any want as long as I lived.

And now, being to enter into a melancholy rela-
tion of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was
never heard of in the world before, I shall take it
from its beginning, and continue it in its order. I t
was, by my account, the 30th of September, when,
in the manner as abovesaid, I first set foot upon this
horrid island,when the sun being, to us, in its au-
tumnal equinox, was almost just over my head; for
I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the la.
titude of 9 degrees 22 minutes North of the Line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days,
it came into my thoughts, that I should lose my
reckoning of time for want of books, and pen and
ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days from
the working days; but to prevent this, I cut it with
my knife upon a large post, in capital letters; and,
making it into a great cross, I set it up on the shore
where I first landed; viz. I came on shore here the
30th of September, 1659. Upon the sides of this
square post I cut every day a notch with my knife,
and every seventh notch was as long as the rest,
and every first day of the month as long again as
that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place we are to observe, that among
the many things which I brought 06 the ship in the .
several voyages, which, as above-mentioned, I made
to it, I got several things of less value, but not at
all less useful to me, which I omitted setting down
before; as in particular, pens, ink, and paper, so-
veral parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and
carpenter's keeping, three or four compasses, some
mathematical instruments,dials,perspectives,charts,
and books of navigation, all which I huddled to-
gether, whether I might want them or no, also I
found three very good Bibles, which came to me in
my cargo from England, and which I had packed
up among my things: some Portuguese books also,
and among them two or three Popish prayer-books,
and several other books, all which I carefully so.
cured. And I must not forget that we had in the
ship a dog and two cats, of whose eminent history I
may have occasion to say something in its place;
for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the
dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam
on shore to me the day after I went on shore with
my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many
years , I wanted nothing that he could fetch me,
nor any company that he could make up to me;
I only wanwd to have him talk to me, but that he
could not do.

I found that I wanted a great many things, not-
withstanding all that I had amassed together; and
of these, that of ink was one, as also a spade, pick.
axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth, needles,
pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon learned to
want that without much difficulty.

This want of tools made every work 1 did go on
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had
entirely finished my little pale, or surrounded habi-
tation -- the piles, or stakes, which were as heavy as
I couldwelllift,werea long fimegtcuttiiig and pro>>

"m . '>> t .
{#3: t,>> .>> rs . '_ -s' V . .
la Ahae'mi'u _'-. . . i - . .- A. - _ no.1?! .';>-m1"'_"m_
paring inthe woods, and more by far in bringing.

home; so that I spent sometimes two days incut.
ting and bringing home one of those posts, and a
third day in driving it into the ground, for which
purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at

'last bethought myself of one of the iron crows,

which however, though I found it, yet made driving
those posts or piles very laborious and tedious

work.

1 now began to consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstance I was reduced to, and I drew
up the state of my afl'airs' m writing; not so much
to leave them to any that were to come after me,
for I was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver
my thoughts from daily poring upon them, and af-
flicting my mind, and as my reason began now to
master my despondency, I began to comfort myself
as well as I could, and to set the good against the
evil, that I might have something to distinguish my
case from worse; and I stated it very impartially,
like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed,
against the miseries I suffered, thus:

EVIL. GOOD.

I am cast upon a hor- ButI amalive, and not
rible desolate island, void drowned, as all my ship's
of all hope of recovery. company was.

I am singled out, and But I am singled out
separated,as itwere, from too, from all the ship's
all the world to be mi- crew, to be spared from
serable. death; and He that mi-

raculously saved me from
death,can deliver me from
this condition.

Iamdivided fromman. But I am not starved,
kind, a solitary one be. and perishing on a bar.
nished from human so- ren place, affording no

ciety. sustenance.
I have no clothes to But] am in a hot cli-
cover me. mate, where, if I had
clothes, I could hardly

wear them.

I am without any de. But I am cast on an
fence or means to resist island where I seenowild.
any violence of man or beasts to hurt me, as I
beast. saw on the coast ofAfrica:

and what if I had .been
shipwrecked there! '
. I have no soultospeak But God wonderfully
to, or relieve me. sent the ship in near
enough to the shore, that
I have gotten out so many
necessary things as will
either supply my wants,
or enable me to supply
myself, even as long as I
live. . '

Upon the whole, there was an undoubted testi-
mony, that there was scarce any condition in the
world so miserable, but there was something nega.
live, or something positive, to be thankful for in it :
and let this stand as a direction from the experience
of the most miserable of all conditions in this world,
that we .may always find in it something to comfort
ourselves from, and to set. in the description ofgood
and evil, on the credit--side of the accompt. . - '

Having now brought my mind a littleto relish
my condition, and giving over looking o'utto sea, to
see if I could spy a ship; I say, giving over these
things, I began to apply myself to accommodate'
my way of living, and to make things as easy to
me as I could.

I have already described my habitation, which
was a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with
a strong pale of posts and cables, but I might rather
call it a wall; for I raised akind of wall up against
it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside; and
after Some time (1 think it was a year and ahalf) I
raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and
thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and such
things as I could get to keep out the rain, which I
found at some times of the year very violent.

I set myself to enlarge my cave, and worked far-
ther into the earth; for it was a loose sandy rock,
which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it;
and so, when I found I was pretty safe as to the
beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the right hand
into the rock; and then, turning to the right again,
worked quite out, and made me a door to come out
on the outside of my pale or fortification.

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it
was a back way to my tent, and to my storehouse,
but gave me room to stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particu-
larly a chair and a table; for without these I was
not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the
world; I could not write or eat, or several things,
with so much pleasure without a table.

So I went to work; and here I must needs ob-
serve, that as reason is the substance and original of
the mathematics, so by stating and squaring every
thing by reason, and by making the most rational
judgment of things, every man may be, in time,
master of every mechanic art. I had never handled
a tool in my life, and yet, in time, by labour,.appli-9'51qu . .

m "4.

nosmsorv causes. 7 l

cation, and contrivance, I found, at last, that I
wanted nothing. but I could have made it, especially
if I had tools: however, I made abundance of things,
even without tools, and some with no more tools
than an adzs and a hatchet, which perhaps were
never made that way before, and that with infinite
labour. For example: if I wanted a board, I had
no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an
edge before me, and how it flat on either side with
my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a
plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is
true, by this method I could make but one board
cut of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy for,
but patience, any more than I had for the prodi-
gious deal of time and labour which it took me up
to make a plank or board: but my time or labour
was little worth, and so it was as well employed
one way as another.

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I
observed above, in the first place, and this I did out
of the short pieces of boards that I brought On my
raft from the ship; but when I had wrought out
some boards, as above, I made large shelves of the
breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails,
and iron-work, and, in a word, to separate every
thing at large in their places, that I might easily
come at them: also, I knocked pieces into the wall
of the rock to hang my guns, and all things that
would hang up.

So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things;
and I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it

such order, and especially to find my stock of all
necessaries so great.

was great pleasure to me to see all my goodsln '

..\>"""'

'-vM:A:.-.',- .. .. ' . . H . A. g '
.. ,..V..-..-W'
'1

- -W"*O~.->>O ~.. .. .. f
I. . Q ' '
~ -. 'l'f'mafix'!
>>..'-I a " -.;C/
4- ' "magi-'39:
I now began to keep my journal, of which I shall
here give you the copy (though in it will be told all
these particulars over again) as long as it lasted;
for at last having no more ink, I was forced to
leave it off.

THE JOURNAL.

SEPTEMBER 30,1659. 1, poor miserable Robin-
son Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful
storm in the offing, came on shore on this dismal
unfortunate island, which I called the Island of
Despair, all the rest of the ship's company being
drowned, and myself almost dead.

All the rest of the day I spent in afllicting my.
self at the dismal circumstances I was brought to,
viz. I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or
place to fly to, and in despair of any relief, saw no-
thing but death before me, either that I should be
devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages, or
starved to death for want of food. At the approach
of night, I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures;
- but slept soundly, though it rained all night.

October I. In the morning I saw, to my great
surprise, the ship had floated with the high tide,
and was driven on shore again much nearer the is-
land, which, as it was some comfort on one hand
(for seeing her sit upright, and not broken in pieces,
I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board,
and get some food and necessaries out of her for my
relief), so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief
at the loss of my comrades, who, I imagined, if we
had all stayed on board, might have saved the ship,
or at least that they would not have been all
drowned, as they were; and that, had the men
been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat-..- .. ._,.

nosmson causes. 73

"- '_ -_ '4'"!-

out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to
some other part of the world. I spent great part of
this day in perplexing myself on these things; but
at length seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon
the sand as near as I could, and then swam on
board. This day also continued raining, though
with no wind at all.

From the lst of October to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in making several voyages to
get all I could out of the ship, which I brought on
shore every tide of flood upon rafts. Much rain
also in these days, though with some intervals of
fair weather; but, it seems, this was the rainy
season.

Octeber 24. I overset my raft, and all the goods
I had got upon it; but being in shoal water, and
the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of
them when the tide was out.

October 25. It rainedallnight, and all day, with
some gusts of wind, during which time the ship
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder
than before, and was no more to be seen, except the
wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent
this day in covering and securing the goods which
I saved, that the rain might not spoil them.

October 26. I walked about the shore almost all
day to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly
concerned to secure myself from any attack, in the
night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards
night I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and
marked out a semicircle for my encampment, which
I, resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or forti-
fication, made of double piles, lined within with
cable, and without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard_ _
in carrying all my goods to my new habitation,

..."'.'--..q->>e.. . I
though some part of the time it rained exceeding
hard.

The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the is-
land with my gun, to see for some food, and disco-
ver the country; when I killed a she goat, and her
kid followed me home, which I afterward killed also
because it would not feed.

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock,
and lay there for the first night, making it as large
as I could, with stakes driven in to swing my ham-

mock upon.
November 2. I set up all my- chests and boards,

and the pieces of timber which made my rafts, and
with them formed a fence round me, a little within
the place I had marked out for my fortification .

November 3. I went out with my gun. and kil-
led two fowls like ducks, which were very good food.
In the afternoon, went to work to make me a table.

November 4. This morning I began to order
my times of work, of going out with my gun, time
of sleep, and time of diversion; viz. every morning
I walked out with my gun for two or three hours, if
it did not rain; then employed myself to work till
about eleven o'clock; then eat what I had to live
on: and from twelve to two, I lay down to sleep,
the weather being excessive hot, and then in the
evening to work again. The working part of this
day and the next were wholly employed in making
my table, for I was yet but a very sorry workman,
though time and necessity made me a complete
natural mechanic soon after, as I believe it would
do any one else.

November 5. This day I went abroad with my
gun and my dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin
pretty soft, but her flesh good for nothing. Every
creature I killed, I took of? the skins and preserved
' them. Coming back, by the sea-shore, I saw many
sorts of sea-fowls which I did not understand; but
was surprised, and almost was frighted, with two
or three seals, which, while I was gazing at, not
: well knowing what they were, got into the sea, and
escaped me for that time.

November 6. After my morning walk, I went
to work with my table again, and finished it,though
not to my liking; nor was it long before I learned
to mend it.

November 7. Now it began to be settled fair
weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the
' 12th (for the llth was Sunday, according to my
;. reckoning,) I took wholly up to make me a chair,
and, with much ado, brought it to a tolerable shape,
- but never to please me; and even in the making I
f pulled it to pieces several times. Note, I soon neg-
; lected keeping my Sundays; for omitting my mark
for them on my post, I forgot which was which.

' November 13. This day it rained, which re-
!: freshed me exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but
' it was accompanied with terrible thunder and light-
ning, which frighted me dreadfully, for fear of my
powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved to se-
parate my stock of powder into as many little par-
cels as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Y November 14,15,16. These three days I spent
in making little square chests or boxes, which might
hold about a pound, or two pounds at most, of pow-
der; and so putting the powder in, I stowed it in
places as secure and remote from one another as
possible. On one of these three days I killed a
large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not

 

. what to call it.

November 17. This day I began to dig behind
my tent into the rock, to make room for 'my farther

..~'

" ----------w'v~----- "- -'"
con veuiency. the, Three things Iwanted exceed-
ingly for this work; viz. a pick-axe, a. shovel, and
a wheelbarrow or basket: so I desisted from my
work, and began to consider how to supply that
want, and make me some tools. As for the pick-
axe, 1 made use of the iron crows, which were pro-
proper enough. though heavy; but the next thing
was a shovel or spade; this was so absolutely ne-
cessary, that indeed I could do nothing effectually
without it; but what kind of one to make I knew
not.

November 18. The next day, in searching the
woods, I found a tree of thatwood, or like it, which
in the Brasils they call the iron tree, for its ex-
ceeding hardness: of this, with great labour, and
almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and brought
it home too with difficulty enough, for it was ex.
ceeding heavy.

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having
no other way, made me a long while upon this ma-
chine; for I worked it effectually, by little and
little, into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle
exactly shaped like ours in England, only that the
broad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom,
it would not last me so long; however, it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion 3)
put it to: but never was a shovel, I believe, made
after that fashion, or so long a making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or a
wheel-barrow: a basket I could not make by any
means. having no such things as twigs that would
bend to make wickenware, or at least none yet
found out; and, as to the wheel-barrow, Ifancied I
could make all but the wheel; but that I had no
notion of, neither did I know how to go about it:
besides, I had no possible way to make iron gud.

- .D r ~'
'~'.,\- u'--..'e5 wfi'qr'
3' ' \f-
geons, {or the spindle or axis of the wheel to run
- in, so I gave it over; and so, for carrying away the

earth which I dug out of the cave, 1 made me a

thing like a hod, which the labourers carry mortar

in, when they serve the bricklayers.

This was not so difficult to me as the making the
shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the at.
tempt which I made in vain to make awheelbarrow,
took me up no less than four days : I mean, al-
ways excepting my morning walk with my gun,
which I seldom failed, and very seldom failed also
of bringing home something fit to eat.

November 23. My other work having stood still

g because of my making these tools, when they were

finished 1 went on; and, working every day as my

' strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days

entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it
might hold my goods commodiously.

Note, During all this time, I worked to make this
room, or cave, spacious enough to accommodate
me as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, adining-
room ,and a cellar; as for a lodging, I kept to the
tent, except that sometimes in the wet season ,_of
the year it rained so hard, thatl could not keep my-
self dry; which caused me afterward to cover all
my place within my pale, with long poles, in the
j. form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load
. them with flags, and large leaves of trees, like a
thatch.

December 10. I began now to think my cave or
vault finished, when, on a sudden (it seems I had

made it too large), a great quantity of earth fell
down from the top and one side, so much that, in

short, it frighted me, and not without reason too;
for if I had been under it, I had never wanted a

gravedigger. Upon this disaster, I had a great
deal of work to do over again; for I had the loose
earth to carry out, and, which was of more impor-
tance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might
be sure that no more would come down.

December 11. This day I went to work with it
accordinglv, and got two shores, or posts, pitched
upright to the top, with two pieces of boards across
over each post. 'lhls I finished the next day; and
setting more posts up with boards, in about a week
more I had the roof secured; and the posts, stand-
ing in rows, served me for partitions to part 011'
my house.

December 17. From this day to the 20th, I
placed shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts,
to hang every thing up that could be hung up; and
now I began to be in some order within doors.

December 20. Now 1 carried every thing into
the cave, and began to furnish my house, and set up
some pieces of boards, like a dresser, to order my
victuals upon : but boards began to be very scarce
with me. Also 1 made me another table.

December 24. Much rain all night and all day:
no stirring out.

December 25. Rain all day.

December 26. No rain, and the earth much
cooler than before, and pleasanter.

December 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed
another, so that I catched it, and led it home in a
string; when I had it home I bound and splintered
up its leg, which was broke. N. B. I took such
care of it, that it lived, and the leg grew well, and
as strong as ever; but by nursing it so long it grew
tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and
would not go away. This was the first time that!
entertained a thought of breeding up some tame
creatures, that I might have food when my powder
and shot was all spent.

i'

f

\__.... . \_l.'_ _ a . .
December 28, 29. 30. Great beats and no breeze;
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the
evening for food. This time I spent in putting all
my things in order within doors.

January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad
early and late, with my gun, and lay still in the
middle of the day. This evening, going farther
into the valleys, which lay to the centre of the is-
land, I found there was plenty of goats, though ex-
ceeding shy, and hard to come at; however,I re-
solved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt
them down. -

January 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went
out with my dog, and set him upon the goats; but
I was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the
dog, and he knew his danger too well, for he would
not come near them.

January 3. I began my fence or wall, which,
being still jealous of my being attacked by some-
body, I resolved to make very thick and strong. .

[N . B. This wall being described before, I pur-
posely omit what was said in the journal: it is suf-
ficient to observe, that I was no less time than from
the 3rd of January to the 14th of April, working,
finishing. and perfecting this wall, though it wasno
more than about twentyJ'our yards in length, being
a halficircle, from one place in the rock, to another
place about eight yards from it, the door of the
cave being in the centre behind it.]

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hin-
dering me many days, nay, sometimes, weeks toga-
ther; but I thought 1 should never be perfectly
secure till this wall was finished: and it is scarce
credible what inexpressible labour every thing was
done with, especially the bringing piles out of the
woods, and driving them into the ground; for I made
them much bigger than I needed to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside
double fenced, with a turf-wall raised up close to
it, I persuaded myself, that if any people were to
come on shore there, they would not perceive any
thing like a habitation: and it was very well I did
so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a very re-
markable occasion.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain admitted me,
and made frequent discoveries in these walks of
something or other to my advantage; particularly
I found a kind of wild pigeons, which build not as
Wood-pigeons in a tree, but rather as house pigeons,
in the holes of the rocks: and taking some young
ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and
did so; but when they grew older, they flew all
away, which perhaps was atfirst for want of feeding
them, for I had nothing to give them : however, I
frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which Were very good meat.

And now, in the managing my household afl'airs
I found myself wanting in many things, which I
thought at first it was impossible for me to make, as
indeed as to some of them it was: for instance, I
could never make a cask to be hooped. 1 had a
{small runlet or two, as 1 observed before, but I
could never arrive to the capacity of making one

by them, though I spent many weeks about it; I '

could neither put in the heads, or join the stares so
true to one another, as to make them hold water;
so I gave that also over.

In the next place, I was at a great loss for can-
dles; so that as soon as it was dark, whichwas
generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to
bed. lremembered the lump of beeswax, with
which I made candles in my African adventure;

'4'- A. Am"..-

. ' .: ".5"-

\
I
I
but I had none of that now: the only remedy I
had, was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved
the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay,
which I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick
of some oakum, I made me a lamp: and this gave
me light, though not a clear steadylight, like a
candle. In the middle of all my labours it hap<<
pened, that, rummaging my things, I found a lit-
- tle bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled
with corn, for the feeding of poultry, not for this
voyage, but before as I 'suppose, when the ship
came from Lisbon; what little remainder of corn
had been in the bag, was a!l devoured by the rats,
and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust;
and being willing to have the bag for some other
use (I think it was to put powder in, when I divi-
ded it for fear of the lightning, or some such use),
I shook the husks of corn out of it, on one side of
my fortification, under the rock.

_It was a little before' the great rains, just now
mentioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking
no notice of any thing, and not so much as remem-
bering that I had thrown any thing there; when,
about a month after, or thereabouts, I saw some.
few stalks of something green shooting up on the
ground, which I fancied might be some plant I had
not seen; but I was surprised, and perfectly asto-
nished, when after a little longer time, I saw about
ten or twelve ears come out, which were perfect
_ green barley, of the same kind as our European,

5 ' nay, as our English barley.

- It is impossible to express the astonishment and
'5; confusion of my thought on this occasion: I had
,jj hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all; .
" indeed I had-very few notions of religion in my

head, nor had entertained any sense of any thing
a
that had befallen me, otherwise than as a chance,
or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; without
so much as inquiring into the end of Providence in
these things, or his order in governing events in
the world: but, after I saw barley grow there, in
a climate which I knew was not proper for corn,
and especially that I knew not how .it came there,
it started me strangely, and I began to suggest,
that God had miraculously caused this grain to
grow, without any help of seed sown, and that it
was so directed purely for my sustenance in that
wild miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears
out of my eyes, and I began to bless myself, that
such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my
account; and this was the more strange to me, be-
cause I saw near it still, all along by the side of
the rock, some other straggling stalks which proved
to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I
had seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore
there.

I not only thought these the pure productions of
Providence for my support; but, not doubting but
that there was more in the place, I went all over
that part of the island where I had been before,
peering in every corner, and under every rock, to
see for more of it; but I could not find any: at
last it occurred tofmy'thoughts, that I had shaken
the bag of chicken's meat out in that place; and
then the wonder began to cease; and I must con-
fess, my religious thankfulness to God's providence
began to abate too, upon the discovering that all
this was nothing but what was common, though I
ought to have been as thankful for so strange and
unforeseen providence, as if it had been miraculous;
for it was really the work of Providence as to me,

'g-rA
that should order or appoint, that ten or twelve
grains of corn should remain unspoiled (when the
rats had destroyed all the rest), as if it had been
dropped from heaven: as also that I should throw
it out in that particular place, where, it being in
the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediate.
ly; whereas, if I had thrown it any where else, at
that time, it had been burnt up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may
be sure, in their season, which was about the end
of June; aad laying up every corn, I resolvedto
sow them all again, hoping in time t9_,have some
quantity sufficient to supply me with-bread: but
it was not till the fourth year that I would allow
myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even
then but sparingly, as I shall say afterward in its
order; for I lost all that I sowed the first season,
by not observing the proper time, for I sowed just
before the dry season, so that it never came up at
all, at least not as it would have done : of which,
in its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty
or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the
same care, and whose use was of the same kind,
or to the same purpose; viz. to make me bread, or
rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without
baking, though I did that also, after some time.
But to return to my journal.

I worked excessive hard these three or fourmonths
to get my wall done; and the 14th of April, I clo-
sed it up, contriving to go into it, not by adoor,
but over the wall, by a ladder, that there might
be no sign on the outside of my habitation.

April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up
with the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up

after me, and let it down on the inside. This was
a 2
a complete enclosure to me; for within I had room
enough, and nothing could come at me from with-
out, unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I
had almost had my labour overthrown at once, and
myself killed. The case was thus: as I was busy
in the inside of it, behind my tent, just in the en-
trance of my cave, I was terribly frighted with a
most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for all on
a sudden, I found the earth came tumbling down
from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the
hill, over my head, and two of the posts I had set
up in my cave, cracked in a frightful manner. I
was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what
really was the cause; only thinking that the top
of my cave was falling in, as some of it had done
before, and, for fear I should be buried in it, I ran
forwards to my ladder; and, not thinking myself
safe there neither, I got over my wall, for fear of
the pieces of the hill, which I expected might roll
down upon me, I was no sooner stepped down upon
the firm ground, but I plainly saw it was a terrible
earthquake; for the ground I stood on shook three
times, at about eight minutes distance, with three
such shocks as would have overtumed the strongest
building that could be supposed to have stood upon
the earth; and a great piece of the tap of a rock,
which stood about half a mile from me next the
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise, as I never
heard in all my life. I perceived also the very sea.
was put into a violent motion by it; and, I believe
the shocks were stronger under the water than on
the island.

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having
never felt the like, or discoursed with any one that
had, that 'I was like one dead or stupified; and the
motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea; but the noise of the
falling of the rock awakened me, as it were. and
rousing me from the stupified condition I was in.
filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing
then but the hill falling upon my tent, and all my
household goods, and burying all at once: and this
sunk my very soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more
for some time, [began to take courage; and yet
I had not heart enough to get over my wall again,
for fear of being buried alive; but still sat upon
the ground, greatly cast down, and disconsolate,
not knowing what to do. All this while, I had not
the least serious religious thought, nothing but the
common " Lord have mercy upon me i" and when
it was over, that went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and
it grew cloudy, as if it would rain; and, in less
than half an hour, it blew a most dreadful hurri-
cane of wind. The sea was all on a sudden cover-
ed with foam and froth, the shore was covered with
the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by
the roots, and azterrible storm it was; and this held
about three hours, and then began to abate; and
then in two hours more it was calm, and began to
rain very hard.

All this while I sat upon the ground, very much
terrified and dejected; when on a sudden, it came
into my thoughts, that these winds and rain being
the consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake
itself was spent and over, and I might venture into
my cave again. With this thought my spirits be:-
gan to revive, and the rain helping also to persuade
me, I went in, and sat me down in my tent; but
the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to
be beaten down with it, and l was forced to go into
my cave, though very much afraid and uneasy, for
fearit should fall on my head.

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz.
to cut a hole through my new fortification, like a
sink, to let the water go out, which else would have
drowned my cave. After I had been in my cave
some time, and found still no more shocks of the
earthquake follow,l began to be more composed:
and now, to support my spirits, which indeed want-
ed it very much, I went to my little store, and tech
a small sup of rum, which, however, [ did then,
and always, very sparingly, knowing I could have
no more, when that was gone.

It continued raining all that night, and great
part of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad;
but, my mind being more composed, I began to
think of what I had best do; concluding that if
the island was subject to these earthquakes, there
would be no living for me in a cave, but I must con-
sider of building me some little hut, in an open
place, which I might surround with a wall, as I had
done here and so make myself secure from wild
beasts or men; but concluded, if I staid where I was,
I should certainly, one time or other be buried
alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to move my tent
from the place where it stood, which was just under
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it
should be shaken again, would certainly fall upon
my tent. And I spent the two next days, being the
19th and 20th of April in contriving where and how
to remove my habitation.

!
1
1
l
CHAPTER. IV.

ROBINSON WAHTS A NEW IIABITATION-- OBTAINS
MORE ARTICLES FROM THE "RECK--MAKES
AN INCURSION INTO THE ISLAND.

True fear of being swallowed up alive, made me
that I never slept in quiet; and yet the apprehen-
sion of lying abroad, without any fence, was almost
equal to it: but still, when I looked about, and
saw how every thing was put in order, how plea-
santly concealed I was, and how safe from danger
it male me very loath to remove.

In the mean time it occurred to me, that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and
that I must be contented to run the venture where
I was, till I had formed a camp for myself, and had
secured it, so as to remove to it. So, with this
resolution, I composed myself for a time, and re-
solved that I would go to work, with all speed, to
build me a wall, with piles and cables. &c. in a cir-
cle, as before, and set my tent up in it, when it was
finished; but that I would venture to stay where
I was, till it was finished, and fit to remove to.
This was the 2lst.

April '22. The next morning I began to consider
of means to put this resolve in execution; but I
was at a great loss about my tools. I had three-
large axes, and abundance of hatehets (for we car-
ried the hatchets for traflic with the Indians); but,
with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood,
they were all full of notches and dull; and though
I had a grindstone, I could not turn it, and grind
my tools too. This cost me as much thought as a
statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point
of politics, or a judge upon the life and; death of aw
man. At length I contrived a wheel, with a string,
to tum it with my feet, that I might have both my
hands at liberty. Note, I had not seen any such
thing in England,or at least not to take notice
how it was done, though since I have observed, it
is very common there ; besides that, my grindstoue
was very large and heavy. This machine cost me
a full week's work, to bring it to perfection.

April 28, 29. These two whole. days 1 took up
in grinding my tools; my machine for turning my
grindstone performing very well.

April 30. Having perceived my bread had been
low a. great while, I now took a survey of it, and
reduced myself to one biscuit cake a day, which
made my heart very heavy.

May I. In the morning looking towards the
seaside, the tide being low, I saw something lie
on the shore, bigger than ordinary, and it looked
like a cask; when I came to it, I found a small
barrel, and two or three pieces of the wreck of the
ship, which were driven on shore by the late hur-
ricane; and, looking towards the wreck itself, I
thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water
than it used to do. I examined the barrel which
was driven on shore, and soon found it was a bar-
rel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and the
powder was caked as hard as a stone; however, I
rolled it farther on shore for the present, and went
on upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck
of the ship to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strange-
1y removed: the forecastle, which lay before buried
in the sand, was heaved up at least six feet; and
the stern, which was broken to pieces, and parted
from the rest by the force of the sea, soon after I
had left rummaging of her, was tossed, as it were

u
up, and cast on one side; and the sand was thrown
so high on that side next the stern, that whereas
there was a great place of water before, so that I
could not come within a quarter of a mile of the
wreck without swimming, I was surprised with thls
at first, but soon concluded it must be done by the
earthquake.

This wholly diverted rm thoughts from the de-
sign of removing n. y habitation, and I busied
myself in searching whether I could make any way
into the ship; but I found nothing was to be ex-
pected of that kind, for that all the inside of the
ship was choked up with sand.

M ay 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece
of a beam through, which I thought held some of
the upper part, or quartendeck, together; and when
I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as
well as I could, from the side which lay highest:
but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over
for that time.

May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one
fish that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my
sport, when, just going to leave off, I caught a
young dolphin. I had made me a long line of
some rope yarn, but I had no hooks; yetl fre-
quenth caught fish enough, as much as I cared to
eat: all which I dried in the sun, and eat them dry.

May 5 to 14. W ent e\ ery day to the wreck, and
got a great deal of pieces of timber, and boards,
or planks, and two or three hundred weight of iron.

May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could
not cut a piece oil' the roll of lead, by placing the
edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the other;
but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water,
I could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.

May 16. It had blowed hard in the night, and
the wreck appeared more broken by the force of
the water; but I stay ed so long in the woods,to
get pigeons for food, that the tide prei ented me
going to the wreck that day.

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown
on shore, at a great distance, two miles off me;
but I'OSOh ed to see what the\ were, and found it
was apiece of the head; but too heau for me to
bring aw ay.

May 24. Every day,to this day I worked on the
wreck, and, with hard labour, I loosened some
things so much with the crow, that, the first flow-
ing tide, several casks floated out, and two of the
seamcn's chests? but the wind blowing from the
shore, nothing came to land that day, but pieces
of timber, and a hogshead which had some Brasil
pork in it 5 but the salt water and the sand had>>
spoiled it.

I continued the work every day to the 15th of
June, and, by this time, I had got timber and
plank, and iron work enough tohave built a good
boat, if I had known how; and also I got at seve-
ral times, and in several pieces, near one hundred
weight of the sheet-lead.

June 16. Going down to the sea side, I found
a large tortoise or turtle; this was the first I had
seeanhich, it seems, was only my misfortune, not
any defect of the place or scarcity; for, had I hap-
pened to be on the other side of the island, I might
have had hundreds of them every day, as I found
afterward; but, perhaps, had paid dear enough for
them.

June 17.1 Spent in cooking the turtle. I found
in her threescore egusz and her tlesh \\ as to me at
that time the most sax our v and pleasant that ever

I tastixl in my life, having had no flesh but of goats
and fowls, since I landed in this horrible place.

June 13. Rained all the day, and I staid within.
I thought this time, the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in
that latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the wea.
ther had been cold.

June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in my
head, and feverish.

June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick,
and no help. l'rayed to God, for the first time
since the storm ofl' Hull; but scarce knew what I
said, or why: my thoughts being all confused. ,

June 22. A little better: but under dreadful
apprehensions of sickness.

June 23. Very had again, cold and shivering,
and then a violent head-ach.

June 24. Much better.

June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me
seven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats
after it.

June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat,
took my gun, but found myself very weak : how-
ever I killed a shegoat, and with much difficulty,
got it home, and broiled some of it, and eat: I
would fain have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no pot.

June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay
a-bed all day, and neither eat nor drank. I was
ready to perish for thirst; but so weak, I had not
strength to stand up, or to get myself any water to
drink: prayed to God again, but was light-headed:
and when I was not, I ivas so ignorant, that I knew
not what to say! only I lay, and cried, "Lord,
look upon me! Lord, pity me ! Lord, have mercy

 

g
I
.'
upon me !" I suppose I did nothing else for two or
three hours, till the fit wearing ofl', I fell asleep,
and did not awake till far in the night. \Vhen I
awaked, I found myself much refreshed,but weak,
and exceedingly thirsty: however, as I had no
water in my whole habitation, I was forced to lie
till morning, and went to sleep again. In this se-
cond sleep, I had this terrible dream:

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on
the outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm
blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man
descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flame
of fire, and light upon the ground. He was all
over as bright as a flame, so that I could but just
hear to look towards him: his countenance was
most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words
to describe: when he stepped upon the ground with
his feet, Ithought the earth trembled, just as it
had done before in the earthquake ; and all the. air
looked to my apprehension, as if it had been filled
with flashes of fire.

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he
moved forwards towards me, with a long spear or
weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came
to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to
me, or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impos-
sible to express the terror of it; all that I can say
I understood was this: "Seeing all these things
have not brought thee to repentance, now thou
shalt die 2" At which words, I thought he lifted
up the spear that was in his hand to kill me.

N 0 one that shall ever read this account, will
expect that Ishould be able to describe the horrors of
my soul at this terrible vision; I mean, that even
while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those
horrors : nor is it any more possible to describe the
impression that remained upon my mind, when I
awaked, and found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no Divine knowledge: what I had
received by the good instruction of my father, was
then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight
years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant
conversation with none but such as were like my-
self, wicked and profane to the last degree. I do
not remember that I had, in all that time, one
thought that so much as tended either to looking
' upwards towards God, or inwards towards a reflec-
, tion upon my own ways: but a certain stupidity
of soul, without desire of good, or conscience of
evil, had entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all
that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked crea-
ture among our common sailors can be supposed
to be, not having the least sense either of the fear
of God in dangers, or of thankfulness to God in
deliverances.

This will be the more easily believed, when I
add, that, through all the variety of miseries that
had to this day befallen me, 1 never had so much
as one thought of its being the hand of God, or
that it was a just punishment for my sin, my rebel-
lious behaviour against my father, or my present
sins, which were great; or so much as a punish-
ment for the general course of my wicked life.

But now when I began to be sick, and a leisure-
ly view of the miseries of death came to place its
self before me; when my spirits began to sink

under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature .

was exhausted with the violence of the fever; con-
;2. science, that had slept so long, began to awake,
I and I began to reproach myself with my past life,
, T in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wick.
edness, provoked the justice of God to lay 'me under

.. 4.1.7541. .
uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so vin-
dictive a manner.

These reflections oppressed me from the second
or third day of my distemper, and in the violence,
as well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches
of my conscience, extorted some words from me,
like praying to God, though I cannot say they were
either a prayer attended with desires, or with hopes;
it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress;
my thoughts were confused, the convictions great
upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a
miserable condition, raised vapours into my head,
with the mere apprehensions; and in these hurries
of my soul, I knew not what my tongue might ex-
press: but it was rather exclamation, such as,'Lord,
what a miserable creature am I! If I should be
sick, I shall certainly die for want of help; and
what will become of me!' Then the tears burst
out of my eyes, and I could say no more for a
good while.

In this interval, the good advice of my father
came to my mind, and presently his prediction,
which I mentioned at the beginning of this story;
viz. That if I did take this foolish step, God would
not bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to
reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when
there might 'be none to assist me in my recovery.

" Now," said I aloud, " my dear father's words are'_

come to pass: God's justice has overtaken me, and
I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the
voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me
in a posture or station of life wherein I might have
been happy and easy; but I would neither see it

myself, nor learn to know the blessing of it from.

my parents : 1 left them to mourn over my folly,

and now I am left to mourn under the consequences.-
of it. I refused their help and assistance, who
would have lifted me into the world, and would T3
have made every thing easy to me: and now I have
difficulties to struggle with, too great for even na.

ture itself to support, and no assistance, no help,

no comfort, no advice." Then I Cried out, " Lord,

be my help, for I am in great distress!"

This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, 1
that I had made for many years. But] return to
my journal.

' June 28. Havlng been somewhat refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely of,

I got up; and though the fright and terror of my
dream was very great, yet I considered, that the
_ fit of ague would return again the next day; and
now was my time to get something to refresh and

; support myselfwhen I should be ill : and-the first
,. thing I did, I filled a large square case bottle with-
water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my ;
f bed; and to take 011' the chill oragueish disposition ix,
; : of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint ofrum ;
j: into it, and mixed them together; then I got me 3".
- piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals,
but could eat very little: I walked -' about, but was ;
very weak, and withal, very sad and heavy-hearted:- . j

.7 3U>> '.

3.12"";"wra' . u . .
'2 Exhaust mien ;_-.5~.m1: n, ".- '

:':-c..

t" :1-
an":

H's:- , _; .
' :eern'

awake a

 

-- in the sense of my miserable condition, dreading" ft:
the return of my distemper the next day : at night ' 7%

' I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, =_

which I roasted in the ashes, and eat, as wecall it, .'.

i in the shell; and this was the first bit-of meat I
~. hadever asked God's blessing to, even, as'I'could 9;;
.. remember, in my whole life. -' s i 13;.
._ Aflerl had eaten, I tried to walk; but found 3
' myself so weak, that I could hardly carry, the gun; .35?
(for I never went out without that); so I went but- 53

a little'way, and sat down upon the ground, 100k?! .1};

.; :43

. ->> it?

mafia. afieififlitgfiis. _,. a A i m ~ . rusasafeagfig'fieg 3
ing out upon the sea, which was just before me, I
and very calm and smooth. As I sat here, some
such thoughts as these occured to me.

What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen
so much? \Vhence is it produced ? And what am I,
and all the other creatures, wild and tame, human
and brutal, whence are we '9

Sure we are all made by some secret power, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky: and
who is that?

Then it followed most naturally: it is God that
has made all these things, he guides and governs
them all, and all things that concern them; for
the Being that could make all things, must certain-
ly have power to guide and direct them.

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit
of his works, either without his knowledge or ap-
pointment.

And if nothing happens without his knowledge,
he knows that 1 am here, and am in this dreadful
condition; and if nothing happens without his
appointment, he has appointed all this to befall me.

Nothing occurred to my. thoughts to contradict
any of these conclusions; and therefore it rested
upon me with the greater force, that it must needs
be, that God has appointed all this to befall me;
that I was brought to this miserable circumstance
by his direction, he having the sole power, not of
me only, but of every thing that happened in the
world. Immediately it t'ollovved, .

\Vhy has God done this to me ? What have I done
to be thus used? .

My conscience presently checked me in that in-
quiry, as if I had blasphemed; and, methought,
it spoke to me like a voice, Wretch! dost then ask
what thou hast done! Look back upon a dreadful
mispent life, and. ask thyself what thou hast not
done! Ask, why is it that thou wert not drowned
in Yarmouth roads? killed in the fight, when the
ship was taken by the Sallee man of war! devour.
ed by wild beasts on the coast of Africa 3 or,
drowned here, when all the crew perished but thy-
self? Dost thou ask, What have I done i

l was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a word to say, no, not to
answer to myself; but rose up, pensive and sad,
walked back to my retreat, and went up over my

wall, as if I had been going to bed, but my thoughts '

were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to
sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my
lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as the appre-
hensions of the return of my distemper terrified me
very much, it occurred to my thought that the
Brasilians take no physio but their tobacco, for al-
most all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll of
tobacco 1n one of the chests, which was quite cured,

and some also that was green. and not quite cured.

I went directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this
chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I
opened the chest, and found what I looked for,
viz. the tobacco; and as the few books I hadsaved
lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which
I had mentioned before, and which to this time, I
had not found leisure, or so much as inclination,
to look into; I say I took it out, and brought both
that and the tobacco with me to the table.

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not,
as to my distemper, or whether it was good for me
or no; but I tried several experiments with it, as if
I was resolved it should hit one way or other. I
first took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it 1n my
month, which indeed, at first, almost stupified my
brain; the tobacco being green and strong, and
that I had not been much used to it: then I took
some, and steeped it an hour or two in rum, and re-
solved to take a dose of it when I lay down; and
lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held
my nose close over the smoke of it, as long as I
could bear it, as well for the heat as the Virtue of
it, and I held it almost to suffocation.

In the interval of this operation, I took up the
Bible, and began to read; but my head was too
much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading,
at least at that time: only, having opened the book
casually, the first words that occurred to me were
these, " Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver, and thou shalt glorify me."

The words were very apt to my case, and made
some impression upon my thoughts at the time of
reading them, though not so much as they did af-
terward; for, as for being delivered, the word had
no sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so
remote, so impossible in my apprehension of things,
that I began to say as the children of Israel did,
when they were promised flesh to eat, " Can God
spread a table in the wilderness 2" So I began to
say, Can God himself deliver me from this place?
And as it was not for many years that any hope
appeared,this prevailed very often upon my thought.
But, however, the words made a great impression
upon me, and I mused upon them very often. It
grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep;
so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should
want any thing in the night, and went to bed : but
before I lay down, I did what I never had done in
all my life, I kneeled down, and prayed to God to
fulfil the promise to me, that, if I called upon _

.- '
h. ,

3"-

.
him in the day of trouble, he would deliver me.
After my broken and imperfect prayer was over,
I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobac-
co, which was so strong and rank of the tobacco,
that indeed I could scarce get it down. Immedi-
ately upon this I went to bed, and I found pre-
sently it flew up into my head violently; but I fell
into a sound sleep, and awaked no more, till by the
sun, it must necessarily be'near three o'clock in
the afternoon, the next day: nay, to 'this hour, I
am partly of the opinion that I slept all the next
day and night, and till almost three the day after;
for othe1 a me I knew not how I should lose a day
out 01 my reckoning 111 the dav s of the week, as it
appeared some years after 1 had done; for if I had
lost it by crossing and recrossing the line, I should
have lost more than one day; but certainly, I lost
a day in my account, and I never knew which
wav.

Be that, however, one way or other, when I
awaked I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and
my spin'ts lively and cheerful. When I got up I
was stronger than I was the day before, and my
stomach better: for I was hungry, and in short, I
had no fit the next day,but continued much altered
for the better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far. I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a
brand- goose, and brought them home, but was not
very forward to eat them; so I eat some more of the
turtle's eggs, which were very good. This even-
ing I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed
did me good the day before, viz. the tobacco steep-
ed 1n rum, only I did not take so much as before,

nor did I cgew any 01 the leaf, or hold my head
11
over the smoke. However, I was not so well the
next day, which was the lst of July, as I hOped I
should have been; for I had a little spice of the
cold fit, but it was not much.

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three
ways, and dosed myself. with it as at first, and
doubled the quantity which I drank.

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though
I did not recover my full strength for some weeks
after. While I was thus gathering strength, my
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture, " I
will deliver thee ;" and the impossibility of my de-
liverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my
ever expecting it. But as I was discouraging my-
self with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind,
that I pored so much upon my deliverance from
the main affliction, that I disregarded the delive-
rance I had received; and I was, as it were, made
to ask myself such questions as these: viz. Have
I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from
sickness; from the most distressed condition that
could be, and that was so frightful to me? And
what notice had I taken of it? Had I done my
part? God had delivered me: but I had nct glori-
fled him ; that is to say, I had not owned and been
thankful for that as a deliverance: and how could
I expect greater deliverance.

This touched my heart very much, and immedi-
ately I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud,
for my recovery from sickness.

July 4. In the morning, I took the Bible; and,
beginning at the New Testament, I began serious-
ly to read it, and imposed upon myself to read a
while every morning and every night, not tying
myself to a number of chapters, but as long asmy
thoughts should engage me. It was not long after

Inbsrxsox cwsos. 101

I set seriously to this work, but I found my heart
more deeply and sincerely affected with the wicked.
ness of my past life. The impression of my dream
revived, and the words," All these things have not
brought thee to repentance," ran seriously in my
thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to give

me repentance, when it happened providentially, ,

the very day, that, reading the Scripture, I came
to these words, " He is exalted a Prince, and a Sa-

viour, to give repentance, and to give remission." '

I threw down the book, and, with my heart as well
as my hands lifted up to Heaven, in a kind of ec-
stacy of joy, I cried out aloud, " Jesus, thou Son
of David, Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour,
give me repentance!"

This was the first time I could say, in the true

. ' sense of the word, that I prayed in all my life;

for now I prayed with a sense of my condition,and
with a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the
encouragement of the word of God; and from this

time, I may say, I began to have hope that God

would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned

above, " Call on me, and I will deliver you," in a
different sense from what I had ever done before;

' , for then I had no notion of any thing being called

deliverance, but my being delivered from the cap-
tivity I was in ; for though I was indeed at large
in the place, yet the island was certainly a prison
to me, and that in the worst sense in the world;
but now I learned to take it in another sense.
N ow, I looked back upon my past life with such
horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my
soul sought nothing of God but deliverance from
the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort.
As for my solitary life it was nothing; I did not
so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think
of it: it was all of no consideration in comparison
of this; and I add this part here, to hint to who-
ever shall read it, that whenever they come to a
true sense of things, they will find deliverance from
sin a much greater blessing, than deliverance from
affliction.

But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.

My condition began now to be, though not less
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier
to my mind; and {my thoughts being directed, by
a constant reading the Scripture, and praying to
God, to things of higher nature, I had a great deal
of comfort within, which till now I knew nothing
of. Also, as my health and strength returned, I
bestirred myself to furnish myself with every thing
that I wanted, and make my way of living as re-
gular as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed in walking about with my gun in my
hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man that
was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick.
ness: for it is hardily to be imagined, how low I
was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The
application which I made use of was perfectly new,
and perhaps what had never cured an ague before ;
neither can I recommend it to any one to practise,
by this experiment; and though it did carry off the
fit, yet it rather contributed to weaken me: for I
had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs
for some time.

I learnt from it also in this particular, that being
abroad in the rainy season was the most perni-
cious thing to my health that could be, especially
in those rains which came attended with storms
and hurricanes of wind; foras the rain whichcatm
in a dry season, was always most accompanied with
such storms, so I found this rain was much more
dangerous than the rain which fell in September
and October.

I had been now in this unhappy island above
ten months: all possibility of deliverance from
this condition seemed to be entirely taken from me :
and I firmly believe that no human shape had ever
set foot upon that place. Having now secured my
habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had
a great desire to make a more perfect diseovery of
the island, and to see what other productions I
might find, which yet I knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular survey of the island itself. I went
up the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought
my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher,
and that it was no more than a little break of run-
ning water, and very fresh and good; but this being
the dry season, there was hardly any water in some
parts of it, at least not enough to run in any stream,
so as it could be perceived.

On the bank of this brook, I found many plea.
sant savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and co-
vered with grass; and on the rising parts of them,
next to the higher grounds, where the water, as it
might be supposed, never overflowed, I found a
great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great
and very strong stalk. There were divers other
plants, which I had no notion of, or understanding
about; and might, perhaps, have virtues of their
own, which I could not find out.

I searched for the Cassava root, which the In.
dians, in all that climate, make their bread of;

but I could find none. I saw large plants of aloee ,.
but did not then understand them. I saw several
sugar-canes, but wild, and, for want of cultivation,
imperfect. I contented myself with these discove-
ries for this time, and came back, musing with
myself what course I might take to know the vir-
tue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants
which I should discover, but could bring it to no
conclusion; for, in short, I made so little obser-
vation while I was in the Brasils, that I knew lit.
tle of the plants of the field, at least, very little
that might serve me to any purpose now in my
distress.

The next day the 16th, I went up the same way
again; and, after going something farther than I
had gone the day before, I found the brook and
the savannahs began to cease, and the country be-
came more woody than before. In this part I
found different fruits, and particularly I found
melons upon the ground, in great abundance, and
grapes upon the tress: the vines had spread indeed
over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were just
now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was
a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding glad
of them; but I was warned by my experience, to
eat sparingly of them, remembering that when I
was ashore 1n Barbary, the eating of grapes killed
several of our Englishmen, who were slaves there,
by throwing them into fluxes and fevers. but I
found an excellent use for these grapes: and that
was to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them
as dried grapes or raisins.

In the night I took my first contrivance, and
got up into a tree, where I slept well, and the next
morning proceeded upon my discovery, travelling
near four miles, as I might judge by the length of
the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of
hills on the south and north side of me.
   

n At the end of this march, I came to an opening,
; where the country seemed to descend to the west;
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out
of the side of the hill by me, ran the other way,
' . thatis, due east: and the country appeared so fresh,

so green, so flourishing, every thing being in a
.- constant verdure or flourish of spring, that it look.
4 ed like a planted garden.

I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure,
(though mixed with'other afflicting thoughts), to
think that this was all my own; that I was king
and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had
a right of possession; and, if I could convey it,
I might have it in inheritance, as completely as
any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abun-

' dance of cocoa-trees, orange and lemon and citron.
trees; but all wild, and few bearing any fruit, at
- least not then. However, the green limes that I
gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very
wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterward with
water, which made it very wholesome, and very
. cool and refreshing.
' I found new I had business enough to gather
' and carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store,
_ as well of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish
myself for the wet season, which ' I knew was ap-
preaching.

In order to this, I gathered a great heap of grapes
in one place, and a lesser heap in another place,
and a great parcel of limes and lemons in another
place; and, taking a few of each with me, I tra.
veiled home afterward, and resolved to come again,

and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to
carry the rest home.

Accordingly, having spent three days in this
joumey, I came home (so I must now call my tent
and my care); but, bef'ole I got thither, the grapes
w ere spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and the
we eight of the Juwe hat umbrolxen them and bruis-
ed them, they were good for little or nothing: as
to the limes, they were good, but I could bring but
a. few.

The next day, sing the 10th, I went back, ha-
ring made me two small bags to bring home my
harvest; but I was surprised, when coming to my
heap of grapes, which were so rich and line when
I gathered them. I found them all spread abroad,
trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some
there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By
this I concluded there were some wild creatures
thereabouts, which had done this; but what they
were, I knew not.

However, as I found there was no laying them
up on heaps, and no earning them awa3 in a sack,
but that one way they would be destro3 ed, and the
other wa3 the3 would be crushed with their own
weight, I took another course; for I gathered a
large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon
the out branches of the trees, thatIthey might cure
and dry in the sun; and as for the limes, and le-
mons, I carried as many back as I could well stand
under.

When I came home from this journey, I can-
templated, with great pleasure, the fruitfulness of
that valley, and the pleasantness of the situation,
the security from storms on that side of the water,
and the wood; and concluded that I had pitched
upon a place to fix my abode, which was, by far,
the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I
began to consider of removing my habitation, and
to look out for a place equally safe as where I now
was situate, if possible, in that pleasant fruitful
part of the island.

This thought run long in my head, and I was
exceeding fond of it for some. time, the pleasant-
ness of the place tempting me; but when I came
to a nearer view of it, and to consider that I was
now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible
that something might happen to my advantage,
and that the same ill fate that brought me hither,
might bring some other unhappy wretches to the
same place; and though it was scarce probable
that any such thing should ever happen, yet, to
enclose myself among the hills and woods, in the
centre of the island, was to anticipate my bondage,
and to render such an affair not only improbable,
but impossible.

Though, upon second thoughts, I resolved not
to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a bower,
and surrounded it, at adistance with a strong fence,
being a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked and filled between with brushwood;
and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three
nights together, always going over it with a ladder,
as before, so that I fancied now I had my country
house, and my sea--coast house; and this work took
me up to the beginning of August.

I had but newly finished my fence, and began
to enjoy my labour, when the rains came on, and
made me stick close to my first habitation; for
though I had made me a tent like the other, with
a piece of sail, and spread it very well, yet I
had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms,
nora cave behind me to retreat into,when the rains
were extraordinary.

The 3rd of August, I found the grapes I had
hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed were ex.
cellent raisins of the sun; so I began to take them
down from the trees, and it was very happy that I
did so, for the rains which followed would have
spoiled them, and I had lost the best part of my
winter food; for I had above two hundred large
bunches of them. N o sooner had I taken them all
down, and carried most of them home to my cave, '
but it began to rain: and from hence, which was
the 14th of August, it rained more or less every
day, till the middle of October; and sometimes so
violently that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days.

In this season, I was much surprised with the
increase of my family. I had been concerned for
the loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me,
or, as I thought, had been dead; and I heard no
more tale or tidings of her, till, to my astonish.
ment, she came home about the end of August,
with three kittens. This was the more strange to
me, because, though I had killed a wild cat, as I
called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was quite
a different kind from our European cats; yet the
young cats were the same kind of house-bread, like
the old one; and both my cats being females, I
thought it very strange. But from these three cats,
I attemard came to be so pestered with cats, that
I was forced to kill them like vermin,or wild beasts,

and to drive them from my house as much as pos-
sible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant
rain, so that I could not stir, and was now very
careful not to be much wet. In this confinement.
I began to be straightened for food; but venturing
out twice, I one day killed a goat; and the last
day, which was the 26th, found a very large tor-
toise, which was a treat to me; and my food was
regulated thus: I eat a bunch of raisins for my

' ; breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the

a": turtle, for my dinner, broiled, (for to my great mis-
33'- fortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any thing);
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for supper.

' ' During this confinementin my cover by the rain,
I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my
' cave; and, by degrees, worked it on towards one
side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and
.- made a way or door out, which came beyond my
fence or wall, and so I came in and out this way.
But I was not perfectly easy at lying so open; for
. as I had managed myself before, I was in a perfect
; enclosure, whereas now I thought I lay exposed;
and yet I could not perceive that there was any
living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had
yet seen upon the island being a goat.

,. September the 30th. I was now come to the un.
happy anniversary of my landing. I cast up the
notches on my post, and found I had been on shore
three hundred and sixtyJive days. I kept this day
" as a solemn fast, setting it apart to religious exer-
7,. cise, prostrating myself on the ground with the
" most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to
" God, acknowledging his righteous judgments upon
f me,and praying to him to have mercy on me through
Jesus Christ; and having not tasted the least re-
freshment for twelve hours, even till the going down
of the sun, I then eat a biscuit cake, and a bunch
of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I
began it.

I had all this time observed no Sabbathday;
for as at first I had no sense of religion upon my
mind, I had after some time omitted to distinguish
the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary
for the Sabbath-day, and so did not really know

iHO anvmrrtmas or

what any of the days were; but now having cast
up the days as above, I found I had been there a.
year, so I divided it into weeks, and set apart every
seventh day for a Sabbath ; though I found at the
end of my account, I had lost a day or two in my
reckoning.

Alittle after this,my ink began to fail me, and so
I contented myself to use it more sparingly, and
to write down only the most remarkable events of '
my life, without continuing a daily memorandum
of other things.

The rainy season, and the dry season,began now
to appear regular to me, and I learned to divide
them so as to provide for them accordingly. But
I bought all my experience before I had it: and this
I am going to relate, was one of the most discoura-
ging experiments that I made at all. I have men-
tioned, that I had saved the few ears of barley and
rice, which I had so surprisingly found spring up,
as I thought of themselves, and believe there were
about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of
barley: and now I thought it a proper time to sow
it after the rains, the sun being in its southern po-
sition going from me.

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground, as well
as I could, with my wooden spade, and dividing it
into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was
sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts, that
I would not sow it all at first, because I did not
know when was the proper time for it; so I sowed
about two thirds of the seed, leaving about a hand-
ful of each.

It was a great comfort to me afterward that I did
so; for not one grain of that I sowed this time came
to any thing; for the dry months following, the
earth having had no rain after the seed was sown,
it had no moisture to assist its growth, and never
came up at all, till the wet season had come again,
and then it grew as if it had been but newly sown.

Finding my first seed did not grow,which I easi-
ly imagined was by the drought, I sought for a
moister piece of ground to make another trial in;
and I dug up apiece of ground near my new bower,
. ' and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little
* before the vernal equinox; and this, having the
rainy months of March and April to water it,
" sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good
crop; but having part of the seed left only, and
, not daring to .sow all that I had yet, I had but a
'- small quantity at last, my whole crop not amount.
' ing to above half a peek of each kind.

But, by'this experiment, I was made master of
my business, and knew exactly when the proper
season was to sow; and that I might expect two
seed-times, and two harvests, every year.

While this corn was growing, I made a little
discovery, which was of use to me afterward. As
Soon as the rains were over, and the weather began
to settle, which was about the month of Novem-
her, I made a visit up the country to my bower,
where, though I had not been some months, yet I
found all things just as I left them. The circle or
double hedge, that I had made, was not only firm
and entire, but the stakes which I had cut off of
some trees, that grew thereabouts, were all shot
out, and grown with long branches, as much as a
willow.tree usually shoots the i first year after lop-
ping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it
that these stakes were cut from. I was surprised,
and yet very well pleased, to see the young trees
grow; and I pruned them, and led them up to grow
as much alike as I could; and it is scarce credible
how beautiful a figure they grew into in three years,
so that. though the hedge made a circle of about
twentyJive yards in diameter, yet the trees, for
such I might now call them, soon covered it; and
it was complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all
the dry season.

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes,
and make me a hedge, like this, in a semicircle,
round my wall, I mean that of my first dwelling,
which I did ; and, piacing the trees or stakes in a
double row, or about eight yards' distance from
my first fence, they grew presently, and were, at '
first, a fine cover to my habitation, and afterward
served for a defence also, as I shall observe in its

order.
I found new that the seasons of the year might

generally be divided, not into summer and winter,
as in Europe; but into the rainy season, and the
dry season, which were generally thus:

Half February, Rainy, the sun being then on 1

Ilillfngril} or near the equinox.
Half April,
PS11113: Dry, the sun being then to the
July: north of the line .
Half August.
Half August,
SPPtember Rain, the sun being then come
Half October, back.
Half October,
N b
D2532? Dry, the sun being then to the
Jamar, , ' south of the line.

Half February,
The rainy season sometimes held longer or short.
. er, as the winds happened to blow; but this was
the general observation I made. After I had found,
by experience, the ill consequence of being abroad
in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with pro-
visions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to
go out; and I-sat within doors, as much as possi.
ble during the wet months.

In this time I found much employment (and very
suitable also for the time); for I found great occa-
sion of many things which I had no way to furnish
myself with, but by hard labour, and constant ap-
plication: particularly,l tried many ways to make
myself a basket; but all the twigs I could get for
the purpose proved so brittle, that they would do
nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to me
now, that, when I was a boy, I used to take great
delight in standing at a basket.maker's, in the town.
where my father lived, to see them make their
wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are, very
officious to help, and a great observer of the man-
ner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had, by this means, so full
knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted no-
thing but the materials: when it came into my
mind, that the twigs of that tree, from whence I
cut my stakes that grew, might possibly be as tough
as the sallows, and willows, and osiers, in Eng-
land; and I resolved to try.

Accordingly the next day, when I went to my
country house, as I called it, and cutting some of
the smaller twigs, I'found them to my purpose as
much as I could desire : whereupon I came the
next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a

quantity, which I soon found, for there was great
I
plenty of them. These I set up to dry within my
circle or hedge, and when they were fit for use, I
carried them to my cave; and here, during the next
season, I employed myself in making, as well as I
could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth, 3&3
or to carry or lay up any thing, as I had occasion; 3-;
and though I did not finish them very handsomely, g;
yet I made them sufficiently serviceable to my pur~ '
pose: and thus, afterward, I took care never to be '
without them; and, as my wicker-ware decayed, I
'made more; especially I made strong deep baskets
to place my core in, instead of sacks, whenl should
come to have any quantity of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if
possible, how to supply two wants. I had no ves.
sels to hold any thing that was liquid, except two
runlets, which were almost full of rum, and some
glass bottles, some of the common size, and others
which were case-bottles square, for the holding of .
waters, spirits, &.c. I had not so much as a pot to
boil any thing in, except a great kettle which I had
saved out of the ship, and which was too big for
such uses as I desired it for, viz. to make broth, 3

. and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing 1
I would fain have had, was a tobacco-pipe: but it 1
'was impossible for me to make one: however, I 1
found a contrivance for that too at last. '

I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to
see' the whole island, and that I had travelled up the
brook, 'and so on to where I had built my bower,
and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on
the other side of the island. I now resolved to tra--
vel quite cross to the sea-shore on that side; so
taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two
biscuit cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my
pouch, for my store, I began my journey. \Vhen I
had passed the vale where my bower stood, as above,
I came in view of the sea, to the west; and it being
a very clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an
island or a continent, I could not tell; but it lay
very high, extending from the west to the W. S. W.
at a very great distance: by my guess it could not
be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might
be, otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America; and, as I concluded, by all my observa.
tions, must be near the Spanish dominions, and
perhaps was all inhabited-by savages, where, if I
should have landed, I had been in a worse condition
than I was now; and therefore I acquiesced in the
dispositions of Providence, which I began now to
own, and to believe, ordered every thing for the
best.

I found that side of the island where I now was
much pleasanter than mine, the Open or savannah
fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and
full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of par-
rots, and fain would I have caught one, if possible,
to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speakto
me. I did after some pains-taking, catch a young
parrot; for I knocked it down with a stick, and
having recovered it, I brought it home, but it was
some years before I could make him speak. How-
ever, at last I taught him to call me by my name
very familiarly. But the accident that followed,
tlliough it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its
p ace.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them
to be, and faxes, but they differed greatly from all

I
the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several. ButI
had no need to be venturous, for I had no want of
food, and of that which was very good too; espe-
cially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and tur-
tle or tortoise, which, added to my grapes, Leaden-
hall market could not have furnished a table better
than I, in proportion to the company. And though
my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great
cause for thankfulness, that I was not driven to any
extremities for food, but had rather plenty, even to
dainties.

I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereahouts; but I took so
many turns and returns, to see what discoveries I
could make, that I came weary enough to the
place where I resolved to sit down for all night:
and then I either reposed myself in a tree, or sur-
rounded myself with a row of stakes set upright in
the ground, either from one tree to another, or so
as no wild creature could come at me, without wa-
king me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was sur-
prised to see that I had taken up my lot on the
worst side of the island; for here indeed the shore
was cove red with innumerable turtles; whereas on
the other side I had found but three in a year anda
half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls,
of many kinds, some of which I had seen, and some
of which I had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat, but such as I knew not the names
of, except those called penguins.

I confess this side of the country was much. plea.
santer than mine, but yet I had not the least incli-
nation to remove, for as I was fixed in my habits.
tion, it became natural to me, and I seemed all the' " < ' ' . .- .
Wfi'sfimfesfifltwwdwms.-: .- v- ,

u

aoamsou causes. ll'f'

while I was here, to be, as it were, upon a journey,
and from home. However, I travelled along the
shore of the sea, towards the east, I suppose,about
twelve miles; and then setting up a great pole upon
the shore, for a mark, I concluded I would go home
again; and that the next journey I took, should be
on the other side of the island, east from my dweL
ling, and so round, till I came to my post again.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid,
and seized upon it; and I running in to take hold
of it, caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I
had a great mind to bring it home, if I could; for I
had often been musing whether it might not be pos-
sible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats, which might supply me when my pow-
der and shot should be all Spent.

I made a collar to this little creature, and with a
string, which I made of some rope.yarn, which I
always carried about me, I led him along, though
with some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and
there I enclosed him, and left him; for I was very
impatient to be at home. from whence I had been
absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me
to come into my old hutch, and lie down in my
hammock-bed. This little wandering journey,
without any settled place of abode, had been so
unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called it
to myself, was a perfect settlement to me, compared
to that; and it rendered every thing about me so
comfortable, that I resolved I would never go a great
way from it again, while it should be my lot to stay
in the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey, during which, most
of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of

p!
fininm
making a cage for my poll, who began now to be a
mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid,
which I had pent in within my little circle, and re-
solved to go and fetch it home, or give it some food;
accordingly I went, and found it where I left it, for
indeed it could not get out, but was almost starved
for want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees,
and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and
threw it over; and having fed it, I tied it as I did
before, to lead it away; but it was so tame with
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it,
for it followed me like a dog; and as I continually
fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle, and
so fond, that it became, from that time, one of my
domestics also, and would never leave me after-
ward.

 

CHAPTER V.

ROBINS'IN'S AGRICULTURAL PI'RSITITS--HIS CON-
TRIVANCES. FAILS IN AN ATTEMPT TO ESCAPE
FROM THE ISLAND--REFLECTIONS UPON
IIIS CONDITION.

THE rainy season of the autumnal equinox was
now come, and I kept the 30th of September in the
same solemn manner as before, being the anniver-
sary of my landing on the island, having now been
there two years, and no more prospect of being de-
livered than the first day I came there. I spent the
whole day in humble and thankful acknowledg.
ments of the many wonderful mercies which my
solitary condition was attended with, and without
which it might have been infinitely more mise.
table.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how
much more happy the life I now led was, with all
'.- its miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cur-
' sed, abominable life I led all the past part of my
dms; and now hating changed both my sorrows
. and my joys, my very desires altered, my affections
' ' changed their gusts, and my delights were perfectly
new, from what they were at my first coming,or

indeed for the two years past.

. Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting,
- or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul
at my condition would break out upon me on a
sudden, and my very heart would die within me, to

5 think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I
3 w as in; and how I was a prisoner locked up, with

_.g the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an 1min
'z' habited wilderness, without redemption. In the
' midst of the greatest composures of my mind, this
would break out upon me, like a storm, and make
me wring my hands, and weep like a child. Some-
times it would take me in the middle of my work,
and I would sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together, and thiswas
still worse to me; for if I could burst out into tears,
or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the
grief, having exhausted itself, would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts. I daily read the word of God, and ap.
plied all the comforts of it to my present state.
One morning, being very sad, I Opened the Bible
upon these words, " I will never, never leave thee,
nor forsake thee 2" Immediately it occurred, that
these words were to me; why else should they be'.._--..-. v:

120 anvaurunns or

directed in such a manner, just at the moment when
I was mourning over my condition, as one forsaken
of God and man? "Well, then," said I, " if God
does not torsake mo, of what ill consequence can it
be, or what matters it, though the world should all
forsake me, seeing, on the other hand, if I had all
the world, and should lose the favour and blessing
of God, there would be no comparison in the loss '1"

I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very
soul within me blessed God for directing my friend
in England, without any order of mine, to pack it
up among my goods, and for assistingme afterward
to save it out of the wreck of the ship.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began
my third year: and though I have not given the
reader the trouble of so particular an account of my
works this year as the first; yet in general it may
be observed, that I was very seldom idle, having
regularly divided my time according to the several
daily employments that were before me; such as,
First, My duty to God, and reading the Scriptures,
which I constantly set apart some time for, thrice
every day. Secondly, The going abroad with my
gun for food, which generally took me up three
hours in every morning, when it did not rain.
Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking, what I had killed or catehed for my sup-
ply; these took up great part of the day. Also it
is to be considered, that the middle of the day,
when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the
heat was too great to stir out, so that about four
hours in the evening was all the time I could be
supposed to work in; with this exception, that some-
times I changed my hours of hunting and working,

and went to work in the morning, and abroad with
my gun in the afternoon.
' To this short time allowed for labour, I desire
may be added the exceeding laboriousness of my
~ work, the many hours, which, tbr want of tools,
want of help, and want of skill, every thing that I
ff. did, took up out of my time... For example, I was
' full two-and-forty days making me a board for a
' long shelf, which I wanted in my cave; whereas
two sawyers, with their tools and a saw pit, would
have out six of them, out of the same tree, in half
a dav.

My case was this: it was to be alarge tree which
was to be cut down, because my board was to be a
broad one. This tree I was three days a cutting
down, and two more cutting off the boughs, and re~
duciug it to a log or piece of timber. With inex-
pressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both the
sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough
' to move; then I turned it, and made one side of it
5 - smooth and flat as a board, from end to end; then
' ' taming that side downward, cut the other side, till
I brought the plank to be about three inches thick,
and smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the
labour of my hands in such a piece of work; but
labour and patience carried me through that, and
many other things. I only observe this in pgrticu-l
lar, to shew the reason why so much of my time'
went away with so little work, viz. that what might
be a little to be done with help and tools, was a
vast labour, and required a prodigious time to do
alone, and by hand.

But, notwithstanding this, with patience and he
hour I went through many things, andindeed every
thing that my circumstances made necessary for me
to do, as will appear by what follows.

I was now in the months of November and De-
cember, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground I had manured or dug up for them was not
great: for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
above the quantity of half a peck, for I had lost one
whole crop by sowing in the dry season, but now
my crop promised very well, when, on a sudden, I
found I was in danger of losing it all again, by ene .
mies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible
to keep from it; as first, the goats, and wild crea-
tures which I called hares, who, tasting the sweet.
ness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon
as it came up, and eat it so close, that it could get
no time to shoot up into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an en-
closure about it with a hedge, which I did with a
great deal of toil, and the more because it required
speed, the creatures daily spoiling my corn. How-
ever, as my arable land was but small, suited to my
crop, I got it totally well fenced in about three
weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in
the day-time, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would
stand and bark all night long; so, in a little time,
the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew
very strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

But, as the beasts ruined me before, while my
corn was in the blade, so the birds were as likely to
ruin me now, when it was in the ear; for going
along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my
little crop surrounded with fowls, of I know not
how many sorts, who stood, asit were, watching till
I should be gone. I immediately let fly among
them (for I always had my gun with me). I had
no sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the

corn itself.
This touched me sensibly; for I foresaw that, in
a few days, they would devour all my hopes; that I

should be starved, and never be able to raise a crop
at all; and what to do, I could not tell. However,

[1 I resolved not to lose my corn,if possible, thoughI
5' should watch it night and day. In the first place,
I went among it to see what damage was already
done, and found they had spoiled a good deal of it;
"j but that, as it was yet too green for them, the loss
a? was not so great, but that the remainder was like to

be a good crop, if it could be saved.

I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming
away, I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all
the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was
gone away, and the event proved it to be so; foras
I walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out

I>> of their sight, but they dropped down, one by one,
_. into the corn again. I was so provoked, that I could
, not have patience to stay till more came on, know-
u ing that every grain that they eat now, was, as it
i might be said, a peck loaf to me in the consequence;
but, coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and kil-

led three of them. This was what I wished for; so
I took them up, and served them as we serve noto-

' rious thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains

for a terror to others. It is impossible to imagine
almost that this should have such an effect as it
had; for the {owls would not only not come at the
corn, but, in short, they forsook all that part of the
island, and I could never see a bird near the place
as long as my scarecrows hung there.

This I was very glad of you may be sure; and,
about the latter end of December, which was our
second harvest of the year, I reaped my crop.

l was sadly put to it for a scythe, or a sickle, to
art it down, and all I could do was to make one as
well as I could, am of one of the broad-swords, or

_, -" "t :.,'.3' '
A \ .m}--_.'kv: {13313323. ' .. . AH:\_ va' u...
.- - ,'

124 ADVENTURES or

cutlasses,which I saved among the arms out of the
ship. However, as my crop was but small, 1 had
no great difficulty to cut it down. In short, I reap-
ed it my way; for I cut nothing off but the ears,
and carried it aw ax in a great basket which I had ,
made, and so rubbed it out with mv hands. And i
at the end of all my harvesting, I found that out "
of my half peek of seed, I had near two bushels of
rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley;
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure
at that time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw that, in time, it would please God to
supply me with bread. And yet here I was per-
plexed again, forI neither knew how to grind or

make meal of my (01 n, or indeed how to clean it,
and part it; nor, if made into meal, how to make
bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not
how tobake it. These things being added to my
desire of having a good quantity for store, and. to
secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any
of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against
the next season, and, in the mean time, to employ
all my study and hours of working to accomplish
this great work of providing myself with corn and '
bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
few people have thought much upon ; viz. the
strange multitude of little things necessary in the
providing, producing, curing, dressing, making, and
finishing this one article of bread.

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature,
found this to be my daily discouragement, and was
made more and more sensible of it every hour, even
after I had got the first handful of soedoorn, which,
I as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed
to a surprise.

t First, I had no plough to turn up the earth, no

spade or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered
- by making a wooden spade, as I observed before;
I but this did my work but in a wooden manner: and
though it cost me a great many days to make it, yet
' for want of iron it not only were out the sooner, but

made my work the harder, and made it be perform.
' ed much worse.

However, this I bore with, and was content to
work it out with patience, and bear with the bad-
nvss of the performance. When the corn was sow-
' ed, I had no barrow; but was forced to go over it
' myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over
it, to scratch the earth, as it may be called, rather
than rake or harrow it.

When it was growing and grown, I have observed
already how many things I wanted, to fence it, so.
cure it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home,
thresh part of it from the chaff, and save it. Then
I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake
it in; and yet all these things I did without, as shall
be observed; and yet the corn was an inestimable
com fort and advantage to me too. All this,as I said
made every thing laborious and tedious to me, but
that there was no help for: neither was my time so
much less to me, because as I had divided it, a cer-
tain part of it was every day appointed to these
works; and, as I resolved to use none of the corn
for bread, till 1 had a greater quantity by me, I had
the next six months to apply myself wholly by la-
, bontgnilinvention to furnish myself with utensils

Pmneriforthe performing all the operations neces-
i Saryfor the making the corn, when I had it fit for
my use.

 

is:

.
'f.'~-..
. , . r
.33 w w.

, .v-1 1" "34 . . 'i'" __.' . - fa
But, first, I was to prepare more land, for I had
now seed enough to sow above an acre of ground

make me a spade, which, when it was done, was
but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy,an and requir-
ed double labour to work with it. However I went
through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat f
pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find "
them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good '5
hedge, the stakes of which were all cut of that wood ,
which I had set before, which I knew would grow;
so that, in one year' s time, I knew I should have a
quick or living hedge, that would want but little re-
pair. This work was not so little as to take me up
less than three months, because great part of that
time was of the wet season, when I could not go
abroad.

Within-doors, that is, when it rained, and I could
not go out, I found employment on the following
occasions; always observing, that all the while I
was at work, I diverted myself with talking to my
parrot and teaching him to speak; and I quickly
learned him to know his own name, at last, to speak ,.
it out pretty loud,' Poll;' which was the first word i
I ever heard spoken 1n the island by any month but '
my own. This therefore, was not my work, but an .
assistant to my work; for now, as I said, I had a
great employment upon my hands, as follows, viz.
I had long studied, by some means orother, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed Iwant-
ed sorely, but knew not where to come at them.
However, considering the heat of the climate, I did
not doubt but, if I could find out any such clay, I
might batch up some such pot, as might, being dried
in the sun, be hard enough, and strong enough, to
bear handling, and to hold any thing that was dry,
and required to be kept so; and as this was neces.
sary in preparing corn, meal, &c. which was the
7' thingI was upon,I resolved to make some as large
as I could, and fit only to stand like jars to hold
7'; what could be put into them.

i It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
.22., at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to
raise this paste; what odd, mishapen, ugly things
I made; how many of them fell in, and how many
fell out, the clay not being stifl' enough to bear its
own weight; how many cracked by the over-violent
.3; heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and
' and how many fell to pieces with only removing,
. as well before as after they were dried: and, in a

,; word, how, after having laboured hard to find the

 

clay, to digit, to temper it, to bring it home, and
ff work it, I could not make above two large, earthen,
'- ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in about two
3 months' labour.

' However, as the sun baked these two very dry
and hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set
them down again in two great wicker-baskets, which
1 had made on purpose for them, that they might
not break; and as between the pot and the basket
there was little room to spare, I stuffed it full of
the rice and barley straw; and these two pots being
to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry
corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn was
bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with
better success; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing my hand
turned to; and the heat of the sun baked them
extremely hard. ,

But all this would not answer my end, which
was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid,
and bear the fire, which none of these could do.
It happened after some time, making a pretty large
fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out,
after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of
my earthenware vessels in the firs, burnt as hard
as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably sur-
prised to see it, and said to myself, that certainly
they might be made to burn whole, if they would
burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as
to make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of
a kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing
them with lead, though I had some lead to do it
with: but I placed three large pipkins, and two or
three pots, in a pile one upon another, and placed
my fire wood all round it, with a great deal of em-
hers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel
round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the
pots in the inside red.hot quite through, and ob-
served that they did not crack at all. When I saw
them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about
five or six hours, till I found one of them, though
it did not crack, did melt or run; for the sand
which was mixed with the clay melted by the vio-
lence of the heat, and would have run into glass,
if I had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually,
till the pots began to abate of the red colour, and
watching them all night, that I might not let the
fire abate too fast, in the morning I had three very
good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, and two
other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be de-
sired: and one of them perfectly glazed with the
running of the sand. '

After this experiment, I need not say that I want-
ed no sort of earthenware for my use ; but I must

.'a:~.- 13 '56,? y 5. "1
. , -Jsaasvgiufie'as giant-5..
needs say, as to the shapes of them, they were very
indifferent, as any one may suppose, when I had
no way of making them, but as the children make
dirt-pies, or as a woman would make pies that never
learnt to raise paste.

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever
equal to mine, when I found I had made an earthen
put that would bear the fire; and I had hardly pa.
tience to stay till they were cold, before I set one
upon the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me
some meat, which it did admirably well; and, with
a piece of a kid, I made some very good broth,
though I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingre.
dients requisite to make it as good as I would have
had it.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill,
there was no thought of arriving to that perfection

} of art, with one pair of hands. To supply this want
I was at a great loss; for, of alltradesin the world,
I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, as
for any whatever: neither had I any tools to g:
about it with. I spent many a day to find out a
great stone big enough to cut hollow, and make fit

for a mortar, and could find none at all, except what '

was in the solid rock, and which I had no way to
dig or cut out; nor indeed were the rocks in the is-
land of hardness sufficient, but were of a sandy
crumbling stone.which would neither bearthe weight
of a heavy pestle, nor would break the corn without
filling it with sand. So, after a great deal of time
lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, and
resolved to look out a great block of hard wood,
which I found indeed much easier; and getting one
as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and
formed it on the outside with my axe and hatchet;
and then, with the help of fire, and infinite labour,
made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brasil
make their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy
pestle or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood,
and this I prepared and laid by against I had my
next crap of corn, when I proposed to myself to
grind, or rather pound, my corn into meal ,' to make
my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or searce,
to dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and
the husk, without which I did not see it possible I
could have any bread. This was a most difficult
thing, so much as but to think on ; for, to be sure,
I had nothing like the necessary thing to make it
with, I mean tine thin canvass, or stuff to searce the
meal through. And here I was at a full stop for
many months; nor did I really know what to do:
linen I had none left, but what was mere rags. I
had goat's hair, but neither knew I how to weave
or spin it; and had I known how, here were no
tools to work it with: all the remedy that I found
for this, was, that at last I did remember I had,
among the seamen's clothes, which were saved out
of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin;
and with some pieces of these I made three small
sieves, but proper enough for the work: and thus I
made shift for some years. How I did afterward,
I shall shew in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be con-
sidered, and how I should make bread when I came 1'
to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast. As to that 1
part, as there was no supplying the want, so I did
not concern myself much about it; but for an oven, 1
I was indeed in great pain. At length I found out
an expedient for that also, which was this: I made
some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep; that
f is to say, about two feet diameter, and not above
. nine inches deep : these I burnt in .the fire, as I had
done the other, and laid them by, and when I want.
{ ed to bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth,

ll: which I had paved with some square tiles, of my
'3 own making and burning also, but I should not
2 call them square.

When the fire~wood was burnt pretty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon
this hearth, so as to cover it all over; and there I
e' let them lie, till the hearth was very hot; then
' sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf
. or loaves, and, whelmin g down the earthen pot upon
', them, drew the embers all round the outside of the
f pot, to keep in, and add to the heat; and thus,as
" well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
{ barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a mere

   
  
  
   
       
     
   
    
 

, several cakes of the rice, and puddings: indeed I
'3; made no pies, neither had I any thing to put-into
them, supposing I had, except the flesh either of
, fowl: or goats. '

j It need not be wondered at, if all these things
took me up most part of the third year of my abode
5 here: for it is to be observed, that, 1n the intervals
: of these things, I had my new harvest and hus-
; bandry to manage, for I reaped my corn in its sea-
son, and carried it home as well as I could, and laid
it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time
to rub it out; for I had no floor to thresh it on, or
instrument to thresh it with.

And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted
a place to lay it up in; for the increase of the corn.
now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley
about twenty hishels, and of the rice as much,or

x 2

. pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made myself

'$"'V'L"-_"q
more; insomuch that now I resolved to begin to use
it freely, for my bread had been quite gone a great
while; also I resolved to see what quantity would
be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but
once a year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
barley and rice were much more than I could con-
sume in a year; so I resolved to sow just the same
quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes
that such a quantity would fully provide me with
bread, &c.

All the while these things were doing, you may
be sure my thoughts ran many times upon the pros.
poet of land, which 1 had seen from the other side
of the island; and I was not without secret wishes
that I were on shore there, fancyin g that seeing the
main land, and an inhabited country, I might find
some way or other, to convey myself farther, and
perhaps at last find some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the
dangers of such a condition, and how I might fall
into the hands of savages, and perhaps such as I
might have reason to think far worse than the lions
and tigers of Africa: that if I once came into their
power, I should run a hazard more than a thousand
to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten;
for I had heard, that the people of the Caribbean
coast were camiibals, or men-eaters: and I knew by
the latitude, that I could nct be far oll' from that
shore; that, suppose they were not cannibals, yet
they might kill me, as many Europeans who had
fallen into their hands had been served, even when
they had been tenor twenty together; much more
I that was one, and could make little or no defence.
All these things, I say, which I ought to have con-
sidered well'of, and did cast up in my thoughts af.
". terward, 'et took up none of my apprehensions at
3 first; and my head ran mightily upon the thought
g: of getting over to that shore.

T New I wished for my boy Xury, and the long.
boat, with the shoulder~of-mutton sail, with which I
;, sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa;
. but this was in vain. Then I thought I would go
and look at our ship's boat, which, as I have said,

<<, was blown up upon the shore, a great way, in the

. storm, when we were first cast away. She lay al-
,- most where she did at first, but not quite; and was
turned,by the force of the waves and the winds, 81.
most bottom upwards, against a high ridge ofbeachy
7 rough sand, but no water about her, as before.

_ If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to
have launched her into the water, the boat would
have done well enough, and I might have gone
back into the Brasils with her easily enough: but
' Imight easily have foreseen that I could no more
turn her, and set her upright upon her bottom.than
. I could remove the island. However, I went to the
. woods, and cut levers and rollers, and brought them
to the boat, resolved to try what I could do, sug-
gesting to myself, that if I could but turn her down,
I might easily repair the damage she had received,
and she would be a very good boat, and I might go
to sea in her very easily.

I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about
it; at last, finding it impossible to heave it up with
my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand
to undermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting
piieces of wood to thrust and guide it rightin the
{a 1.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it
up again, or to get under it, much less to'move it
forward towards the water; so I was forced to give
it over: and yet, though I gave over the hopes of
the boat, my desire to venture over for the main in.
creased, rather than decreased, as the means for it
seemed impossible.

This at length set me upon thinking, whether it
was not possible to make myself a canoe, or peria-
gua, such as the natives of those climates make;
even without tools, or, as I might say,without hands,
viz. of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only
thought possible, but easy; and pleased myself ex.
tremely with the thoughts of making it, and with
my having much more conveniencc for it than any
of the negroes or Indians, but not at all considering
the particular inconveniences which I lay under
more than the Indians did, viz. want of hands to
move it into the water, when it was made: a diffi-
culty much harder for me to surmount, than all the
consequences of want of tools could be to them;
for what was it to me, that when I had chosen a
vast tree in the woods, I might with great trouble
cut it down, if after I might be able with my tools
to hew and dub the outside into the proper shape of
a boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it
hollow, so to make a boat of it, if, after all this, I
must leave it just where I found it, and was not able
to launch it into the water?

One would have thought, I could not have had
the least reflection upon my mind of my circum-
stance, while I was making this boat, but I should
have immediately thought how I should get it into
the sea; but my thoughts were so intent upon my
voyage over the sea in it, that I never once consi-
dered how I should get it ofl' the land; and it was
really, in its own nature, more easy for me to guide I
it over forty- five miles of sea than about fortyofiye '
" fathom of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the
water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool

that ever man did who had any of his senses awake.
, I pleased myself with the design, without determi.
ning whether I was ever able to undertake it: not
-" but that the difficulty of launching my boat came
.5 often into my head; but I put a stop to my own
3 inquiries into it, by this foolish answer, which I
gave myself; " Let me first make it, I'll warrant
I'll find some way or other to get it along, when it
is done."

This was a most preposterous method; but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I
went, and felled a cedar-tree. I question much whe-
ther Solomon ever had such a one for the building
the temple at Jerusalem: it was five feet ten inches
diameter, at the lower part next the stump, and four
feet eleven inches diameter, at the end of twenty-
two feet; after which, it lessened for a while, and
then parted into branches. It was not without in-
finite labour that I felled this tree. I was twenty
days hacking and hewing at it at the bottom; I was
fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and
the vast spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked
and hewed through with my axe and hatchet, and
inexpressible labour. After thisit cost me a month
to shape it, and dub it to a proportion. and to some.
thing like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim
upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three
months more to clear the inside, and work it out so
as to make an exact boat of it. This I did indeed
without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the
dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very
handsome periagua, and big enough to have car.
ried six-and-twenty men, and conseqmntly big
enough to have carried me and all my cargo.

 

'W'WTT?
When I had gone through this work, I was ex--
tremely delighted with it. The boat was really
much bigger than I ever saw a canoe, or periagua,
that was made of one tree, in my life: many a
weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure, and there
remained nothing but to get it into the water: and
had I gotten it into the water, I make no question
but I should have begun the maddest voyage, and
the most unlikely to be performed, that ever was
undertaken.

But all my devices. to get it into the water failed
me, though they cost me infinite labour too; it lay
about one hundred yards from the water, and not
more; but the first inconvenience was, it was uphill
towards the creek. Well, to take away this discou.
ragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the
earth, and so make a declivity. This I began, and it
cost me a prodigious deal of pains; but who grudge
pains, that have their deliverance in view? But
when this was worked through, and this difficulty
managed, it was still much at one; for I could no
more stir the canoe, than I could the other boat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and re.
solved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up
to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe
down to the water. \Vell, I began this work, and
when I began to enter into it, and calculated how
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff
was to be thrown out, I found that, by the number
of hands had, being none but myown, it must have
been ten or twelve years before I should have gone
through with it; for the shore lay high, so that at
the upper end it must have been at least twenty feet
deep; so at length, though with great reluctance,
I gave this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we
count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our
strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the
same devotion, and with as much comfort, as ever
before; for by a constant study, and serious appli-
cation of the word of God, and by the assistance of
his grace, I gained adifl'erent knowledge from what
I had before. I entertained difl'erent notions of
things. I looked now upon the world as a thing
remote, which I had nothing to do with, no expec.
tation from, and indeed no desires about; in a word,
I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was ever
like to have, so I thought it looked, as we may per.
haps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I had
lived in, but was come out of it; and well might I
say, as father Abraham to Dives, " Between me
and thee is a great gulf fixed."

In the first place, I was removed from all the
wickedness of the world here. I had neither the
"lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride
of life." I had nothing to covet; for I had all I
was now capable of enjoying: I was lord of the
whole manor, or, if I pleased, I might call myself
king or emperor over the whole country which I
had possession of. There were no rivals. I had
no competitor; none to dispute sovereignty or com-
mand with me. I might have raised ship loadings
of corn, but I had no use for it, so I let as little
grow as I thought enough formy occasion. I had
tortoises or turtles enough; but now and then one
was as much as I could put to any use. I had tim-
ber enough to have built a fleet of ships. I had
grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured
into raisins, to hav e loaded that fleet when they had
been built.

"fin-~51"

we"
But all I could make use of, was all that was va.
luable. I had enough to eat, and to supply my
wants, and what was all the restto me? If I killed
mere flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or
the vermin; if I sowed more com than I could eat,
it must be spoiled. The trees that I cut down were
lying to rot on the ground, I could make no more
use of them than for fuel; and that I had no occa-
sion for, but to dress my food.

In a word, the nature and experience of things
dictated to me, upon just reflection, that all the good
things of this world are no farther good to us, than
they are for our use; and that whatever we may
heap up indeed to give others, we enjoy as much as
we can use, and no more. The mostcovetous griping
miser in the world would have been cured of the
vice of covetousness, if he had been in my case;
for I possessed infinitely more than I knew what to
do with. I had no room for desire, except it was of
things which I had not, and they were but trifles,
though indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hint-
ed be fore, a parcel of money, as well gold as silver,
above thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas! there the
nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay : I had no manner of
business for it; and I often thought with myself,
that I would have given a handful of it for a gross
of tobaccmpipes, or for a hand.mill to grind my
corn; nay, I would have given it all for sixopenny
worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England, or
for a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of
ink. As it was, I had not the least advantage by
it, or benefit from it; but there it lay in a drawer,
and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave, in the
wet season: and if I had had the drawer full of
diamonds, it had been the same case; and they had
been of no manner of value to me, because of no
use.
I had now brought my state of life to be much
easier in itself than it was at first, and much easier

to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently
sat down to my meat with thankfulness, and ad-
mired the hand of God's providence, which had thus
spread my table in the wilderness. I learned to
look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side, and to consider what
I enjoyed rather than what I wanted; and this gave
me sometimes such secret comforts, that I cannot
express them, and which I take notice of here to put
those discontented people in mind of it, who cannot
enjoy comfortably what God has given them, be.

cause they see and covet something that he has not .

given them. All our discontents about what we

want, appeared to me to spring from the want of
thankfulness for what we have.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in
representing to myself, in the most lively colours,
how I must have acted, if I had got nothing out of
the ship; how I could not have so much as got any
food, except fish and turtles, and that, as it was
long before I found any of them, I must have pe-
rished first; that I should have lived, if I had not
perished, like a mere savage; that if I had killed
a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way
to flay or open them, or part the flesh from the skin
and the bowels, or to cut it up, but must gnaw it
with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a
beast.

These reflections made me very sensible of the
goodness of Providence to me, and very thankful
for my present condition, with all its hardships and
misfortunes: and this part also I cannot but recom-
mend to the reflection of those who are apt in their
misery to say, "Is-any affliction like mine i" Let

fir .
m.
them consider how much worse the cases of some
people are, and their case might have been, if Pro.
vidence had thought fit.

I had another reflection which assisted me also
to comfort my mind with hopes; and this was com-
paring my present condition with what I had de-
served, and had therefore reason to expect from the
hand of Providence. I had lived a dreadful life,
perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of
God. I had been well instructed by father and
mother; neither had they been wanting to me in
their early endeavours to infuse a religious awe of
God into my mind, a sense of my duty, and of what
the nature and end of my being required of me.
But, alas! falling early into the seafaring life,
which, of all lives, is the most destitute of the fear
of God, though his terrors are always before them;
I say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into
seafaring company, all that little sense of religion
which I had entertained, was laughedout of me by
my messmates; by a hardened deSpising of dan-
gers, and the views of death, which grew habitual to
me; by my long absence from all manner of op-
portunities to converse with any thing but what was
like myself, or to hear any thing that was good, or
tended towards it.

So void was I of every thing that was good, or
of the least sense of what I was, or was to be, that
in the greatest deliverances I enjoyed, such as my
escape from Sallee, my being taken up by the Por-
tuguese master of the ship, my being planted so
well in the Brasils, my receiving the cargo from
England, and the like, I never once had the words
"Thank God" so much as on my mind, or in my
mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I so much
thought as to pray to him; nor so much as to' say,
" Lord, have mercy upon me i" no, nor to mention
the name of God, unless it was to swear by, and
blaspheme it.

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have observed, on account of my
wicked and hardened life past; and when I looked
about me, and considered what particular provi.
dences had attended me since my coming into this
place, and how God had dealt bountifully with me;
had not only punished me less than my iniquity
deserved, but had so plentifully provided for me;
this gave me great hopes, that my repentance was ac ~
cepted, and that God had yet mercies in store for me.

With these reflections I worked my mind up,
not only to resignation to the will of God, in the
present disposition of my circumstances, but even
to a. sincere thankfulness for my condition, and that
I, who was yet a living man, ought not to complain,
seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins;
that I enjoyed so many mercies which I had no
reason to have expected in that place, that I ought
never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice,
and to give daily thanks, fcr that daily bread,
which nothing but a crowd of wonders could have
brought; that I ought to consider I had even by a
miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah by
ravens,nay, by a long series of miracles; and that
I could hardly have named a place in the uninha-
bited part of the world, where I could have been
cast more to my advantage: a place where. as I had
no society, which was my affliction on one hand,
so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves
or tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous crea.
tures or poisonous, which I might have fed on to
my hurt, no savages to murder and devour me.,

In a 'word, as my life was a life of sorrow one
way, so it was alifle of mercy another; and I want-
ed nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to be
able to make my sense of God's goodness to me,
and care over me in this condition, my daily conso.
lation: and after I made ajust improvement of
these things, I went away and was no more sad.

I had now been here so long, that many things
which I brought on shore for my help were either
quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been quite gone for
some time, all but a very little, which I eked out
with water a little and a little, till it was so pale it
scarce left any appearance of black upon the paper.
As long as it lasted, I made use ofit to minute
down the day of the month on which any remark-
able thing happened to me: and first, by casting
up times past, I remember that there was a strange
concurrence of days, in the various profidences
which befel me, and which, if I had been super-
stitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or form.
nate, I might have had reason to have looked upon
with a great deal of curiosity.

First, I had observed that the same day that I
broke away from my father and my friends, and
ran away to Hull, in order to go to sea, the same
day afterward I was taken by the Sallee man of
war, and made a slave.

The same day of the year that I escaped out of
the wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that
same day of the year afterward I made my escape

from Sallee in the boat.

The same day of the year I was born on, viz. the
30th of September, the same day I had my life. so
miraculously saved twenty-six years after, when I
was cast on shore in this island: so that my wicked
life, and solitary life, began both on a day.aosmson CRUSOE. 143

The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that
of my bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought
out of the ship. This I had husbanded to the last
degree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a
day, for above a year; and yet I was quite without
bread. for near a year, before I got any corn of my
own: and great reason I had to be thankde that I
had any at all,the getting it being, as has been al-
ready observed,next to miraculous.

My clothes too began to decay mightily. As to
linen, I had none a good while, except some check
shirts which I found in the chests of the other sea-
men, and which I carefully preserved, because ma-
ny times I could bear no other clothes on but a
shirt; and it was a very great help to me that I had
among all the men's clothes of the ship almostthree
dozen of shirts. There were also several thick
watchcoats of the seamen, which were left behind,
but they were too hot to wear; and though it is
true, that the weather was so violent hot, that there
was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite na-
ked, no, though I had been inclined to it, which I
was not, nor could I abide the thoughts of it, though
I was all alone.

One reason why I could not go quite naked, was,
I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when
quite naked, as with some clothes on, nay, the very
heat frequently blistered my skin; whereas, with a
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and
whistling under that shirt, was twofold cooler than
without it. N o more could I ever bring myself to
go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat,
the heat of the sun heating with such violence as it
does in that place, would give me the headache pre-
sently, by darting so directly on my head,without a
cap or a hat on, so thatI could not bear it; where.
as, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.

Upon these views I began to consider about put-
ting the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into
same order. I had worn out all the waistcoats I
had, and my business was now to try if I could not
make jackets out of the great watch-coats which I
had by me, and with such other materials as I had;
so I set to work a tailoring, or rather indeed a butch.
ing, for I made most pita-ens work of it. How-
ever, I made shift to make two or three new waist-
eoats,whieh I hoped would Serve me a great while;
as for breeches or drawers, I made hut very sorry
shift indeed, till afterward.

 

CHAPTER Vi.

ROBINSON MAKES HIMSELF A NEW DRESS. AND
BUILDS A SMALL CANCEL--HE DOMESTICATES
SEVERAL ANIMALS--TRBMENDOL'S ALARM
AT A SINGL'LAR APPEARANCE.

I HAVE mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean the four footed ones;
and I had hung them up stretched out with sticks
in the sun, by which means some of them were so
dry and hard, that they were lit for little,but others
were very useful. The first thing I made of these
was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the
outside to shoot of the rain; and this [performed
so well, that,after this, I made me a suit of clothes,
wholly of those skins; that is to say, a waistcoat
and breeches, open at knees, and both loose: for
they were rather wanting to keep me cool, than to
keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge,
that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a
bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However,
they were such as I made a very good shift with,
j and when I was abroad, if it happened to rain,
: the hair of the waistcoat and cap being outmost, I
" was kept very dry.

2 After this I spent a great deal of time and pains
' to make me an umbrella: I was indeed in great
want of one, and had a great mind to make one.
. I had seen them made in the Brasils, where thy
are very useful in the great heats which are there;
and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and
greater too, being nearer the equinox: besides as
' I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most
5 useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the
2 beats. I took a world of pains at it, and was a
great while before I could make any thing likely
' to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way,
I spoiled two or three before I had made one to my
3' mind : but at last I made one that answered indif.
: ferently well. The main dificulty I found was to
g make it to let down. I could make it to spread ;
but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it would
2;' not be portable for me any way but just over my
head, which would not do. However, at last, as I
" said, I made one to answer: I coveredit with
skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain
like a penthouse, and kept off the sun so effectually,
that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather,
with greater advantage than I could before in the
coolest; and when I had no need of it, I could
close it and carry it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind be.
ing entirely composed, by resigning to the will of
God, and throwing myself wholly upon the dispo-

r. .
sal of his providence. This made my life better ;
than sociable; for when I began to regret the want
of conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus .3
conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and, ~
as I hope I may say, with even my Maker, by
ejaculations and petitions, was not better than the
utmost enjoyment of human society in the world ?

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any i.
extraordinary thing happened to me; but I lived f
on in the same course, and in the same posture and
ppe, just as before. The chief thing I was em- I:
p oyed in,besides my yearly labour of planting my j
barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both
which I always kept up just enough to have suffi- j
cient stock of one year's provisions before. hand: '
I say, besides this yearly labour, and my daily lag '
bout of going out with my gun, I had one labour
-to make me a canoe, which at last I finished. So .
that by digging a canal to it six feet wide, and four
feet deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half -
a mile. As for the first, that was so vastly big, as
I made it without consideration before-hand, as I
ought to do, how I should be able to launch it: so 5
never being able to bring it to the water, or bring j
the water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it
Was, as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser ff
next time. Indeed the next time, though I could ,-
not get a tree proper for it, and was in a place
where I could not get the water to it, at any less
distance than, as I have said, of near half a mile, ;
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave '3
it over; and though I was near two years about
it, yet I never grudged my labour, in hopes of ha- .
ving a boat to go off to sea in at last.

However, though my little perigua was finished,
yet the size of it was not at all answerable tothe
design,.which I had in viewrwhen- I made the first;
I mean of venturing over to the terra firma, where
'it was above forty miles broad: accordingly the
smallness of my boat assisted to putan end to the de-
sign, and now I thought no more of it. But as I
had a boat. my next design was to make a tour
round the island; for as I had been on the other

side in one place, crossing. as I have already de-
scribed it, over the land, so the discoveries I made
in that journey made me very eager to see other
parts of the coast; and now I had aboat I thought
of nothing but sailing round the island. '

For this purpose, and that I might do every thing
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little-
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some
of the pieces of the ship's sails, which lay in store,
and of which I had a great stock by me.

Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the
boat, I found she would sail very well. Then I
made little. lockers or boxes at either end of my
boat, to put provisions, necessaries, and ammu.
nition, 8w. into, to be kept dry, either from rain>>, or
the spray of the sea, and a little long hollow place,
I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could lay
my gun, making a flap to hang down over to keep
it drv.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern,
like a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the
heat of the sun 06' me, like an awning; and thus
I every now and then took a little voyage upon the
sea, but never went far out, nor far from 'the little
creek; but at last, being eager to view the dream
ference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my
tour, and accordingly I rictualled my ship for the
voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes

I should rather call them) of barley bread,an earth-
1. 2
en pot full of parched rice, a food I eat a great deal
of, alittle bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder
and shot for killing more, and two large watch.
coats, of those which, as I mentioned before, I had
saved out of the seamen's chests; these I took, one
to lie upon, and the other to cover me in the night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of

my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that
I set out on this vpyage, and I found it much lon-
ger than I expected; for though the island itself
was not very large, yet when I came to the east
side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out
above two leagues into the sea, some above wa-
ter, some under it; and beyond that a shoal of
sand, lying dry, half a league more, so that I was
obliged to go a great way out to sea to double that
. oint.
1) When I first discovered them, I was going to
give over my enterprise, and come back, not know-
ing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and
above all, doubting how I should get back again;
so I came to anchor, for I had made me a kind of an
anchor, with a piece of a broken grappling, which
I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and
went on shore, climbing upon a hill, which seemed
to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent
of it. and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I
stood, I perceived a strong, and, indeed, a most
furious current, which ran to the east, and even
came close to the point; and I took the more no--
tice of it, because I saw there might be some dann
get, that when I came into it, I might be carried
out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to
make the island again. And indeed,had I not got
first upon this hill, I believe it would have been so 5
for there was the same current on the other side of
the island, only that it set off at a farther distance,
and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore;
so I had nothing to do but to get in out of the
first current, and I should presently be in an
edd .

I ylay here, however, two days; because the wind,
blowing pretty fresh (at E. S. E. and that being just
contrary to the Said current), made a great breach
of the sea. upon the point; so that it was not safe
for me to keep too close to the shore for the breach,
nor to go too far 03' because of the stream.

The third day in the morning, the wind having
abated over night, the sea was calm, and I ventu-
red; but I am a warning-piece again to all rash
pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, when
even I was not my boat's length from the shore,
but I found myself in a great depth of water, and
a current like the sluice of a mill. It carried my
boat along with it with such violence, that all I
could do, could not keep her as much as on the
edge of it ; but I found it hurried me farther and
farther out from the eddy, which was on the left
hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and
all that I could do with my paddles signified-no.
thing: and now I began to give myself over for
lost; for, as the current was on both sides of the
island, I knew in a few leagues distance they must
join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone,nor
did I see any probability of avoiding it; so that
I had no prospect before me but of perishing, not
by the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starv-
ing for hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise on
the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had
tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of
fresh water. that is to say, one of my earthen pots:
but what was all this to being driven into the vast
ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no
main land or island, for a thousand leagues at
least '!

Itis scarce possible to imagine the consternation
I was now in, being driven from my beloved island
(for so it appeared now to be) into the wide ocean,
almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of
ever recoveringit again. However, I worked hard,
till indeed my strength was almost exhausted,
and kept my boat as much to the northward, that
is, towards the side of the current which the eddy
lay-on, as possibly as I could. When about noon,
as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a
little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from
the S. S. E. This cheered my heart a little, and
especially when in about half an hour more it
blew a pretty small gentle gale. By this time I
was got a frightful-distance from the island, and
had the least cloud or hazy weather intervened, I
had been undone another way too; for I had no
compass on board, and should never have known
how to have steered, towards the island, if I had
but once lost sight of it: but the weather continu-
ing clear, I applied myself to get up my mast
again, and spread my sail, standing away to the
north as much as possible, to get out of the current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat
began to stretch away, I saw, even by the clear-
ness of the water, some alteration of the current
was near; for where the current was so strong, the
water was foul; but perceiving the water clear, I
found the current abate, and presently found to the
east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon
some rocks; these rocks I found caused theeunent

 

~--"--"~ .. . . - . . v ' ....- "me-m..." ,M
   

j. to part again, and as the main stress of it ran away
f5 more southerly, leaving the rocks tothe north-east,
i so the other returned by the repulse of the rock,
.3 and made a strong eddv, which ran back again to
f the north-west, with a very sharp stream.

' They who know what it is to have a reprive
7 brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued
,'l from thieves just going to murder them, or who have
1:7 been in such like extremities, may guess what my
present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put
my boat into the stream of this eddy; and the wind
also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it,
running cheerfully before the wind, and with a
strong tide or eddy under foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way
back again, directly towards the island, but about
two leagues more towards the northward than the
current lay, which carried me away at first: so
that when I came near the island, I found myself
open to the northern shore of it, that is to say,
the other end of the island, opposite to that which
I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league
of way by the help of the current or eddy, I found
it was spent, and served me no farther. However,
I found that being between the two great currents,
viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me
away, and that on the north, which lay about two
leagues on the other side; I say, between these
two, in the west of the island, I found the water at
least still, and running no way; and having still
a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering di-
rectly for the island, though not making such fresh ,
way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then
within about a league of the island, I found the
point of the rocks which occasioned this disaster
stretching out, as is described before, to the south.
ward, and casting ofi' the current more southwardly,
had, of course, made another eddy to the north;
and this I found very strong, but not directly set.
ting the way my course lay, which was due west,
but almost full north. However, having a fresh
gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north-
west, and in about an hour came within a mile of
the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon
got to land.

When I was on shore I fell on my knees and gave
God thanks for my escape, resolving to lay aside
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and re-
freshing myself with such things as I had, Ibrought
my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I
had espied under some trees, and laid me down to
sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue
of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat. I had run so much hazard, and
knew too much the case, to think of attempting it
by the way I went out; and whatgmight be at the
other side (I mean the west side), I knew not, nor
had I any mind to run any more ventures: so I
only resolved in the morning to make my way west-
ward along the shore, and to see if there was no
creek, where I might lay up my frigate in safety,
so as to have her again, if I wanted her. In about
three miles or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I
came to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile
over, which narrowed till it came to a very little
rivulet or brook, where I found a oonvenient'har-
hour for my boat, and where she lay as if she had
been in a little dock made on purpose for her: here
I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe,I--v--

nosmsorz causes. 153

went on shore to look about me, and see where
I was.

I soon found'I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot
to that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat,
but my gun and my umbrella, for it was exceeding
hot, I began my march. The way was comfortable
enough after such a voyage as I had been upon,
and I reached my old bower 1n the evening, where
I found every thing standing as I left it; for I al-

ways kept it in good order, being as I said before, _

my country house.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the
shade to rest my limbs; for I was very weary, and
fell asleep. But judge you, if you can, that read
my story, what surprise I must be in, when I was
awaked out of my sleep, by a voice calling me by
name several times, " Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe !
poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you Robin Crusoe?
Where are you? where have you been?

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, or paddling as it is called, the first part of
the day, and with walking the latter part, that I did
not wake thoroughly, and dozing, between sleeping
and waking, thought I dreamed th at somebody spoke
to me. But as the voice continued to repeat " Ro--
bin Crusoe! Robin Crusoe. "' at last I began. to
awake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully
frighted, and started up in the utmost consternation.
Butno sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my
Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and innuedi-
ately knew that it was he that spoke to me. - for
just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk
to him, and teach him, and he had learned it so
perfectly, that he would sit upon my finger, and
lay h'is bill close to my face, and cry, " Poor Robin

. -'h m. A..-- _ I 1.- -_..- .._'A--'_A
Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been?
How came you here !" and such things as I had
taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot,
and thatindeed it could be nobody else, it was a
good while before I could compose myself. First,
I was amazed how the creature got thither, and
then how he should just keep about the place, and
no where else. But as I was well satisfied it could
be nobody but honest Poll,l got over it; and hold-
ing out my hand, and calling him by his name,
" Poll," the sociable creature came to me, and sat
upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued
talking to me, " I'oor Robin Crusoe ! and how did
I come here, and where had I been, just as if he
had been overjoyed to see me again; and so I car.
ried him home along with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for
some time, and had enough to do for many days to
sit still, and reflect upon the danger] had been in.
I would have been very glad to have had my boat
_ again on my side of the island; but I knew not
how it was practicable to get it about. As to the
east side of the island, which I had gone round,
I knew well enough there was no venturing that
way; my very heart would shrink, and my very
blood run chill, but to think of it. And as to the
other side of the island, I did not know how it
might be there; but supposing the current ran with
the same force against the shore at the east, as it
passed by it on the other, I might run the same
risk of being driven down the stream, and carried
by the island, as I had been before of being carri.
ed away from it; so with these thoughts I contented
myself to be without any boat, though it had been
the product of so many months' labour, to make
it, and of so many more, to get into the sea.

In this government of my temper I remained
near ayear, lived a very sedate, retired life,as you
may well suppose: and my thoughts being very
much composed as to my condition, and fully com-
forted in resigning myself to the dispositions of
Providence, I thought I lived really very happily in
all things, except that of society.

1 improved myself in this time in all the me-
chanic exercises which my necessities put me upon
applying myself to; and, I believe, could upon
occasion, have made a very good carpenter, especi-
ally considering how few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfec-
tion in my earthenware, and contrived well enough
to make them with a wheel, which I found infinite-
ly easier and better; because I made things round
and shapeable, which before were filthy things in-
deed to look on. But I thinkl never was more
vain of my own performance, or more joyful for
any thing I found out, than for my being able to
make a tobaccmpipe; and though it was a very
ugly, clumsy thing, when it was done, and only
burnt red like other earthenware, yet, as it was
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was
exceedingly comforted with it; for I had been al~
ways used to smoke, and there were pipes in the '
ship, but I forgot them at first, not knowing that
there was tobacco in the island: and afterward,
when I searched the ship again, I could not come
at any pipes at all.

In my wicker-ware I also improved much, and
made abundance of necessary baskets, as well as
my invention shewed me, though not very hand.
some, yet they were such as were very handy and
convenient for my laying things up in, or fetching
things home in. For example, if I killed a goat
abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, and
dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a
basket; and the like by a turtle, I could cut it up,
take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh,
which was enough for me, and bring them home
in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also
large deep baskets were my receivers for my corn,
which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry
and cured: and kept it in great baskets, instead of
a granary.

] began now to perceive my powder abated con-
siderably, and this was a want which it was impos-
sible for me to supply, and I began seriously to
consider what I must do when I should have no
more powder; that is to say, how I should do to
kill any goats. I had as I observed in the third
year of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred
her up tame. I ;was in hopes of getting a he-kid;
but I could not by any means, bring it to pass, till
my kid grew an old goat, and I could never find in
my heart to kill her, till she died at last of mere
age.

But being now in the eleventh year of my resi-
dence, and as I have said, my ammunition growing
low, 1 set myself to study some art to trap and snare
the goats, to see whether I could not catch some
of them alive; and particularly I wanted a she-
goat great with young.

To this purpose I made snares to hamper them,
and I do believe they were more than once taken
in them; but my tackle was not good, for I had no
wire, and I always found them broken and my bait
devoured.

At lengh, I resolved to try a pitfall; so I dug
several large pits in the earth, in places where IROBINSON 01105011. 157

had observed the goats used to feed, and over these
pits I placed hurdles of my own making too, with
a great weight upon them; and several'times I put
ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the
trap, and I could easily perceive that the goats
had gone in, and eaten up the corn, for I could
see the mark of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and, going the next morning,
I found them all standing, and the bait eaten and
gone. This was very discouraging: however, I 9.1-
tercd my traps: and, not to trouble you with par

ticulars, going one morning to see my traps, I
found 1n one of them a large old he-goat; and, in
one of the others, three kids, a male and two
females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with
him: he was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to
him; that' 18 to say, to go about to bring him away
alive, which was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would
it answer my end; so I even let him out, and he
ran away as if he had been frighted out of his wits;
but I had forgot then, what I learned afterward,
that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let him
stay there three or four days without food, and then
have carried him some water to drink, and then a
little corn, he would have been as tame as one of
the kids; for they are mighty sagacious, tractable
creatures, when they are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing
no better at that time; then I went to the three
kids, and, and taking them one by one, 1 tied them
with strings together,and with some dificulty brought
them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed; but

throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them,

mafivgkni .ga'inmz'.' .'__-.:. ..._-. _ _ . .1 . 1 _.11..r_'* .- 3.3-1 r 3.4;; my. rm 1fifigmhwftug
and they began to be tame. And now I found, that
if I expected to supply myself with goat's flesh,
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some
up tame was my only way, when perhaps I might
have them about my house like a flock of sheep.

But then it presently occurred to me, that I must
keep the tame from the wild,or else they would al-
ways run wild when they grew up; and the only
way for this was to have some enclosed piece of
ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to
keep them up so effectually, that those within
might not break out, or those without break in.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of
hands; yet, as I saw there was an absolute neces-
sity of doing it, my first piece of work was to find
out a proper piece of ground; viz. where there was
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for them
to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will think
I had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon
a place very proper for all these, being a plain open
piece of meadow land, or savanna (as our people
call it of the western colonies), which had two or
three little drills of fresh water in it, and at one
end was very woody; I say, they will smile at my
forecast, when I shall tell them I began my enclo-
sing of this piece of ground in such a manner,
that my hedge or pale must have been at least two
miles about: nor was the madness of it so great as
to the compass; for it'it was tenmilcs about,I waslike
to have time enough to do it, but I did not consi--
der that my goats would be as wild in so much com-
pass, as if they had had the whole island; and I
should have so much room to chase them in, that
I should never catch them.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe:
about fifty yards, when this thought occurred to
me; so I presently stopped short, and, for the first
beginning I resolved to enclose a piece of about one
hundred and fifty yards in length, and one hun.
dred yards in breadth, which, as it would maintain
as many as I should have in any reasonable time,
so, as my flock increased, I could add more ground
to my enclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went
to work with courage. I was about three months
hedging in the first piece, and, till I had done it,
I tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and
used them to feed as near me as possible, to make
them familiar; and very often I would go and
carry them some ears of barley. or a handful of
rice, and feed then. out of my hand, so that, after
my enclosure was finished, and I let them loose,
they would follow me up and down, bleating after
me for a handful of corn.

This answered my end, and in about a year and
a half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and
all; and in two years more I had three-and-forty,
besides several that I took and killed for my food:
and after that I enclosed fire several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with little pens to drive
them into, to take them as I wanted them; and
gates out of one piece of ground into another.

But this was not all; for now I not only had
goat's flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk
too; a thing which indeed in the beginning Idid
not so much as think of, and which, when it came
into my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise :
for now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a.
gallon or two of milk in a day. And as nature,
who gives supplies of food to every creature, die.
tates even naturally bow to make use of it: so I,
that never milked a cow, much less a goat, or saw
butter or cheese made, very readily and handily,
though after a great many essays and misscarriages,
made me both butter and cheese at last, and never
wanted it afterward.

How mercifully can our Creator treat his crea-
tures, even in those conditions in which they seem-
ed to be overwhelmed in destruction ! How can
he sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us
cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons !
What a table was here spread for me in a wilder-
ness, where I saw nothing at first but to perish for
hunger!

It would have made a Stoic smile to have seen
me and my little family sit down to dinner. There
was my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole
island. I had the lives of all my subjects at my
absolute command. I could hang, draw, give li-
berty, and take it away, and no rebels among all
my subjects.

Then to see how like akingr I dined too, all alone,
attended by my servants! l'oll, as if he had been
my favourite, was the only person permitted to talk
to me: my dog, who was now grown very old and
crazy, and had found no species to multiply his
kind upon, sat always at my right hand; and two
cats, one on one side the table, and one on the other,
expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a
mark of special favour.

But these were not the two cats which I brought
on shore at first; for they were both of them dead,
and had been interred near my habitation by my
own hands; but one of them having multiplied by
I know not what kind of creature, these were two
which I had preserved tame, whereas the rest ran
wild in the woods, and became indeed troublesome
to me at last; for they would often come into my
house and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged
to shoot them, and kill a great many; at length
they left me with this attendance. And in this
plentiful manner I lived; neither could I be-said
to want any thing but society, and of that, in some
time after this, I was like to have too much.

I was something impatient, as I before observed.
to have the use of my boat, though very loath to
run any more hazards ': and therefore sometimes I
satcontriving ways to get her about the island, and
at other times I sat myself down contented enough
without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my
mind to go down to the point of the island, where,
as I have said, in my last ramble, I went up the
hill to see how the shore lay, and how the current
sat, that I might see what I had to do. This in-
clination increased upon me every day, and at
length I resolved to travel thither by land; and fol-
lowing the edge of the shore I did so: but had any
one in England been to meet such a man as I was,
it must either have frighted him, or raised a great
deal of laughter; and as I frequently stood still to
look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion
of my travelling through Yorkshire with such an
equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take
a sketch of my figure as follows: -

I had a great, high, shapeless cap, made of a
goat's skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as
well to keep the sun from_me, as to shoot the rain
03' from running into my neck; nothing being so
hurtful in these climates, as the rain upon the flesh
under the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts
coming down to about the middle of my thighs; and
a pair of open-kneed breaches of the same: the

x
breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat,
whose hair hung down such a length on either side,
that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of
my legs. Stockings and shoes I had none; but I
had made me a pair of something, I scarce knew
what to call them,like bu skins, to flap over my legs,
and lace on either side like spatterdashes, but of a
most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of
my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried,
which I drew together with two thongs of the sa'me,
instead of buckles; and, in a kind of a frog, on
either side of this, instead of a sword and a dag-
ger, hung a little saw and a hatchet, one on one
side, one on the other. I had another belt not
so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under
my left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's
skin too; in one of which hung my powder, in the
other my shot. At my back I carried my basket.
on my shoulder my gun, and over my head a great,
clumsy, goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all,
was the most necessary thing I had about me, next
to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was
really not so Mulatto-like as one might expect froin
a man not at all careful of it, and living within
nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My heard I
had once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter
of a yard long; but as I had both scissors and ra-
zors suflicient, I had cut it pretty short except what
grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had
seen worn by some Turks, whom I saw at Sallee;
for the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks
did. Of these mustachios, or whiskers, I will not
say they were long enough to hang my hat upon
them; but they were of a length and shape mon-
strous enough, and such as in England would have

passed for frightful.

But all this is by the bye: for as to my figure, I
had so few to observe me, that it was of no manner
of consequence; so I say no more to that part. In
this kind of figure I went my new journey, and was
out five or six days. I travelled first along the sea
shore, directly to the place where I first brought
my boat to anchor, to get up upon the rocks; and,
having no boat now to take care of, I went over the
land a nearer way, to the same height that] was
upon before, when looking forward to the point of
the rocks which lay out, and which I was to double
with my boat, as I said above, I was surprised to
see the sea all smooth and quiet: no rippling, no
motion, no current, any more there than in other

places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and

resolved to spend some time in observing it, to see
if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned
it. But I was presently convinced how it was, viz.
that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and join-
ing with the current of waters from some great river
on the shore, must be the occasion of this current;
and that, according as the wind blew more forcibly
from the west, or from the north, this current came
near, or went farther from the shore; for, waiting
thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock again,
and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw
the current again as before, only that it ran farther
off, being near half a league from the shore: where-
as, in my case, it set close upon the shore, and
hurried me in my canoe, along with it, which at
another time it would not have done.

This observation convinced me, that I had no-

112
thing to do but to observe the ebbing and the flow.
ing of the tide, and I might very easily bring my
boat about the island again; but when I began to
think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror
upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger
I had been in, that I could not think of it again
with any patience; but, on the contrary, I took up
another resolution, which was more safe, though
more laborious, and this was, that I would build, or
rather make me another periagua, or canoe, and so
have one for one side of the island, and one for the
other.

You are to understand that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island; one, my little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time
I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One of these, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall
joined to the rock, was all filled up with large
earthen pots, of which I have given an account,
and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which
would hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up
my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in
the ear cut off short from the straw, and the other
rubbed out with my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes
or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much,
that there was not the least appearance, to any one's
view, of any habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther
within the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two
pieces of corn-ground, which I kept duly cultivated
and sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest
in its season; and whenever I had occasion for
more com, I had mOre land adjoining as fit as
that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had
now a tolerable plantation there also. For, first, I
had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept in
repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which cir-
cled it in, constantly fitted up to its usual height,
the ladder standing always in the inside. I kept
the trees, which at first were no more than my
stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall; I
kept them always so cut, that they might spread
and grow thick and wild, and make the more agree-
able shade, which they did effectually to my mind.
In the middle of this I had my tent always stand-
ing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles set up
for that purpose, and which never wanted any re-
pair or renewing; and under this I had made me a
squab or a couch, with the skins of the creatures I
had killed, and with other soft things, and a Man--
ket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-bed-
ding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to
cover me: and here, whenever I had occasion tobe
absent from my chief seat, I took up my country
habitation.

Adjoining to this, I had my enclosures for my
cattle, that is to say, my goats: and as I had taken
an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose
this ground, I was so uneasy to see it kept entire,
lest the goats should break through, that I never
left off, till with infinite labour, I had stuck the out-
side of the hedges so full of small stakes, andso
near to one another, that it was rather a pale tha'n _
a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand----
through between them; which afierward, when

those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy
season, made the inclosure strong, like a wall, in-
deed stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and
that I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever ap-
peared necessaryfor my comfortable support; for I
considered the keeping up a breed of tame crea-
tures thus at my band, would be a living magazine
of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me, as long as
I lived in the place, if it were to be forty years:
and that keeping them within my reach, depended
entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such
a degree, that I might be sure of keeping them to-
gether; which by this method indeed I so effectually
secured, that when these little stakes began to
grow, I had planted them so very thick I was
forced to pull some of them up again.

In this place also I had my grapes growing,
which I principally depended on for my winter-
store of raisins, and which I never failed to preserve
very carefully, as the best and most agreeable
dainty of my whole diet; and indeed they were not
agreeable only, but physical, wholesome, nourish-
ing, and refreshing to the last degree.

As this was also about halfiway between my
other habitation and the place where I had laid up
my boat, I generally staid and lay here in my way
thither; for I used frequently to visit my boat, and
I kept all things about or belonging to her in very
good order. Sometimes I went out in her to divert
myself ; but no more hazardous voyages would I
go, nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or two from
the shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried
out of my knowledge again by the currents, or
winds, or any other accident. But now I come to
a new scene of my life. '

It happened one day about noon, going towards
my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print
of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was very
plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thun-
derstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition. I lis.
tened, I looked round me; I could hear nothing,
nor see any thing. I went up to a rising ground
to look farther. I went up the shore, and down the
shore, but it was all one; I could see no other im-
pression but that one. I went to it again to see if
there were any more, and to observe if it might not
be my fancy; but there was no room for that, for
there was exactly the very print of a foot, toes, heel,
and every part of a foot: how it came thither, I
knew not, nor could in the least imagine. But
after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man
perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home
to my fortification, not feeling, as we say, the
ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree,
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mis.
taking every bush and tree, and fancying every
stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it possi.
ble to describe how many various shapes an af-
frighted imagination represented things to me in;
how many wild ideas were formed every moment
in my fancy, and what strange unaccountable
whimsies came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I call.
ed it ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued :
whether I went over by the ladder, as first contrived,
or went in at the hole in the rock, which I caJled a
door, I cannot remember; for never frighted hare
fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of

mind than 1 to this retreat. _
I had no sleep that night. The farther I was

from the occasion of my fright, the greater my ap.
prehensions were; which is something contrary to
the nature of such things, and especially to the
usual practice of all creatures in fear. But I was
so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the
thing, that I formed nothing but dismal imagina-
tions to myself, even though I was now a great way
off it. Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil;
and reason joined in with me upon this supposi-
tion: for how should any other thing in human
shape come into the place? Where was the vessel
that brought them? What marks were there of
any other footsteps? And how was it possible a
man should come there; But then to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such
a place, where there could be no manner of occa.
sion for it, but to leave the print or his foot behind
him, and that even for no purpose too (for he could
not be sure I should see it), this was an amazement
the other way. I considered that the devil might
have found out abundance of other ways to have
terrified me, than this of the single print of a foot:
that as I lived quite on the other side of the island,
he would never have been so simple to leave a
mark in the place where it was ten thousand to one
whether I should ever see it or not, and in the sand
too, which the first surge of the sea upon a high wind
would have defaced entirely. All this seemed in-
consistent with the thing itself, and with all notions
we usually entertain of the subtlety of the devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to
argue me out of all apprehensions of its being the
devil: and I presently concluded then, that it must
be some more dangerous creature ; viz. that itmust
be some of the savages of the main land over
against me, who had wandered out to sea in their
canoes, and, either driven by the currents, or by
contrarywinds, had made the island; and had been
on shore, but were gone away again to sea, being
as loath, perhaps, to have staid in this desolate
island, as I would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my
mind, I was very thankful in my thoughts, that I
was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time,
or that they did not see my boat, by which they
would have concluded, that some inhabitants had
been in the place, and perhaps have searched far.
ther for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my
imagination about their having found my boat, and
that there were people here; and that, if so, I
should certainly have them come again in greater
numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen
so that they should not find me, yet they would
find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away
all my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at
last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope;
all that former confidence in God, which was
founded upon such wonderful experience as I had
had of his goodness, now vanished; as if he that
had fed me by miracle hitherto, could not preserve
by his power the provision which he had made for
me by his goodness.

How strange achecker-work of Providence is the
life of man! and by what secret difi'erent springs
are the affections hurried about, as different circum.
stances present! Today we love what to marrow
we hate: to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun :
today we desire what to-morrow we fear; nay, even
tremble at the apprehensions of. This was exem-
plified in me, at this time, in the most lively man-
ner imaginable; for 1, whose only aflliction was,
that I seemed banished from human society; that
I was all alone, circumscribed by the boundless
ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemned to
what I call silent life; that I was not as one whom
Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among
the living, or to appear among the rest of his crea-
tures; that to have seen one of my own species,
would have seemed to me a raising me from death
to life, and the greatest blessing that Heaven it-
self, next to the supreme blessing of salvation,
could bestow; I say, that I should now tremble at
the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was
ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow, or
silent appearance of a man's having set his foot on
the island.

Such is the uneven state of human life; and it
afforded me a great many curious speculations af-
terward, when I had a little recovered my first sur.
prise. I considered that this was the station of =
life, the infinitely wise and good providence of God
had determined for me; that as I could not foresee
what the ends of Divine wisdom might be in all
this, so I was not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as
I was his creature, had an undoubted right, by cre.
ation, to govern and dispose of me absolutely as
he thought fit; and who, as I was a creature who
had ofi'ended him, had likewise a judicial right to
condemn me to what punishment he thought fit;
and that it was my part to submit to hear his in-
dignation, because I had sinned against him.

I then reflected that God, who was not only
righteous, but omnipotent, as he had thought fit
thus to punish and afllict me, so he was able to de-
liver me; that if he did not think fit to do it, it was
my unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely
and entirely to his will: and, on the other hand, it
was myduty also to hope in him, pray to him, and
quietly to attend the dictates and directions of his
daily providence.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days,
nay, I may say, weeks and months; and one par.
ticular effect of my cogitations on this occasion, I
cannot omit; viz. one morning early, lying in my
bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger from
the appearance of savages, I found it discomposed
me very much; upon which those words of the
Scripture came into my thoughts, " Call upon me
in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me."

Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my
heart was not only comforted, but I was guided
and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deli-
verance. When I had done praying, I took up my
Bible, and opening it to read, the first words that
presented to me were, "Wait on the Lord. and be
of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart;
wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible to ex-
press the comfort this gave me: and in return I
thankfully laid down the book, and was no more
sad, at least not on that occasion.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions,
and reflections, it came into my thoughts one day,
that all this might be a mere chimera of my own,
and that this foot might be the print of my own
foot, when I came on shore from my boat. This
cheered me up a little too, and I began to persuade
myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing
else but my own feet; and why might not I come
that way from the boat, as well as I was going that
way to the boat? Again, I considered also, that I
could by no means tell for certain where I had trod,
and where I had not; and that- if at last this was
only the print of my own foot, I had played the
part of those fools, who strive to make stories of
spectres and apparitions, and then are them-

"11%"... 1:2:
selves frighted at them more than any body else.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again: for I had not stirred out of my castle for
three days and nights, so that I began to starve for
provision, for I had little or nothing within doors,
but some barley cakes and water. Then I knew
that my goats wanted to he milked too, which usu-
ally was my evening diversion; and the poor crea.
tures were in great pain and inconvenience for
want of it, and indeed it almost spoiled some of
them, and almost dried up their milk.

Heartening myself therefore with the belief, that
this was nothing but the print of one of my own
feet (and so I might be truly said to start at my own 5
shadow), I began to go abroad again, and went to
my country house to milk my flock; but to see
with what fear I went forward, how often I looked
behind me, how I was ready, every now and then,
to lay down my basket, and run for my life, it
would have made any one have thought I was
haunted with an evil conscience, or that] had been

' lately most terribly frighted; and so indeed I had.

However, as I went on thus two or three days,
and had seen nothing, I began to be alittle bolder
and to think there was really nothing in it but my
own imagination; but I could not persuade myself
fully of this, till I should go down to the shore
again, and see this print of a foot, and measure it
by my own, and see if there was any similitude or
fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot.
But when I came to the place first, it appeared evi-
dently to me, that when I laid up my boat, I could
not possibly be on shore any where thereabouts.
Secondly, when I came to measure the mark with
my own foot, I found my foot not so large by a
great deal: both these things filled my head withacnmsox 6311303. 178

new imaginations, and gave me the vapours again
to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold,
like one in an ague, and I went home again, filled
with the belief that some man or men. had been on
shore there; or, in short, that the island was in-
habited, and I might be surprised before I was

aware; and what course to take for my security, I
knew not.

 

CHAPTER VII.

CRUSOE STRENGTHENS HIS STRONGHOLD--AWFUL
DISCOVERY--UNEASINESS 0F MIND---PLAN8
OF AMBUSCADE.

0 WHAT ridiculous resolutions men take, when
possessed with fear! It deprives them of theuse
of those means which reason offers for their relief.
The first thing I proposed to myself was,to throw
down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle

wild into the woods, that the enemy might not find -

them, and then frequent the island in prospect of
the same, or the like booty; then the simple thing
of digging up my two corn fields, that they might
not find such a grain there, and still be prompted

to frequent the island; then to demolish my bower -

and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of
habitation, and be tempted to look farther, in order
to find out the persons inhabiting.

These were the subjects of the first night's cogita-
tion, alter I was? come again, while the apprehen-
sions which had so overrun my mind were fresh
upon me, and my _head was full of vapours, as
above. Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times
more terrifying than danger itself when apparent to
the eyes; and we find the burden of anxiety great-
er by much, than the evil which we are anxious
about; but, which was worse than all this, I had
not that relief in this trouble from the resignation
I used to practise, that I hoped to have. I looked,
I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that
the Philistines were upon him, but that God had
forsaken him; for I did not now take due ways to
compose my mind, by crying to God in my distress,
and resting upon his providence, as I had done
before, for my defence and deliverance; which if I
had done, I had, at least, been more cheerfully sup-
ported under this new surprise, and perhaps car-
ried through it with more resolution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking
all night; but, in the morning, I fell asleep, and
having, by the amusement of my mind, been, as
it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very
soundly, and awaked much better composed than
I had ever been before. And now I began to think
sedately; and, upon the utmost debate with my-
self, I concluded, that this island, which was so
exceedingly pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from
the main land than as I had seen, was not so en-
tirely abandoned as I might imagine; that although
there were no stated inhabitants who lived on this
spot, yet that there might sometimes come boats off
from the shore, who, either with design, or perhaps
never but when they were driven by cross winds,
might come to this place: that 1 had lived fifteen
years now, and had not met with the least shadow
or figure of any people before; and that if at any
time they should be driven here, it was probable
they went away again as soon as ever they could,
seeing they had never thought fit to fix there, upon
any occasion, to this time; that the most I could
suggest any danger from, was, from any such casual
accidental landing of straggling people from the
main; who, as it was likely, if they were driven
hither, were here against their wills, so they made
no stay here, but went off again with all possible
speed, seldom staying one night on shore, lest they
should not have the help of the tides and daylight
back again; and that therefore I had nothing to do
but to consider of some safe retreat, in case I
should see any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent, that I had dug my
cave so large as to bring a door through again,
which door, as I said, came out beyond where my
fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely
considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a
second fortification, in the same manner of a semi.
circle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees, about twelve years
before, of which I made mention. These trees
having been planted so thick before, there wanted
but a few piles to be driven between them, that
they should be thicker and stronger, and my wall
would be soon finished.

So that I had now a double wall, and my outer
wall was thickened with pieces of umber. old cables,
and every thing I could think of to make it strong;
having m it seven little holes about as big as
I might put my arm out at. In the inside of
this I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick,
continually bringing earth out of my cave, and
laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon
it; and through the seven holes I contrived to
plant the muskets, of which I took notice that I got

seven on shore out of the ship; these, I say, I

fl-a >~v....~., . .-

. - -mA-rw--Wfi'. _
planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames
that held them like a carriage, that so I could fire
all the seven guns in two minutes' time. This
wall I was many a weary month in finishing, and
yet never thought myself safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground
without my wall, for a great way every way, as full
with stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which
I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand;
insomuch that I believe I might set in near twenty
thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space
between them and my wall, that I might have room
to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees if they attempted to approach
my outer wall. '

Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove;
and, in five or six years' time, I had a wood before
my dwelling grown so monstrous thick and strong
that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no
man, of what kind soever, would ever imagine that
there was any thing beyond it, much less a habita.
tion. As for the way I proposed to myself to go in
and out (for I left no avenue), it was by setting two
ladders; one to a part of the rock which was low,
and then broke in, and left room to place another
ladder upon that: so when the two ladders were
taken down, no man living could come down to me
without mischiefing himself; and if they had come
down, they were still on the outside of my outer
wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence
could suggest for my own preservation; and it will
be seen, at length, that they were not altogether
without just reason, though I foresaw nothing at
that time, more than my mere fear suggested to
me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether care.
less of my other affairs; for I had a great concern
upon me for my little herd of goats: they were not
only a present supply to me upon every occasion,
and began tobe suflicient to me, without the expense
of powder and shot, but also abated the fatigue of
my hunting after the wild ones; and I was so loath
to lose the advantage of them, and to have themall
to nurse up over again.

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to preserve them : one was
to find another convenient place to dig a cave un.
der ground, and to drive them into it every night;
and the other was to enclose two or three little bits
of land, remote from one another, and as much
concealed as I could, where I might keep about
half a dozen young goats in each place, so that if
any disaster happened to the flock in general, I
might be able to raise them again with little trouble,
and time : and this, though it would require a great
deal of time and labour, I thought was the most
rational design.

Accordingly I spent some time to find out the
most retired parts of the island ; and I pitched up-
on one which was as private indeed as my heart
could wish; for it was alittle damp piece cf ground
in the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where
as is observed, I almost lost myself once before,
endeavouring to come back that way from the east.
ern part of the island. Here I found a clear piece
of land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods,
that it was almost an enclosure by nature; at least
it did not want near so much labour to make it so,
as the other pieces of ground I had worked so
hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of

N
ground; and, in less than a month's time, I had
so fenced it round, that my flock or herd, call it
which you please, which were not so wild now as
at first they might be supposed to be, were well
enough secured in it. So, without any farther de-
lay, I removed ten she-goats and two he goats to
this piece; and when they were there, I continued
to perfect the fence, till I had made it as secure as
the other, which, however, I did at more leisure,
and it took .me up more time by a great deal.

All this labour I was at the expense of, purely
from my apprehensions on the account of the print
of a man's foot which I had seen; for as yet I ne-
ver saw any human creature come near the island;
and I had now lived two years under these uneasi-
nesses, which indeed made my life much less com-
fortable than it was before, as may well be imagined
by any who know what it is to live in the constant
snare of the fear of man: and this I must observe
with grief too, that the discomposure of my mind
had too great impressions also upon the religious
part of my thoughts; for the dread and terror of

,falling into the hands of savages and cannibals
lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself
in a due temper for application to my Maker, at
least not with the sedate calmness and resignation
of soul which I was wont to do.

After I had thus secured one part of my little
living stock, I went about the whole island, search-
ing for another private place, to make such another
deposit; when wandering more to the west point of
the island than I had ever done yet, and looking
out to the sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the
sea, at a great distance. I had found a perspective
glass or two, in one of the seamen's chests which
1 saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me,
' and this was so remote that I could not tell what to
make of it, though I looked at ittill my eyes were
not able to hold to look any longer. Whether it
was aboat or not, I do not know; but as I descend-
ed from the hill, I could see no more of it, so I
gave it over; only I resolved to go no more with-
out a perspective glass in my pocket.

When I was come down to the hill, to the end
of the island, where indeed I had never been be-
fore, I was presently convinced that the seeing the
print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing
in the island as I imagined, and, but that it was a
special providence that I was cast upon the side of
the island where the savages never came, I could
easily have known that nothing was more frequent
than for the canoes from the main, when they hap.
pened to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over

to that side of the island for harbour; likewise, as.

they often met, and fought in their canoes, the
victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring
them over to this shore, where, according to their
dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would
ldll and eat them. Of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as
I said above, being the S. W. point of the island,
I was perfectly confounded and amazed, nor is it
possible for me to express the horror of my mind,
at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands", feet,
and other bones of human bodies Vana- particular.
1y I observed a place where there had been a fire
made, and a circle dug 1n the earth, like acockpit,
where it is supposed the savage wretches had sat
down to their inhuman {castings upon the bodies of
their fellow creatures.
' I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to my-

 

,OI'
self from it for a long while: all my apprehensions
were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of in-
human, hellish brutaliiy, and the horror of the
degeneracy of human nature, which, though I had
heard of often, yet I never had so near a view of
before; in short, I turned away my face from the
horrid spectacle: my stomach grew sick, and I was
just at the point of fainting, when nature discharg--
ed the disorder from my stomach; and, having
vomited with an uncommon violence, I was a little
relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a
moment; so I got me up the hill again with all the
speed 1 could, and walked on towards my own ha-
bitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the is-
land, I stood still awhile as amazed ; and then
recovering myself, I looked up with the utmost
affection of my soul, and, with a flood of tears in
my eyes, gave God thanks. that had cast my first
lot in a part of the world where I was distinguish-
ed from such dreadful creatures as these, and that
though I had esteemed my present condition very
miserable, had yet given me so many comforts In
it, that I had still more to give thanks for, than to
complain of; and this, above all, that I had, even
in this miserable condition, been comforted with
the knowledge of Himself, and the hope of his
blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficient>>
ly equivalent to all the misery which Ihad suffered,

or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to

my castle, and began to be much easier now, as to
the safety of my circumstances, than ever Iwas
before; for I observed that these wretches never
came to this island in search of what they could
get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not ex-
peotlngany thing here; and having often,no doubt,
been up in the covered woody part of it, without
finding any thing to their purpose. I knew I had
been here now almost eighteen years, and never
saw the least footsteps of human creature there be.
fore; and might be here eighteen more as entirely
concealed as I was now, if I did not discover my-
self to them, which I had no manner of occasion
to do; it being my only business to keep myself
entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a
better sort of creatures than cannibals to make my.

self known to.
Yet 1 entertained such an abhorrence of the sa-

vage wretches that I have been speaking of, and
of the wretched inhuman custom of their devour-
ing and eating one another up, that I continued
pensive and sad, and kept close within my own
circle for almost two years after this. When I say
my own circle, I mean by it my three plantations,
viz. my castle, my country seat, which I called
my bower, and my enclosure in the woods; nor did
I look after this for any other use than as an en-
closure for my goats ; for the aversion which nature
gave me to these hellish wretches was such that I
was as fearful of seeing them, as of seeing the
devil himself. Nor did I so much as go to look
after my boat in all this time, but began rather to
think of making me another; for I could not think
of ever making any more attempts to bring the
other boat round the island to me, lest] should meet
with some of those creatures at sea, in which, if I
had happened to have fallen into their hands, I
knew what would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these peo.
ple, began to wear 011' my uneasiness about them ;
and I began to live just in the same composed man-
ner as before; only with this difference, that I
used more caution, and kept my eyes more about
me than I did before, lest I should happen to be
seen by any of them; and particularly I was more
cautious in firing my gun, lest any of them being
on the island should happen to hear it; and it was
therefore a very good providence to me that I had
furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, that
I needed not hunt any more about the woods, or
shoot at them; and if I did catch any of them af.
ter this, it was by traps and snares, as I had done
before: so that for two years after this, I believe I
never fired my gun once off; though I never went
out without it; and, which was more, as I had sa.
ved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried ,
them out with me, or at least two of them, sticking -
them in my goat-skin belt: I likewise furbished up
one of the great cutlasses that I had out of the
ship, and made me abelt to put it on also: so that
I was now a most formidable fellow to look at,
when I went abroad, if you add to the former de-
scription of myself the particular of two pistols, '
and a great broadsword, hanging at my side in a
belt, but without a scabbard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some
time, I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be
reduced to my former calm, sedate way of living. '
All these things tended to shewing me, more and
more, how far my condition was from being miser-
able, compared to some others, nay, to many other
particulars of life, which it might have pleased
God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflect.
ing how little repining there would be among man.
kind, at any condition of life, if people would ra--
ther compare their condition with those that are
worse, in order to be thankful, than be always com-
paring them with those which are better, to assist
their murmurings and complainings.

As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, so indeed I thought
that the frights I had been in about these savage
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own
preservation, had taken off the edge of my inven-
tion for my own coveniences; and I had dropped
a good design, which I had once bent my thoughts
upon, and that was, to try if I could not make
some of my barley into malt, and then try to brew
myself some beer. This was really a whimsical
thought, and I reproved myself often for the sim~
plicity of it; for I presently saw there would be
the want of several things necessary to the making
my beer, that it would be impossible for me to sup-
ply; as, first, casks to preserve it in, which was a
thing that, as I have observed already, I could ne-
ver compass; no, though I spent not many days,
but weeks, nay, months, in attempting it, but to no
purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to make
it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or
kettle to make it boil; and yet, had not all these
things intervened, I mean the fright and terrors I
was in about the savages, I had undertaken it, and
perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom gave
any thing over without accomplishing it, when I
once had it in my head enough to,begin it.

But my invention now ran quite another way;
for night and day I could think of nothing but how
I might destroy some of these monsters in their
cruel bloody entertainment, 'and, if possible, save
the victim they should bring hither to destroy. It
would take up a larger volume than this whole work

is intended to be, to set down all the contrivance-s

' > X's.
I hatched or rather brooded upon, in my thoughts,
for the destroying these creatures, or at least fright.
ing them, so as to prevent their coming hither any
more: but all was abortive; nothing could he pos-
sible to take effect, unless I was to be there to do
it myself: and what could one man do among
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thir.
ty of them together, with their darts, or their bows
and arrows, with which they could shoot as true to
a mark, as I could with my gun.

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the
place where they made their fire, and put in five
or six pounds of gun-powdei' which when they
kindled their fire, would consequently take fire,
and blow up all that was near it. But as, in the
first place, I should be very loath to waste so much
powder upon them, my store being now within the
quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure
of its going off, at any certain time, when it might
surprise them, and at best that it would do little
more than just blow the fire about their ears, and
fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake
the place; so I laid it aside, and then proposed
that I would place myself in ambush, in some con-
venient place with my three guns, all double load.
ed, and, in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let
fly at them,when I should be sure to kill or wound
perhaps two or three at every shot, and then fall-
ing in upon them with my three pistols, and my
sword, I made no doubt but that if there were
twenty, I should kill them all. This fancy pleased
my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of
it that I often dreamt of it, and sometimes that I
was just going to let fly at them in my sleep.

I went so far with it in my imagination that
I employed myself several days to find out properV ".15": 'quw-- yv--mv-"r--ww rm"
f? __ ' us i

35:71
Iii

"a

aomxsox e'r'iusos. 185

places to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to
watch for them; and I went frequently to the place
itself, which was now grown more familiar to me,
and especially while my mind was thus filled with
thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody putting twen-
ty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it ;
but the horror I had at the place, and at the signals
of the barbarous wretches devouring one another,
abated my malice.

Well, at length I found a place in the side of
the hill where I was satisfied I might securely wait
till I saw any of their boats coming, and might
then, even before they would be ready to come on
shore, convey myself unseen into thickets of the
trees, in one of which there was a hollow large
enough to conceal me entirely, and where I might
sit, and observe all their bloody doings, and take
my full aim at their heads, when they were so close
together, as that it would be next to impossible
that I should miss my shot, or that I could fail
wounding three or four of them at the first shot.

In this place then I resolved to fix my design,
and accordingly I prepared two muskets, and my
ordinary fowlingpiece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller
bullets; about the size of pistol bullets, and the
fowling-piece I loaded with near ahandful of swan.
shot, of the largest size. I also loaded my pistols
with about four bullets each: and in this posture,
well provided with ammunition for a second and
third charge, I prepared myself for my expedition.

Afler I had thus laid the scheme for my design,
and, in my imagination, put it in practice, I con-
tinually made my tour every morning up to the
top of the hill, which was from my castle, as I
called it, about three miles, ormore, to see if I

a
I

My}
could observe any boats upon the sea,coming near '

the island, or standing over towards it; but I be--
gan to tire of this hard duty, after I had for two or
three months constantly kept my watch, and come
always back without any discovery, there having
not in all that time been the least appearance, not
only on or near the shore, but not on the whole
ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach
every way.

As long as I kept up the daily tour to the hill to
look out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my
design; and my spirits seemed to be all the while
in a suitable frame, for so outrageous an execution
as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages for
an offence which I had not at all entered into a
discussion of in my thoughts, any farther than my
passions were at first fired by the horror I conceiv.
ed at the unnatural custom of the people of that
country; who, it seems, had been suffered by Pro
vidence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abomi-
nable and vitiated passions; and consequently,
were left, and perhaps had been so for some ages,
to act such horrid things, and receive such dread-
ful customs, as nothing but nature, entirely aban-
doned of Heaven, and actuated by some hellish
degeneracy, could have run them into. But now,
when, as I have said, I began to be weary of the
fruitless excursion which I had made so long, and
so far, every morning in vain, so my opinion of
the action itself began to alter, and I began, with
cooler and calmer thoughts, to consider what it
was I was going to engage in; what authority or
call I had, to pretend to be judge and executioner
upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had
thought fit, for so many ages, to suffer, unpumsh-

. u' -'
. _, -."-_-" 'w, _ g..t.-..s.......-.-*.--.r~b' "-v~dSS~h<<l"'"
ed, to go on, and to be, as it were, the executioner
of his judgments upon one another; also how far
these people were offenders against me, and what
right I had to engage in the quarrel of that blood,
which they shed promiscuously one upon another.
I debated this very often with myself thus: how do

I know what God himself judges in this particular
case 2 It is certain these people do not commit this
as a crime: it is not against their own consciences
reproving, or their light reproaching them. They
do not know it to be an offence, and then commit
it in defiance of Divine justice, as we do in almost
all the sins we commit. They think it no more a
crime to kill a captive taken in war, than we do to
kill an ex; nor to eat human flesh, than we do to
eat mutton. '

When I had considered this a little, it followed
necessarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it;
that these people were not murderers in the sense
that I had before condemned them in my thoughts,
any more than those Christians were murderers,
who often put to death the prisoners taken in bat-
tle, or more frequently, upon many occasions, put
whole tr00ps of men to the sword, without giving
quarter. though they threw down their arms, and
submitted.

In the next place it occurred to me, that albeit
the usage they gave one another was thus brutish
and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me;
that these people had done me no injury; that if
they attempted me, or I saw it was necessary for
my immediate preservation to fall upon them, some-
thing might be said for it 5 but that I was yet out
of their power, and they had really no knowledge
of me, and consequently no design upon me; and
therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon
them: that this would justify the conduct of the
Spaniards, in all their barbarities practised in
America, where they destroyed millions of these peo-
ple, who, however they were idolaters and barba-
rians, and had several bloody and barbarous rites
in their customs, such as sacrificing human jodies
to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very
innocent people; and that the rooting them out of
the country is spoken of with the utmost abhor.
rence and detestation, even by the Spaniads them-
selves, at this time, and by all other Christian na-
tions of Europe, as a mere hatchery, and a bloody
and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either
to God or man; and such, as for which the very
name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and
terrible to all people of humanity, or of Christian
compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were par.
ticularly eminent for the product of a race of men
who were without principles of tenderness, or the
common bowels of pity to tho miserable, which
is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the
mind.

These considerations really put me to a pause,
and to a kind of full stop; and I began, by little
and little, to be off my design, and to conclude
I had taken wrong measures in my resolution to
attack the savages; that it was not my business to
meddle with them, unless they first attacked me,
and this it was my business, if possible, to pre-
vent; but that if i were discovered, and attacked,
then I knew my duty.

0n the other hand, I argued with myself that
this really was the way not to deliver myself, but
entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I
was sure to kill every one that not only should be
on share at that time, but that should ever come
on shore afterward, if but one of them escaped to
tell their country people what had happened, they
would come over again, by thousands, to revenge
the death of their'fellows; and I should only bring
upon myself certain destruction, which at present
I had no manner of occasion for.

Upon the whole I concluded that neither inprin.
ciples nor policy I ought, one way or other, to
concern myself in this affair; that my business
was, by all possible means, to conceal myselffrom
them, and not to leave the least signal to them to
guess by that there were any living creatures upon
the island; I mean of human shape.

Religion joined in with this prudential resolu-
tion; and I was convinced now many ways, that
I was perfectly ont of my duty,when I was laying
all my bloody schemes for the destruction of inno:
cent creatures; I mean innocent as to me. As to
the crimes they were guilty of towards one ano-
ther, I had nothing to do with them: they were
national, and I ought to leave them to the justice
of God, who is the governor of nations, and knows
how to bring public judgments upon those who of-
fend in a public manner, by such ways as best
please him.

This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing
was a greater satisfaction t6 me than that I had not
been suffered to do a thing which I now saw so
much reason to belive would have been no less a
sin, than that of wilful murder, ii I had commit.
ted; and I gave most humble thanks on my knees
to God, that had thus delivered me from blood.
guiltiness, beseeching him to grant me the protec-
tion of his providence, that I might not fall into
the hands of barbarians, or that I might not lay
my hands upon them, unless I had a more clear
call from Heaven to do it, in defence of my own
life.

In this disposition I continued for near a year
after this; and so far was I from desiring an occa-
sion for falling upon these wretches, that in all that
time I never once went up the hill to see whether
there were any of them in sight, or to know whe-
ther any of them had been on shore there or not,
that I might not be tempted to renew any of my
contrivances against them, or be provoked by any
advantage which might present itself to fall upon
them; only this I did, I went and removed my boat
which I had on the other side of the island, and
carried it down to the east end of the whole island,
where I ran it into a little cove, which I found un-
der some high rocks, and where I knew, by reason
of the currents, the savages durst not, at least
would not, come with their boats, upon any ac-
count whatsoever.

With my boat I carried away every thing I had
left there belonging to her, though not ncessary for
the bare going thither, viz. a mast and sail, which
I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor,
but indeed which couid not be called either anchor
or grappling : however, it was the best I could make
of its kind. All these I removed, that there migh
not be the least shadow of any discovery, or any
appearance of any boat, or of any human habita-
tion upon the island.

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more re-
tired than ever, and seldom went from my cell,
other than upon my constant employment, viz. to
milk my she-goats, and manage my little flock in
the wood, which, as it was on the other part of the
island, was quite out of danger: for certain it is
that these savage people, who sometimes haunted
this island, never came with any thoughts of find.
ing any thing here, and consequently never wan.
dered 06' from the coast; and I doubt not, but they
might have been several times on shore, after my
apprehensions of them had made me cautious, as
well as before; and indeed I looked back with some
horror upon the thoughts of what my condition
would have been, if I had chopped upon them, and
been discovered before that, when naked and un-
armed, except with one gun, and that loaded often
only with small shot. I walked every where peep-
ing and peering about the island, to see what I
could get; what a surprise should I have been in,
if, when I discovered the print of a man's foot, I
had, instead of that, seen fifteen or twenty savages,
and found them pursuing me, and by the swift-
ness of their running, no possibility of my escaping
them.

The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very
soul within me, and distressed my mind so much
that I could not soon recover it; to think what I
should have. done, and how [not only should not
have been able to resist them, but even should not
have had presence of mind enough to do what I
'might have done, much less what now, after so
much consideration and preparation, I might be
able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of these
things I would be very melancholy, and sometimes
it would last a great while; but I resolved it at last
all into thankfulness to that Providence which had
delivered me from so many unseen dangers, and
had kept me from those mischiefs, which I could
no way have been the agent in delivering myself
from; because I had not the least notion of any
such' thing depending, or the least supposition of
its being possible.
This renewed a contemplation which often had;
come to my thoughts in former time, when first I
began to see the merciful dispositions of Heaven,
in the dangers we run through in this life: how
wonderfully we are delivered, when we know no-
thing of it: how when we are in (a quandary as
we call it) a doubt or hesitation, whether to go this
way, or that way, a secret hint should direct us
this way, when we intended to go that way; nay,
when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps
business, has called to go the other way, yet a
strange impression upon the mind, from we know
not what springs, and by we know not what power,
shall ovenrule us to go this way; and it shall after-
ward appear that had we gone that way which we
.should have gone, and even to our imagination
ought lo have gone, we should have been ruined.
and lost. Upon these, and many like reflections,
I afterward made it a certain rule with me, that
whenever I found those secret hints, or pressings
of my mind, to doing or not doing any thing that
presented, or to going this way or that way, I never
failed to obey the secret dictate, though I knew no
other reason for it, than such a pressure, or such
a hint- hung upon my mind. I could give many
examples of the success of this conduct in the
course of my life; but more especially in the lat.
ter part of my inhabiting this unhappy island;
besides many occasions which it is very likely I
might have taken notice of, if I had seen with the
same eyes then, that I saw with now. But it is
never too late to be wise; and I cannot but advise
all considering men, whose lives are attended with
such extraordinaryincidents as mine, oreven though
not so exiraordinary, not to slight such secret inti.
mations of Providence, let them come from what
invisible intelligence they will, that I shall not dis-
cuss, and perhaps cannot account for; but certain-

, ~ly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and

. the secret communication between those embodied

, and those unembodied, and such a proof as can
never be withstood: of which I shall have occa-
sion to give some very remarkable instances in the
rcimainder of my solitary residence in this dismal
p ace.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange
if I confess that these anxieties, these constant
dangers I lived in, and the concern that was now
upon me, put an end to all invention, and to all
the contrivauces that I had laid for my future ac-
commodations and conveniences. I had the care
of my safety more now upon my hands, than that
of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, .or chop
a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should
make should be heard, much less would I fire a
gun for the same reason; and, above all, I was
very uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke,
which is visible at a great distance in the day, should
betray me; and for this reason I removed that part
.of my business, which required fire, such.as burn.-
ing of pots and pipes, 8w. into my new apartment
in the woods, where, after I had been some time,
I found, to my unspeakable consolation, a mere
natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast
way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he
been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to
venture in; nor indeed would any man else, but
one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a
safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident I would say,
if I did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such; '~-.~.

o , 4%
34,

+4
things now to Providence, I was cutting down some.
thick branches of trees, to make charcoal; and be-
fore I go on, I must observe the reason of my ma-
king this charcoal, which was thus:

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habi-
union, as I said before; and yet, I could not live
there without baking my bread, cooking my meat,
&.c.; so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I
had seen done in England under turf, till it became
chark, or dry coal; and then putting the fire out,
I preserved the coal to carry home, and performed
the other services which fire was wanting for at
home, without danger of smoke.

But this by the bye. While I was cutting down
some wood here, I perceived that, behind a very
thick branch of low brushwood, or nnderwood, there
was a kind of hollow place. I was curious to look
into it, and getting with difficulty into the mouth
of it, I found it was pretty large, that is to say,
sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps
another with me; butI must confess to you, Imade
more haste out than I did in, when looking farther
into the place, which was perfectly dark, I saw two
broad shining eyes of some creature, whether devil
or man I knew not, which twinkled like two stars;
the dim light from the cave's mouth shining directly
in, and making the reflection.

However, after some pause, I recovered myself,
and began to call myself a thousand fools, and
tell myself, that he that was afraid to see the devil,
was not fit to live twenty years in an island all
alone, and that I durst to believe there was nothing
in this cave that was more frightful than myself.
Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up a
great firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the
stick flaming in my hand. I had not gone three
steps in, but I was almost as much frighted as I
was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that
of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a
broken noise, as if of words half expressed, and
then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was
indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put me
into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my
head, I would not answer for it, that my hair had
not lifted it off. But still plucking upm spirits as
well as I could, and encouraging myse a little,
with considering that the power and presence of
God was every where, and was able to protect me,
I stepped forward again, and by the light of the
firebrand, holding it a little over myJiead, I saw
lying on the ground, a most monstrous frightful old
he-goat, just making his will, as we say, gasping
for life, and dying indeed of mere old age.

I stirred him a little, to see if I could gethim
out, and he essayed to get up, but was not able to

raise himself: and I thought with myself he might _

even lie there; for if he had frighted me so, he
would certainly fright any of the savages, if any of
them should be so hardy as to come in there, while
he had any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began
to look round me, when I found the cave was but
very small; that is to say, it might be about twelve
feet over, but in no manner of shape, either round
or square, no hands having ever been employed in
making it but those of mere nature. I observed
also that there was a place at the farther side of it,
that went in farther, but was so low that it required
me to creep upon my hands and knees to go intoit,
and whither it went I knew not: so having no can-
dle, I gave it over for some time, but resolved to
come again the next day, provided with candles and

o 2

1:;

t.

f, '
.'A . '
5'6".

m
i v
a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one
of the muskets, wilh some wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with
six large candles of my own making,for I made very
good candles now of goat's tallow; and going into
this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours,
as I have said, almost ten yards, which,by theway,
I thought was a venture bold enough, considering
that I knew not how far it might go, or what was
beyond it. \Vhen I was get through the strait, I
found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty
feet; but never was such a glorious sight seen in
the island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the
sides and roof of this vault or cave. The walls re-
flected a hundred thousand lights to me from my two
candles, what it was in the rock, whether diamonds
or any other precious stones, or gold, which I sup-
posed it to be, I knew not.

The place I was in, was a most delightful cavity,
or grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though
perfectly dark : the floor was dry and level, and
had a sort of small loose gravel upon it, so that
there was no nauseous or venomous creature to be
seen; neither was there any damp or wet on the
sides of the roof. The only difficulty in it was the
entrance, which, however, as it was a place of se-
curity, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought
that was a convenience; so that I was really re.
joiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any
delay, to bring some of those things which I was
most anxious about to this place; particularly I
resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder,
and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling pieces
(for I had three in all), and three muskets (for of
them I had eight in all); so I kept at my castle
only five, which stood ready mounted, like pieces

, ' . . ~ _"-'
55!!" grant... -.-_-- - 12:2
of cannon, on my outmost fence, and were ready
also to take out upon any expedition.

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition,
I was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I
took up out of the sea, and which had been wet;
and I found that the water had penetrated about
three or four inches into the powder on every side,
which caking and growing hard, had preserved the
inside like a kernel in a. shell, so that I had near
sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of
the cask; and this was an agreeable discovery to
me at that time: so I carried all away thither, ne-
ver keeping above two or three pounds of powder
with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any

kind. I also carried thither all the lead I had lefi
for bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient
giants, which were said to live in caves and holes
in the rocks, where none could come at them; for
I persuaded myself, while I was here, if five hun-
dred savages were to hunt me, they could never
find me out; or if they did, they would not venture
to attack me here.

The old goat whom I found expiring, died in the
month of the cave, the next day after I made this
discovery; and I found it much easier to dig a. '
great hole there, and throw him in, and cover him
with earth, than to drag him out: soI interred him
there, to prevent offence to my nose.

.gmmM

_ u-\wxf\deg1PS kfei-fib" 'w' - fl.' .1 _, .

198 anvmv'rmuzs or

CHAPTER VIII.

AMUSEMENTS OF CRUSOE.---A VESSEL IS WBECK-
ED ON THE COAST--HE OBTAINS SEVERAL
USEFUL ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK.
REMARKABLE DREAM.

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence
in this island, and was so naturalized to the place,
and to the manner of living, that could I have but
enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come
to the place to disturb me, I could have been con-
tent to have capitulated for spending the rest of my
time there, even to the last moment, till I had
lain me down and died, like the old goat in the
cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions
and amusements, which made the time pass more
pleasantly with me a great deal than it did before :
as, first} had taught my Poll. as I noted before,
to speak, and he did it so familiarly, and talked
so artiCulately and plain, that it was very plea-
sant to me; and he lived with me no less than
sixamd-twenty years. How long he might live
afterward I know not; though I know they have a
notionjn the Brasils, that they live a hundred
years. Perhaps poor Poll may be alive there still,
calling after " poor Robin Crusoe" to this day.
I wish no Englishman the ill luck to come there
and hear him; but if he did, he would certainly
believe it was the devil. My dag was a very plea-
sant and loving companion to me, for no less than
sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere
old age. As for my cats they multiplied, as I have
observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot
several of them at first, to keep them from devour.
ing me, and all I had; but at length, when the

.' ..~ "Ha". .. ...-.. <<.&'*<Nh
\

two old ones I brought with me were gone, and af-
ter some time continually driving them from me,
and letting them have no provision with me, they
all ran wild in the woods, except two or three fa-
vourites, which I kept tame, and whose young,
when they had any, I always drowned; and these
were part of my family. Besides these, I always
kept two or three household kids, about me, which
I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had some
more parrots, which talked pretty well, and would
all can " Robin Crusoe," but none like my first;
nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them
that I had done with him. I had also several tarne
sea fowls, whose names I know not, which I caught
upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the lit-
tle stakes, which I had planted before my castle
wall, being now grown up to a good thick grove,
these fowls all lived among these low trees, and
bred there, which was very agreeable to me; so
that, as I said above, I began to be very well eon.
tented with the life I led, if it might but havebeen
secured from the dread of the savages. .

It was new the month of December, ai'I said
above, in my twenty-third year; and this being
the southern solstice, for winter I cannot call it,
was the particular time of my harvest, and re
quired my being pretty much abroad in the fields;
when going out pretty early in the morning, even
before it was thorough daylight, I was surprised
with seeing a light of some fire upon the shone, at
a distance from me of about two miles, towards
the end of the island where I had observed some
savages had been as before; but not on the other
side, but, to my great amiction, it was on my side
of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and

a .. MW"W" "QC--Am;

  

-. e mam, aegis:- ii'hfiiixraa 5; .19.. "" ' "'
stepped short within my grove, not daring to go
out, lest I might be surprised; and yet I had no
more peace within, from the apprehensions I had
that if these savages in rambling over the island,
should find my corn standing, or cut, or any of
my works or improvemen nts, they would immedi-
ately conclude that there were people in the place,
and uould then never giv e m er till they found me
out. In this extremity I went back directly to my
castle, pulled up the ladder after me, having made
all things without look as wild and natural as I
could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself
in a posture of defence. I loaded all my cannon
as I called them, that 18 to say my muskets, which
were mounted upon my new fortification, and all
my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the
last gasp; not forgetting seriously to commend
myself to the Divine protection, and earnestly to
pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the
barbarians: and in this posture I continued about
two hours, but began to be mighty impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.

After sitting awhile longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I was not able to bear sit.
ting in ignorance longer; so setting up my ladder
to the side of the hill, where there was a flat place,
as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder
up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
top of the hill; and pulling out my perspective glass,
which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down
flat on my belly on the ground, and began to look
for the place. I presently found there were no less
than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire
they had made; not to warm them, for they'had
no need of that, the. weather being extreme hot,
but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous
diet of human flesh, which they had brought with
them, whether alive or dead, I could not know.

They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide
of ebb, they seemed to wait the return of the flood
to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what
confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them come on my side the island, and so near me
too; but when I observed their coming must be
always with the current of the ebb, I began after.
ward to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied
that I might go abroad with safety, all the time of
tide of flood, if they were not on shore before;
and having made this observation I went abroad
about my harvest work with the more composure.- '

As I expected so it proved; for as soon as the
tide made to the westward, I saw them all take
boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) all away.
I should have observed, that for an hour and more
before they went 011', they went to dancing, and I -
could easily discern their postures and gestures by
my glasses: I could not perceive, by my nicest ob-
servation, but that they were stark naked, and had
not the least covering upon them; but whether
they were men or women, that I could not distin-
guish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at
my girdle, and my great sword by my side, with-
out a scabbard, and with all the speed I was able
to make, I went away to the hill, where I had dis-
covered the first appearance of all. As soon as I
got thither, which was not less than two hours (for
Icould not go apaoe, being so loaden with arms as
I was), I perceived there had been three canoes

Jam

m;
more of savages on that place; and looking out
farther, I saw they were all at sea together, ma-
king over for the main. .

This was a dreadful sight to me; especially when
going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror which the dismal work they had been about
had left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, and
part of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and do-
voured by those wretches with merriment and sport.
I was so filled with indignation at the sight, that
I began now to premeditate the destruction of the
next that I saw there, let them be who or how many
soever.

It seemed evident to me, that the visits which
they thus made to this island, were not very fre-
quent; for it was above fifteen months before any
more of them came on shore there again; that is
to say, I never saw them, or any footsteps or sig-
nals of them, in all that time : for, as to the rainy
seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at
least not so far; yet all this while I lived uncom-
fortably, by reason of the constant apprehensions
I was in of their coming upon me by surprise;
from whence I observe, that the expectation of evil
is more bitter than the suffering, especially if there
is no room to shake of that expectation, or those
apprehensions.

During all this time, I was in the murdering
humour; and took up most of my hours, which
should have been better employed, in contriving
how to circumvent and fall upon them the very
next time I should see them, especially if they
should be divided, as they were at the last time,
into two parties; nor did I consider at all, that if
I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen; I was
still the next day, or week, or month, to kill ano,
ther, and so another, even ad infinihun,till I should
be no_ less amurderer than they were inbeing man.
eaters, and:perhaps much more so.

I spent my days now in great perplexity and
anxiety of mind, expecting that I should one day
or other fall into the hands of these merciless crea.
tures. If I did at any time venture abroad, it was
not without looking round me with the greatest
care and caution imaginable; and now I found to
my greatest comfort, how happy it was that I had
provided a tame flock or a herd of goats; for I
durst not, upon any account, fire my gun, especi-
ally near that side of the island, where they usu-
ally came, lest I should alarm the savages? and
if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have
them come back again, with perhaps two or three
hundred canoes with them, in a few days, and then
I knew what to expect.

However I wore out a year and three months
more, before I ever saw any more of the savages;
and then I found them again, as I shall soon ob-
serve. It is true, they might have been there once
or twice; but either they made no stay, or at least
I did not hear them; but in the Month of May,
as near as I could calculate, and in my four.and-_
ttventieth year, I had avery strange encounter with
them, of which in its place.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fif-
teen or sixteen months' interval, was very great.
I slept unquiet, dreamed always frightful dreams,
and often started out of my sleep in the night; in
the day great troubles overwhelmed my mind; in
the night I dreamed often of killing savages, and
the reasons why I might justify the doing of it.
But, to wave all this for a while, it was in the mid-
dle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well

 

WMuwvovw-Mwm .-- -. .--- . J... --'-~
, ' - in. . " " 'r" . .
m2: ~va...um:mflimSSY=.m:PShnhfi -- ~
as my poor wooden calendar would reckon : for I
marked all upon the post still: I say, it was on
the sixteenth of May, that it blew a very great
storm of wind all day, with a great deal of light-
ning and thunder, and a very foul night was after
it. I know not what was the particular occasion of
it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken
up with serious thoughts about my present condi-
tion, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as
I thought fired at sea.

This was to be sure a surprise of quite a different
nature from any I met with before; for the notions
this put into my thoughts were quite of another
kind. I started up in the greatest haste imagina-
ble; and, in a trice, cla ped up my ladder to the -
middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me,
and, mounting it a second time, got to the top of
the hill: that very moment a flash of fire bade mo
listen for a second gun, which accordingly in about
half a minute, I heard; and by the sound knew ,
that it was from that part of the sea where I was
driven out with the current in my boat.

I immediately considered, that this mustbe some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade,
or some other ship in company, and fired these
guns for signals of distress, and to obtain help.
I had this presence of mind at that minute, as to
think, that though I could not help them, it may
.be they might help me; so I brought together all
the dry wood I could get at hand, and making a
good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill,
' the wood was dry, and blazed freely; and though
the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out
so that I was certain, if there was any such thing
as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as my fire blazed up, I heard
. another gun, and after that several others, all from
; the same quarter. I plied my tire all night long,
till day broke; and when it was broad day, and
,' the air cleared up, I saw something at a great dis-
tance at sea, full cast of the island, whether a sail,
'5 or a hull, I could not distinguish, no not with my
f glasses, the distance was so great, and the weather
still something hazy also: at least it was so out
. at sea.
.' I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon
- perceived that it did not move : so I presently con-
- 3f cluded that it was a ship at anchor; and being ea-
ger, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my
gun in my hand, and ran towards the south-east
side of the island, to the rocks, where I had been
formerly carried away by the current: and getting
up there, the weather by this time being perfectly
clear, I could plainly see to my great sorrow, the
wreck of a ship cast away in the night upon these
concealed rocks, which I found when I was out in
my boat: and which rocks, as they checked'the
violence of the stream, and made a kind of coun-
' ter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my re-
covering than from the most desperate, hopeless
condition that ever I had been in, all my life. ., ""E:
Thus,what in one man's safety, is another man ' '
destruction; for it seems these men, whoever they, .
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks"
being wholly under water, had been driven upon
them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and
E.N. E. Had they seen the island, as I must ne-
cessarily suppose they did not, they must, as l
thought, have endeavoured to have saved them-
I selves on shore by the help of their boat; but their
firing of their guns for help, especially when they
saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts. First, I imagined that, upon seeing my
light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore,
but that the sea going very high, they might have
boen cast away. Other times, that they might have
lost their boat before, as might be the case many
ways; as particularly by the breaking of the sea
upon their ship, which many times obliges men to
stave, or take in pieces their boat, and sometimes
to throw it overboard with their own hands. Other
times I imagined they had some other ship or ships
in company, who, upon the signals of distress they
had made, had taken them up, and carried them
off. Other whiles I fancied they were all gone off
to see. in their boat, and being hurried away by the
current that I had been formerly in, were carried
out to the great ocean, where there was nothing
but misery and perishing; and that perhaps, they
might, bythis time, think of starving, and of being
in a condition to eat one another.

As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in
the condition I was in, I could do no more than
look upon the misery of the poor men, and pity
them, which had still this good effect on my side,
that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks
to God, who had so happily and comfortably pro.
vided for me in my desolate condition : and that of
two ships' companies, who were now cast away up-
on this part of the world, not one life should be
spared but mine. I learnt here again to observe,
that it is very rare the providence of God casts us
into any condition of life so low, or any misery so
great, but we may see something or other to be
thankful for, and may see others in worse circum.
stances than our own.

Such certainly was the case of these men, of
whom I could not so much as see room to suppose
any of them were saved: nothing could' make it
rational, so much as to wish or expect that they
did not all perish there, except the possibility only
of their being taken up by another ship in compa-
ny: and this was but mere possibility indeed; for
I saw not the least signal or appearance of any
such thing.

I cannot explain by any possible energy of words,
what a strange longing or hankering of desires I
felt in my soul upon this sight, breaking out some.
,3} times thus: " O that there had been but one or two

' nay, or but one soul saved out of the ship, to have
j ! escaped to me,that I might but have had one com-
panion, one fellow-creature, to have spoken to me,
,4 and to have conversed with !" In all the time of
. ,' my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a
desire, after the society of my fellow-creatures, or
so deep a regret at the want of it.
,, There are some secret movingsprings'in the af-
~ .- fections, which, when they are set agoing by some
" object in view, or be it some object, though not in
view, yet rendered present to the mind by the power
of imagination, whose motion carries out the soul
by its impetuosity to such violent, eager embra-
cings of the object, that the absence of it is insup-
i portable.
' Such was these earnest wishings, that but one
man had been saved. 0 that it had been but one!

I believe I repeated the words, " 0 that it had
been but one !" a thousand times; and my desires
had been so moved by it, that when I-spoke the
words, my hand would clinch together, and my
fingers press the palms of my hands, that if I had
had any thing soft in my hand it would have crush-
ed it involuntarily; and my teeth in my head
would strike together, and set against one another
so strong, that for some time I could not part them
again.

Let the naturalists explain these things, and the
reason and manner of them: all I can say, is, to
describe the fact, which was even surprising to me
when I found it, though I knew not from what it
should proceed; it was doubtless the effect of ar- '
dent wishes, and strong ideas formed in my mind,
realizing the Comfort which the conversation of one
of my fellow ehristians would have been to me.

But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine,
or both, forbade it; for, till the last year of my
being in this island, I never knew whether any
were saved out of that ship or no; and had only
the affliction, some days alter, to see the corpse of
a drowned boy come on shore, at the end of the
island, which was next the shipwreck. He had on
no clothes but a scaman's waistcoat, a pair of open
knee'd linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt: but
nothing to direct me so much as to guess what na-
tion he was of. He had nothing in his pocket but
two pieces of eight, and a tobacco-pipe; the last
was to me of ten times more value than the first.

It was new calm, and I had agreat mind to ven-
ture out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but
I might find something on board that might be
useful to me ; but that did not altogether press me
so much, as the possibility that there might be yet
some living creature on board, whose life I might
not only save, but might, by saving that life, com-
fort my own to the last degree: and this thought
clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet,
night or day, but I must venture out in my boat on
board this wreck; and committing the rest to God's
providence, I thought the impression was so stro 1-:
/ upon my mind, that it could not he resisted, that
" it must come from some invisible direction, and
that I should be wanting to myself, if I did not gar
Under the power of this impression, I hastened'
~ 7 back to my castle, prepared every thing for my
voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot for
3' fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum
'- (for I had still a great deal of that left), a basket
full of raisins : and thus loading myself with every
thing necessary, I went down to my boat, got the
rater out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all y
,cargo in her, and then went home again for m '.
i; ' y second cargo was a great bag full of rice, the
1umbrella to set up over my head for shade, another
arge pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen
3 f my small loaves, or barley cakes, more than be-
' ore, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese; all
'hich, with great labour and sweat, I brought to
u y boat, and praying to God to direct my voyage,
I put out; and rowing or paddling the canoe along
{II c shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the
. i sland, on that side, viz. N. E. And now I was to
I' launch out into the ocean; and either to venture
or not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents
5f. which ran constantly on both sides the island, at a
-_ distance, and which very terrible tome, from the
remembrance of the hazard I had been in before,
.13? nd my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw, that
' if I was driven into either of these currents, I
should be carried a vast way out to sea, and per-
: haps out of my reach, or sight of the island again,'
and that then, as my boat was but small, if any
little gale of wind should rise, I should be inevi.'
tably lost. '

These thoughts oppressed my mind, that I began
. to give over my enterprise, and having hauled my
boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out,
and sat me down upon a little spot of rising ground
very pensive and anxious, between {ear and desire
about my voyage ; when, as I was musing, I could
perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood
came on, upon which my going was for so many
hours impracticable. Upon this it presently occur.
ed to me, that I should go up to the highest piece
of ground I could find,and observe if I could, how
the sets of the tide or currents lay, when the flood
came in, that I might judge whether, if I was dri-
v another way home, with the same rapidness
o the currents. This thought was no sooner in my
head, but I cast my eye upon a little bill, which
sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and from
whence I had a clear view of the currents, or sets
of the tide, and which way I was to guide myself
in my return. Here I found that as the current of
the ebb set out close by the south point of the is.
land, so the current of the flood set in close by the
shore of the north side; and that I had nothing to
do but to keep to the north of the island in my re-
turn, and I should do well enough. '
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the
next morning to set out with the first of the tide;

and reposing myself for that night in the canoe, .

under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launch.
ed out. I made first a little out to sea, full north,
till [ began to feel the benefit of the current which
set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate,
and yet did not so hurry me as the southern side
current had done before, and so as to take me from
all government of the boat: but, having a strong
steerage with my paddle, I went, I say, at a great
rate directly for the wreck, and in less than two
hours I came up to it.

 

I
1

g;
It was adismal sight to look at: the ship, which
by the building was Spanish, stuck fast, jambed in
between two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her
was beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her fore.
castle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with
great violence, her main-mast and fore.mast were
brought by the board, that is to say, broken short
off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and
. bow appeared firm. When I came close to her,
a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming,

yelped and cried; and as soon as I called him,
jumped into the sea, to come to me; and I took
him into the boat, but found him almost dead for
hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread,
and he eat like a ravenous wolf, that had been starv.
ing a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor
creature some fresh water, with which, if I would
have let him, he would have burst himself. .

After this I went on board. The first sight I
met with was two men drowned in the cook-room,
or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about
one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable,
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the
sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that
the men were not able to bear it, and were strang-
led with the constant rushing in of the water, as
much as if they had been under water. Besides
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had
life, nor any guns that I could see, but what were
spoiled by the water. There were some casks of
of liquor, whether wine or brandy, I knew not,
which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water
being ebbed out, I could see; but they were teo
big to meddle with. I saw several chests, which I
believed belonged to some of the seamen, and I got

two of them into the boat, without examining what
was in them. r 2
Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the
fore part broken off, I am persuaded I might have
made a good voyage; for, by what I found in these
two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a
great deal of wealth on board: and, if I may
guess by the course she steered, she must have been
bound from Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata
in the south part of America, beyond the Brasils,
to the Ilavannah, in the gulf of Mexico, and so
perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great
treasure in her, but of no use at that time to any
body; and what became of the rest of her people I

then knew not.
I found, besides these chests, alittle cask full of

liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into
my boat with much difficulty. There were several
muskets in a cabin, and a great powdenhom, with
about four pounds of powder in it: as for the mus-
kets I had no occasion for them, so I left them but
took the powder--horn. I took a fire--shovel and
tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also two little
brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and
a grid-iron: and with this cargo, and the dog, I
came away, the tide beginning to make home again :
and the same evening, about an hour within night,
I reached the island again, weary and fatigued to

the last degree.
I reposed that night in the boat, and in the

morning I resolved to harbour what I had got in
my new cave, not to carry it home to my castle.
Afler refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore,
and began to examine the particulars. The cask
of liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but not such
as we had at the Brasils; and. in a word, not at
all good. But when I came to open the chests, I
found several things which I wanted: for example,
I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extra-
ordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine,
and very good : the bottles held about three pints
each, and were tipped with silver. I found two
pots of very good succades, or sweetmeats, so
fastened also on top, that the salt water had not
hurt them; and two more of the same, which the
water had spoiled. I found some very good shirts,
which were very welcome to me, and about a dozen
and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured
neckcloths; the former were also very welcome,
being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a
hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in
the chest, I found there three great bags of pieces
of eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces
in all; and in one of them, wrapt up in a paper,
six doubloons of gold, and some small bars. of
wedges of gold ; I suppose they might all weigh
near a pound. .

The other chest I found had some clothes in it,
but of little value; but by the circumstance it must
have belonged to the gunner's mate, though there
was no powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed
powder, in three small flasks, kept, I suppose for
charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon
the whole, I got very little by this voyage, thatwas
of much use to me; for, as to the money, I had no
manner of occasion for it, it was to me as the dirt
under my feet, and I would have given it all for
three or four pair of English shoes and stockings,
which were things I greatly wanted, but had not
had on my feet now for many years. I had, indeed,
get two pair of shoes now, which I took off the feet
of the two drowned men whom I saw in the wreck;
and I found two pair more in one of the chests,
which were very welcome tome; but they were not
like our English shoes, either for ease or service,
being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I
found in this seaman's .chest about filly pieces of
eight in royals, but no gold; I suppose this be-
longed to a poorer man than the other, which
seemed to belong to some officer.

Well, however, I lugged this money home to my
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before,
which I had brought from our own ship; but it was
great pity, as I said, that the other part of the
ship had not come to my share, for I am satisfied
I might have loaded my canoe several times
over with money, which, if I had ever escaped to
England, would have lien here safe enough till I
might have come again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed
or paddled her along the shore to her old harbour,
where I laid her up, and made the best of my way
to my old habitation, where I found every thing
safe and quiet; so I began to repose myself, live
after my old fashion, and take care of my family
affairs; and for a while I lived easy enough, only
that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked
out oftcner, and did not go abroad so much; and
if at any time I did stir with any freedom, it was
always to the east part of the island, where I was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and
where I could go without so many precautions, and
such a load of arms and ammunition as I always
carried with me if I went the other way.

I lived in this condition near two years more;
but my unlucky head, that was always to let me
know it was born to make my body miserable, was
all those two years filled with projects and designs,
how, if it were possible, 1 might get away from this

. A --- w-'~C/----- .....,<<, .-......_-.._'Q'

aoamsou causes. ' 215

island; for sometimes I was for making another

voyage to the wreck, though my reason told me,

that there was nothing let! there worth the hazard

of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way,
f' sometimes another; and I believe verily, if I had
1; had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I should

have ventured to sea, bound any where, I know

' i not whither.

I have been, in all my circumstances,a memento

: . to those who are touched with that generalplague ot'
mankind, whence, for aught I know, one half of

~ their miseries flow; I mean, that of not being
' ,; satisfied with the station wherein God and nature

 

1 bath placed them. For, not to look back upon my
primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my
i'f father, the opposition to which was, as I may call
f-i it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the
same kind have been the means of my coming into

this miserable condition; {or had that Providence,

which so happily had seated me at the Brasils, as

a planter, blessed me with confined desires, and
could I have been contented to have gone on gra.
dually, I might have been by this time, I mean in
the time of my being in this island, one of the
most considerable planters in the Brasils; nay, I
am persuaded that, by the improvements I had
made in that little time I lived there, and the in-
crease I should probably have made, if I had staid,
I might have been worth a hundred thousand
moidores. And what business had I to leave a
settled fortune,a well-stocked plantation, improving
and increasing, to turn snpercargo to Guinea, to
fetch Negroes, when patience and time would have
so increased our stock at home, that we could have
bought them at our own doors, from those Whose
business it was to fetch them; and though it had
cost us something more, yet the difference of that
price was by no means worth saving at so great a
hazard.

But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads,
so reflection upon the folly of it, is as ordinarily
the exercise of more years, or of the dear-bought
experience of time; and so it Was with me' now :
and yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my
temper, that I could not satisfy myself in my sta-
tion, but was continually poring upon the means
and possibility of my escape from this place. And
that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader,
bring on the remaining part of my story, it may
not be improper to giie some account of my first
conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme
for my escape, and how, and upon what foundation,
I acted.

I am now to be supposed to be retired into my
castle, after my late 1' ovage to the wreck, my frigate
laid up, and secured under water as usual, and
my condition restored to what it was before. I had
more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was
not all the richer; for I had no more use for it
than the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards
came thither.

It was one of the nights, in the rainy season, in
March, the four-anddwentieth year of my first
setting foot in this island of solitariness, I was
lying in my bed, or hammock, awake, very well
in health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasi-
ness of body, no, nor any uneasiness of mind more
than ordinary; but could by no means close my
eyes; that is, so as to sleep, no, not a wink all
night long, otherwise than as follows:

It is as impossible as needless to set down the
innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through

 

)'noninson 01115808. 217

  
  
  

at great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory,
this night's time. I ran over the whole history
1' my life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may
all it, to my coming to this island; and also of
at part of my life since I came to this island. In
y reflections upon the state of my case, since I
me on shore on this island, I was comparing the
it appy posture of my affairs, in the first years of
:3; y habitation here, to that course of anxiety, fear,
nd care, which I had lived in ever since I had
1 ' .en the print of a foot in the sand. Not that I did
not believe the savages had frequented the island

  
    
  
 
    
   
 
    
 
   

-
t.

,fgvcn all the while, and might have been several
:_ hundreds of them at times on shore there; but as
,5; had never known it, and was incapable of any
~ 'gpprehensions about, my satisfaction was perfect,
tiough my danger was the same; and I was as
,- appy in not knowing my danger, as if I had never
any been exposed to it. This furnished my
roughts with many very profitable reflections, and
_ articularly this one. How infinitely good that

Providence is, which has settled in its government
a of mankind such narrow bounds in his sight and
' knowledge of things; and though he walks in the -
f midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight of '

which, if discovered to him, would distract his mind,
i and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by,

having the events of things hid from his eyes,
pnd knowing nothing of the dangers which surround
nm.

After these thoughts had for some time enter--
tained me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real
danger I had been in for so many years in this
very island; and how I' had walked aboutin the
greatest security, and withall possible tranquillity,
even when perhaps nothing but a brow of a hill, 8.
great tree, or the casual approach. of night, had
been between me and the worst kind of destruction;
viz. that of falling into the hands of cannibals and
savages, who would have seized on me with the
same view as I did on a goat or a turtle, and have
thought it no more a crime to kill and devour me,
than I did of a pigeon or a curlew; I should un-.
7 justly slander myself, if I should say I was not

fsincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose
singular protection I acknowledged, with great
humility, that all these unknown deliverances
were, and without which I should inevitably have
fallen into their merciless hands.

When these thoughts were over, my head was
for some time taken up in considering the nature
of these wretched creatures, I mean, the savages;
and how it came to pass in the world,that the wise
Governor of all things should give up any of his
creatures to such inhumanity, nay, to something
so much below even brutality itself, as to devour
its own kind. But as this ended in some (at that
time fruitless) speculations, it occurred to me to
inquire what part of the world these wretches lived
in; how far 03' the coast was from whence they
came; what they ventured over so far from home
for; what kind of boats they had; and why I might
not order myself, and my business so, that I might
be as able to go over thither, as they were to come
to me.

I never so much as troubled myself to consider
what I should do with myselfwhen I came thither;
what should become of me, if I fell into the hands
of the savages; or how I should escape from them,
if they attempted me; no, nor so much as how it
was possible for me to reach the coast, and not be
- attempted by some or other of them, ,without any:- --7, 73...} ,_ . .. ~~,-: . . 'f'J". .r< :-- ~7-- .v---.~_ '1 ---7---frwgm:vv 'Fwnmm'm,z

uonmsoN causes. 219

possibility of delivering myself; and if I should
;not fall into their hands, what I should do for pro.
vision, or whither I should bend my course; none
of these thoughts, I say, so much as came in my
way; but my mind was wholly bent upon the 110-
tion of my passing over in my boat to the main
land. I looked back upon my present condition,
as the most miserable that could possibly be; that
I was not able to throw myself into any thing but
death that could be called worse; that if I reached
the shore of the main, I might, perhaps, meet with
relief; or I might coast along, as I did on the shore
of Africa, till I came to some inhabited country, and
7 where I might find some relief; and after all,perhaps
I might fall in with some Christian ship that might
take me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I
could but die, which would put an end to all these
miseries at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit
of a disturbed mind, an impatient temper, made,
as it were, desperate by the long continuance of
my troubles, and the disappointments I had met
in the wreck I had been on board of, and where I
had been so near the obtaining what I so earnestly
longed for, viz. somebody to speak to, and to learn
. some knowledge from, of the place where I was,
and of the probable means of my deliverance; I
was agitated wholly by these thoughts. All my
calm of mind, in my resignation to Providence, and
waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven,
seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it were, no
' power to turn my thoughts to any thing, but the
project of a voyage to the main, which came upon
me with such force, and such an impetuousity of
desire, that it was not to be resisted. -
I When this had agitated my thoughts, for two
hours or more, <<with such violence, thatit set my
very blood into a ferment, and my pulse heat as
high as if I had been in a fever, merely with the
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it; nature,
as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with the
very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep.
One would have thought I should have dreamed of
it; but I did not, nor of any thing relating to it;
but I dreamed, that as I was going out in the
morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw upon
the shore two canoes, and eleven savages coming
to land, and that they brought with them another
savage, whom they were going to kill, in order to
eat him, when on a sudden, the savage that they
were going to kill, jumped away, and ran for his
life: and then I thought in my sleep, that he came
running into my little thick grove, before my for. ,
tification, to hide himself; and that I seeing him
alone, and not perceiving that the others sought
him that way, shewed myself to him, and smiling
upon him, encouraged him; that he kneeled down
to me, seeming to pray to me to assist him; upon
which I shewed my ladder, made him go upon it,
and carried him into my cave, and he became my
servant; and that as soon as 1 had got this man,
I said to myself, " Now I may certainly venture to
the main land; for this fellow will serve me as a
pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go
for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of
being devoured, what places to venture into, and
what to escape." I waked with this thought, and
was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at
the prospect of my escape in my dream, that the
disappointments, which I felt upon coming to my-
self, and finding it was no more than a dream,
were equally extravagant the otherway, and threw
me into a very great dejection of spirit.
   
   
   
   
     
    

Upon this, however, 1 made this conclusion, that
, y only way to go about an attempt for an escape,

. as, if possible, to get a savage in my possession;
nd, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners,
born they had condemned to be eaten, and should
ring hither to kill; but these thoughts still were
ttended with this dificulty, that it was impossible
0 effect this, without attacking a whole caravan of
hem, and killing them all; and this was not only
very desperate attempt, and might miscarry, but,
u the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the law.
uln'ess of it to me, and my heart trembled at the"
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was
for my deliverance. I need not repeat the argu-
euts which occurred to me against this, they
being the same mentioned before : but though I
had other reasons to offer new; viz. that those men
were enemies to my life, and would devour me, if
they could; that it was selfipreservation, in the
highest degree, to deliver myself from this death of
a life, and was acting in my own defence, as much
as if they were actually assaulting me, and the
like; I say, though these things argued for it, - yet
the thoughts of shedding human blood for my dell-
. verauce, were very terrible to me, and such as I
could by no means reconcile myself to a great
5 while.

However, at last, after many secret disputes with'
myself, and after great perplexities about it (for
all these arguments, one way and another, strug-
gled in my head along time), the eager prevailing
desire of deliverance, at length mastered all the

rest, and I resolved, if possible, to get one of these
' savages into my hands, cost what it would. My
next thing then was to contrive how to do it; and
this indeed was very difficult to resolve on; but as

v . s
i , O' . ~ ' 1 r 1 l ' l
v". 2.11.3")?3: . n r I . ".4m". l. mu' '5.
I could pitch upon no probable means for it, so' I
resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see
them when they came on shore, and leave the rest
to the event, taking such measures as the opportu.
nity should present, let be what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set my.
self upon the scout, as often as possible, and indeed

so often, till I was heartily tired of it; {or it was '. .
above a year and a half that I waited, and for a ' .
great part of that time went out to the west end, >>

and to the south~west corner of the island, almost

every day, to see the canoes; but none appeared.
This was very discouraging, and began to trouble

me much; though I cannot say that it did in this
case, as it had done some time before that; viz.
wear off the edge of my desire to the thing; but the
longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager l
was for it. In a word, I was not at first more care-
ful to shun the sight of these savages, and avoid
being seen by them, than I was now eager to be
upon them.

Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one,
nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so as to
make them entirely slaves to me, 'to do whatever I
should direct them, and to prevent their being able
at any time to do me any hurt. It was a great

while that I pleased myself with this affair; but -.

nothing still presented: all my fancies and schemes
came to nothing, for no savages came near me for
a great while.

 

l

f
CHAPTER IX.

A NUMBER or sAvAens APPROACH THE ISLAND--
cn'rcan or "FRIDA!"---SINGULAB PARTICU-
LARS CONCERNING HIM- ROBINSON
TEACBES HIM ENGLISH.

ABOUT 0. year and a half after I had entertained
these notions, and, by long musing, had, as it
were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of
,' an occasion to put them into execution, I was sur-
prised one morning early, with seeing no less than
five canoes, all on shore together, on my side the
island, and the people who belonged to them all
landed, and out Of my sight. The number of them
broke all my measures; for seeing so many, and
knowing that they always came four or six, or
sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what
to think of it, or how to take my measures to attack
twenty or thirty men single-handed; so I lay still
in my castle, perplexed and discomforted. How-
ever, I put myself into all the same postures for an
attack, that I had formerly provided, and was just
ready for action, if any thing had presented. Hap
ving waited a good while, listening to hear if they
made any noise, at length, being very impatient,
I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clam.
bered up to the top of the hill by my two stages, as
usual; standing so, however, that my head did
not appear above the hill; so that they could not
perceive me, by any means. Here I observed, by
the help of my perspective glass. that they were no
less than thirty in number; that they had a fire
kindled, and that they had meat dressed; how they-
cooked it, that I know not, or what it was; but
they were all dancing, in' I know not how many
barbarous gestures and figures, their own way,
round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived,
two miserable wretches dragged from the boats,
where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one of
them immediately fell, being knocked down, I
suppose, with a club, or wooden sword, for that
was their way; and two or three others were at
work immediately, cutting him open for their
cookery, while the other victim was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In
that very moment this poor wretch seeing himself
a little at liberty, nature inspired him with hopes
of life, and he started away from them, and ran
with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly
towards me, I mean, towards that part of the coast
where my habitation was.

I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknow.
ledge), when I perceived him to run my way; and
especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued
by the whole body; and now I expected that part
of my dream was coming to pass, and that he would
certainly take shelterin my grove; but I could not
depend, by any means, upon my dream for the
rest of it, viz. that the other savages would not
pursue him thither, and find him there. However,
I kept my station, and my spirits began to recover
when I found that there were not above three men
that followed him; and still more was I encouraged
when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly
in running, and gained ground of them, so that if
lie could but hold it out for half an hour, -I saw
easily he would fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek,>>
which I mentioned often at the first part 'of my

.\
story, when I landed my cargoes out of the ship;

and this I knew he must necessarily swim over, or
' the.poor wretch would be taken there: but when
the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing
of it, though the tide was then up; but, plunging
in, swam through, in about thirty strokes, or there-
abouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. \Vhen the three pursuers came to
the creek, I found that two of them could swim,
but the third could not, and that be standing on
the other side, looked at the other, but went no
farther; and soon after went somy back again,
which, as it happened, was very well for him in
the main.

I observed that the two who swam, were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek, than
the fellow was that fled from them. It came now
_ very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irre-
sistibly, that now was my time to get me a servant,
and, perhaps, a companion or assistant, and that
I was called plainly, by Providence, to save this
poor creature's life. I immediately got down the
ladders, with all possible expedition, {etched my
two guns, for they were both at the foot of thy
ladders, as I observed above; and getting up again
with the same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed

towards the sea: and, having a very short cut, .

and all down hill, clapped myself in the way be-
tween the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud
to him that fled, who, looking back, was at first
perhaps as much {righted at me, as at them; but
I beckoned with my hand to him to come back,
and, in the mean time, I slowly advanced towards
the two that followed; then rushing at once upon

the "foremost, I knocked him down with the stock '

of my piece: I was loath to fire, because I would
Q Q
not have. the rest hear; though at that distance it
would not have been easily heard; and being out
of sight of the smoke too they would not have easily '
known what to make of it. Having knocked this :
fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped,
as if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace
towards him; but as I came nearer, I perceived
presentlx he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting
it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to
shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at I,
the first shot. The poor savage who fled, but had if
stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen,
and killed (as he thought), yet was so frighted with
the fire and noise of my piece, that he stood stock-
still, and neither came forward, nor went back-
ward, though he seemed rather inclined to fly still,
than to come on. I halloed again to him, and '
made signs to come forward, which he easily un-
derstood, and came a little way, then stopped again,
and then a little farther, and stopped again; and
I could then perceive that he stood trembling, as
if he had been taken prisoner, and had just been
to be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned
him again to come to me, and gave him all the
signs of encouragement that I could think of ; and
he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every
ten' or twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment
for saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked
pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still
nearer. At length he came close to me, and then
he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid
his head upon the ground. and taking me by the
foot, set my foot upon his head; this, it seems,
was in token of swearing to be my slave for ever.
I took him up, and made much of him, and en.
couraged him all I could. But there was more' '3. _

aosmsox causes. 227

work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom I
knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the
blow, and began to come to himself. So I pointed
to him, and shewing him the savage, that he was
not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me,
and though 1 could not understand them, yet I
thought they were pleasant to hear, for they were
the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard,
my own excepted, for above five-and-twenty years.
But there was no time for such reflections now.
The savage who was knocked down, recovered
himself so far as to sit up upon the ground, and
I perceived that my savage began to be afraid :-
but when I saw that, I presented my other piece
at the man, as if I would shoot him; upon this my
savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to
me to lend him my sword, which hung naked in a

, " belt by my side; so I did. He no sooner had it,

 

but he runs to his enemy, and, at one blow, out
off his head as cleverly, no executioner in Germany
could have done it sooner or better; which I thought
very strange for one, who, I had reason to believe,
never saw a sword in his life before, except their
own wooden swords. However, it seems, as I
learned afterward, they make their wooden swords
so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that
they will cut ofl' heads even with them, aye, and
arms, and that at one blow too. When he had
done this, he comes laughing to me in sign of
triumph, and brought me the sword again, and
with abundance of gestures, which I did not under.
stand, laid it down, with the head of the savage
that he had killed, just before me.

But that which astonished him most was to know
how I had killed the other Indian so far 03':
pointing to2him, he made signs to me to let him

0
go to him; sol bade him go, as well as I could.
When he came to him, he stood like one amazed,
looking at him; turned him first on one side, then
on the other; looked at the wound the bullet had
made, which, it seems, was just in his breast, .
where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of .' '
blood had followed, but he had bled inwardly, for '
he was quite dead. Then he took up his bow and
arrows, and came back; so I turned to go away,
and beckoned to him to follow me, making signs to

him that more might come after them. '-

Upon this, he signed to me, that he should bury ,
them with sand, that they might not be seen by
the rest, if they followed; and so I made signs
again to shim to do so: he fell to work, and in an
instant, he scraped a hole in the sand with his ,
hands, big enough to bury the first in, and then '7
dragged him into it, and covered him; and did 3
so also by the other. . lbelieve he had buried them '7
both in a quarter of an hour; then calling him '
away, I carried him not to my castle, but quite '
away to my cave, on the farther part of the island;
so I did not let my dream come to pass in that part ;
viz. that he came into my grove for shelter.

Here I gave him bread, and a bunch of raisins ;
to eat, and a draught of water, which I found he
was indeed in great distress for, by his running;
and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to
go lie down and sleep, pointing to a place where I
had laid a great parcel of rice straw, and a blanket
upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself some-
times: so the poor creature lay down, and went to
s eep.

He was a comely, handsome fellow: perfectly
well made, with straight, long limbs, not too large;
tall, and well shaped, and as I reckon, about
twenty-six years of age. He had a very good
countenance; not a fierce and surly aspect, but
seemed to have something very manly in his face,
and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of
a European in his countenance too, especially
when he smiled. His hair was long and black, not ,

'; curled like wool; his forehead very high, and large,

and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in
his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite
black, but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly,
yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brasilians, and
Virginians, and other natives of America are, but
of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that had in
it something very agreeable, though not very easy
to describe. His face was round and plump, his
nose small, not flat like the Negroes, a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his teeth fine, well set, and
white as ivory. After he had slumbered, rather
than slept, about half an hour, he waked again,
and comes out of the cave to me, for I had been
milking my goats which I had in the enclosure
just by. When he espied me he came running to
me, laying himself down again upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble, thankful
disposition, making many antic gestures to shew
it. At last he lays his head fiat upon the ground,
close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his
head, as he had done before; and after this, made
all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and
submission imaginable, to let me know how much
he would serve me as long as he lived. I under...
stood him in many things, and let him know I
was very well pleased with him. In a little time I
began to speak to him, and teach him to speak to
me; and first, I made him know his name should
be Friday, which was the day I saved his life; and

3'M~ ,, t . "9..-..en 7
_.,._ -...,
. .
I called him so for the memory of the time: I like.
wise taught him to say, " Master," and then let him
know that was to be my name. I likewise taught ;
him to say, "Yes," and "No," and to know the
meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before
him, and sop my bread in it; and 1 gave him a
cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly com-
plied with, and made signs that it was very good
for him.

I kept there with him all that night; but as soon
as it was day, I beckoned him to come with me,
and let him know I would give him some clothes;
at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark
naked. ' As we went by the place where we had
buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the spot,
and shewed me the marks that he had made to find
them again, making signs to me that we should
dig them up again, and eat them; at this I appeared
very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made
as if I would vomit at the thoughts oi it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come away,
which he did immediately, with great submission.
I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see if
his enemies were gone, and pulling out my glass,
I looked, and saw plainly the place where they had
been, but no appearance of them, or of their
canoes; so that it was plain that they were gone,
and had left their two comrades behind them,
without any search after them.

Butl was not content with this discovery; but
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving
him the sword in hand, with the how and arrows
at his back, which I found he could use very dex-
tcrously, making him carry one gun for me, and
I two for myself, and away we marched to the place
:7 where these creatures had been; for I had a mind
.- now to get some fuller intelligence of them. When
. I came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my
{ veins, and my heart sunk within me at the horror
g? of the Spectacle. Indeed it was a dreadful sight,
, at least it was so to me, though Friday made no-
if; " thing of it: the place was covered with human
- bones, the ground dyed with the blood, great
pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten,
mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the
tokens of the triumphant feast they had been ma-
king there, after a victory over their enemies. I
saw three skulls, five hands, and the bones of three
or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts
of the bodies: and Friday, by his signs, made me
understand, that they brought over four prisoners
to feast upon; that three of them were eaten up,
and that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth;
that there had been a great battle between them and
their next king, whose subjects, it seems, he had
been one of ; and that they had taken a great num-
ber of prisoners, all which were carried to several
places by those that had taken them in the fight,
in order to feast upon them, as was done here by
these wretches upon those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones,
' flesh, and whatever remained, and lay them toge-
ther on a heap, and make a great fire upon it, and
burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a
hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was
still a cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so
much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at
the least appearance of it, that he durst not dis.
cover it; for I had, by some means, let him know,
that I would kill him if he offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our
castle, and there I fell to work for my man Friday. '
And first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers,
which I had out of the poor gunner's chest [.men-
tioned, and which, I found in the wreck; and
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well: '
then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as '
my skill would allow, and I was now grown a 9'
tolerable good tailor; and I gave him a cap, which .
I had made of a hareskin, very convenient, and -
fashionable enough: and thus he was dressed, for
the present, tolerably well; and mighty well was
he pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as
his master. It is true, he went awkwardly in these 2
things at first: wearing the. drawers was very
awkward to him; and the sleeves of the waistcoat _,
gelled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms; :3
but a little easing them where he complained they "
hurt him, and using himself to them, at length he '
took to them very well.

. The next day after I came home to my hutch ..
with him, I began to consider where I should lodge
him: and that I might do well for him, and yet be
perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him, -
in the vacant place between my two fortifications,
in the inside of the last, and in the outsideof the
first: and as there was a door of entrance there
into my cave, I made a formal framed dooncase,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the pas-
sage, a little within the entrance; and, causing
the door to open on the inside, I barred it up in
the night, taking in my ladders too; so that Friday
could no way come at me in the inside of my in-
nermost wall, without making so much noise in
getting over, that it must needs awaken me; for
my first wall had now a complete roof over it ofl ' iW'WEW'V' . , H " ' ' " "*-- rW'vflvaT"J"flr1<<->> "' T-n'f '1"3S'E'EfiJfiT'3'9'Q'fii

aoamson causes. 23;

long poles, covering all my tent, and Issuing up; '
to the side of the hill, which was again laid cross " .' '

with small sticksinstead of lathe, and then thatch'ed
over a great thickness with the rice straw, which
was strong llke reeds; and at the hole or place
which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been
attempted on the outside, would not have opened
at all, but would have fallen down, and made a
great noise: and as to weapons, I took them all in
to my side every night.

But I needed none of all this precaution; for
never man had a more faithful, loving, sincere
servant than Friday was to me; without passions,
sullenness, or designs; perfectly obliged and en.
gaged; his very affections were tied to me, like
those of a child to a father; and I dare say,degh'e
would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine,
upon any occasion whatsoever. The many testi;
monies he gave me of this, put it out of doubt:
and soon convinced me, that I needed to use no'
precautions as to my safety on his account. ' '

This frequently gave me occasion to observe,
and that with wonder, that however it had pleased
God in his providence, and in the government of
the works of his hands, to take from so great a
part of the world of his creatures, the best uses to
which their faculties, and the powers of their souls
are adapted: yet that he has bestowed upon them
the same powers, the same reason, the same afl'ec'.
tions, the same sentiments of kindness and oblige.
tion, the. same passions and resentments of wrongs,
the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity,and
all the capacities of doing good, and receiving good,
that he has given to us; and that when he pleases
to offer them occasions of exciting these, they are
as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the
right uses for which they were bestowed, than we -
are. And this made me very melancholy some.
times, in reflecting, as the several occasions pre.
sented, how mean a use we make of all these, even
though we have these powers enlightened by the
great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and
by the knowledge of his word, added to our under- 3 '
standing; and why it has pleased God to hide the
like saving knowledge from so many millions of
souls, who, if I might judge by this poor savage,
would make a. much better use of it than we did.

But to return to my new companion; I was
greatly delighted with him, and made it my busi.
ness to teach him every thing that was proper to
make him useful, handy, and helpful; but espe-
cially to make him speak, and understand me
when I spake; and he was the aptest scholar that
ever was, and particularly was so merry, so can-
stantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but
understand me, or make me understand him, that
it was very pleasant for me to talk to him. And
now my life began to be so easy, that I began to
say to myself, that could I but have been safe from
more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove
from the place while I lived.

After I had been two or three days returned to
my castle, I thought, that in order to bring Friday
03' from his horrid way of feeding, and from the
relish of a eannibal's stomach, I ought to let him
taste other flesh. So I took him out with me one
morning to the woods; I went, indeed, intending
to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home
and dress it: but, as I was going, I saw a she-
goat, lying down in the shade, and two young kids
sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday; "Hold,"

 

E'F'W- I
  
 
  
   
    

aidI: "stand still ;" and made signs to him not
0 stir: immediately I presented my piece, shot,
. nd killed one of the kids. The poor creature who
' 11111, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the savage,
:= I1is enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine,
I ow it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled,
77 nd shook, and looked so amazed, that I thought
j -- 1e would have sunk down. He did not see the
'Md I had shot at, nor perceive I had killed it, but
. ippcd up his waistcoat to feel if he was not wound-
cd; and, as I found presently, thought I was re-
solvcd to kill him; for he came and kneeled down
to me, and embracing my knees, saidagreat many
things I did not understand; but I could easily see
.2, that his moaning was to pray me not to kill him.
.. I soon found a way to convince him, that I
f would do him no harm; and, taking him up by
the hand, laughed at him, and pointing to the
kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run
and fetch it, which he did; and while he was
wondering and looking to see how the creature
was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by and
by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon
a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand
a little what I would do, I called him to me
again, pointing at the fowl, which was indeed a
. parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk : I
'& say, pointing to the parrot and to my gun, and to
the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would
make him fall, I made him understand that I would
shact and kill that bird. accordingly I fired, and
bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot
fall. He stood like one frighted again, notwith-
standing all that I had said to him, and I found
he was the more amazed, because he did not see
me put any thing into the gun, but thought there
must be some wonderful fund of death and destrnc.
tion in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or
any thing near or far 06'; for the astonishment
this created in him was such as could not wear off '7
for along time; and I believe, if I would have let '
him, he would have worshipped me and my gun: '
as for the gun itself, he would not so much as
touch it for several days after; but would speak to
it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when
he was by himself, which as I afterward learned of
him, was to desire it not to kill him. "
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at
this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I
had shot, which he did, but staid some time; for
the parrot, not being quite dead, was fluttered a
good way off from the place where she fell. How.
ever, he found her, took her up, and brought her '
to me ; and, as I had perceived his ignorance about i
the gun before, I took this advantage to charge the
gun again, and not let him see me do it, thatI '
might be ready for any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offered at that time. :
So I brought home the kid, and the same evening
I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I could;
and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth:
after I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my
man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very
well; but that which was strangest to him was to
see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me,
that the salt was not good to eat, and putting a
little into his own mouth, he seemed to 'nauseate
it, and would spit and Sputter at it, washing his
mouth with fresh water after it; on the other hand, .
I took some meat in my month without salt, andI
pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as
last as he had done at the salt: butit would not do ;
he would never care for salt with meat, or in his
broth, at least, not for a great while, and then but
_: a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth,
I was resolved to feast him the next day with roast-
ing a piece of a kid : this I did by hanging it be-
fore a fire in a string, as I had seen many people
do in England, setting two poles up, one on each
side the fire, and one cross on the top, and tying
the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn
continually. This Friday admired very much;
but when he came to taste the flesh,]he took so many
ways to tell me how he liked it, that I could not
but understand him: and at last, he told me he
would never eat man's flesh any more, which I
was very glad to hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do,
as I observed before; and he soon understood how
to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen
what the meaning of it was, and that it was to
make bread of; for after that I let him see me make
my bread, and bake it too; and in a little time
Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well
as 1 could do it myself. _

I began now toiconsider,that,having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn
than I used to do, so I marked out a larger piece
of land, and began the fence in the same manner
as before. in which Friday not only worked very
willingly, and very hard, but did it very cheerful-
ly; and I told him what it was for, that it was (or
corn to make more bread, because that he was now
With me, and that I might have enough for- him
and myself too. He appeared very sensible of -'
that part, and let me know that he thought I had
much more labour upon me on his account, than I
had for myself, and that he would work the harder
for me, if I would tell him what to do. ;

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led 3'
in this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, "
and understand the names of almost every thing I j
had occasion to call for, and of every place I had
to-send him to, and talk a great deal to me; so
that in short,l began now to have some use for my
tongue again, which indeed I had very little occa-
sion for before; that is to say, about speech. Be-
sides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a sin-
gular satisfaction in the fellow himself: his simple,
unfeigned honesty appeared to be more and more
every day, and I began really to love the creature;
and on his side, I believe he loved me more than
it was possible for him ever to love any thing be-
fore.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering '
inclination to his own country again ; and having
learned him English so well, that he could answer =
me almost any questions, I asked him whether
the nation that he belonged to never conquered
in battle. At which he smiled, and said, " Yes,
yes: we alway fight the better ;" that is, he meant
always get the better in fight: and so we began
the following discourse. " You always fight the
better "' said I: " How came you to be taken pri-
soner then, Fridav'!"

Friday. My nation beat much for all that.

Jllaster. How beat? If your nation beat them,
how came ton to be taken. C/

Fr ulay They more than my nation in the place

where we was: they take one, two, three, and me.
My nation over-beat them in the yonder place,
where me no was: there my nation take one, two,
great thousand.

Master. But why did not your side recover you
from the hand of you enemies then?

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go the canoe: my nation have no canoe that
time.

Master. Well, Friday, and what does your na.
tion do with the men they take? Do they carry
them away, and eat them, as these did?

Friday. Yes, my nation eats mans too, eat all
up.
Jllastcr. Where do they carry them!

Friday]. Go to other place where they think,

filaster. Do they come hither?

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither : come other
else place.

Master. Have you been here with them?

Friday. Yes I been here. (Points to N. W.
side of the island, which it seems, was their side.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had
formerly been among the savages, who used to come
on shore, on the farther parts of the island, on the
said maneating occasions that he was now brought
for: and some time after, when I took courage to
carry him to that side, being the same I formerly
mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told
me he was there once when they eat up twenty
men, two women, and one child : he could not tell
twenty in English, but he numbered them by lay-
ing so many stones in a row, and pointing to me
to tell them over.

1 have told this passage, because it introduces
what follows : that, after I had had this discourse
with him, I asked him how far it was from our is.
land to the shore, whether the canoes were not
often lost. He told me there was no danger, no
canoes ever lost; but that after a little way out to
sea, there was a current, and a wind always one
way in the morning, the other in the afternoon.

This I understand to be no more than sets of the
tide, as going out or coming in; but I afterward
understood it was occasioned by the great draught
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque; in the
mouth of which river, as I thought afterward, our
island lay; and that this land, which I perceived
to the. W. and N. \V. was the great island Trinidad,
on the north point of the mouth of the river. I
asked Friday a thousand questions about the coun-
try, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what j
nations were near: he told me all he knew, with
the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him
the names of the several nations of his sort of
people, but could get no other names than Caribs;
from whence I easily understood, that these were
the Caribbees, which our maps place on that {part
of America, which reaches from the mouth of the
river Oroonoque to Guiana, and onwards to St.
Martha. He told me, that up a great way beyond
the moon, that was, bet ond the setting of the
moon, which must be west from their country,
there dwelt white, bearded men, like me, and point-
ed to my great whiskers,which I mentioned before;
and that they had killed " much mans," that was
his word. By all which I understood he meant the
Spaniards, whose eruelties in America had been
spread over the whole countries, and were remem-
bered by all the nations from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come
from this island, and get among those white men;
he told me yes, yes, I might go 1n" tab canoe."
I could not understand what he meant by " two ca.
noe," till at last with great difficulty I found he
meant, that it must be a large, great heat, as big
as two canoes.

This part of Friday's discourse began to relish
with me very well: and from this time I enter-
tained some hopes, that one time or other, I might
find an opportunity to make my escape from this
place, and that this poor savage might be a means
to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and
understand me, I was not wanting to lay a foun-
dation of religious knowledge in his mind; parti-
cularly I asked him one time, who made him.
The poor creature did not understand me at all,
but thought I had asked who was his father. But
I took it by another handle, and asked him, who
made the sea, the ground he walked on, and the
hills and woods. He told me,itwas one old Bcna.
muckee, that lived beyond all. He could describe
nothing of this great person, but that he was v'ery
old; much older, he said, than the sea or the land,
than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, if
this old person had made all things, why did not
all things worship him. He looked very grave,
and with a perfect look of innocence, said, " All
things said O to him." I asked him if the people
who die in his country went away any where. He
said, yes, they all went to Benamuckee.' Then'I
asked him, whether those they eat up went thither
too: he said, "Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in
the knowledge of the true God. I told him that
the great Maker of all things lived up there, point-
mg up towards heaven: that he governs the world

a _
   

by the same power and providence by which ballad
made it: that he was omnipotent, could do every
thing for us, give every thing to us, take every
thing from us: and thus, by degrees, I opened his
eyes. He listened with great attention, and re.
ceived with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
being sent to redeem us, and cf the manner of ma-
king our prayers to God, and his being able to
hear us, even into heaven. He told me one day,
thatif our God could hear us up beyond the sun,
he must needs be a greater God than their Bena.
muckee, who lived :but a little way off, and yet
could not hear, till they went up to the great monu-
tains where he dwelt, to speak to him. I asked
him, if ever he went thither to speak to him: he
said, no; they never went that were young men;
none went thither but the old men, whom he called
their Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain
it to me, their religious, or clergy; and that they
went to say 0 (so he called saying prayers), and
then came back, and told them what Benamnckee
said. By this I observed, that there is priestcrafi
even amongst the most blinded ignorant pagans in
the world; and the policy of making a secret reli- -
giou, in order to preserve the veneration of the
people to the clergy, is not only to be found in the 1
Roman, but perhaps among all religions in the
world, even among the most brutish and barbarous
savages.

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday, and told him, that the pretence of their
old men going up to the mountains to say 0 to
their god Benamuckee, was a cheat; and their
bringing word from thence what he said, was much
more so; that if they met with any answer, or
spoke with any one there, it must be with an enl
spirit: and then I entered into a long discourse
with him about the devil, the original of him, his
rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the rea-
son of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts
of the world to be worshipped instead of God, and
as God, and the many stratagems he made use of
to delude mankind to their ruin: how he had a'
secret access to our passions, and to our afl'ections,
to adapt his snares so to our inclinations, as to
cause us even to be our own tempters, and to run
upon our own destruction, by our own choice.

I found it was not so easy to imprint right no-
tions in his mind about the devil. as it was about
the being of a God. Nature assisted all my argu.
ments to evidence to him even the necessity of a
great First Cause, and over-ruling, governing pow-
er, a secret, directing providence, and of the equity
and justice of paying homage to him that made us,
and the like: but there appeared nothing of all
this in the notion of an evil spirit; of his original,
his being, his nature, and, above all, of his in.
clination to do evil, and to do so too. And the
poor creature puzzled me once in such amanner, by
a question merely natural and innocent, that I
scarce knew what to say to him. I had been talk-
ing a great deal to him of the power of God, his
omnipotence, his dreadful aversion to sin, his be-
ing a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity;
how, as he had made us all, he could des'u-oy us,
and all the world, in a moment: and he listened
with great seriousnessto me all the while.

After this, 1 had been telling him how the devil
was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and-used
811 his malice and skill to defeat the good designs
01 Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of - Christ

in the woe-ld, and the like: " Well," says FfidW:
a
" but you say, God is so strong, so great, he is not
much strong, much might, as the devil 2" "Yes,
yes," said I, "Friday, God is stronger than the
devil, God is above the devil, and therefore we
pray to God to tread him under our feet, and enable
us to resist his temptations, and quench his fiery
darts." " lint," says he again, "if God much
strong, much might, as the. devil, why God not
kill the devil, so make him no more wicked?"

I was strangely surprised at his question, and
after all, though I was now an old man, yet I was
but a young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a
casuist, or a solver of difficulties; and at first I
Could not tell what to say; so I pretended not to
hear him, and asked him what he. said. But he
was too earnest for an answer to forget his question,
so that he repeated it in the same broken words as
above. By this time, I had recovered myself a
little, and I said, "God will at last punish him
severely; he. is reserved for the judgment, and is
to be cast into the. bottomless pit, to dwell with
everlasting fire." This did not satisfy Friday; but
he returns upon me, repeating my words, "Re-
serve at last? me no understand. But why not
kill the devil now, not kill great ago 1-" "You may
as well ask me," said I, " why God does not kill
you and me, when we do wicked things here that
oil'end him: we are preserved to repent and be par.
doned." Ile muses awhile at this: "Well, well,"
says he, mighty aflbctionately, "that well; so you,
I, devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God par.
don all." Here I was run down again by him to
the last degree, and it was a testimony to me, how
the mere notions of nature, though they will guide
reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God.
and of a worship or homage due to the supreme
eing of God, as the consequence of our nature;
11 nothing but divine revelation can form the
~nowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption
)urchased for us, of a Mediator of a new covenant,
is and of an Intercessor at the footstool of God's
* throne: I say, nothing but a revelation from hea-
'en can form these in the soul : and that therefore
the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ,
I mean the word of God, and the ,Spirit of God,
)rOmiSCd for the guide and sanctifier of his people,
' are the absolutely necessary instructors of the souls
of men in the saving knowledge of God, and the
means of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some
sudden occasion of going out; then sending him
for something a great way 011', I seriously prayed
to God that he would enable me to instruct saving-
ly this poor savage, assisting by his Spirit the heart
of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light
of the knowledge of God in Chrst, reconciling him
, to himself, and would guide me to speak so to him
. from the word of God, as his conscience might be

convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved.
When he came again to me, I entered into a long
discourse with him upon the subject of the redemp-
tion of man, by the Saviour of the world, and of
the doctrine of the Gospel, preached from heaven,
viz. of repentance towards God, and faith in our
blessed Lord'Jesus. I then explained to him as
well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took
not on him the nature of angels, but the seed of
Abraham, and how, for that reason, the fallen
angels had, no share in the redemption; that he

V came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel,
and the like.
Ihad, God knows, more sincerity than know.
ledge, in all the methods I took for this poor crea-
ture's instruction; and must acknowledge whatl .
believe all that act upon} the same principle will '
find, that, in laying things open to him, I really
informed and instructed myself in many things
that either I did not know, or had not fully con-
sidered before : but which occurred naturally to my
mind, upon my searching into them for the infor--
mation of this poor savage; and I had more alike
tion in my inquiry after things upon this occasion
than ever I felt before; so that whether this poor '
wild wretch was the better for me or no, I had great
reason to be thankful that ever he came to me: ,
my grief sat lighter upon me, my habitation grew
comfortable to me beyond measure; and when l !
reflected, that, in this solitary life which I had
been confined to, I had not only been moved my. j
self to look up to heaven, and to seek to the Hand '
that brought me thither, but was now to be made '
an instrument, under Providence, to save the life,
and for aught I knew, the soul,'.,'of a poor savage, and
bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and
of the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ
Jesus, " to know whom is life eternal ;" I say,
when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy
ran through every part of my soul, and I frequent.
1y rejoiced that ever I was brought to this place,
which I had often thought the most dreadful of all
afflictions that could possibly have befallen me.

In this thankful frame I continued all the re-
mainder of my time; and the conversation which '
employed the hours between Friday and me was
such as made the three years, which we lived 1
there together, perfectly and completely happy, if
any such thing as complete happiness can be found
in a sublunary state. The savage was now a good
Christian; a much better than I : though I have
reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were
equally penitent, and co'mforted restored penitents.
We had here the word of God to read, and no far-

ther off from his Spirit to instruct, than if we had
been in England.

I always applied myself to reading the Scrip-
ture, and to let him know, as well as I could, the
meaning of what I read; and he again, by his
serious inquiries and questions, made me, as I said
before, a much better scholar, in the Scripture
knowledge than I should ever have been by my
own mere private reading. Another thing I can-
not refrain from observing here also, from experi-
ence, in this retired part of my life; viz. how
infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is, that the
knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salva-
tion by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the
word of God, so easy to be received and understood,
that as the bare reading the Scripture made me ca-
pable of understanding enough of my duty to
carry me directly on to the great work of sincere
repentance for my sins, and laying hold of a. Sa~
viour for life and salvation, to a stated reforma-
tion in practice, and obedience to all God's com-
mands, and this without any teacher or instructor
(I mean human); so the same plain instruction
sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage
creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian,
as l have known few equal to him in my life.

As to the disputes, wranglings, strife, and con-
tention, which has happened in the world about
religion, whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes
of church government, they were all perfectly use-
less to us, as for aught I can yet see, they hare been248 sovnn'rumss or

 

to all the rest of the world. 'We had the sure guide
to heaven : viz. the word of God; and we had
blessed be God '9 comfortable views of the Spirit of
God, teaching and instructing us by his word, lead-
ing us into all truth, and making us both willing
and obedient to the instruction of his word; and I
cannot see the least use that the greatest knowledge
of the disputed points in religion, which have made
such confusions in the world, would have been to
us, if we could have obtained it. But I must go
on with the historical part of things, and take eve-
ry part in its order.

!

 

CHAPTER X.

CRUSDH liI'-ILDS A CANOE, INTENDIXG T0 ESCAPE
\'v'l'l'll FRIDAY--VISITED BY THE SAVAGES
~--DREADF['L ENCOUNTER WIT!) THEM.
CRL'SOE PROVES VICTOR.

AFTER Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all
I said to him, and speak fluently, though in bro-
ken English to me, I acquainted him with my own
story, or at least so much of it as related to my
coming into the place. how I had lived there, and
how long. I let' him into the mystery (for such it
was to him) of gunpowder and bullet, and taught
him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he
was wonderfully delighted with, and made him a
belt with a frog hanging to it, such as in England
we wear hangers in; and, in the frog>>, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only
as good a weapon in some cases, but much more
useful upon many occasions.

I described to him the countries of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from; how we
lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved
to one another, and how we traded in ships to all
parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and shewed
him, as near as I could, the place where she lay;
but she was all beaten in pieces long before, and
quite gone.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we
lost when I escaped, and which I could not stir
with my whole strength then, but was now fallen
almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Fri-
day stood musing a great while, and said nothing.
I asked him what it was he studied upon ; at last,
says he, " Me see such boat like come to place at
my nation."

I did not understand him a good while; but, at
last, when I had examined farther into it, I under-
stood by him, that a boat, such as that had been,
came on shore upon the country where he lived ;
that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by
stress of weather. I presently imagined,that some
European ship must have been cast away upon
their coast, and the boat might get loose, and drive
ashore ; but was so dull that I never once thought
of men making escape from a wreck thither, much
less whence they might come; so I only inquired
after the description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough;
but brought me to understand him when he added,
with some warmth, " \Ve save' the white mans from
drown." Then I presently asked him if there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat:
" Yes," he said, " the boat full of white mans." I
asked him, " How many 3" He told me upon his I
fingers seventeen. I asked him then, " What he. '
came of them i" He told me, They live, they dwell
at my nation.

This put new thoughts into my head again; for
I presently imagined, that these might be the men
belonging to the ship that was cast away in sight
of my island, as I new call it; and who, after the
ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her in.
evitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat,
and were landed upon that wild shore among the
savages.

Upon this, I inquired of him more critically,
what was become of them: he assured me they
lived still there; that they had been there about
{our years; that the savages let them alone, and
gave them victuals to live. I asked him, how it
came to pass that they did not kill them, and eat
them. He said, " N 0, they make brother with
them ;" that is, as I understood him, a truce: and
then he added, " They no eat mans, but when make
the war light;" that is to say, they never eat any
men, but such as come to fight with them, and are
taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that
being on the top of the hill, at the east side of the
island, from whence, as l have said, I had, in a
clear day, discovered the main or continent of
America; Friday, the weather being very serene.
looks very earnestly towards the main land, and,
in a kind of surprise, fails a jumping and dancing,
and calls out to me, f at I was at some distance from
him: I asked him what was the matter. " 0 joy!"
says he, " O glad! There see my country! there
my nation !"
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled,and his
countenance discovered a strange eagerness,as if
he had a mind to be in his own country again; and
this observation of mine put a great many thoughts
into me, which made me at first not so easy about
my new man Friday, as I was before; and I made
no doubt, but that if Friday could get back to his
own nation again, he would not only forget all his
religion, but all his obligation to me; and would
be forward enough to give his countrymen an ac-
count of me, and come back, perhaps, with a hun-
dred or two of them, and make a feast upon me,
at which he might be as merry as he used to be

with those of his enemies, when they were taken
in war.

But I wronged the poor honest creature very
much, for which I was very sorry afterward: how-
ever, as my jealousy increased, and held me some
weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so
familiar and kind to him as before : in which I
was certainly in the wrong too, the honest grateful
creature having no thought about it, but what con-
sisted of the best principles, both as a religious
Christian, and as a grateful friend, as appeared af-
terward to my full satisfaction.

Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be
sure I was every day pumping him to see if he
would discover any of the new thoughts, which I
suspected were in him; but I found every thing he
said was honest, and so innocent that I could find
nothing to nourish my suspicion; and in spite of
all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his
own again; nor did he in the least pemeiveLthaL
I was uneasy; and therefore I could not suspect
him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the wea-
ther being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the
continent, I called to him, and said. " Friday, do
not you wish yourself in your own country, your
own nation!" " Yes," he said, " I be much 0
glad to be at my own nation." " What would you
do there 2" said I: "would you turn wild again,
eat man's flesh again, and be savage as you were
before 2'" He looked full of concern, and shaking
his head, said, " N o, no ; Friday tell them to live
good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn.
bread, cattle--flesh, milk: no eat man again."
" Why then," said I to him, " they will kill you."
lie looked grave at that, and then said, " No, they
no kill me; they willing love learn." He meant
by this, they would be willing to learn : he added,
they learned much of the bearded mans that came
in the boat. Then I asked him if he would go
back to them. He smiled at that, and told me
he could not swim so far. I told him I would
make a canoe for him. He told me he would go,
if I would go with him. " I go !" said I, " why
they will eat me, if I come there." " No, no,"
says he, " me make them no eat you: me make
them no eat you: me make they much love you."
He meant he would tell them how I had killed his
enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make
them love. Then he told me, as well as he could,
how kind they were to seventeen white men, or
bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore
there in distress.

From this time, I confess, I had a. mind to ven-
ture over, and see if I could possibly join with these
bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spani-
ards or Portuguese; not doubting but, if I could,
we might find some method to escape from thence,
being upon the continent, and a good company to.
gether better than I could from an island, forty
miles off the shore, and alone without help. So after
some days, I took Friday to work again. by way of
discourse; and told him, I would give him a boat to
go back to his own nation; and accordingly carried
him to my frigate, which lay on the other side of
the island; and having cleared it of water (for I
always kept it sunk in the water) I brought it out,
shewed it him, and we both went into it.

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at man.
aging it, would make it go almost as swift and fast
again as I could: so when he was in, I said to him,
"Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?"
II e looked very dull at my saying so,which it seems
was because he thought the boat too small to go so
far. I told him then I had a bigger; so the next
day I went to the place where the first boat lay
which I had made, but which I could not get into
the water. He said that was big enough; but then
as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two or
three-and-twenty years there, the sun had split and
dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told
me that such a boat would do very well, and would
carry " much enough vittle, drink, bread;" that was
his way of talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with him to the continent,
,that I told him we would go and make oneasbig as
that, and he should go home in it. He answered
not one word,but looked very grave and sad. I ask-
ed him what was the matter with him. He asked
me again thus, "Why you angry mad with Friday? '
What me done?" I asked him what he meant: I
told him I was not angry with him at all. " No
angry! no angry !" says he, repeating the words
several times: "why send Friday home again to my
nation 1" "Why,' said I , " Friday, did you not say
you wished you were there 1" "Yes, yes," says he,
"wish we both there ; no wish Friday there, no mas-
ter there." In a word, he would not think of going '
there without me. " I go there Friday!" said I; ._
"what should I do there." He turned very quick upon
me at this: "You do great deal much good,"isays he;
" you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame mans:
you pray them know God, pray God, and live new ,
life." "Alas, Friday," said I, " thou knowest not 1'.'
what thou sayest: I am not but an ignorant man -'
myself." "Yes, yes," says he, " you teachee me good,
you teachee them good." " N o, no, Friday," said I,
"you shall go without me; leave me here to live by
myself as I did before." He looked confused again
at that word; and, running to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and
gives it me. "What must I do with this?" said I to
him. "You take kill Friday,"says he. "What must
I kill you for?" said I again. He returns very
quick, "What you send Friday away for! Take
kill Friday; No send Friday away." This he spoke
so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In
a word I so plainly discovered the utmost affection
in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I
told him then, and often after, that I would never
send him away from me if he was willing to stay
with me.

Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse,
a settled affection to me, and that nothing should
part him from me, so I found all the foundation of
his desire to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my
doing them good;'a thing, which as I had no no. .
tion of myself, so that I had not the least thought,
orintention, or desire of undertaking it. But still
- I found a strong inclination to my attempting an

, escape, as above, founded on the supposition ga-

thered from the former discourse; viz. that there
were seventeen bearded men there; and therefore,
a without any more delay, I went to work with Friday,

to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a

a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage.

' . There were trees enough in the island to have built

 

z a little fleet, not of periaguas and canoes only, but
' even of good large vessels; but the main thing I
' looked at, was to get one so near the water, that we
_ might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mis-
' take I committed at first.

" At last Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found
he knew much better than I what kind of wood was
fittest tor it; nor can I tell, to this day,what wood
to call the tree we cut down, except that it was very
like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour
and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or
cavity of this tree out, to make it into a boatzbut I
chewed him how rather to cut it outwith tools, which
after I shewed him how to use, he did it very han-
dily; and in about a month's hard labour, we finish.
ed it, and made it very handsome, especially when
with our axes, which I shewed him how to handle,
We cut and hewed the outside into the shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost usnear a fortnight's
time to get her along, as it were, inch by inch, up-
on great rollers, into the water: but when she was
in, she would have carried twenty men with great
ease. .
When she was in the water, and though she was so
big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity and
how swift my man Friday would manage her, turn
her, and paddle her along. 80 I asked him, if he
would, and if we might venture over in her:"Yes,"
he said, " me. venture over in her very well, though
great blow wind." However, I had a farther design
that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a '
mast and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and '
cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough to get; so
I pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree,which was
near the place, and which there was great plenty of
in the island: and set Friday to work to cut it down,
and gave him directions how to shape and order it;
but as to the sail. that was my particular care. I
knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old sails
enough, but as I had had them now twenty-six
years by me, and not been very careful to preserve
them, not imagining that I should ever have this
kind of use for them, I did not doubt but that they -
were all rotten; and indeed most of them were so.
However, I found two pieces which appeared pretty
good, and with these I went to work; and with a ,
great deal of pains, and awkward tedious stitching,
(you may be sure), for want of needles, I at length
made a threacornered ugly thing, like what we call
in England, a shoulder of-mutton sail, to go with a
boon at bottom, and a short sprit at the top, such
as usually our ships' long boats sail with, and such
as I best knew how to manage, because it was such
a one as I used in the boat in which I made my es-
cape from Barbary, as related in the first part of my
story.

I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. riggiag and fitting my mast and sails; for I fin-
ished them very complete, making a small stay,
and a sail, or fore-sail to it, to assist, if we should
turn to windward; and, which was more than 9.11;]
fixed a.rudder to the stern of her, to steer with: and
. though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I
knew the usefulness and even necessity of such a
thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do
it, that last I brought it to pass; though, consider-
. ing the many dull contrivances I had for it that
failed, I think it cost rue as much labour as making
the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to

teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for though he knew very well how to paddle
the canoe, he hnew nothing what belonged to a sail
and a rudder, and was the most amazed when he
saw me work the boat to-and again in the sea, by
the rudder, and how the sail gibbed, and filled this
way or that way, as the course we sailed changed;
I say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonish-
ed and amazed. However, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the compass, I could
make him understand very little of that: on the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather,
and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there
was the less occasion for a compass. seeing the stars
were always to be seen by night, and the shore by
dry, except in the rainy season; and then nobody
cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.

I was now entered on the sevenand-twentieth

years! my captivity in this place; though the three . '

last years that I had this creature with me ought
rather to be left out of the account, my habitation
being quite of another kind, than in all the rest of
the time. I kept rhe anniversary of my landing
here, with the same thankfulness to God for his
mercies as at first: and if I had such cause otac-
knowledgment at first, I had much more so now,
ha'ing such additional testimonies of the care
8 .
of Providence over me, and the great hopes I
had of being efl'ectually and speedily delivered : or
I had an invincible impression upon my thoughts,
that my deliverance was at hand, and that I should
not be another year in this place However, I went
on with my husbandry, digging, planting, fencing,
as usual; I gathered and cured my grapes, and did '
every necessary thing as before.

The rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times;
so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we
could, bringing her up into the creek, where, as I
said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the
ship; and hauling her up to the shore at high wa-

r mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock,
fist big enough to hold her, and just deep enough >>
to give her water enough to float in; and that when
the tide was out, we made a strong dam cross the
end of it, to keep the water out; and so she lay
dry, as to the tide from the sea; and to keep the
rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees so '1
thick, that she was as well thatched as a house; '
and thus we waited for the months of November and
December, in which I designed to make my ad-
venture.

When the settled season began to come in, as
the thought of my design returned with the fair
weather, I was preparing daily for the voyage;
and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain
quantity of provisions, being the stores for our
voyage, and intended in a week or a fortnight's
time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat.
I was busy one morning upon something of. this.
kind, when I called to Friday, and bade him go to,
the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle, or:
tortoise, a thing which we generally got once awesk',
for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh.

riday had not been long gone, when he came

'A running back, and flew over my outward wall, or

fence, likeone that 'felt not the ground, or the
teps he set his feet on; and before I had time to

, r speak to him, he cried out to me, " 0 master! 0

master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad !" " that's the matter,

, Friday 3" said I. " O yonder there," says he "one,

two,three canoe! one, two, three!" By this way
of speaking, I concluded there were six; but, on
inquiry, 1 found there were but three. "Well,
Friday," said I, " do not be frighted :" so I heart-
ened him up as well as I could. However, I saw

7 the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for no-
thing ran in his head but that they were come to

look for him, and would cut him in pieces, and eat
him; and the poor fellow trembled so, that I scarce
knew what to do with him. I comforted him as

, well as I could, and told him I was in as much

" danger as he, and that they would eat me as well

".1

as him. " But," said I, " Friday, we must resolve
to fight them. Can you fight, Friday?" "Me
shoot," says be; but there come many great num.
ber." " No matter for that," said I again, " our
guns will fright them that we do not kill." 80 I
asked him, whether, if I resolved to defend him,
he would defend me, and stand by me, and do
just as I bade him. He said, " Me die, when you
bid die, master." So I went and fetched a good
dram of rum, and gave him; for I had been so
gooda husband of my rum, that I had a great!
deal left. When hehad drank it, I made him take
the two fowling-pieces, which we always carried,
and loaded them with swan-shot, as big as small
pistol-Bullets: then I took four muskets, and loaded

them with tho slugs, and five Small bullets each;
s
and my two pistols I loaded with abrace of bullets
each. I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by
my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective glass. and went up to the side of the '
hill, to see what I could discover; and I found
quickly by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty '
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their whole business seemed to be the tri-
umphant banquet upon these three human bodies .
(a barbarous feast indeed l): but nothing more than "
as I had observed was usual with them. '

I observed also. that they were landed, not
where they had done when Friday made. his es-
cape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was
low, and where a thick wood came close almost
down to the sea. This with the abhorrence of the
inhuman errand these wretches came about, so
filled me with indignation, that I came down again
to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down _
to them, and kill them all; and asked him if he .
would stand by me. He had now got over his
fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the
dram I had given him, he was very cheerful; and
told me, as before, "he would die, when I bid
die."

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the
arms which I had charged, as before, between us;
I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and
three guns upon his shoulder; and I took one
pistoland the other three myself; and in this
posture we marched out. I took a small bottle of
rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a. large bag
with more powder and bullet; and as to orders, I
charged him to keep close behind me, and not to
stir, or shoot, or do any thing till I bade him; and
in the mean time, not to speak a word. In this
posture I fetched a compass to my right hand of
near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get
into the wood; so that I might come within shot of
them, before I should be discovered, which 1 had
sm-n by my glass it was easy to do.

While I was making this march, my former
thoughts returning, I began to abate my resolution. -
I do not mean that I entertained any fear of their
number: for as they were naked, unarmed wretch-
us, it is certain I was superior to them; nay, though
I had been alone: but it occurred to my thoughts,
what call, what occasion, much less what necessity
I was in, to go and dip my hands in blood. to at-
tack people who had neither done nor intended me
any wrong; who, as to me, were innocent, and
whose barbarous customs were their own disaster,
being in them a token indeed of God's having left
them, with the other nations of that part of the
world, to such stupidity, and to such inhuman
courses; but did not call me to take upon me to be
a judge of their actions, much less an executioner
of his justice: that whenever he thought fit, he
would take the cause into his own hands, and, by
national vengeance, punish them for national
crimes; but that in the mean time, it was none of
m v business; that it was true, Friday might Justify
it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a
state of war with those very particular people, and
it was law't'ul for him to attack them; but I could
not say the same with respect to me. These things
were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the
way as I went, that I resolved I would only go
and place myself near them, that I might observe
their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as
God should direct, but that, unless something of.
feted that was more a call. to me than yet I knew
of, I would not meddle with them.

\Vith this resolution I entered the wood, and with
all possible wariness and silence (Friday following
close at my heels), I marched till I came tothe
skirt of the wood, on the side which was next to
them; only that one corner of the wood lay be-
tween me and them. Here I called softly to Friday,
and showing him a great tree, which was just at
the corner ofthe wood, I bade him go to the tree,
and bring me word if he could see there plainly
what they were doing, He did so, and came im-
mediately back to me, and told me they might be
plainly viewed there; that they were all about the
tire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners; and
that another lay hound upon the sand, a little from .
them, whom, he said, they would kill next, and
which fired the very soul within me. He told me
it was not one of their nation, hutone ofthebearded
men whom he had told me of. that came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at
the very naming the white, bearded man; and,
going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a
white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea
with his hands and his feet tied with flags, or things
like rushes; and that he was a European, and had

clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket

beyond it, about fifty yards nearer to them than
the place where I was, which by going alittle way
about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and
that then I should be within half shot of them. So
I withheld my passion, though I was indeed en.
raged to the highest degree; and, going back about
twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held
all the way till I came to the other tree, and then
I came to a little rising ground, which gave me a
full view of them, at the distance of about eighty
yards.

. I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of
the dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all
close huddled together, and had just sent the other
' two to butcher the Christian, and bring him, per-
:1 haps limb by limb, to their fire; and they were
" stooped down to untie the bands at his feet. I
turned to Friday: " Now Friday," said I, " do as
I bid thee." Friday said he would. "Then Fri-
day," said I, " do exactly as you see me do; fail in
nothing." So I set down one of the muskets, and
the fowling-piece, upon the ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musket I
took my aim at the savages, bidding him to do the
like: then asking him if he was ready, he said,
" Yes." " Then fire at them," said I; and the same
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that
on the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and, on my side, I killed
one, and wounded two. They were, you maybe
sure, in a dreadful consternation; and allof them,
who were not hurt, jumped up upon their feet im-
mediately, but did not know which way to run, or
which way to look; for they knew not from whence
their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close
upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might ob-
serve what I did: so, as soon as the first shot was
made, I threw down the piece, and took up the
fowling-piece, and Friday did the like: he sees me
cock and present; he did the same again. " Are
you ready, Friday ?" said I. " Yes," said he.
"Let fiy, then," said I, "in the name of God;"
and with that I fired again among the amazed
wretchee, and so did Friday; and as our pieces
were now loaden with what I call swan-shot, or
small pistol-bullets, we found only two drop; but
so many were wounded that they ran about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody and
miserably wounded, most of them; whereof three
more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.

"Now, Friday," said I, laying down the dis.
charged pieces and taking up the musket, which
was yet loaden. " follow me," said I ; which he did,
with a deal of courage: upon which I rushed out
of the wood, and shewed myself, and Friday close
at my foot. As soon as I perceived they saw me,
I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do
so too; and running as fast as I could, which, by
the way, was not very fast, being loaded with arms
as l was, I made directly towards the poor victim,
who was, as I said, lying upon the. beach or shore,
between the place where they sat, and the sea.
The two butchers who were just going to work with
him, had left him, at the surprise of our first fire,
and fled, in a terrible fright, to the sea-side, and
had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the
rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and
bade him step forwards, and fire at them: he un-
derstood me immediately, and,running about forty
yards to be near them, he shot at them, and I
thought he had killed them all; for I saw them all
fall on a heap in the boat; though I saw two of
them up again quickly; however, he killed two of
them, and wounded the third, so that he lay down
in the bottom of the beat, as if he had been
dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled
out my knife, and cut the [lags that bound the
poor victim; and, loosing his hands and feet, I
fitted him up, and asked him, in the Portuguese
tongue, what he was. He answered, in Latin,
"Christians. " but was so weak and faint, that he
could scarce stand, or speak. I took my bottle out
of my pocket, and gave it him, making signs that
he should drink, which he did; and I ga1e him a
piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him
what countryman he was, and he said, " Espag-
. nolez" and, being a little reco1ered, let me know,

by all the signs he could possibly make, how much
he was in my debt for his deli1 erance. " Seignor,"
said I, with as much Spanish as I could make up,
" we will talk afterward, but we must fight now:
if you have any strength left, take this pistol and
sword, and lay about you." He took them very
thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in his
hands, but, as if they had put new vigour into
him, he flew upon his murderers, like a fury, and
had cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so
the poor creatures were so much frighted with the
noise of our pieces, that they fell down for mere
amazement and fear, and had no more power to
attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to
resist our shot; and that was the case of those five
that Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of
them fell with the hurt they rece11 ed so the other
two fell with the flight.

I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing, .
being willing to keep my cha1ge 1eady, because I
had gi1 en the Spanimd m1 pistol and sword, so I
called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree
from whence we first fired. and fetch the arms
which lay there, that had been discharged, which
he did with great swiftness; and then giving him
In) musket, I sat down n11 self to load all the rest
again, and bade them come to me when they want.
ed. While I was leading these pieces, there hap.
pened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard
and one of the savages, who made at him with'one
of their great wooden swords, the same weapon
that was to have killed him before, if I had not
prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and _--
as brave as could be imagined, though weak, had f
fought this Indian a good while, and had cut him 1,.
two great wounds on his head; but the savage,
being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him,
had thrown him down (being faint), and was
wringing my sword out of his hand, when the
Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting the
sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the
savage through the body, and killed him upon the
spot, before I, who was running to help, could
come near him.

Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued
the flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but '
his hatchet; and with that he despatched those
three who, as I said before, were wounded at first
and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with;
and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave
him one of the fowling pieces, with which he pur-
sued two of the savages, and wounded them both;
but as he was not able to run, they both got from
him into the wood, where Friday pursued them,
and killed one of them; but the other was too nim--
ble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged into the sea, and swam, with all his might,
off to those two who were left in the canoe, which
three in the canoe, with one wounded, we know
not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands, of amend-twenty. The account of the
rest is as follows :
3 Killed at our shot from the tree.

2 Killed at the next shot.

2 Killed by Friday in the boat.

2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.

I Killed by ditto, in the wood.

3 Killed by the Spaniard.

4 Killed, being found dropped here and there;
of their wounds, or killed by Friday in
his chase of them.

4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if
not. dead.

_

'21 In all.

Those that were in the canoe', worked hard to get
out of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or
three shot at them, I did not find that he hit any
of them. Friday would fain have had me take one
of their canoes, and pursue them, and indeed I
was very anxious about their escape, lest, carrying
the news home to their peeple, they should come
back, perhaps, with two or three hundred of their
canoes, and devour us by mere multitude; so I
consented to pursue them by sea; and running to
one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday
follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was
surprised to find another poor creature lie there
alive, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard was,
for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what the matter was, for he had not been
able to look up over the side of the boat; he was
tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied
so long, that he had really little life in him.

I immediately out the twisted flags, or rushes,
which they had bound him with, and would have
helped him up; but he could not stand, or speak,
but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems,
still, that he was only unbound in order to be
killed.

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to .
him, and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling ,'
out my bottle, made him give the poor'wretcha
dram, which, with the news of his being delivered,
revived him, and he sat up in the boat; but when
Friday came to hear him speak, and looked in his
face, it would have moved any one to tears, to
have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
about, danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his
hands, beat his own face and head, and then sung
and jumped about again, like a distracted crea.
ture. It was a good while before I could make him
speak to me, or tell me what was the matter: but
when he came a little to himself, he told me that
it was his father.

It is' not easy for me to express how it moved
me, to see what ecstasy and filial affection had
worked in this poor savage, at the sight of his
father, and of his being delivered from death; nor
indeed can I describe half the extravagances of his
affection after this; for he went into the boat, and
out of the boat, a great many times. \Vhen he
went in to him, he would sit down by him, open
his breast, and hold his father's head close to his
bosom, half an hour together, to nourish it; then
he tool: his arms and ancles, which were numbed :
and still' with the binding, and chafed and rubbed T
them with his hands: and I, perceiving what the
case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to
rub them with, which did them a great deal of
-good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the
canoe with the other savages, who were now get
almost out of sight; and it was happy for us that
we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours
after, and before they could be got a quarter of
their way, and continued blowing so hard all night
and that from the north west, which was against
them, that I could not suppose their boat could
live, or that they ever reached to their own coast.

But to return to Friday, he was so busy about
his father, that I could not find in my heart to take
him off, for some time: but afterI thoughthe could
leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came
jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest
extreme. Then I asked him, if he had given his
father any bread. He shook his head, and said,
" None: ugly dog eat all up self." So I gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried on
purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself, but
he would not taste it; but carried it to his father.
1 had in my pocket also two or three bunches of my
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his
father. He had no sooner given his father these
raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat, and
run away, as if he had been bewitched. He ran
at such a rate (for he was the swiftest fellow of his
foot that ever I saw), I say, he ran at such a rate,
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant;
and though I called and hallooed too after him, it
was all one: away heyent, and in a quarter of an
hour, I saw him come back again, though not so
fast as he .went; and as he came nearer, I found
his pace was slacker, because he had something in
his hand.

When he came up to me, I found he had been
quitelhome for an earthen jug, or pet, to bring his
father some fresh water; and that he had got two
more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave
me, but the water he carried to his father: however,
as I was very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. .
This water revived his father more than all the 1
rum or spirits I had given him: for he was just
fainting with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to
know if there was any water left: he said, " Yes,"
and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who
was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent
one of the cakes, that Friday brought, to the Span-
iard too, who was indeed very weak, and was re-
posing himself upon a green place, under the shade
of a tree, and whose limbs were also very stiff,
and very much swelled with the rude bandage he .
had been tied with. When I saw that upon Fri-
day's coming up to -him with the water, he sat up,
and drank, and took the bread, and began to eat,
I went to him, and gave him a handful of raisins.
looked up in my face with all the tokens of grati-
tude and thankfulness that could appear in any
countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding
he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could
not stand up upon his feet: he tried to do it two
or three times, but was really not able, his ancles
were so swelled, and so painful to him; so I bade
him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ancles,
and bathe them with rum, as he had done his
father's. -

I observed the poor affectionate creature every
two minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was
here, turned his head about, to see if his father
was in the same place and posture as he left him
sitting; and at last he found he was not to be seen,
at which he started up, and without Speaking a word
flew with that swiflness to him, that one could
scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he
went: but when he came, he only found he had
laid himself down to ease his limbs. So Friday
came back to me presently; and I then spoke to
the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could
and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry
him to our dwelling, where I would take care of
him; but Friday, a lusty young fellow, took the
Spaniard quite upon his back, and carried him
away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the
side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the
inside of it, and then lifted him quite in, and set
him close to his father, and presently stepping out
again, launched the boat off, and paddled it along
the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind
blew pretty hard too; so he brought them both safe
into our creek, and leaving them in the boat, runs
away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed me,
I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went.
He told me, " Go fetch more boat." So away he .
went, like the wind; for sure never man or horse
ran like him: and he had the other canoe in the
creek, almost as soon as I got to it by land: so he
wafted me over, and then went to help our new
guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were
neither of them able tn walk; so that poor Friday
* knew not what to do.

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought,
and calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the
bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of
hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I
carried them up both together upon it between us.
But when we got them to the outside of our wall,
or fortification, we were at a worse loss than before,
for it was impossible to get them over; and I was
resolved not to break it down. So I set to work
again; and Friday and I, in about two hour's
time, made a very handsome tent, covered with
old sails, and above that with houghs of trees, be. '
ing in the space without our outward fence, and
between that and the grove of young wood which 7
I had planted: and here we made them two beds
of such things as I had; viz. of good rice straw,
with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to
cover them on each bed.

My island was now peopled, and I thought my.
self very rich in subjects; and it was a merry re-
flection which I frequently made, how like a king
I looked. First of all, the whole country was my
own mere property, so that I had an undoubted
right of dominion. Secondly, my people were per.
fectly subjected: I was the absolute lord and law-
giver: they all owed their lives to me, and were
ready to lay down their lives, if there had been
occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable too, I
had but three subjects, and they were of three dif-
ferent religions: my man Friday was a protestant;
his father was a pagan and a canibal: and the
Spaniard was a papist. However, I allowed liber-
ty of conscience throughout my dominions. But
this is by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak, resorted
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a placeto
rest them upon, I began to think of making some
provision for them, and the first thing I did, I or
dered Fridav to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid
and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed
Then I cut off the binder quarter, and chopping i'
into small pieces, I set Fridav to work to boiling
and stev. ing, and made them a very good dish,1
assure you, of flesh and broth, having put som8
barley and rice also in the broth; and as I cooked
it without doors, for I made no fire within my in-
net wall, so I carried it all into the new tent: and
having set a table there for them, I sat down and
eat my dinner also with them: and, as well as I
could, cheered them and encouraged them, Friday
being my interpreter, especially to his father, and
indeed to the Spaniard too ; for the Spaniard spoke
the language of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch
our muskets and other firearms, which, for want
of time, we had left upon the place of battle; and
the next day I ordered him to go and bury the
dead bodies of the savages, which lay open to the
sun, and would presently be offensive; and I also
ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast, which I knew were pretty much,
and which I could not think of doing myself; nay,
I could not bear to see them, if I went that way.
All which he punctually performed, and defaced
the very appearances of the savages being there;
so that when I went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the
wood, pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation
With my two new subjects: and first I set Friday
to inquire of his father what he thought of "the
escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether
we might expect a return of them with a power too
great for us to resist. His first opinion was, that
the savages in the boat never could live out the
storm which blew thatnight they went off, but must
be drowned or driven south to those other shores,
Where they were as sure to be devoured as they
were to be drowned, if cast away; but asto what they

'r
would do, if they came safe on shore, he said, he
knew not: but it was his opinion that they were so
dreadfully frighted with the nanner of their being
attacked, the noise and the fire, that he believed
they would tell their people they were all killed by
"thunder and lightning, and not by the hand of
man; and that the two which appeared (viz. Friday
and I) were two heavenly spirits or furies come
down to destroy them, and not men with weapons.
This, he said, he knew, because he heard them all
cry out so in their language to one another; for it
was impossible to them to conceive that a man could
dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance,
without lifting up the hand,as was done now. And ,
this old savage was in the right; for, as I under- 1
stood since by other bands, the savages of that
part never attempted to go to the island afterward.
They were so terrified with the accounts given by
those four men (for it seems they did escape the
sea), that they believed, whoever went to that en-
(chanted island, would be destroyed with fire from
the gods.

This, however, I knew not, and therefore was
under continual apprehension for a good while,
and kept always upon my guard, I and all my ar-
my; for as we were now four of us, I would have
ventured upon a hundred of them fairly, in the
open-field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appear.
'ing, the fear of their coming wo're OE, and I began
to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main
' into Consideration, being likewise assured by Fri-
day's father, that I might depend upon good usage
from their nation, on his account, if I would go.

But my thoughts were a little suspended, when
I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and
'- when I understood that there were sixteen more of

 

of his countrymen and Portuguese, who having
been cast away, and made their escape to that side,
lived there at peace indeed with the savages, but
' were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed
for life. I asked him all the particulars of their
v oyage, and found they were a Spanish sh1p, bound
from the Rio de la Plata, to the Havannah, being
directed to leaie their loading there, which was
chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what
European goods they could meet with there; that
they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of another wreck; that five of their
own men were drowned when first their ship was
lost; and that these escaped through infinite dan-
gers and hazards, and arrived almost starved on
the cannibal coast, where they expected to have
been devoured every moment.

He told me, they had some arms with them, but
they were perfectly useless, for they had neither
powder nor ball, the washing of the seahaving
spoiled all their powder, but _a little which they
used at their first landing to provide themselves
some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of
them there; and if they had formed any design of
making any escape. He said, they had many con.
sultations about it: but that having neither vessel,
nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind,
their counsels always ended 1n tears and despair.'

I asked him how he thought they would receive
a proposal from me, which might tend towards an
escape, and whether, if they were all here, it might
not be done. I told him, with freedom, I feared
most their treachery and ill usage of me, 1f I put

my life into their hands; for that gratitude was no
1-2
inherent virtue in the nature of man; nor did men
always square their dealings by the obligations .
they had received, so much as they did by the ad.
vantages they expected. I told him it would be
very hard, that I should be the instrument of their
deliverance, and that they should afterwards make
me their prisoner in New Spain,where an English-
man was certain to be made a. sacrifice, what ne.
cessity or what accident soever,brought him thither: <<
and that Il1ad rather be delivered up to the savages,
and be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless

claws of the priests, and be carried into the I nqui- '
sition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded,
if they were all here,m-- might with so many hands,
build a bark large enough to carry us all aw av,
cithm to the Brasils southward, or to the islands, or
Spanish coast northward. but that it, in requital,
they should, when I had put weapons into their

hands, carry me, by force, among' their own people,
I might be ill used for my kindness to them, and

make my case worse than it was before.

He answered with a great deal of candour and
ingenuity, that their condition was so miserable, -
and they were so sensible of it, that he believed
they would abhor the thought of using any man
unkindly, that should contribute to their deliver-
ance: and that, if I pleased, he would go to them
with the old man, and discourse with them about it,
and return ugain, and bring me their answer : that
he would make conditions with them,upon their so-
lemn oath, that they would be absolutely under
my leading, as their commander and captain; and
they should swear upon the holy sacrament and
the Gospel, to be true to me, and to go to such
Christian country, as I should agree to, and no
other; and to be directed wholly and absolutely
by my orders, till they were landed safely in such
country as I intended; and that he would bring a
contract from them, under their hands, for that
purpose. '

Then he told me, he would first swear to me
" himself, that he would never stir from me as long
: .as he lived, till I gave him orders; and that he
would take my side to the last drop -of blood, if
there should happen the least breachpf faith among
his countrymen.

He told me they were all of them very civil,
honest men, and they were under the greatest
distress imaginable, having neither weapons nor
clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and direc-
tiou of the savages, out of all hopes of ever re-
turning to their own country; and that he was sure
, if I would undertake their relief, they would live
and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to
relieve them, if possible, and to send the old sa-
' rage and the Spaniard over to them to treat. But
when he had got all things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himself started an objection, which had
so much prudence in it on the one hand, and so
much sincerity on the other hand, that I could not
but be very much satisfied in it; and, by his ad-
vice, put off the deliverance of his comrades for at
least half a year. The case was thus:

He had been with us now about a month,during
which time I had let him see in what manner I
had provided, with the assistance of Providence,
for my support; and he saw evidently what stock
of corn and rice I had laid up, which as it was
more than sufiicient for myself, so it was not sum.
cient, at least without good husbandry, for my
family, now it was increased to number four : but
much less would it be sumcient, if his countrymen,
who were, as he said, fourteen, still alive, should
come over; and, least of all, would it be sufficient
to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for
a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of Ame.
rica. So he told me, he thought it would be more
advisable to let him, and the two others, dig and 1
cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare
seed to sow; and that we should wait another har-
vest, that we might have a supply of corn for his
countrymen, when they should come; for want
might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not
to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out
of one difficulty into another. " You know," says '
he, " the children of Israel, though they rejoiced
at first at their being delivered out of Egypt, yet
rebelled even against God himself, that delivered
them, when they came to want bread in the wil- .
demess." ;
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice '
so good, that I could not but be very well pleased
' with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with
his fidelity. So we fell to digging all four of us,
as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with
permitted; and in about a month's time, by the
end of which it was seed-time, we had got as much
land cured and trimmed up as we sowed twenty-
two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice,
which was, in short, all the seed we had to Spare;
nor indeed did we leave ourselves barley sufficient
for our own food, for the six months that we had to
expect our crop, that is to say, reckoning from
the time we set our seed aside for sowing, for it is
riot to be supposed it is six months in the ground
in that country."""7""""" ' ' "" ' ' ' "-"Wr'<<"-""'y'-"<?'~'"' Iri'>>""-""" "iv-WW? "w'f'cT'T" "W'T'Tzfi'

aosmsorv causes. 279

CHAPTER XI.

9338!! SOCIETY.--TBE ClflOE' [8 SENT 1'0 1'83
CONTINENT--Auylb OF A SHIP--M01111!
AMONG THE CREW--030803 QUEus
IT, AND ESCAPES FROM THE
ISLAND.

Hume now society enough, and our number be.
ing suflicient to put us out of fear of the savages:-
it' they had come, unless their number had been
very great, we went freely all over the island,
wherever we found occasion; and as here we had
our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it was
impossible, at least for me, to have the means of
it out of mine. To this purpose, I marked out
several trees, which I thought fit for our work, and
I set Friday and his father to cutting them down :
and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I impart-
ed my thoughts on that afi'air,to oversee and direct
their work. I shewed them'with what indefatigable
pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks,
and I caused them to do the like, till they had
made a dozen large planks of good oak, near two
feet broad, thirty.five feet long, and' from two
inches to four inches thick.- What prodigious la-
bour it took up, any one may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my
little flock of tame goats as much as I could; and"
to this purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go
out one day, and myself with Friday the nextiday';
for we took our turns: and, by this means, we got
about twenty young kids to breed up with the rest 3
for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids
and added them to our flock. But above all, th;
season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused
such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the
sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant, where
the raisins of the sun are cured, we should have
filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these with our
bread, was a great part of our food, and very good
living too, I assure you ; for it is an exceeding
nourishing food.

It was now harvest, and our crops in good or-
der. It was not the most plentiful increase I had
seen in the island, but, however, it was enough to
answer our end ; for from our twenty-two bushels
of barley, we brought in and threshed out above
two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like in
proportion of the rice, which was store enough for
our food to the next harvest, though all the sixteen
Spaniards had been on shore with me; or, if we
had been ready for a voyage, it would very plen-
tifully have victuallcd our ship, to have carried us
to any part of the world, that is to say, of Ameri-
ca. When we had thus housed and secured our
magazine of corn, we fell to work to make more
wicker work; viz. great baskets, in which we kept
it: and the Spaniard was very handy and dexter-
ous at this part, and often blamed me, that I did
not make some things for defence, of this kind of
work; but I saw no need of it. -

And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go
over to the main, to see what he could do with those
he had left behind him there. I gave him a strict
charge in writing not to bring any man with him,
who would not first swear in the presence of himself,
and the. old savage, that he would no way injure,
fight with, or attack the person he should find in
the island, who was so kind as to send for them,
in order to their deliverance; but that they would
stand by and demnd him againstall such attempts;
and, wherever they went, would be entirely under,
and subjected to, his command; and that this should
be put in writing, and signed with their hands.
How we were to have'this done, when I? knewthey
had neither pen nor ink, that indeed was a ques.
tion which we never asked.

Under these instructions, the Spaniard,' and the
old savage (the father of Friday), went away in
one of the canoes, which they mightbe saidjto come
in or rather were brought in, when they came as
prisoners to be devoured by the savages.

I gave each of them a musket with a fireldek on
it and about eight charges of powder and ball,
charging them to be very good husbands of both,
and not to use either of them but upon urgent oc-
casions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first mea-
sures used by me, in view of my deliverance, for
now twenty-seven years and some days. I gave
them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes suPS-
ficient for themselves for many days, and sufficient
for all their countrymen for about eight days time;
and wishing them a good voyage, I let them go,
agreeing with them about a signal they should
hang out at their return, by which I should know
them again, when they came back, at a distance,
before they came on shore.

They went away, with a fair 3818, on the day
that the moon was at the full; by my account, in
the month of October: but as for the exact reckon.
ing of days, after I had once lost it, I could never
recover it again; nor had I even kept the number
of years so punctually as to be sure that I was right,
though, as it proved, when I afterward examined
my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning
of years. '
It was no less than eight daysI waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident interve-
ned, of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard
of in history. I was fast alseep in my hutch one
morning, when my man Friday came running in
to me, and called cloud, " Master, master, they
are come, they are come !"

I jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went
out, as soon as I could get my clothes on, through
my little grove, which (by the way) was by this
time grown to be a very thick wood; I say,regard-
less of danger, I went without my arms, which it
was not my custom to do ; but I was surprised,
when, taming my eyes to the sea, I presently saw
a boat, at about a league and a half's distance,
standing in for the shore, with a shoulder of--mut-
ton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pret-
ty fair to bring them in. Also I observed present.
ly, that they did not come from that side which the
shore lay on, but from the southermost end of the
island. Upon this, I called Friday in, and bade
him lie close, for these were not the people we
looked for, and that we did not know yet whether
they were friends or enemies.

In the next place, I went in to fetch my persPec-
tive glass, to see what I could make of them; and
having taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the
top of the bill, as I used to do, when I was appre-
hensive of any thing, and to take my view the
plainer, without being discovered.

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my
eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor,
at about two leagues and a half's distance from me,
S. S. E. but not above a league and a halffrom the
shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to

be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an
English long boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, through
the joy of seeing a ship, and one, which, I had
reason to believe, was manned by my own country-
men, and consequently friends, was such as I
cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts
hung about me, I cannot tell from whence they
came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In the
first place, it occurred to me to consider what
business an English ship could have in that part
of the world, since it was not the way to or from
any part of the world where the English had any
traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to
drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they
were English really, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design, and that I had

better continue as I was, than fall into the hands
of thieves and murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices
of danger, which sometimes are given him, when
he may think there is no possibility of its being
real. That such hints and notices are given us, I
believe few, that have made any observations of
things, can deny; that they are certain discoveries
of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits,
we cannot doubt; and if the tendency of thein
seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we
not suppose they are from some friendly agent
(whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate, is
not the question), and that they are given for our
good 3

The present question abundantly confirms me in
the justice of this reasoning; for had I not been
made cautious by this secret admonition, come it
from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably,
and in a far worse condition than before, as you
will see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, when
I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they look-
ed for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience
of landing : however, as they did not come quite
far enough, they did not see the little inlet where
I formerly landed my rafts, but run their boat on
shore upon the beach, at about half a mile from
me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise
they would have landed just, as I may say, at my
door, and would soon have beaten me out of my
castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of all
I had.

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied
they were Englishmen, at least most of them : one
or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove
so. There were in all eleven men, whereof threel
found were unarmed, and (as l thought) bound:
and when the first four or five of them were jumped
on shore, they took those three out of the boat as
prisoners; One of the three I could perceive using
the most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction,
and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the
other two I could perceive lifted up their hands
sometimes, and appeared concerned indeed, but
nbt to such a degree as the first.

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what the meaning of it should be. Fri-
day called out to me, in English, as well as he
could, "0, master, you see English mans eat pri-
soners as well as savage mans." " Why," said I,
" Friday, do you think they are going to eat them
then?" "Yes," says Friday, " they will eat them."
" N o,' no," said I, " Friday; I am afraid they will
murder them indeed; but you may be sure they
will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the
matter really was, but stood trembling with the
horror of the sight, expecting every moment, when
the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I
saw one of the villains lift up his arm, with a great
cutlass (as the seamen call it) or sword, to strike
one of the poor men; and I expected to see him
fall every moment, at which all the blood in my
body seemed to run chill in my veins.

I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the
savage that was gone with him; or that I had any
way to have come undiscovered within shot of
them, that I might have rescued the three men;
for I saw no firearms they had among them: but
it fell out to my mind another way.

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men, by the insolent seamen, I observed the
fellows ran scattering about the land, as if they
wanted to see the country. I observed also, that
the three other men had libertyto go where they
pleased; but they sat down all three upon the
ground very pensive, and looked like men in
despair.

This put me in mind of the first time when I
came on shore, and began to look about me : how
I gave myself over for lost, how wildly I looked
round me, what dreadful apprehensions I had, and
how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being
devoured by wild beasts.

As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was
to receive, by the providential driving of the ship

nearer the land, by the storms and tide, by which -

I have since been so long nourished and supported;

so these three poor, desolate men, knew nothing
how certain of deliverance and supply they were,
how near it was to them, and how effectually and
really they were in a condition of safety, at the
same time as they thought themselves lost, and
their case desperate.

So little do we see before us in the world, and so
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that he does not
leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but that
in the worst circumstances they have always some-
thing to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer

.their deliverance than theyimagine; nay, are even
brought to their deliverance by the means by which
they seem to be brought to their destruction.

It was just at the top of high-water when these
people came on shore, and while partly they stood
parleying with the prisoners they brought, and
partly while they rambled about to see what kind of
place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till
the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed con-
siderably away, leaving their boat aground.

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I
found afterward, having drank a little too much
brandy, fell asleep. However, one of them waking
sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest,
who were straggling about, upon which they all
soon came to the boat; but it was past all their
strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy,
and the shore on that side being a soft, oozy sand,
almost like a quicksand.

In this condition, like true seamen, who are,
perhaps, the least of all mankind given to fore-
thought, they gave it over, and away they strolled
about the country again; and I heard one of them
say aloud to another (calling them off from the boat)
"Why, let her alone, Jack, can't ye 3 She'll float
next tide." By which I was fully confirmed in the
main inquiry, of What countrymen they were.

. . . .1;
"ii ' . '43
All this while, I kept myself close, not once
daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to
my place of observation, near the top of the hill;
and very glad I was to think how well it was for.
tified. I knew it was no less than ten hours before
the boat could be afloat again, and by that time it

would be dark, and I might be more at liberty to

 

see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if
they had any.

In the mean time, I fitted myself up for a battle,
as before, though with more cauticn, knowing I
had to do with another kind of enemy than I had
at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had made
an excellent marksman with his gun, to lead him-
. self with arms. 'I took myself two fowling-pieces,
and I gave him three muskets. My figure indeed
was very fierce; I had my formidable goaLskin
coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a
naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt,
and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design, as I said above, not to have
made any attempt till it was dark; but about two
o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found, that,
in short, they were all gone straggling into the
woods, and, as I thought, were all laid down to
sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious
for their condition to get any sleep, were, however,
set down under the shelter of a great tree, at about .
a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out
of sight of any of the rest.

Upon this, I resolved to discover myself to
them, and learn something of their condition. Im.
mediately I marched, in the figure above; my
man Friday at a good distance behind me, as for-
midable for his arms as I, but not making quite so
staring a spectrelike figure as I did.and then, before any of them saw- me, I called
aloud to them, in Spanish, "What are ye, gen.
tlemen i"

They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the un.
couth figure that I made. They made no answer
at all, but I thought I perceived them just going to

fly from me, when I spoke to them in English;
" Gentlemen," said I, " do not be surprised at me:

288 -- anvsuruans or }

perhaps you may have a friend near you, when
you did not expect it." " He must be sent directly
from heaven then," said one of them very gravely
to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time;
" for our condition is past the help of man." " All
help is from heaven, sir," said I. " But can you
put a stranger in the way how to help you ; for you
seem to be in some great distress 2 I saw you when
you landed; and when you seemed to make appli.
cation to the brutes that came with you, I saw one
of them lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, re-
turned, "Am I talking to God or man? Is it a
real man, or an angel ?" "Be in no fear about
that, sir," said I. " If God had sent. an angel to
relieve you, he would have come better clothed,
and armed after another manner, than you see me.
Pray lay aside your fears; I am aman, an English-
man, and disposed to assist you, you see. I have
one servant only: we have arms and ammunition.
Tell us freely: can we serve you? What is your
case '9"

" Our case, sir," said he, " is too long to tell you
while our murderers are so near; but in short, sir
I was commander of that ship; my men havingutinied against me, they have been hardlypre-
piled on notto murder me, and, at last, have set
a on shore in this desolate place, with these two
en with me, one my mate, the other a passenger,
here we expected to perish, believing the placeto
uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of
t."
p i " Where are those brutes, your enemies i" said
' _., I. " Do you know where they are gone i" "There
they are, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of
.' trees. " M y heart trembles for fear they have seen
i us, and heard you speak; if they have, they will
_2 certainly murder us all."

., " Have they any firearms!" said 1. He an~
swered they had only two pieces, and one which
if they left in the boat. "Well then," said I, "leave
_." . the rest to me. I see they are all asleep. It is an
* easy thing to kill them all: but shall we rather take
them prisoners?' lie told me there were two des-
perate villains among them, that it was scarce safe
to shew any mercy to : but if they were secured, he
believed all the rest would return to their duty. I
asked him which they were. He told me he could
not at that distance describe them; but he would
obey my orders in any thing I would direct. "Well,"
said I, " let us retreat out of their View or hearing,
lest they awake: and we will resolve farther." So

covered as from them.

" Look you, sir," said I, " ifl venture upon your
deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions
with me 2" He anticipated my proposals, by tell.
ing me, that both he and the ship, if recovered,
should be wholly. directed and commanded by me
in every thing; and if the ship was not recovered,

he would live and die with me. in what part of the
r: _

nosmsox causes. 289'

they willingly went back with me,~till the woods.
290 anvrzm'u ass or

world soever I would send him; and the two other
men said the same.

" Well," said I, " my conditions are but two: first,
that while you stay on thisisland with me, you will
not pretend to any authority here; and if I put arm; e
into your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give
them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine
upon this island: and, in the mean time, be go.
vented by my orders.

Secondly, that if the ship is or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England passage
free.

He gave me all the assurances that the invention
and faith of man could devise, that he would com.
ply with these most reasonable demands; and, be-
sides, would owe his life. to me, and acknowledge it
upon all necasions as long as he lived.

"Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for
you, with powder and ball. Tell me next what you

think is proper to be done." He showed all the tes-
timony of his gratitude that he was able; but offer.
ed to be. wholly guided by me. I told him I thought
it was hard venturing any thing, but the best me>>
thod I could think of, was to fire upon them at once,
as they lay; and if any were not killed at the first
volley, and ofl'ered to submit, we might save them,
and so put it wholly upon God's providence to di-
rect the shot.

He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill 1
them, if he could help it; but that those two were
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of
all the muting in the ship; and if they escaped, we
should be undone still; for they would go on board
and bring the whole ship's company, and destroy us
all. "Well then," said I, " necessity legitimates
my advice; for it is the only way to save our'lives.
  
   
   
   
 
 
  

: owcver, seeing him still cautious of shedding
z?! lood, I told him they should go themselves, and
anage as they found convenient.
5 e In the middle of this discourse, we heard some
' ~ I them awake, and soon after we saw two of them
'. .. their feet. I asked him if either of them were
3 e men who, he had said, were the heads of the
'ilfgfuutiuy. He said, "No." "Well then," said I,
4,3' you may let them escape; and Providence seems
3'30 have wakened them on purpose to save them-
it :mlves. " Now," said I, " if the rest escape you it
is your fault."

Animated with this, he took the musket I had
given him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and
' his two comrades with him, with each man a piece
I? 'in his hand. The two men, who were with him,
going first, made some noise, at which one of the
7- seamen, who was awake, turned about, and seeing
} them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too
late then, for the moment he cried out, they fired,
I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving
his own piece. They had so well aimed their shot
at the men they knew, that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but
not being dead, he started up upon his feet, and
called eagerly for help to the other: but the cap-
tain, stepping to him,told him it was too late to cry
for help: he should call upon God to forgive his
villainy, and, with that word, knocked him down,
with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke
more. There were three more in the company and
one of them was also slightly wounded. By this
time I was come; and when they saw their danger,
and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy. The captain told them, he would spare
their lives, it they would give him any assurance
U

   

'24-"
of their abhorrence of the treachery theyhad been
guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in
recovering the ship, and afterward in carrying her
back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that
could be desired, and he was willing to believe them
and spare their lives, which I was not against, only
I obliged him to keep them bound, hand and feet,
while they were upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the
captain's mate, to the boat, with orders to secure
her, and bring away the oars and sail, which they
did; and, by.and-by, three straggling men, that
were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came
back, upon hearing the guns fired: and seeing their
captain, who was before their prisoner, now their
conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and so
our victory was complete.

It presently occurred to me, that, in a little while,
the ship's crew, wondering what was become of their
comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come on
shore in their other boat, to see it'or them; and
that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and
' be too strong for us.

After we had by main strength, heaved the boat
upon the beach, so high that the tide would not float
her oil' at high-water marks; and, besides, had bro-
ken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stop.
ped, and were sat down musing what we should do,
we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a
waft with her ancient, as a signal for the boat to
come on board: but no boat stirred, and they
fired several times, making other signals for the
boat.

At last when all their signals and firings proved
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, weaoamsorv 030503. 293

,. w them (by the help of my glasses) hoist another
. : t out, and row towards the shore: and we found,
.f - they approached, that there were no less than ten
.' . en in her, and that they had firearms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from theshore
e had a full view of them as they came, and a
: plain sight of the men,even of their faces: because
the tide having set them a little to the east of the
other boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to
. .' the same place where the other had landed, and
- where the boat lay.
_._ By this means, I say, we had a full view of them,
, and the captain knew the persons and the charac-
.. ters of all the men in the boat, of whom he said
' that there were three very honest fellows, who, he
was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest,
being overpowered and frighted.

But that as for the boatswaiu, who it seems, was
the chief officer among them, and all the rest, they
were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew; and
were, no doubt, made desperate in their new enter-
prise; and terribly apprehensive he was, that they
would be too powerful for us.

I smiled at him, and told him that men in our
circumstances were past the operations of fear: that
seeing almost every condition that could be, was
better than that which we were supposed to be in,
we ought to expect that the consequence, whether
death or life, would be sure to be a deliverance, . I
asked him what he thought of the circumstances of
my life : and whether a deliverance were not worth
venturing for. " And where, sir," said I, " is your
belief of m being preserved here on purpose to
save your ife, which elevated you a little while
- ago? For my part," said I, " there seems to be but

one thing amiss in all the prospect of it." "What's
that 2" said he. " Why," said I, "'68 that, as you
say, there are three or four honest fellows among
them, which should be spared; had they been all
of the wicked part of the crew, I should have thought
lod's providence had singled them out, to deliver
them into your hands; for, depend upon it, every
man of them that comes ashore are our own, and
shall die or live as they behave to us."

As I Spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him;
so we set vigorously to our business. We had up.
on the first appearance of the boat's coming from
the ship, considered of separating our prisoners,
and had indeed secured them effectually.

'I'wo of them, of whom the captain was less as.
sured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of
the three delivered men to my cave, where they
were remote enough, and out of danger of being
heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of
the woods, if they could have delivered themselves
Here they left them bound, but gave them provi-
sions, and promised them, if they continued there
quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two,
but that if they attempted their escape, they should
be put to death without mercy. They promised
faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good
usage, as to have provisions and a light left them;
for Friday gave them candles (such as we made
ourselves) for their comfort; and they did not know
but that he stood sentinel over them at the en.
trance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinioned indeed, because the captain was
not free to trust them; but the other two were ta-
ken into my service, upon their captain's recom-
        
   

a
l

g endation, and upon their solemnly engaging to
I134 we and die With us; so, with them and the three
I}. - onest men, we were seven men, well armed; and
._7 made no doubt we should be able to deal well

nough with the ten that were acoming, considering
, ' hat the captain had said there were three or four
3'. umcst men among them also.
Q As soon as they got to the place where their'other
21' oat lay, they ran their boat into the heach,.and
came all on shore, hauling the boat up after them,
.which I was glad to see; for I was afraid they
. would rather have left the boat at an anchor, some
" distance from the shore, with some hands in her to
9 guard her; and so we should not be able to seize

    
  
  
 

' the boat.

. Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran .

I allot the other boat: and it was easy tosee they were
under a great surprise, to find her stripped as above.
of all that was in her, and a. great hole in her
bottom.

After they had mused awhile upon this, they set
up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all
their might, to try if they could make their com-
panions bear; but it was all to no purpose: then
they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of
their small arms, which indeed we heard, and the
echoes made the woods ring: but it was all one;
those in the cave we were sure could not hear, and
those in our keeping, though they heard it well
enough, yet durst give no answer to them.

They were so astonished at the surprise of this,
that, as they told us afterward, they resolved to go
all on board again to their ship, and let them know
there, that the men were all murdered, and the
long-boat stared: accordingly, they immediately
1:01;"de their boat again, and got all of them on

r .
The captain was terribly amazed, and even con.
flounded at this, believing they would go on board
the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades
for lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which
he was in hepes we should have recovered : but he
was quickly as much frighted the other way.

They had not been long put ofl' with the boat,
but we perceived them all coming on shore again;
but with this new measure in their conduct, which,
it seems, they consulted together upon; viz. to
leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go on
shore, and go up into the country, to look for their
follows.

The seven men came on shore,and the three who
remained in the boat, put her ofl' to a good distance

- from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for
them, so that it was impossible for us to come at
them 1n the boat.

Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching towards the top of the hill, under which
my habitation lay , and we could see them plainly,
though they could not perceive us. We could have
been very glad they would have come nearer to us,
so that we might have fired at them ;,-'or that they
would have gone further 06', that we might hare
come abroad.

But when they were come to the brow of the hill,
where they could see a great way into the valleys
and woods, which lay towards the north east part,
and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and
hallooed till they were weary, and not caring, it
seems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from
one another, they sat down under a tree to consider
of it.

As soon as Iperceived them go towards the shore,
I imagined it to be as it really was, that they had
given over their search, and werezi'or going back
again; and the captain, as soon as I told him my
thoughts, were ready to sink at the apprehensions
of it: but I presently thought of a stratagem to
fetch them back again; and which answered my
end to a tittle.

I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go:
over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Friday was
rescued, and as soon as they came to a little rising
ground, at about half a mile's distance, I bade
them halloo as loud as they could, and wait till they
found the seamen heard them; thatas soon as ever
they heard the seamen answer them, they should
return it again, and then keeping out of sight, take
a round, always answering when the other hallooed,
to draw them as far into the island and among the
woods as possible; and then wheel abOut again to
me, by such ways as Idirected.

They were just going into the boat, when Friday
and the mate hallooed and they presently heard
them, and answering, run along the shore west-
ward,towards the voice they heard, when they were
presently stopped by the creek, where the water be.
ing up, they could not get over, and called for the .
boat to come up, and set them over, as indeed I
expected.

When they had set themselves over, I observed
that the boat being gone up a good way into the
creek, and, as it were, in a harbour within the
land, they tool: one of the three men out. of her to
go along with them, and left only two in the boat,
having fastened her to the stump of a little tree on
the shore.

This was what I wished for; and immediately
leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their -
business, I took the rest with me, and crossing the :
creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men ;

before they were aware, one of them lying on
shore, and the other being in the boat: the fellow
on shore was between sleeping and waking, and
going to start up, the captain who was foremost,
ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and then

called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a j

dead man.

There needed very few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield. when he saw five men upon
him, and his comrade knocked down : besides, this
was it seems, one of the three who were not so hear-
ty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and there.
fore was easily persuaded not only to yield, but af.
terward to join very sincerely with us.

In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate
so well managed their business with the rest, that
they drew them by hallooing and answering, from
one hill to another, and from one weed to another,
till they not only heartily tired them, but left them
where they were very sure they could not reach
back before it was dark : and indeed they were
heartily tired themselves also by the time they came
back to us.

It was several hours after Friday came back to
me, before they came back to their boat; and we
could hear the foremost of them, long before they
came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along, and could also hear them answer, and com
plain how lame and tired they were, and not able
to come any faster, which was very welcome news
to us.

At length they came up to the boat: butit is im-
possible to express their confusion when they found
the boat fast aground in the creek, the tide ebb-
    
       
  
  

d out, and their two men gone: we could hear
1' new call to one another, in the most lamentable
' anner, telling one another they were got into an
nchanted island, that either there w ere inhabitants
7'5 it, and they should all be murdered, or else
here were dexils or spirits in it, and they should
e all carried away and devoured.
. They hallooed again, and called their two com-
ades by their names a great many times, but no
5- nswer. Afler some time, we could see them, by
. be little light there was, run about wringing their
'hands, like men in despair; and that sometimes
they would go and sit down in the boat to rest them-
selves, then come ashore again, and walk about
; again, and so the same thing over again.
. . M \ men would fain have had me given them leaie
. ' to fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was
5 willing to take them at some ad>> antage, so to spare
: them, and kill as few of them as I could: and es-
pecially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any
of our own men, knowing the others were very well
armed. I resolved to wait to see if they did not
separate; and therefore, to make sure of them, I
drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday
and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet,
as close to the ground as they could; that they
might not be discovered, and get as near them as
they possibly could, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when
the boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of
the mutiny, and had now shown himself the most
dejected, and dispirited of all the rest, came walk-
ing towards them, with two more of their crew.
The captain was so eager, at having the principal
rogue so much in his power, that he could hard.
ly have patience to let him come so near as to be
sure of him; for he only heard his tongue before ;
but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday
starting up on their feet, let fly at them. '

The boatswain was killed upon the spot: the next
man was shot into the body, and fell just by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and
the third ran forit.

At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men,
viz. myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant
general; the captain, and his two men, and the
three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with
arms.

We came indeed upon them in the dark, so that
they could not see our number; and I made the
man they had left in the boat, who was now one
of us, to call them by name, to try if I could bring
them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce
them to terms, which fellfout just as we desired:
for indeed it was easy to think, as their condition
then was, they would be very willing to capitulate.
So he call out, as loud as he could, to one of them,
" Tom Smith! Tom Smith 1" Tom Smith answered
immediately, " Who's that ? Robinson 2'" for it
seems he knew his voice. The other answered,
" Aye, aye ; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw
down your arms, and yield: or you are all dead
men this moment!"

" Who must we yield to?" Where are they?"
says Smith again. " Here they are," says he.
" Here is our captain and fifty men with him, have
been hunting you this two hours. The hoatswain
is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I am a prison-
er; and if you do not yield, you are all lost."

" Will they give us quarter then ?" says Tom
Smith, " and we will yield." " I'll go and ask, if

  
   

  
   

i

t
pa promise to yield," says Robinson. 80 he ask-
d the captain, and the captain himself then calls
at, " You, Smith, you know my voice; if you
f ay down your arms immediately, and submit, you
7 shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, " For God's
' sake, captain, give me quarter! What have I done?
They have been all as bad as I !" which, by the
way, was not true neither; for it seems this Will
Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the cap-
tain, when they first mutinied and used him barba-
rously, in tying his hands, and giving him injuri-
ous language. However, the captain told him he
must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to
the Governor's mercy, by which he meant me : for
they all called me governor.

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and
>> begged their lives; and I sent the man that had
parleyed with them, and two more,who bound them
all; and then my great army of fifty men, which
particularly with those three, were all but eight,
came up and seized upon them all, and upon their
boat,only that I kept myself, and one more out of
sight, for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to
think of seizing the ship; and as for the captain,
now he had leisure to parley with them, he ex-
postulated with them upon the villany of their
practices with him, and at length upon the farther
wickedness of their design; and how certainly it
must bring them to misery and distress in the end,
and perhaps to the gallows.

They all appeared very penitent, and begged
hard for their lives. As for that, he told them they
were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of
the island; that they thought that they had set him
on shore in a barren unlnhabitedlsland, but it had
pleased God so to direct them, that the island was
inhabited, and that the governor was an English.
man; that he might hang them all there, if he
pleased; but as he had given them all quarter. be
supposed he would send them to England, to be
dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins,
whom he was commanded by the governor to advise ..
to prepare for death; for that he would be hanged
in the morning.

Though this was all fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect; Atkins fell upon his knees to beg Q
the captain to intercede with the governor for his 9
life; and all the rest begged of him, for God's
sake, that they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deli.
veranee was come, and that it would be a most easy
thing to bring these fellows in, to he hearty in get.
ting possession of the ship. So I retired in the
dark from them, that they might not see what kind
of a governor they had, and called the captain to
me. When I called, as at a good distance, one of
the men was ordered to speak again, and say to
the. captain, " Captain, the commander calls for
you ;" and presently the captain replied, " Tell his
exeellency, I am just acoming." This more per.
fectly amused them; and they all believed that the
commander was just by, with his fifty men.

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him
my project for seizing the ship, which he liked won-
derfully well, and resolved to put it in execution the
next morning.

lot in order to execute it with more art, and to
be secure of success, I told him we must divide the
prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins
and two more of the worst of them, and send them
,pinioncd to the cave where the others lay. This
was committed to Friday, and the two men who
came. on shore with the captain.

They conveyed them to the cave, as to aprlson;
and indeed it was a dismal place, especially to men
in their condition.

The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it,
of which I have given a full description; and as it
was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was
secure enough, considering they were upon their
. behaviour.

To these, in the morning, I sent the captain,
who was to enter in a parley with them; in a word,
to try them, and tell me whether he thought he
might be trusted or no, to go on board, and sur.
prise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
~ done him, of the condition they were broughtto;
and that though the governor had given them
quarter for their lives, as to the present action, yet
that if they were sent to England, they would all
be hanged in chains to be sure; but that if they
would join in so just an attempt, as to recover the
ship, he. would have the governor's engagement
for their pardon.

Any one. may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition; they
fell down on their knees to the captain, and pro.
mised with the deepest imprecations, that they
would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that
they should owe their lives to him, and would go
with him all over the world; that they would own
him for a father to them as long as they lived.

" Well," says the captain. " I must go and tell
the governor what you say, and see what I can do
to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me
an account of the temper he found them in; and
   
  
   
 
  
  

that he verily believed they would be faithtul. '

However, that we might be very secure, I told
him he should go back again, and choose out tire
of them, and tell them that they should see that
they did not want men; but he would take out
those five to be his assistants, and that the gover.
nor would keep the other two, and the three that
were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), ashes.
tagcs, for the fidelity of those five; and that if they K
proved unfaithful in the execution, the five in>>.
tages should be hanged in chains alive upon the
shore.

This looked severe, and convinced them, that
the governor was in earnest. However, they ha}
no way left them but to accept of it; and it wat-
now the business of the prisoners, as much as of "Ir
captain, to persuade the otherfive to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered lor the expo-
dition; First, the captain, his mate, and passeu.
ger. Second, then the two prisoners of the first
gang, to whom, having their characters from the
captain, I had given their liberty, and trusted them
with arms. Third, the other two whom I had kept
till now in my bower pinioned; but upon the cap.
tain's motion, had now released. Fourth, these
five released at last; so that there were twelve in
in all, beside five we kept prisoners in the cave for
hostages.

I asked the captain, if he was willing to venture
with these hands on board the ship; for, as for me
and my man Friday, I did not think it was proper
for us to stir, having seven men left behind; and
it was employment enough far us to keep them
asunder, and supply them with victuals.

As to the five in the care, I resolved to keep them
fast 5 but Friday went twice a day to them, to sup-
{y them with necessaries: and I made the other
, wo carry provisions to a certain distance, where
-, Friday was to take it. '
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it
- as with the captain, who told him I was the per.
a on the governor had ordered to look after them,
and that it was the governor's pleasure they should
not stir any where, but by my direction; that if
' t hey did, they should be fetched in the castle and
he. laid in irons: so that as we never sufl'ercd them
' to see. me as governor, so I now appeared as another
: person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison,
' the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.
. The captain now had no difficulty before him,
i but to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one,
; and man them. He made his passenger captain of
' one, with four other men; and himself, and his
mate, and five more, went in the other. And they
contrived their business very well; for they came
up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they
came within call of the ship, he made Robinson
hail them, and tell them he had brought off the
men and the boat, but that it was a long time be.
fore they had found them, and the like; holding
them in a chat, till they came to the ship's side :
when the captain and the mate, entering first with -
their arms, immediately knocked down the second
mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their mus-
kets, being very faithfully seconded by their men.
They secured all the rest that were upon the main
and quarter-decks, and began to fasten the hatches
to keep them down who were below, when the other
host, and their men entering at the tore-chains,
secured the fore-castle of the ship, and the skuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three
men they found there prisoners. '
x
When this was done, and all safe upon the deck, I
the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to .7
break into the round-house, where the new rebel '
captain lay, and, having taken the alarm, was get
up, and with two men and a boy, had got fire-arms
in their hands; and when the mate, with a crow,
split open the door, the new captain and his men
fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate
with a muskethall, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.

The mate, calling for help, rushed however into
the round-house, wounded as he was, and, with
his pistol, shot the new captain through the head,
the bullet entering at his mouth, and came out
again behind one of his cars; so that he never spake
a word: upon which the rest yielded, and the
ship was taken effectually, without any more lives
lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to be tired, which was the signal
agreed upon with me, to give me notice of his
success, which, you may be sure, I was very glad
to hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it,
till near two of the clock in the morning.

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down ; and it having been a day of great fatigue to
me, I slept very sound, till I was something sur-
prised with the noise of a gun; and presently
I heard the captain's voice, when climbing up to .
the top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to
the ship, be embraced me in his arms.

When he had talked a while, the captain told me
he had brought me some little refreshment, such as
the ship afforded, and such as the wretches, who
had been so long his masters, had not plundered
him 0.".
First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of
excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira
wine, the bottles held two quarts a piece, two

pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good
pieces of the ship' s beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bag of pease, and about a hundred weight
of biscuit.D

He brought also a box of sugar, abox of flcur, a
bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice,
and abundance of other things. But, besides these,
and what was a thousand times more useful to me,
he brought me six clean, new shirts, six very good
neckeloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes,
a hat, and one pair of stockings, and a very good
suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn but
very little: in a word, he clothed me from head to
feet.

It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any
one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but
never was any thing in the world so unpleasant,
awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear such
clothes at their first putting on.

After these ceremonies past, and after all his
good things were brought into my little apartment,
we began to consult what was to be done with the
prisoners we had; for it was worth considering,
whether we might venture to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew to
be incorrigible and refractory, to the last degree;
and the captain said he knew that they were such
rogues, that there was no obliging them, and if he
did carry them away, it must be in irons, as male-
factors, to be delivered over to justice, at the first
English colony he could come at; and I found that
the captain himself was very anxious about it.

' Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it, I
x 2
   

durst undertake to bring the two men he spoke of
to make it their own request that he should leave 5
them upon the island. " I should be very glad of '
that," says the captain,"with all my heart."

" Well," said I, "I will send for them, and talk
with them for you." I let them know that, by my
direction, the ship had been seized; that she lay
now in the road; and thev might see by -and bv
that their new captain had received the reward of
his villany , for that they might see him hanging

at the yard-arm.
That as to them, I wanted to know what they had

to say, why I should not execute them as pirates,
taken in the fact, as by my commission they could
not doubt I had authority to do.

One of them answered in 'the name of the rest,
that they had nothing to say but this, that when
they were taken, the captain promised them their
lives, and they humbly implored my mercy. But
I told them I knew not what mercy to shew them;
for, as for myself, I had resolved to quit the island
with all my men, and had taken passage with the
captain to go for England: and as for the captain
he could notearry them to England, other than as
prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny and run--
ning away with the ship; the consequence of
11 inch would be the gallows, unless they had a mind
to take their fate" 111 the island , 11' they desired that,
I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it. I had
some inclination to give them their lives, if they
could shift on shore. They seemed very thankful
for it; said they would much rather venture to stay
there, than to be carried to England to be hanged :
so I left it on that issue.

Upon thisI prepared to go on board the ship;
but told the captain that I would stay that night to
, prepare my things, and desired him to go on board

i in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship,
_ and send the boat on shore the next day for me;
.' ordering him in the mean time to cause the new
4 captain who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-
arm, that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men
up to me in my apartment, and entered seriously
into discourse with them of their circumstances. I
told them, I thought they had made a right choice;
that if the captain carried them away, they would
certainly be hanged. I shewed them the new
captain hanging at the yard arm of the ship, and
told them they had nothing less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingnessto
stay, I then told them, I would let them into the
story of my living there, and put them into the
way of making it easy to them. Accordingly I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my
coming to it; shewed them my fortifications, the
Way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to
make them easy. I told them the story also of the
sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected; for
whom I left a letter, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves.

Having done all this, I left them the next day,
and went on board the ship. \Ve prepared imme-
diately to sail, but did not weigh that night. The
next morning early, two of the five men came
swimming to the ship's side, and making a most
lamentable complaint of the other three," begged to
be taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they
should be murdered; and begged the captain to
take them on board, though he hanged them im-

mediately.
Upon this, the captain pretended to have no
power without me; but after some difficulty, and
after their solemn promises of amendment, they
were taken on board, and were some time after
soundly whipped and pickled; after which they
proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, I went with the boat on
shore, the tide being up, with the things promised
to the men.

\Vhen I took leave of this island, I carried on
board, for relies, the great goat skin cap I had
made, my umbrella and one of my parrots; also I
forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned,
which had lien by me so long useless, that it was
grown rusty, or tarnished, and could hardly pass
for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and
handled; and also the money I found in the wreck
of the Spanish ship.

CHAPTER XII.

ARRIVAL 0F CRUSOE IN ENGLAND-41}: PROCEEDS
- TO LISBON-SINGULAR ENCOUNTERS WHILE
TRAVELLING OVERLAND.

AND thus I left the island, the nineteenth of De-
cember, as I found, by the ship's account, in the
year 1686, after I had been upon it eight-and-
twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
being delivered from the second captivity the same
day of the month that I first made my escape in
the barcoJongo, from among the Moors of Sallee.

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
     
   

a ngland the eleventh of J une, in the year 1687,
'f raving been thirty-and-five years absent.

" I went down into Yorkshire; but my father was
-' dead, and my mother, and all the family extinct,
_ except that I found two sisters, and two of the
.3: children of one of my brothers; and as I had been
"I; long ago given over for dead, there had been no
g

 
   

_ provision made for me, so that, in a word, I found
nothing to relieve or assist me; and that the little
1'. money I had, would not do much for me, as to
<<1-. settling in the world.

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which
j: I did not expect; and this was, that the master of
5}" the ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and,
' by the same means, saved the ship and cargo,
having given a very handsome account to the
owners of the manner how I had saved the lives of
the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them, and some other merchants concerned, and
all together made me a very handsome compliment
upon the subject, and a present of almost two
hundred pounds sterling.

But, after making several reflections upon the
circumstances of my life, and how little way this
would go towards settling me in the world, I re-
solved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come
by some information of the state of my plantation
in the Brasils, and of what was become of my part._
ner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years
now given me over for dead.

With this view, I took shipping {or Lisbon,
where I arrived inApril following: my man Friday
accompanying me very honestly in all these ram.
blings, and proving a most faithful servant upon
all occasions.

When I came to Lisbon, I found out by inquiry
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend.
the captain of the. ship, who first took me up at
sea, off the shore of Africa.
After some passionate expressions of our old
acquaintance, I inquired, you may be sure, after
my plantation and my partner. The old man told
me he had not been in the Brasils for about nine
years; but that he could assure me, that when he
came away my partner was living, but the. trustees
whom I had joined with him to take cognizance of
my part, were both dead; that, however, he be-
lieved that I would have a very good account of the.
improvement of the plantation, for that, in the
general belief of my being cast away and drowned,
my trustees had given in the account of the produce
of my part of the plantation to the procurator fiscal,
who had appropriated it, in case I never came to
claim it, one third to the king, and two-thirds to
the monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended for
the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of
the Indians to the Catholic faith; but that if I ap-
peared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance,
it would be restored; only that the improvement,
or annual production, being distributed to charita-
lvle uses, could not be restored : but he assured me,
that the steward of the king's revenue (from lands)
and the provedore, or steward of the monastery,
had taken great care all along, and the incumbent,
that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faith-
t'ul account of the produce, of which they received
duly my moiety. _

I shewed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and inquired of the old captain how
it came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose
of my effects, when he knew that I had made my
will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain,
my universal heir, (cc.

1
;. He told me that was true, but that as there was
'- no proof of my being dead, he could not act as
' executor, until some certain account should come
3 of mv death; and that, besides, he was not willing
if to intermeddle with a thing so remote; that it was
:-7 true, he had registered my will, and put in his
*_ claim; and could he have given any account of
SS my being dead or alive, he would have acted by

. procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio (so
' . they called the sugar.house), and had given his son,
who was now at the Brasils, orders to do it.

After a few days farther conference with this an-
cicnt friend, he brought me an account of the first
six years' income of my plantation, signed by my
__ partner, and the merchants' trustees, being always
- delivered in goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar
in chests, besides rum, molasses, &c. which is the
wnsequence of a sugar work; and I found, by this
account, that every year the income considerably
increased. But, as above, the disbursement being
large, the sum at first was small. However, the
old man let me see that he was debtor to me tour
hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco,
which were lost in his ship, he having been ship-
wrecked coming home to Lisbon, abouteleven years
' after my leaving the place. -
I The old man began to ask me, if he should put

me in a method to make my claim to my planta.

tion. I told him, I thought to go over to it myself.

He said, I might do so, if I pleased; but that if I

did not, there were ways enough to secure my

right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to

my use: and as there were ships in the river of

Lisbon, just ready to go away to Brasil, he made

me enter my name in a public register, with his
aflidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I was alive,
and that I was the same person, who took up the
land for the planting the said plantation at first.

This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it with a
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaint.
ance at the place; and then proposed my staying
with him till an account came of the return.

Never any thing was more honourable than the
proceedings upon this procuration; for in less than
seven months I received a large packet from the
survivors of my trustees, the merchants for whose
account I went to sea.

There was also a letter of my partner's congratu.
latiug me very affectionately upon my being alive,
giving me an account how the estate was improved,
and what it produced a year, with a particular of
the number of squares or acres that it contained:
how planted; how many slaves there were upon it;
and, making two-and twenty crosses for blessings,
told me he had said so many'Ave Marias',' to thank
the Blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me
very passionately to come over and take possession
of my own; and in the meantime, to give him or~
ders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did
not come myself; concluding with a hearty tender
of his friendship, and that of his family; and sent
me, as a present, seven tine leopards' skins, which
he had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship, which he had seen thither, and who, it seems,
had made a better voyage than 1. He sent me also
five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred
pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moi-
dores.

By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees
shipped we twelve hundred chests of sugar, eight

I
.undred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole

ccouut in gold.
I was new master, all on a sudden, of above five

iousand pounds sterling in money, and had an es.
to, as I might w ell call it, in the Brasils, of above
1'" thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate 'of
,. ands 111 England, and, in a word, I was in acou-
7'2 itionwhich I scarce knew how to understand, or
5.; ow tocompose myself for the enjoyment of.
I was new to consider which way to steer my
' course next, and what to do with the estate that
' Providence had thus put into my hands; and, in-
a- deed, I had more care upon my head now, than I
. had in my silent state of life in the island, where I
wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing
g7 but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great
" charge upon me, and my business was how to se-
' cure it. I had never a cave now to hide my money
' in, or a place where it might lie without lock or key,
till it grew mouldy and tarnished before any body
would meddle with it; on the contrary, I knew not
where to putit, or who to trust it with; my old pa.
tron the captain, indeed was honest, and that was
the only refuge I had.

Having settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into good bills of exchange,
my next difficulty was, which way to go to England.
I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet
I had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at
that time; and though I could give no reason for it,
yet the difficulty increased upon me so much, that
though I had once shipped my baggage in order to
go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but
two or three times.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my
old pilot to w hom I communicated every thing
pressed me earnestly not to go by sea: but either
to go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the
bay of Biscay to Rochelle. from whence it was but
an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so
to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, andso
all the way by land through France.

In a word, I was so prepossessed against my go.
ing by sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that
I resolved to travel all the way by land, which, as
I was not in haste, and did not value the charge,
was by much the pleasanter way; and to make it
more so, my old captain brought an English gen.
tleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was ,
willing to travel with me: after which, we picked up
two more, who were English and merchants also,
and two ) oung Portuguese gentlemen, the last go.
ing to Paris only; so that we were in all six of us,
and live servants: the two merchants and the two
Portuguese, contenting themselves with one servant
between two, to save the charge: and as {or me, I
got an English sailor to travel with me, asaservant,
besides my man Friday, who was too much a stran.
ger to be capable of supplying the place of a servant
upon the road.

In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our
company being all very well mounted and armed,
we made a little troop, whereof they did me the
honour to call me Captain, aswell because I was the
oldest man, as because I had two servants, and, in-
deed. was the original of the whole journey.

After we came to Pampeluna, it continued snow
ing with so much violence, and so long, that the
people said winter was come. before its time, and the
roads, which were difiicultielbefore,were now quite
impassable; in a word, the show lay' 1n some places
    
      

' '3 u thick for us to travel; and being not hard fro-
v en, as is the ease in the northern countries, there
. was no going without being in danger of being buried
9., live every step. We stayed no less than twenty
avs at Pampeluna,when (seeing the winter coming
,.v n, and no likelihood of its being better, for it was
. ,5 he severest winter all over Europe that had been
e: nown in many years) I proposed that we should
' . all go away to Fonturabia, and there take shipping
: for Bourdeaux, which was avery little voyage.
_ But while we were considering this, there came
in four French gentlemen, who, having been stop-
ped on the French side of the passes as we were on
' the Spanish. had found outa guide, who traversing
the country near the head of Languedoc, had
brought them over the mountains by such ways,
5' that teey were not much incommoded with the
' snow; and where they met with snow in any quan-
tity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear
them, and their horses.

We sent for this guide, who told us, he would
undertake to carry us the 'same way, with no hart.-
zard from the snow provided we were armed suffi-
ciently to protect us from wild beasts; for he said,
upon these great snows, it was frequent for some
wolves to shew themselves at the foot of the moun-
tains, being made ravenous for want of food, the
ground being covered with snow. We told him we
were well enough prepared for such creatures as
they were, if he would ensure us from a kind oftwo-
I legged wolves, which we were told we were in most

danger from, especially on the French side of the

mountains.

He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind
in the way that we were to go. So we readily agreed
to follow him; as did also twelve other gentlemen,
with their servants, some French, some Spanish. 1
who, as I said, had attemptedto go, and were oblig
ed to come back again.

Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with
our guide on the fifteenth of November; and indeed,
I was surprised, when, instead of going forward, ht
came directly back with us, on the same road that
we came from Madrid, above twenty miles; when
having passed two rivers, and come into the plain
country, we found ourselves in a warm climate again
where the country was pleasant, and no snow to be
seen; but on a sudden, turning to the left, he ap.
preached the mountains another way: and though
it is true, the hills and the precipices looked dread.
ful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us by such winding ways, we were inseu.
sibly passed the height of the mountains without
being much encumbered with the snow; and, all on
a sudden, he showed us the pleasant fruitful pro.
vinces ot' Languedoc and Gaseoigne, all green and
flourishing; though indeed they were at a great dis.
tance, and we had some rough way to pass yet.

We were a little uneasy,however, when we found
it snowed one whole day, and at night so fast that
we could not travel; but he bade us be easy,
we should soon be past it all. We found in--
deed, that we began to descend every day, and to
come more north than before: and so, depending
upon our guide, we went on.

It was about two hours before night, when our
guide being something before us, and not just in
sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after
them a bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to a
thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the guide,
and had he been half a mile before us he had been
devoured indeed, before- we could have helped him.
One of them fastened upon his horse, and the other
attacked the man with that violence, that he had
not time, or not presence of mind enough, to draw
his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most
lustily. My man Friday being next to me, I bade
him ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon
, as Friday came in sight of the man, he hallooed as
:- loud as the other, " 0 master! 0 master!" but,
like a hold fellow, rode directly up to the man, and
with a pistol, shot the wolf that attacked him into
the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my
man Friday; for he having been used to that kind
ol'creature. in his country, had no fear upon him,
but went close up to him, and shot him as above;
' whereas any of us would have fired at a fartherdis-

tanee, and have, perhaps, either missed the wolf,
or endangered shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a holder man
than I; and indeed it alarmed all our company,
when, with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on
both sides the dismallest howling of wolves, and
the noise redoubled by the echo of the mountains,
that it was to us as if there had been a prodigious
multitude of them; and perhaps indeed there was
not such a few, as that we had no cause ofappre-
hensions.

It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of F1 iday's
pistol we all mended our pace, and rid up, as fast
as the way (which was very difiicult) would give us
leave, to see what was the matter. As soon as we
came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we
saw plainly what had been the case, and how Fri-
day had disengaged the poor guide; though we did
not presently discern what kind of creature it was
he had killed.
The ground was still covered with snow, though
not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains;
and the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterward,
were come down into the forest and plain country. i
pressed by hunger, to seek for food; and had done
a great deal of mischief in the villages, where they .
surprised the country people, killed a great many .'.
of their sheep and horses, and some people too. .

We had one dzuigerous place to pass, of which
our guide told us, if there were any more wolves in
the country, we should find them there; and this
was a small plain, surrounded with woods on every
side, and a long narrow defile or lane, which we were
to pass,to get through the wood, and then we should
come tothe village where we were to lodge.

It was within half an hour of sunset, when we on
tered the first wood; and a little after sunset when
we came into the plain. \Ve met with nothing in
the first wood except that, in a little plain, within
the wood, which was above two furlongs over, we

saw five great wolves cross the road, hill speed,one , '

after another, as if they had been in chase of some '
prey, and had it in view. They took no notice of
us, and were gone, and out of our sight in a few
moments.

Upon this, our guide, who, by the way, was a
wretched faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in a
ready posture; for he believed there were more
wolves a coming.

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through
that wood, which was near half a league, and en.
tered the plain. As soon as we came into the plain,
we had occasion enough to look about us. The
first object we met with, was a dead horse; that is
to say, a poor horse, which the wolves had killed,
   
  
   
   
  
  
    
  

at least a dozen of them at work; we could not
' , eating of him, but picking of his bones rather;
', ' they had eaten up all the flesh before.

a, ; We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
. "_ ither did they take much notice of us. Friday
'- uld have let fly at them, but I would not sufi'er
' .. by any means: for I found we were like to
. : ve more business upon our hands than we were
are of. We were not gone half over the plain,

. our left, in a frightful manner: and, presently
r, we saw about a hundred coming on directly
' wards us, all in a body, and most of them in a
ne, as regular as an army drawn up by experienced
' fiicers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive
nem; but found to draw ourselves in a close line,
,g? --as the only way, so we formed in a momedt. But
. at we might not have too much interval, I ordered

   
  

"- hat only every other man should fire, and that the
' others who had not fired, should stand ready to give
:5 them a second volley immediately, if they continued
to advance upon us; and that then those who had
. fired at first should not pretend to lead their fusils
3 again, but stand ready with every one a pistol; for
:7 we were all armed with a fusil, and a pair of pistols,
each man; so we were, by this method, able to fire
six volleys, half of us at a time. However, at
present, we had no necessity; for, upon firing the
first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being "'1"
rifled as well with the noise as with the fire : four
of them being shot into the head, drapped ; several
others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we
could see by the snow. I found they stopped, but
did not immediately retreat: whereupon remem.
boring that I had been told, that the fiercest crea.

tures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused
r
all our company to halloo as loud as we could: and
I found the notion not altogether mistaken; for,
upon our shout ,they began to retire, and turn ahout;
then I ordered a second volley to be fired in their
rear, which put them to the gallop, and away they
went to the woods.

This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again,
and that we might lose no time, we kept going;
but we had but little more than loaded our fusils,
and put ourselves into a readiness, when we heard
a terrible noise in the same wood on our left: only
that it was farther onward, the same way we were
to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began
to be dusky, which made it the worse on our side;
but the noise increasing, we would easily perceive
that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish
creatures; and, on a sudden, we perceived two or
three troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind
us, and one on our front: so that we seemed to be
surrounded with them. However, as they did not
fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as fast as
we could make our horses go, which, the way being
very rough, was only a good, large trot; and in
this manner we only came in view of the entrance
of the wood, through which we were to pass, at the
farther side of the plain; but we were greatly sur-
prised, when. coming near the lane, or pass, we
saw a confused number of wolves standing just at
the entrance. '

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood,
we heard the noise of a gun; and, looking that
way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle
on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seven-
teen wolves after him, full speed. Indeed, the horse
had the heels of them; but, as we supposed that
he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not-
but they would get up with him at last; and no
question they did.

It happened very much to our advantage, that
at the entrance into the wood, but a little way from
it, there lay some larger timber trees, which had
been cut down the summer before, and I suppose
lay there for carriage, I drew my little troop in
among these trees, and placing ourselves in a line,
behind one long tree, I advised them all to alight,
and, keeping that tree before us, for a breastwork,
to stand in a triangle or three fronts, enclosing our
horses in the centre.

We did so; and it was well we did, for never was
a more furious charge than the creatures made upon
us in this place : they came on us with a growling
kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber
(which as I said, was our breast work), asif they
were only rushing upon their prey; and this fury
of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by
their seeing our horses behind us, which was the
prey they aimed at, I ordered our men to fire as
before, every other man; and'they took their aim
so sure, that indeed they killed several of the
wolves at the first volley; but there was a necessi-
ty to keep a continual firing, for they came on like
devils, those behind pushing on those before.

When we had fired our second volley of our fu>>
sils, we thought they stopped a little, and I hoped
they would have gone off, but it was but a moment
for others came forward again: so we fired two
volleys of our pistols, and I believe in these four
firings, we killed seventeen or eighwen of them',
and lamed twice as many : yet they came on
again.

I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so

v 2

  

. . .- n {'11 " '-
'.. u..'....4?_..'_|..__-..r .. .- , . , . . .\.. . .- ' '.'......'A\K~L'AEUR'JaiiPS'$;SS <<all-ctr"
I called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was
better employed; for, with the greatest dexterity
imaginable, he charged my fusil, and his own,
while we were engaged; but, as I said, [called my
other man; and giving him ahorn ofpowder,I bade
him lay a train, all along the piece of timber, and
let it be a large train. He did so, and had but just
time to get away, when the wolves came up to it,
and some were got upon it, when I, snapping an
uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on fire.
Those that were upon the timber were scorched with
it, and six or seven of them fell,or rather jn'mped in
among us, with the force and fright of the fire. We
dispatched these in an instant, and the rest were so
frighted with the light, which the night, {or now it

was very near dark, made more terrible, that they
drew back a little.

Upon which I ordsred our last pistols to be fired
off in one volley and after that we gave a shout:
upon this, the wolves turned tail, and we sallied
immediately upon near twenty lame ones, which we
found struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting
them with our swords, which answered our expec-
tation; for the crying and hewling they made were
better understood by their fellows, so that they all
fled, and left us.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and
had, in a little time, all my new-discovered estate
safe about me; the bill of exchange which I brought
with me having been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privycounsellor, was my
good, ancient widow, who,in gratitude for the me-
my I had sent her, thought no pains too much, or
care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted her
so entirely with every thing, that I was perfectly
easy as to the security of, my effects: and indeed I

m_sn_
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
   

' _ was very happy from my beginning, and now to the
.; end, in the unspotted integrity of this good gentle-
' . woman.
' And now I began to think of leaving my effects
with this woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and so
. to the Brasils. But now another scruple came in
I " my way, and that was religion; for as I had enter-
tained some doubts about the Roman religion, even
while I was abroad, especially in my state of soli-
tude: so I knew there was no going to the Brazils
for me, much less going to settle there, unless I
resolved to be a sacrifice to my principles, be a mar-
tyr for religion, and die in the Inquisition: so I
resolved to stay at home, and if I could find means
for it, to dispose of my plantation.
And thus I have given the first part of a life of
fortune and adventure, a life of Providence's check.
enwork, and of a variety which the world will sel-
dom be able to shew the like of. Beginning foolishly,
but closing much more happily than any part of it
ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.
In the mean time, I in part settled myselfhere:
for first of all I married, and that not either to my
disadvantage or dissatisfaction; and had three chil-
dren, two sons and one daughter. But my wife
dying, and my nephew coming home, with good
success, from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to
go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and en-
gaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to the
East Indies. This was in the year 1694.

In this voyage, I visited my new colony in the
island, saw my successors, the Spaniards; had the
whole story of their lives, and of the villains I left
there: how at first they insulted the poor Spaniards;
how they afterward agreed, disagreed, united, se-
parated, and how at last the Spaniards were obliged
to use violence with them: how they were subjected
to the Spaniards; how honestly the Spaniards used
them; a history, if it were entered into, as full of
variety and wonderful accidents, as my own part:
particularly also as to their battles with the Carib-
beans, who landed several times upon the island it-
self: and how five of them made an attempt upon
the main land, and brought away eleven men and
five women prisoners, by which, at my coming, I
found about twenty young children on the island.

Here I staid about twenty days, left them sup-
plies of all necessary things, and particularly of
arms, powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two work-
men, which I brought from England with me: viz.
a carpenter and a smith.

Besides this, I shared the island into parts with
them, reserved to myself the property of the whole,
but gave them such parts respectively as they agreed
on; and having se tled all things with them, and
engaged them not to leave the place, I left them
there.

From thence I touched at the Brasils, from
whence I sent a bark, which I bought there, with
more people to the island: and in it, besides other
necessary supplies, I Sent seven women, being
such as I found proper for service, or for wives
to such as would take them. As to the Englishmen,
I promised them to send them some women from
England, with a good cargo of necessaries, if they
would apply themselves to planting, which I after.
ward could not perform. The fellows proved very
honest and diligent, after they were mastered, and
had their properties set apart for them. I sent them
also from the Brasils five cows, three of them being
big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs, which,
when I came again, were considerably increased.
    
 

-; ,. But all these things, with an account how three

...hundred Caribbees came and invaded them, and
ruined their plantations, and how they fought with
9 that whole number twice, and were at first defeat-
ed and one of them killed: but at last a storm

destroying their enemies' canoes, they famished or
'i destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and re-
. covered the possession of their plantation, and still
' I lived upon the island.

All these things, with some very surprising inci
dents, in some new adventures of my own, for ten
years more, I may, perhaps, give a farther account
of hereafter.

 

CHAPTER XIII.

CRUSUE AGAIN vrsr'rs "run ISLAND or ms ron-
men CAPTIVITY.--DEAT!I or 818 MAN ramAY.
is LEFT BY THE snrp's canw Ar nan.
GAL,---TRAVELS OVERLAND 'ro ENGLAND.

IT was now the beginning of the year 1693, when
my nephew, whom I had brought up to the sea,
and had_rnade him the commander of a ship, was
come home from a short voyage to Bilboa, being the
first he had made. He came to me, and told me,
that some merchants of his acquaintance had been
proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the
East Indies and to China, as private traders. "And
now, uncle," says he, "if you will go to sea. with
me, I'll engage to land you upon your old habita-
tion in the island; for we_ are to touch at the
Brasils."

. l <<I
- . >> . . ..
_._ _ 9-...>> ...-. 'ocs.s-m"_w
Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a fu.
ture state, and of the existence of an invisible world,
than the concurrence of second causes with the ideas
of things which we form in our minds perfectly re.
served, and not communicated to any in the world

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper
of wandering was returned upon me, and I knew
nothing of what he had in his thoughts to say, when
that very morning before he came to me, I had, in
a great deal of confusion of thought, and revolving
every part of my circumstances in my mind, come
to this resolution; viz. that I would go to Lisbon,
and consult with my old sea captain, and so, if it
was rational and practicable, I would go and see
the island again, and see what was become of my
peeplc there. I had pleased myself also with the
thoughts of poopling the place, and carrying inha-
bitants from hence, getting a patent for the posses-
sion, and I know not what; when, in the middle
of all this, in comes my nephew, as I have said,
with his project of carrying me thither, in his way
to the East Indies.

I was not long resolving: for indeed the importu-
nities of my nephew joined in so efl'ectually with my
inclination, that nothing could oppose me. On the
other hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody that
concerned themselves so much for me as to persuade
me one way or other, except my ancient good friend
the widow, who earnestly struggled with me to con-
sider my years, my easy circumstances, and the
needless hazards of a long voyage; and above all,
my young children. But it was all to no purpose;
I had an irresistible desire to the voyage: and I told
her, I thought there was something so uncommon
in the" impressions I had upon my mind for the voy~
age, that it would be akind of resisting Providence,
    
 
   
   
   
 
   
  

. if I should attempt to stay at home. After which,
she ceased her expostulations, and joined with me,
not only in making provision for my voyage, but
also in settling my family affairs in my absence, and
providing for the education of my children.
,. " In order to this, I made my will, and settled the
' estate I had in such a manner for my children, and
placed it in such hands, that I was perfectly easy,
and satisfied they would have justice done them,
whatever might befall me; and for their education,
I left it wholly to my widow,with a suflicient main-
tenance to herself for her care. All which, she
richly deserved; for no mother could have taken
more care in their education, or understood it better;
and as she lived till I came home, I also lived to
thank her for it.

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning
of January, 1694-5, and I with my man Friday,
went on board, in the Downs, the 8th, having, be-
sides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things,
for my colony, which,if I did not find in good con-

-dition, I resolved to leave so.

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I
purposed to place there as inhabitants, or, at least,
to set on work there upon my own account, while I
stayed; and either to leave them there, or carry
them forward, as they should appear willing; par-
ticularly,, I carried two carpenters, a smith, and
a very handy, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper
by trade, but was also a general mechanic: for he
was dexterous at making wheels, and hand mills to
grind corn : was a good turner, and a good pot-
maker. He also made any thing that was proper
to make of earth, or wood; in a word, we called
him our " Jack of all trades."

" " eras-em"...
With these I carried a tailor, who had ofl'ered
himself to go passenger to the East Indies, with my
nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on our
new plantation, and proved a most necessary, handy
fellow, as could be desired, in many other busines.
ses, besides that of his trade; for, as I observed
formerly, necessity arms us for all employments.

My cargo, as near as I can collect, for l have not
kept an account of particulars, consisted of a sulfi-
cient quantity of linen, and some thin English stufl's
for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to find
living there; and enough of them as by my calcu-
lation, might comfortably supply them for seven
years. If I remember right, the materials which I
carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes,
stockings, and all such things as they could want
for wearing, amounted to above two hundred pounds
including some beds, bedding, and household stuff,
particularly kitchen utensils, with pots, bottles,
pewter, brass, Ste. besides near one hundred pounds
more in iron-work, nails, tools of every kind, sta-
ples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I

could think of.

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets,
and fusils, besides some pistols, a considerable
quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four tons of
lead, and two pieces of brass cannon; and because
I knew not what time, and what extremities, I was
providing for, I carried a hundred barrels of powder
besides swords and cutlasses, and the iron part of
some pikes and halberts : so that in short, we had a
large magazine of all sorts of stores : and I made
my nephew carry two small quarter deck guns more
than he wanted for his ship, to leave behind, if there
was occasion: that when we came there, we might
build a fort, and man it against all sorts of enemies.
nd indeed, I at first thought there would be need

' 1ough for it all, and much more, if we hoped to
. .aintain our possession of the island, as shall be
, 'en in the course of the story.
' I had not such bad luck in this voyage, as I had
een used to meet with: and therefore shall have
' a less occasion to interrupt the reader, who per.
aps may be impatient to hear how matters went
'ith my colony.

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday,
nd asked him, if he knew where he was. He
' ooked about a little, and presently, clapping his
hands, cried " 0 yes! 0 there! 0 yes! 0 there !"
ointing to our old habitation, and fell a dancing
and capering like a mad fellow; and I had much
ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore to the place.

As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I
caused the English ancient to be spread, and fired
1 three guns, to give them notice we were friends;
and about half a quarter of an hour after, we per--
ceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek. - So
I immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday
with me; and, hanging out a white flag, or flag of
truce, I went directly on shore, taking with me a
young friar, to whom I had previously told the old
story of my living there, and the manner of it, and
every particular, both of myself, and those that I
' left there; and who was, on that account, extremely

desirous to go with me. We had, besides, about

sixteen men, very well armed, if We had found any
new guests there which we did not know of ; but we
had no need of weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near
high water, we rowed directly into the creek; and
the first man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard,
   
  
  
 

whose life I had saved, and whom I knew by his ,
face perfectly well. I ordered nobody to go on
shore at first but myself, but there was no keeping
Friday in the boat; for the affectionate creature had
spied his father at a distance, a good way off of the
Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him;
and if they had not let him go on shore, he Would
have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on
shore, but he flew away to his father, like an arrow
out of a bow. It would have made any man shed
tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to haw
seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy
when he came to his father : how he embraced hin,
kissed him, stroked his face, took him up in his
arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down b:
him; then stood and looked at him, as any 01R
would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an
hour together; then lay down upon the ground,
and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then
got up again, and stared at him: one would have
thought the fellow bewitched.

The first Spaniard, whom, as 1 said, I knew very
well, was he whose life I had saved; he came
towards the boat, attended by one more, carryinga
flag of truce also; and he did not only not know
me at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion of
its being me that was come, till I spoke to him,
"Seignior," said I, in Portuguese, "do you not
know me !" At which he spoke not a word; but
giving his musket to the man that was with him,
threw his arms abroad, and, saying something in
Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, came forward
and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable
not to know that face again, that he had once seen,
as of an angel from heaven sent to save his life.
He said abundance of very handsome things, as 8
   
  
   
  
   

elLbred Spaniard always knows how; and then
.eckoning to the person that attended him, bade
im go and call out his comrades. He then asked
4. e, if I would walk to my old habitation, where he
would give me possession of my own house again,
. d where I should see there had been but mean
' mprovements. So I walked along with him; but,
alas! I could no more find the place again, than if
I had never been there: for they had planted so
' many trees, and placed them in such a posture, so
thick and close to one another; and in ten years'
time they were grown so big, that, in short, the
place was inaccessible, except by such windings,
and blind ways, as they themselves only who made
them could find.

I asked them, what put them upon all these for.
tifications. He told me, I would say that therewas
need enough of it, when they had given me an ac-
count how they had passed their time since their
arriving in the island, especially after they had the
misfortune to find I was gone. He told me, he
. could not but have some satisfaction in my good

fortune, when he heard that I was gone in a good
ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he had of ~
tentimes a strong persuasion, that one time or
other he should see me again. But nothing that
ever befel him in his life, he said, was so surprising
and afllicting to him at first, as the disappointment
he was under when he came back to the island, and
found I was not there.

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that
were left behind, and of whom he said he had a
long story to tell me, the Spaniards all thought
themselves much better among the savages, only
that their number was so small. " And," says he,
had they been strong enough, we had been all long
  
    
   
      
    
 
   

ago in purgatory ;' and with that he crossed hiu gf
self upon the breast. " But, sir," says he, a I he}. .- ..
you will not be displeased, when I shall tell y( -',_
how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for o. '1

moderately our masters, but would be our murder. 4'.
ers." I answered, I was heartily afraid of it whe:
I left them there; and nothing troubled me at m_ '
parting from the island, but that they were no. ':
come back, that I might have put them in posse. i"
siou of every thing first, and left the other in a stat '-
of subjection, as they deserved. But if they had
reduced them to it, I was very glad, and should be
very far from finding any fault with it; for I knew '.
they were a parcel of refractory, ungovernable vil.
lains, and were fit for any manner of mischief.

While I was saying this, came the man whom
he had sent back, and with him eleven men more.
In the dress they were in, it was impossible to
guess what nation they were of; but he made all
clear, both to them and to me. First, he turned to
me, and, pointing to them, said, "These, sir, are
some of the gentlemen who owe their lives to you :"
and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he
let them know who I was. Upon which, they all
came up, one by one, not as if they had been
sailors, and ordinary fellows, and l the like, but
really as if they had been ambassadors of noblemen,
and I a monarch, or a great conqueror. Their
behaviour was, to the last degree, obliging and
courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic
gravity which very well became them; and, in
short, they had so much more manners than I,that
I scarce knew how to receive their civilities, much
less how to return them in kind.
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
  

1 Upon frank and open declarations of friendship,
'~ - appointed to dine all together; and, indeed, we
de a splendid feast. After this feast, at which
~ were very innocently merry. I brought out my
rgo of goods, wherein, that there might be no
3; sputc about dividing, I shewed them there was
t'n'cient for them all; and desired that they might
" 1 take an equal quantity of the goods that were
r wearing; that is to say, equal when made up.
a . t first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every
. ne of them four shirts; and, at the Spaniards'
.2- equest, afterward made them up six. These were
rxceeding comfortable to them, having been what,
3 I may say, they had long since forgot the use of,
or what it was to wear them.

' I allotted the thin English staffs to make every
one a light coat,like a frock, which I judged fittest for
the heat of the season, cool and loose; and ordered,
that, whenever they decayed, they should make
more, as they thought fit : the like forpumps, shoes,
stockings, hats, &c.

Then I presented to them the people I had brought
with me, particularly the tailor, the smith, and the ,
two carpenters. all of them most necessary people;
but, above all, my general artificer, than whom
they could not name any thing that was more use-
ful to them. And the tailor, to shew his concern
for them, went to work immediately, and, with my
leave, made them every one a shirt the first thing
he did; and, which was still more, he taught the
women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the
needle, but made them assist to make the shirts for
their husbands, and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how
useful they were; for they took in pieces all my
clumsy, unhandy things, and made them clever,
convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards,
lockers, shelves, and every thing they wanted of
that kind.

Then 1 brought them out all my store of tools,
and gave every man a digging-spade,a shovel, and
a rake, for we had no barrows or ploughs; and to
every separate place a pick axe, a crow, abroad
axe, and a saw, always appointing, that as often as
any were broken or worn out, they should be sup-
plied, without grudgiug, out of the general stores
that I left behind.

Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives,
scissors, and all sorts of tools and iron work, they
had without tale, as they required: for no man
would care to take more than he wanted; and he
must be a fool that would waste or spoil them, on
any account whatever. And, for the use of the
smith, I left two tons of unwrought iron for a
supply.

My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought
them, was such, even to profusion, that they could
not but rejoice at them; for now they could march,
as I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder,
if there was occasion, and were able to fight a
thousand savages, if they had but some little advan.

tages of situation, which also they could not miss
of if they had occasion.

I have now done with the island. I left them all
in good circumstances, and in a flourishing condi-
tion, and went on board my ship again the fifth day
of May, having been five-and-twenty days among
them ; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the
island till I came to remove them, I promised to
send some farther relief from the Brasils, if I could
possibly find an opportunity; and particularly I
promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep,
hogs and cows; for, as to the two cows and calves
which I brought from England, we had been obliged
by the length of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for
want of hay to feed them.

The next day, giving them a salute oPS five guns
at parting, we set sail, and arrived at the bay of
All Saints, in the Brasils, in about twenty.two days,
meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but
this, that about three days after we shiled, being
becalmed, and the current setting strong to the
E. N. E. running, as it were, into a bay or gulf, on
the land side, we were driven something out of our
course; and once or twice our men cried, " Land
to the westward;" but whether it was the continent,
or islands, we could not tell by any means.

But the third day, towards evening, the sea
smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as
it were, covered, towards the land, with something
very black, not being able to discover what it was ,
but after some time, our chief mate going up the
main shrouds a little way, and looking at them with
a perspective, cried out, it was an army. I could
not imagine what he meant by an army, and spoke
alittle hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or some
such word. " Nay, sir," said he, " do not be angry,
for it is an army, and a fleet too; for, I believe
there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them
paddle along, and they are coming towards us too
apace, and full of men."

The weather continued calm, and they came on
space towards us; so I gave orders to come to an
anchor, and furl all our sails. As for the savages,
I told them they had nothing to fear but fire ; and
therefore they should get their beats out, and fasten
them, one close by the head, and the other by the
stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue

z
in that posture. This I did that the men in the
boats might be ready, with sheets and buckets, to
put out any fire these savages might endeavour to

fix upon the outside of the ship. .
In this posture we lay by for them, and, in a 5

little while, they came up with us; but never was i
such a horrid sight seen by Christians. My mate
was much mistaken 1n his calculation of their num-
ber, I mean of a thousand canoes; the most we
could make of them when they came up, being
about a hundred and six-and-twenty, and a great
many of them too; for some of them had sixteen or
seventeen men in them, some more; and the least '
six or seven.

When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be
struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight
which they had, doubtless, never seen before; nor
could they at first, as we afterward understood,
know what to make of us. They came boldly up,
however, very near to us, and seemed to go about,
to row round us: but we called to our men in the
boats, not to let them come too near them.

This very order brought us to an engagement
with them, without our designing it; for five or six
of their large canoes came so near our long boat,
that our men beckoned with their hands to them to
keep back, which they understood very well, and
went back; but, at their retreat, about fifty arrows
came on board us from those boats, and one of our
men in the longboat was very'much wounded.

However, I called to them not to fire by any
means; but we handed down some deal boards into
the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a kind
of a fence, like waste boards, to cover them from
the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot
again.
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
 

.. - About half an hour afterward they came all up in
a body astem of us, and pretty near, so near that
-' we could easily discern what they were, though we
is; could not tell their design. I easily found they
were some of my old friends, the same sort of 83.:
rages that I had been used to engage with: and,in
f a little time more, they rowed somewhat farther out
to sea, till they came directly broadside with us,
and then rowed down straight upon us, till they came
so near, that they could hear us speak, Upon this
I ordered all mymen to keep close, lest they should
shoot any more arrows, and make all our guns
' ready; but, being so near as to be within hearing,
I made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out
aloud to them in his language to know what they

meant, which accordingly he did. Whether they

soon as he had called to them, six of them, who
were in the foremost or nighest boat to us, turned
their causes from us, and stooping down, showed
us their naked backsides; just as if, in English
(saving your presence), they had bade us kiss. -.,- . .
Whether this was a defiance, or challenge, we 'lmow
not; or whether it was done in mere contempt, or
as a signal to the rest, but immediately Friday cried
out, they were going out to shoot; and nnhappily
for him, poor fellow! they let fly about three hun-
dred of their arrows, and, to my inexpressible grief
killed poor Friday, no other man being in their
sight. The poor fellow was shot 'with no less than
three arrows, and about three more fell very nigh
him; such unlucky marksmen they were.

I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant,
the companion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that
1 immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with
small shot, and four with great, and gavrthem

z 2

understood him or not, that I knew not; but as .

. c
"'1,
such a broadside as they had never heard in their .>>
lives before, to be sure.

They were not above half a cable's length of!
when we fired: and our gunners took their aim so 1
well, that three or four of their canoes were overset,
as we had reason to believe, by one shot only.

I can neither tell how many we killed, nor how "
many we wounded, at this broadside; but sure such
a fright and hurry never was seen among such a i
multitude: there were thirteen or fourteen of their '
canoes split, and overset, in all, and the men all '
set a swimming; the rest, frighted out of their wits, -
scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little '
care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled
with our shot. So I suppose that there were many
of them lost. And our men took up one poor fellow
swimming for his life, above an hour after they

were all gone.
Poor honest Friday! we buried him with all the

decency and solemnity possible, by putting him
into a coffin, and throwing him into the 'sea; and
I caused them to fire eleven guns for him: and so
ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest
and most affectionate servant that ever man had.

We now went away with a fair wind for Brasil;
and in about twelve days' time we made land, in the
latitude of five degrees south of the line, being the
northeastmnmost land of all that part of America.
We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four days,
when we made the cape Saint Augustine, andin
three days came to anchor off the bay of All-Saints,
the old place of my deliverance, from whence came
both my good and evil fate.

From the Brasils we made directly away over the
Atlantic sea, to the Cape de Bonne Esperance, or,
as we call it, the Cape of Good Hope 5 and had a
 

;' tolerable good voyage, our course generally south-
7 east: now and then a storm, and some contrary
winds.

Om ship was on a trading voyage, and had a
. supercargo on board, who was to direct all her mo-

3 tions, after she arrived at the Cape; only being

limited to certain numbers of days for stay, by
charter party, at the several ports she was to go
i to. This was none of my business, neither did I
' meddle with it at all; my nephew, the captain,
and the supercargo, adjusting all those things
between them, as they thought fit.

We made no stay at the Cape, longer than was
needful to take in fresh water, but made the best of
our way for the coast of Coromandel: we are indeed
informed that a French man of war, of filly guns,
and two large merchant ships, were gone for 'the
Indies; and as I knew we were at war with France,

I had some apprehensions of them; but they went
their own way, and we heard no more of them.

When we were in the road at Bengal; being
willing to see the place, I went on shore with the
supercargo, in the ship's boat,to divert myself, and W
towards evening was preparing to go on board,. 7,;
when one of the men came to me, and told me, .1193; ,3. '
would not have me trouble myself to come doanfi. ....\ "
the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on
board. Any one may guess what a surprise I was ~
in at so insolent a message; and I asked the man
who bade him deliver that errand to me. He told
me the cockswain. I said no more to the fellow,
but bade him let them know he had deliveredhis
message, and that I had given him no answer
to it.

I immediately went, and found out the super.
cargo, and told him the story, adding what I pre-
sently foresaw, viz. that there would certainly be
a mutiny in the ship, and entreated him immedi-
ately on board the ship, in an Indian boat, and
acquaint the captain of it. But I might have
spared this intelligence; for, before I had spoken
to him on shore, the matter was effected on board.
The hoatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and, in
a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I was
gone off in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck,
and desired to speak with the captain; and there
the boatswain, making a long harangue (for the.
fellow talked very well), and repeating all he had
said to me, told the captain, in few words, that as
I was now gone peaceably on shore, they were
loath to use any violence with me, which, if I had
not gone on shore, they would otherwise have done,
to oblige me to have gone. They therefore thought
fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to
serve in the ship, under his command, they would
perform it faithfully : but if I would not quit the
ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they would
all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him.
And at that word, "all," he turned his face about,
towards the mainmast, which was, it seems, the
signal agreed on between them; at which all the
' seamen being got together, they cried out, " One
and all ! One and all !"

M y nephew told me what they had said to him,
and how they had sworn, and shook hands, that
they would, one and all leave the ship, if I was
suffered to come on board, I told him he should
not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on
shore. I only desired he would take care and send
me all my necessary things on shore, and leave
me a sufficient sum of money, and I would find
my way to England as well as I could.
., This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew;

but there was no way to help it, but to comply with
' it. So, in short, he went on board the ship again,
and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to
their importunity, and had sent for his goods from
on board the ship. So the matter was over in a ve-
ry few hours. the men returned to their duty, and

. . I began to consider what course I should steer.

I was now alone 1n the remotest part of the world,
as I think I may call it; for I was near three thou.
sand leagues by sea farther off from England, than
I was at my island; only, it is true, I might tra-
vel here by land over the Great Moguls country
to Surat, might go from thence to Bassora by sea,
up the Gulf cf Persia, and from thence might
take the way of the caravans, over the deserts of
Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon; from thence
by sea again to Italy, and so overland into France:
and this, put together, might be at least a full
diameter of the globe; but, if it were to be mea-

sured, I suppose, it would appear to he a great
deal more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait a;
for some English ships, wh1ch were coming to Ben. $2;
gal, from Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and

get passage on board them for England. But as I

came hither without any concern with the English

East India Company, so it would be difficult to go

from hence without their license, unless with great
favour of the captains of the ships, or of the Com-
pany's factors; and to both I was an utter stran-

ger.

Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by
contraries, to see the ship set sail without me: a
treatment, I think a man in my circumstances
scarce ever gnet with, except from pirates running
away with a ship, and setting those that would not
agree with their villany on shore. Indeed, this
was next door to it, both ways. However, my
nephew left me two servants, or rather one com. .
panion and one sen ant: the first was clerk to the '
parser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the
other was his own servant. I took me also a good
lodging in the house of an Englishwoman, where
several merchants lodged, some French, two Ita-
lians, or rather Jews. and one Englishman. Here
I was handsomely enough entertained; and, that
I might not be said to run rashly upon any thing,
I stay ed here abme nine months ,considering what
course to take, and how to manage myself. I had
some English goods with me of mine, and a con.
siderable sum of money, my nephew furnishing
me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of
credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might not
be straitened, whatever might happen.

I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advan-
tage too; and, as I originally intended, I bought
here some very good diamonds, which of all other
things, was the most proper for me in my circum-
stances, because I might always carry my whole
estate about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals
made for my return to England, but none falling
out to my mind, the English merchant. who lodg.
ed with me, and with whom I had contracted an
intimate acquaintance, came to me one morning:
" Countryman," said he, " I have a project to
communicate to you, which, as it suits with my
thoughts, may for aught I know, suit with yours
also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it.-

" Here we are posted," says he, " you by acci-
dent, and I by my own choice, in a part of the
    
      
 
 

1., world very remote from our own country; but it is
s in a country where, by us who understand trade and
3" business, a great deal of money is to be got. If
' you will put a thousand pounds to my thousand
'1 pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first we can
7. get to our minds; you shall be captain, I will be
merchant, and we will go a. trading voyage to Chi-
f na; for what should we stand still for? The whole
world is in motion, rolling round and round: all
' the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly,
' are busy and diligent. Why should we be idle f
_ There are. no drones," said he, " living in the
world but men. Why should we be of that num-
bet 4!>> I

I liked this proposal very well, and the more
because it seemed to be expressed with so much
. good will, and in so friendly manner. I will not
5 say but that I might, by my loose and unhinged
- ' circumstances, be the fitter to embrace a proposal
for trade, and, indeed,for any thing else; or, other-
wise, trade was none of my element. However, I
might, perhaps, say with some truth, that if trade
' was not my element, rambling was ; and no propo-
, sal for seeing any part of the world which I had

never seen before, could possibly come amiss to me.
: . It was, however, some time before we could get
' a ship to our mind, and when we had got a vessel,
it was not easy to get English sailors; that is to say
so many as were necessary to govern the voyage,
and manage the sailors we should pick up there.
After some time we got a mate, aboatswain, and a
gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three,
Portuguese foremast-men; with these we found we
could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such
as they are, to make up.

It is enough that we made the voyage to Achin,
in the island of Sumatra, first; and from thence
to Siam, where we exchanged some of our Wares 1 '
for opium. and for some arrack ; the first, a com.
modity which bears a great price among the Chi.
nese, and which, at that time, was very much 3
wanted there. In a word we went up to Susham, '
made a very great voyage, were eight months out,
and returned to Bengal; and I was very well satis.
fled with my adventure.

A little while after this, there came a Dutch ship _
from Batavia : she was a coaster, not a European '
trader, and of about two hundred tons burden.
The men, as they pretended, having been so sick.
ly, that the captain had not men enough to go to
sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and, as if having
got money enough, or being willing, for other rea.
sons, to go for Europe, he gave public notice, that
he would sell his ship. This came to my ears be-
fore my new partner heard of it. So I went home
to him,and told him of it. He considered awhile; '
for he was no rash man neither, but, musing some
time, he replied: "She is a little too big: but,
however, we will have her." Accordingly we bought
the ship, and, agreeing with the master, we paid
for her, and took possession.

We picked up some English seamen here after
this, and some Dutch, and we now resolved for a
second voyage to the soutlneast, for cloves, &.c.;
that is to say, among the Philippine and Malacca
isles: and, in short, not to fill this part of my sto-
ry with trifles, when what is yet to come is so re-
markable, I spent, from first to last, six years in
this country, trading from port to port, backward
and forward, and with very good success, and was
now the last year, with my partner, going in the
ship above--mentioned, on a voyage to China, but
designing first to Siam, to buy rice.aoamsbrz cnvsoa. 347

   

I In this voyage, being, by contrary winds, obli-
Q} ged to beat up anddown a great while in the Straits
of Malacca, and among the islands, we were no
sooner got clear of those difficult seas, but we
found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were
_' not able, by all our industry, to find out where it
i~ was. This forced us to make for some port, and
: my partner, who knew the country better than I
did, directed the captain to put into the river of
Cambodia; for I had made the English mate, one
Mr. Thomson, captain, not being willing to take
the charge of the ship myself. The river lies on
the nhrth side of the great bay or gulf, which goes
up to Siam.

We resolved to go away to the coast of Tonquin,
and so on to China; and, from thence pursuing
the first design, as to trade, find someway orother
to dispose of the ship, and come back in some of
the vessels of the country, such as we could get.
This was approved of as the best method for our
security; and accordingly we steered away N. N.E.
keeping above fifty leagues off from the usual
course to the eastward.

We would have gone into the bay of Tonquin,
for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to
be known concerning the Dutch ships that had been
there; but we durst not stand in there, because
we. had seen several ships go in, as we supposed,
but a little before.

Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees,
we resolved to put into the first trading port we
should come at, and, standing in for the shore, a
boat came off two leagues to us, with an old Portu-
gues pilot on board, who, knowing us to be a Eu-
ropean ship, came to offer his service, whichindeed,
we were very glad of, and took him on board;
upon which, without asking us whither we would
go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent it
back. ,

He told me if I would sail to the southward 'l
about two and forty leagues, there was a little port, '
called Quinchang, where the fathers of the mis.
sion usually landed fram Macao, on their progress
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships ever put in; and if I
thought to put in there, I might consider what far-
ther course to take when I was on shore.

When we came on shore, the 01d pilot, who was
now our friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse
for our goods, which, by the way, was much the
same: it was a little house, or but, with a large
house joining to it, all built with canes, and pali.
sadoed round with large canes, to keep out pilfer-
in g thieves, of which it seems there were not a few
in the country.

But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a
conclusion; the first thing we had to do was to con- ;
salt with the captain of the ship, and with the men, j
and know if they were willing to go toJapan: and
while I was doing this, the young man, whom as
I said, my nephew had left with me as my compa-
nion for my travels, came to me, and told me, that
he thought that voyage promised very fair, and
that was a great prospect of advantage, and he
would be very glad if I undertook it; but that if I
would not, and would give him leave, he would go
as a merchant, or how I pleased to order him; that
if ever he came to England, and I was there, and
alive, he would render me a faithful account of his
success ; and it should be as much mine as I
pleased.

All the ship's company being willing to go with
I: him, we made over half the ship to him 1n proper.
ty, and took a writing from him, obliging him to
account for the other, and away he went to Japan.
. We were now on shore in China. If I thought
- myself banished, and remote from my own country
- at Bengal, where! had many ways to get home
I for my money, what could I think of myself now,
when l was got about a thousand leagues farther
' off from home, and perfectly destitute of all man-
' ner of prospect of return!

.. I had indeed amind to see the city of Pckin,
, which I had heard so much of, and father Simon
j" importuned me daily to do it. At length his time

who was to go with hin1,being arrived from Macao,
; it was necessary that we should resolve either to go
' or not to go: so I referred him to my partner, and
. left it wholly to his choice, who, at length, resolve
.' ed in the affirmative; and we prepared for 'our
'ourney.

At length we arrived at Pekin. I had nobody
with me but the youth whom my nephew the cap-
.-- ain had given to attend me as a servant, and who
)roved very trusty and diligent, and my partner
' wad nobody with him but one servant, who was a
:1 ~kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being
oesirous to see the court, we gave him his passage,
23' hat is to say, bore his charges for his company,
- . d to use him as an interpreter, for he understood
" _' he language of the country, and spoke good French,
.-= . d a little English. and indeed this old man was
f = most useful implement to us every where; for we
_, _- ad not been above a week at Pekin, when he came
,' aughing, " Ah, seignior Inglese," said he, " I
{have something to tell you, will may your heart
. 'lad." " My heart glad," said I. " What can
that be? I don't know any thing in this country ,
can either give me Joy or grief, to any great degree." '
" Yes, yes," said the old man, in broken English,
" make you glad, me sorrow :" sorry he would
have said. This made me more inquisitive; '
" Why," said I, " will it make you sorry 2" " Be '
cause," said he, " you have brought me here twen- '
ty-five days' journey, and will leave me to go back
alone, and which way shall I get to my port after. I
ward, without a ship, without a horse, without '
pecune?" so he called mone\, being his broken
Latin, of which he had abundance to make us
merry with.

In short he told us there was a great caravan of
Muscovite and Polish merchants in the city, and
they were preparing to set out on their journey, by
land, to Muscovy, within four or five weeks, and
he was sure we should take the opportunity to go
with them, and leave him behind to go back all
alone. I confess I was surprised with his news:
a. secret joy spread itself over my whole soul, which
I cannot describe, and never felt before or since.

'Ve agreed that if our Portugal pilot would go
with us, we would hear his charges to Moscow, or
to England, if he pleased; nor indeed were we to
be esteemed over generous in that part neither, if
we had not rewarded him farther; for the service he
had done us was really worth all that, and more,
for he had not only been a pilot to us at sea, but he
had been also like a broker for us on shore; and
his procuring for us the Japan merchant was some
hundred of pounds in our pockets. 'So we con.
sulted together about it, and being willing to gra-
tify him, which was indeed but doing him justice,
and very willing also to have him with us besides,
for he was a most necessary man on all occasions,
    
    
    
    

e agreed to give him aquantity of coined gold,
which, as I compute it, came to about one hun-
,_' red and seventy-five pounds sterling between us,
"Fad to hear his charges, both for himself and horse,
' except only a horse to carry his goods.
" ' It was the beginning of February,our style, when
. we set out from Pekin. The company was very
" great, and, as near as I can remember, made be-
tween three and four hundred horses and camels
and upwards of a hundred and twenty men, very
. ' well armed,and provided for all events: for as the
Y eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by the
"' Arabs, so are these by the Tartars; but they are
:i not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so
-. barbarous when they prevail.
4.; The company consisted of people of several na.
tions, such as Muscovites chiefly, for there were
above sixty of them who were merchants or inha--
.; bitants of Moscow; though of them some were
I Livonians, and to our particular satisfaction, five
' _ of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men
-. of great experience in business, and of very good
. substance.
_, We had been almost seven months on our jour.
ney, and winter began to come on apace: where-
1" upon my partner and I called a council about our
s; particular affairs, in which we found it proper, con-
.. sidering that we were bound for England and not
3' for Moscow, to consider how to dispose of ourselves.
,5- They told us of sledges and reindeer to carry us
over the snow in the winter time; and indeed they
j. have such things as it would be incredible to relate
3; the particulars of, by which means the Russians
f- travel more in the winter than they canin summer :
-~.. because in these sleds they are able to run night
9 and day; the snow, being frozen, is one universal
H

covering to nature, by which, the hills and vale a
the rivers, the lakes, are all smooth, and hardas
stone, and they run upon the surface, without an
regard to what' is underneath. ;

But I had no occasion to push at a winter jou i
ney of this kind: I was bound to England, not It
Moscow, and my route lay two ways; either I mus.
go on as the caravan went, till I came to Jeroslow j
and then go oti' west for N arva, and the Gulf of Fin
land, and so either by sea or land to Dantzic, where .
I might possibly sell my China cargo to good ad-
vantage; or I must leave the caravan at a little -
town on the Dwina, from whence I had but six
days, by water to Archangel, and from thence might
be sure of shipping, either to England, Holland,or
Hamburgh.

Now to go any of these journeys in the winter
would have been preposterous; for, as to Dantzic,
the Baltic would be frozen up, and I could not get
passage, and to go up by land in those countries,
was far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars;
likewise to go to Archangel in October, all the ships E
would be gone from thence, and even the merchants
who dwell there in summer, retire south to Moscow
in the winter, when the ships are gone; so thatI
should have nothing but extremity of cold to en-
counter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie
there in an empty town all winter. So that, upon
the whole, i thought it much my better way to let
the caravan go, and to make provision to winter
where I was, viz. at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the
latitude of sixty degrees, where I was sure of three
things to wear out a cold winter, viz. plenty of pro-
vision, such as the country afforded, a warm house,
with fuel enough, and excellent company.

About the latter end of May, I began to make
lready to pack up; and as I was doing this, it
' curred to me, that seeing all these people were
1 anished by the czar of Muscovy to Siberia,and
' deget, when they came there, were lei! at liberty to
'1 '0 whither they would, why did they not then go '
' way to anypart of the world, wherever they thought
5 fit; and I began to examine' what should hinder
' hem from making such an attempt.

But my wonder was over, when I entered upon
that subject with a banished prince from Museovy,
who answered we thus: " Consider first, sir," said
~ he, " the place where we are; and, secondly, the
'; condition' we are in, especially," said he, " the
: generality of the people who are banished hither.
_ We are surrounded," said he,"'<<ith stronger things
than bars and bolts; on the north side is an unnavi-
' gable ocean, where ship never sailed,and boat never
swam ; neither, if we had both, could we know
whither to go with them. Every other way," said
he, "we have above one thousand miles to pass
through the czar's own dominions, and by ways ut-
terly impassable, except by the roads made by the
government, and through the towns garrisoned by
its troops; so that we could neither pass undiscover-
ed by the road, nor subsist any other way, so that
it is in vain to attempt it." .

i was silenced indeed at once, and found that
they were in a prison, every jot as secure as if they
had been locked up in the castle of Moscow. How-
ever, it came into my thoughts, that I might cer-
tainly be made an instrument to procure the escape
of this excellent person, and that it was very easy
tor me to carry him away, there being no guard
over him in the country: and as [was not going to
Moscmv, but to Archangel, and that I went in the
nature of a caravan, by wnich I was not obliged to
A A
lie in the stationary towns in the desert, but could *1 '
snoamp every night where I would,we might easily
pass uninterrupted to Archangel, where I would
immediately secure him on board an English or .3
Dutch ship, and carry him 05' safe along with me: .
and, as to his subsistence, and other particulars,
that should be my care, till he could better supply
himself. a
He heard me very attentively, and looked ear '
neatly on me all the while I spoke; nay, I could .
see in his very face, that what I said put his spirits a
into an exceeding ferment; his colour frequently
changed, his eyes looked red, and his heart flutter.
ed, that it might be even perceived in his counts. ,
tcnance; nor could he immediately answer me, 7
when I had done, and, as it were, expected what
he would say to it. and after he had paused alittle, 1
be embraced me and said. " How unhappy are we,
unguided creatures as we are, that even our great. :
est acts of friendship are made snares to us, and we ;
are made the tempters of one another! My dear
friend," said he, " your offer is so sincere, has such
kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so
calculated for my advantage, that I must have very '
little knowledge of the world, if I did not both won-
der at it, and acknowledge the obligation I have
upon me to you for it. But did you believe I was
sincere in what I have so often said to you of my
contempt of the world i Did you believe I spoke
my very soul to you, and that I had really attained
that degree of felicity here, that had placed me
above all that the world could give me, or do for
me! Did you believe I was sincere, when I told
you I would not go back, if I was recalled even to
be all that once I was in the court, and with the
favour of the czar my master! Did you believe me,
' my friend, to be an honest man, or did you think
me to be a boasting hypocrite! Here he stopped,
as if he would hear what I would say; but indeed
" I soon after perceived that he stopped because his
spirits were in motion, his heart was full of strug-
gles, and he could not go on. I was, I confess,
' astonished at the thing, as well as at the man, and
I used some arguments with him to urge him to set
himselffree : that he ought to look upon this as a door
opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a sum-
~ mons by ProVidence, who has the care and good
disposition of all events, to do himself good, and
render himself useful in the world.
He had by this time recovered himself. " How
do you know, sir," said he, warmly, " but that in-
stead of a summons from Heaven, it may be a
feint of another instrument, representing, in all the-
alluring colours to me, the shew of felicity as a
deliverance, which may in itself be my snare, and
tend directly to my ruin? Here I am, free from the
temptation of returning to my former miserable
greatness; there I am not sure but that all the
seeds of pride, ambition, avarice and luxury, which
I know remain in nagure, may revive and take
root, and in a word, again overwhelm me, and then
the happy prisoner, whom you see now master of
his soul's liberty, shall be the miserable slave of
his own senses, in the full of all personal liberty.
Dear sir, let me remain in this blessed confine-
__ment, banished from the crimes of life, rather than
purchase a shew of freedom at the expense of ' the
liberty of my reason, and at the expense of, the
future happiness which I now have in my view,
but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sightof; for!
am but flesh, a man, a mere man, have passions
and affections as likely to possess and overthrow
A A 2
me as any man. 0 be not my friend and my temp. '
ter both together!

If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, '
and stood silent, looking at him, and indeed ad.
mired what I saw 5 the struggle in his soul was so
great, that, though the weather was extremely cold,
it put me into a most violent sweat, and I found he
wanted to give vent to his mind; so I said a word -
or two, that I would leave him to fconsider of it
and wait on him again,and then I withdrew to my
own apartment.

About two hours after, I heard somebody at, or
near, the door of my room. and I was going to
open the door; but he had opened it and came in.
" My dear friend," said he. " you had almost over.
set me, but I amrecovered. Do not take it ill that
I do not close with your offer. I assure you, it is
not for want of sense. of the kindness of it in you,
and I came to make the most sincere acknowledg.
ment of it to you; but I hope I have got the vic-
tory over myself."

" My lord," said I, " I hope you are fully satis-
fied that you do not resist the call of Heaven."
" Sir," said he, " if it had been from Heaven, the
same power would have influenced me to accept it;
but I hope, and am. fully satisfied that it is from
Heaven that I decline it, and I have an infinite
satisfaction in the parting, that you shall leave me
an honest man still, though not a free man."

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make
professions to him of my having no end in it, but
a sincere desire to serve him. He embraced me
very passionately, and assured me he was sensible
of that, and should always acknowledge it; and
with that he oil's-red a very fine present of sables,
too much indeed for me to accept from a man in
his circumstances; and Iwould have avoided them
but he would not be refused.

The next morning I sent my servant to his lord-
ship, with a small present of tea, two pieces of
China damask, and four little wedges of Japan
gold, which did not weigh above six ounces, or
thereabout: but were far short of the value of
his sables, which indeed, when I came to England,
I found worth near two hundred pounds. He ac-
cepted the tea, and one piece of the damask, and
one of the pieces of gold, which had a fine stamp
upon it, of the Japan coinage, which I found he
took for the rarity of it, but would not take any
more; and he sent word, by my servant, that he
desired to speak with me.

When I came to him, he told me I knew what
had passed between us, and hoped I would not
move him any more in that afl'air; but that since
I had made such a generous offer to him, he asked
me, if I had kindness enough to offer the same to
another person that he would name to me,in whom
he had a great share of concern. I told him, that
I could not say I inclined to do so much for any
one but himself, for whom I had a particular va-
lue, and should have been glad to have been the
instrument of his deliverance. However, if he
would please to name the person to me, I would
give him my answer, and hoped he would not be
displeased with me, if he was with my answer.
He told me, it was his only son, who, though I
had not seen him, yet was in the same condition
with himself, and above two hundred miles from
him. on the other side the Oby ; but that, if 1 con-
sented, he would send for him.

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it.
I made some ceremony in letting him understand,
    
   
 
  
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  

that it was wholly on his account; and that seeing
I could not prevail out him, I would shew my respect
to him by my concern for his son : ' but these things
are to?) tedious to repeat here. He sent away the 2'
next day for his son, and in about twenty days he '
came back with the messenger, bringing six or seven
horses loaded with very rich furs, and whlch in the '
whole, amounted to a very great value. ;
His servants brought the horses into the town,
but left the young lord at adistauce till night, when '
he came incognito into our apartment, and his fa
ther presented him to me; and, in short, we con.
certed there the manner of our travelling, and
every thing proper for the journey.
I had bought a considerable quantity of sables,
black fox-skins, fine ermines, and such other furs
that are very rich ; I say, I had bought them in
thatcity in exchange for some of the goods I brought
from China: in particular, for the cloves and nut.
megs, of which I sold the greatest part here, and
the rest afterwards at Archangel, for a much
better price than I could have done at London;
and my partner, who was sensible of the profit,
and whose business more particularly than mine
was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our
stay, on account of the traflic we made here.
It was the beginning of June when I left this
remote place; acity, I believe little heard of in
the world: and indeed it is so far out of the road
of commerce, that I know not how it should be
talked of. We were now come to a very small ca.
ravan, being only thirty-two horses and camels in
all; and all of them passed for mine, though my
new guest was proprietor of eleven of them. It
was most natural also, that I should take more
servants with me than I had before, and the young
  
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
   
 

and passed for my steward; what great man I pas-
. sed for myself, I know not, neither did it concern
me to inquire. We had here the worst and the
,_; largest desert to pass over that we met with in all
' the journey; indeed I call it the worst, because the
way was very deep in some places, and very une-
ven in others : the best we had to say for it, was,
that we thought we had no troops of Tartars and
robbers to fear, and that they never came on this
side the river Oby, or, at least, but very seldom;
but we found eit otherwise.

My young lord had with him'a faithful Musca-
vite servant, or rather a Siberian servant, who was
perfectly acquainted with the country, and who led
us by private roads, that we avoided coming into
the principal towns and cities, upon the great read,
such as Tumen, Soloy-Kamaskoy, and several
others, because the Muscovite garrisons which are
kept there, are very curious and strict in their ob.
servation upon travellers, and searching lest any
of the banished persons of note should make their
escape that way into Muscovy ; but by this means,
as we were kept out of the cities, so our whole
journey was a desert, and we were obliged to en-
camp, and lie in our tents, when we might have
had very good accommodation in the cities on the
way. This the young lord was so sensible of, that
he would not allow us to lie abroad, when we came
to several cities on the way, but lay abroad him-
self with his servant, in the woods, and met us
always at the appointed places.

We were just entered Europe, having passed the
river Kama, which, in these parts, is the boundary
between Europe and Asia; and the first city, on
the European side, was called Soloy.Kamaskoy,
which is as much as to say, the great city on the
   
   

river Kama; and here we thought to have seen V
some evident alteration in the people, their man. '
ners, their habit, religion, and their business; but
we were mistaken, for we had a vast desert to pass,
which, by relation, is near seven hundred miles
long, in some places, but not above two hundred
miles over where we passed it; so, till we came past
that horrible place, we found very little diti'erence
between that country and the Mogul Tartary, and
the people mostly pagans, and little better than
the savages of America; their houses and towns
full of idols, and their way of living wholly barba-
rous, except in the cities as above, and the villages
near them, where they are Christians, as they call
themselves, of the Greek church; but even these
have their religion mingled with so many relics of
superstition, that it is scarce to be known in some
places from more sorcery and witchcraft.

In passing this forest, I thought indeed we must,
after all our dangers were, in our imagination, es-
caped, as before, have been plundered and robbed,
and, perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves: of
what country they were, whether the roving bands
of the Ostiachy, a kind of Tartars, or wild people
on the bank of the Oby, and ranged thus far, or
whether they were the sable-hunters of Siberia, I
am yet at a loss to know; but they were all on
horseback, carried bows and arrows, and were at
first about five-and-furty in number: they came so
near to us as within about two musket-shot, and
asking no questions, they surrounded us with their
horse, and looked very earnestly upon us twice.
At length they placed themselves just in our way,
upon which we drew up a little line before our ca-
mels, being not above sixteen men in all; and sent
out the Siberian servant who attended his lord, to
  

see who they were. His master was the more wil.
ling to let him go, because he was not a little ap-
prehensive, that they were a Siberian troop sent
out after him. The man came up near them, with
a flag of truce, and called to them; but though he
spoke several of their languages, or dialects of
' languages rather, he could not understand a word
they said. However, after some signs to him. not
to come nearer them at his peril, so he said he un-
derstood them to mean; offering to shoot at him if
he advanced, the fellow came back no wiser than
he went; only that, by their dress, he said he be.
lived them to be some Tartars of Kalmuck, or of
the Circassian hordes, and that there must be more
of them, on the great desert, though he never
heard that ever any of them were seen so far north
betore.

This was small comfort to us. However, we had
no remedy. There was, on our left hand, at about
a quarter of a mile's distance, a little grove or
clump of trees, which stood close together, and
very near the road. I immediately resolved we
would advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves
as well as we could there; for first, I considered
that the trees would, in a great measure, cover as
from their arrows, and, in the next place, they
could not come to charge us in a body. It was in-
deed my old Portuguese pilot, who proposed it,
and who had this excellency attending him, name-
1y, that he was always readiest and most apt to
direct and encourage us, in cases of the most dan-
ger. \Ve advanced immediately with what speed
we could, and gained that little wood, the Tartars,
or thieves, for we knew not what to call them,
keeping their stand, and not attempting to hinder
us. When we came thither, we found, to our great
satisfaction, that it was a swampy, springy piece of
ground, and, on the one side, a very great spring
of water, which running out in a little rill, or
brook, was a little farther joined by another of the
like bigness, and was, in short, the head or source
of aconsiderable river, called afterward the "fin.
ska. The trees which grew about this spring were
not in all above two hundred, but were very large,
and stood pretty thick; so that as soon as we got
in, we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the ene-
my, unless they alighted and attacked us on foot.

But, to make this more difficult, our Portuguese,
with indefatigable application, cut down great arms
of the trees, and laid them hanging, not quite cut
011', from one tree to another; so that he made a
continual fence almost round us.

'We staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy
some hours, without perceiving they made any offer
to stir, when, about two hours before night, they
came directly upon us: and though we had not
perceived it, we found they had been joined by some
more of the same, so that they were near fourscore
horse; whereof, we fancied some were women.
They came on till they were within half a shot of
our little wood, when we fired one musket, without
ball, and called to them, in the Russian tongue, to
know what they wanted, and bade them keep off;
but, as if they knew nothing of what we said, they
came on with a double fury, directly up to the wood
side, not imagining we were so barricadoed that they
could not break in. Our old pilot was our captain,
as well as he had been our engineer, and desired of
us not to fire upon them till they came within pistol
shot, that we might be sure to kill; and that when
we did fire, we should be sure to take good aim.
We bade him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that they were, some of them:
within two pikes' length of us when we fired.

We aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot
so sure), that we killed fourteen of them at the first
volley, and wounded several others, as also several
of their horses; for we had all of us loaded our
~ pieces with two or three bullets apiece, at least.

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and
retreated immediately about one hundred rods from
us, in which time we loaded our pieces again, and
seeing them keep at a distance, we sallied out, and
caught four or five of their horses, whose riders, we
supposed, were killed; and coming up to the dead,
we could easily perceive they were Tartars, but
knew not from what country, or how they came to
make an excursion of such an unusual length.

About an hour after, they made a motion to at-
tack us again, and rode round our little wood, to
see where else they might break in; but finding us
always ready to face them, they went off again,
and we resolved not to stir from the place {or that
night.

We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the
most part of the nightin strengthening our situation,
and barricadoing the entrances into the wood; and,
keeping a strict watch, we waited for daylight, and,
when it came, it gave us a very unwelcome disco-
very indeed; for the enemy, who we thought were
discouraged with the reception they had met with,
were now increased to no less than three hundred,
and had set up eleven or twelve huts and tents, as
if they were resolved to besiege us; and this little
camp they had pitched was upon the open plain,
at about three quarters of a mile from us. We were
indeed surprised at this discovery, and now, I can.
fees, I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had.
The loss of my eil'ects did notlie so near me (though
they were very considerable), as the thoughts of
falling into the hands of such barbarians, at the
latter end of my journey, after so many difficulties
and hazards as I had gone through; and even in
sight of our port, where we expected safety and
deliverance. As for my partner, he was raging:
he declared that to lose his goods would be his ruin,
and he would rather die than be starved; and he
was for fighting to the last drop.

The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh shewed
itself, was for fighting to the last also; and my old
pilot was of opinion that we were able to resist them
all, in the situation we then were in: and thus we
spent the day in debates of what we should do; but
towards evening we found that the number of our
enemies still increased. Perhaps, as they were
abroad in several parties for prey, the first had sent
out scouts to call for help, and to acquaint them of
the booty; and we did not know but by the morning
they might still be a greater number; so I began to
inquire of those people we had brought from To-
bolski, if there was no other, or more private ways,
by which we might avoid them in the night, and,
perhaps, either retreat to some town, or get help to
guard us over the desert.

The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord,
told us, if we designed to avoid them, and not fight,
he would engage to carry us off in the night to a
way that went north, towards the river Petraz, by
which he made no question but we might get away,
and the Tartars never the wiser; but, he said, his
lord had told him, he would not retreat, but would
rather choose to fight. I told him, he mistook his
lord, for that he was too wise a man tolove fighting
for the sake of it; that I knew his lord was brave
, enough, by what he had shewed already; but that
his lord knew better, than to desire to have seven.
teen or eighteen men fight five hundred, unless an
' unavoidable necessity fcrced them to it; and that,

' if he thought it possible for us to escape in the
( night, we had nothing else to do but to attempt it.
He answered, if his lord gave him such an order,
he would lose his life, if he did notperform it. We
soon brought his lord to give that order, though
; privately, and we immediately prepared for the
' putting it in practice.

And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we
kindled a fire in our little camp, which we kept
'. burning, and prepared so as to make it burn all
night, that the Tartars might conclude we were still
there; but as soon as it was dark, that is to say, so
as we could see the stars (for our guide would not
stir before), having all our horses and camels ready
loaden, we followed our new guide, who I soon
found, steered himself by the pole, or north star,
all the country being level for a long way.

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it
began to be lighter still; not that it was quite dark
all night, but the moon began to rise, so that in
short, it was rather lighter than we wished it to be;
but by six o'clock, next morning, we were get near
forty miles, though the truth is, we almost spoiled
our horses. Here we found a Russian village,
named Kirrnazinskoy, where we rested, and heard
nothing of the Kalmuck Tartars that day. Abogt
two hours before night, we set out again, and,"
velled till eight the next morning, though not qhit'e
so hastily asbefore; and about seven o'clock we
passed a little river called Kirtza, and came to a.
good large town, inhabited by Russians, and very
populous, called Ozomoys. There we heard, that
several troops or hordes of Kalmucks had been
abroad upon the desert, but that we were now com.
pletely out of danger of them, which was to our
great satisfaction, you may be sure. Here we were
obliged to get some fresh horses, and, having need
enough of rest, we stayed five days; and my part.
ner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian, who
brought us thither, the value of ten pistoles, for his
conducting us.

In five days more we came to Veussima, upon
the river Witzogda, which running into the river
Dwina, we were there very happily near the end of
our travels by land, that river being navigable in
seven days' passage to Archangel. From hence we
came to Lawrenskoy, where the river joins, the
third day of July, and provided ourselves with two
luggage boats, and a barge, for our convenience.
We embarked the seventh, and arrived all safe at
Archangel the eighteenth, having been a year, five
months, and three days, on the journey, including
our stay of eight months and odd days at Tobolski.

We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks
for the arrival oi the ships, and must have tarried
longer, had not a Hamburgher come in above a
month sooner than any of the English ships; when
after some consideration, that the city of Hamburgh
might happen to be as good a market for our goods
as London, we all took freight with him

we sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August,
the same year, and, after no extraordinary bad
voyage arrived in the Elbe, the- thirteenth of Sep.
tember. IIere my partner and I found a very good
sale for our goods, as well those of China, as the
salnles, &c. of Siberia; and dividing the produce of
our effects, my share amounted to three thousand
four hundred and seventyfive pounds, seventeen
shillings and three-pence, notwithstandingso many
losses we had sustained and charges we had been
at, only remembering that I had included in this
about six hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which
I had purchased at Bengal.

To conclude: having stayed near four months in
Hamburgh, I came from thence over land to the
Hague where I embarked in the packet, and arrived
in London the tenth of January, 1705, having been
gone from England ten years and nine months.

And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I
am preparing for a longer journey than all these,
having lived seventy-two years, a life of infinite
variety, and learned sufficiently to know the value
of retirement, and the blessing of ending our days
in peace.

THE END.