' "ROBINSON, cauebns.Bysh's Edition

4

L I F E
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I as: am,

MA RINER,

WHO LIVED EIGHT-AND-TWENTY YEARS

, . mad man;

IN AN

UNINHABI'I'BD ISLAND.

------

Embellished will. Eight Coloured Engraving.

#

.e LONDON:

PRINTED FOR J. BYSH, s, CLOTH FAIR
WEST SMITHFIELD.

M

PRICE sxxpsxcn. ' get '
. .ADVENTURES

ROBINSO)T CRUSOE.

I was born of a good family in the city of York,
where my father, who was a native of Bremen, had
settled, after having got a handsome estate b1 mer.
ch 1andize. M1- brain was early filled with rambling;
thoughts, mv father often persuaded me to settle to
some business, and 1111' mother used the tenderest
entieaties,1*et nothing could prev ail upon me to lay
aside 1111' desire ofe'oing to sea, notwithstanding the
extreme uneasiness 11 inch my father and mother
'1111a1s shewed at the thoughts of my lea1ing them.
Iha1de11ed m1$elf against the prudent and kind
ad1ise of mv kind indulgentparents, and heme one
(1111 at Hull, 1 met 11 ith one of my companions, 11 ho
1111:, goincr to sea in his father s ship, and he easilv
persuaded me to go 11ith him.

On the lst of September, 1751, I went on board
the ship, which was bound for London, and without
letting my father know the rash and disobediem step
I had taken, set sail; but no sooner was the ship
out of the Humflber, than the 11 ind began to blowp
and the sea to rise in a most terrible manner. Hav-
ing never been at sea before, I was sick, and my
mind was filled with terror. 1

A 24 anvax'rt'nas or

The next day the wind abated, and the sea grew
calm; I was no longer sea- sick, and my companion
laughed at mv fears. The weather continued calm
for several da1 s, and we at length came into Yar-
111outh road vhe1e we cast anchor to wait for a
wind. On the eighth day in the morning, the wind
increased.

[ now began to see terror in the faces even of the
seamen themselves; and as the master passed by
me, I could hear him say softly to himself, " Lord
be merciful to us ,we shall be lost." When I heard
this I was terribly frightened; such a dismal sight
I never saw before the sea ran mountains high, and
broke upon us ev ery three or four minutes.

I cannot expres ss the horror of mind 1 was then
seized with. The storm still increased, and I saw
(what is but too seldom seen) the master, the boat-
swain, and several others at prayers, expectingevery
moment the ship would go to the bottom. The
storm however beginning to abate, the master fi1 ed
guns {'01 help, and alight ship 11 Inch had 1iddenit
outjust a- head ofus ventured a boat to help 11s. It
11 as with the utmost hazard that it came near us .
and our men casting a rope over the stem with a
buoy ,they, after much labour and hazard, got hold
of it, and we hauled them close under the stern and
got all into the boat. But we had hardly left the
ship a'quarter of an hour, when we saw her founder.

As it was impossible for the boat to get up with
the ship to which she belonged, we endeavoured to
reach the shore, and partly by rowing ,and partly
by being driven by the waves, we at last, with great
difliculty, got to land, and walked to Yarmoutb
Had I now had the sense to return home, my
father would haV'e received me with tenderness: but
a weak and foolish shame opposed ail thoughts of
it; 1 was afraid of being laughed at among the
neighbours, and should 1 e ashamed to see not only
111V father, but even; bodv else. I had, VVithout
blushing, committed an action VVliich bore all the
marks of lolly, butwas as named oi returning, though
that was the wisest step l could have taken. l re-
mained some time in doubt VV-hat course to take
but having money in my pocket, l travelled to Lon-
don bV land.

On mV' arrival in that citV, the master of a ship
VVlVo had been on the coast ol Guinea, taking a fancy
to 111e, told me, that il 1 would go the VoVage
with him, lshould be at no expense; a111l,if I
VVould carry any thing VVith me, 1 should ban: the
adVantage of trading for 111V self Encouraged by
this 0311', M the assistance of some of 111v relations,
VV itl1 VV 110111 I still corresponded I raised forty pounds,
VV hich I laid out in such toys and trifles as he direct-
ed me to buv. During this voyage, my VVorth_v
fiiend instructed me in the mathematics, and the
1ules of navigation; this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five
pounds nine ounces 01 gold dust for my adventure,
VV Inch Vielded me in London, at my return, almost
tlnee hundred pounds sterling.

l was now set up for a Guinea trader: but my
i1 iend, to my great misfortune, dving soon alter his
i'".a11ival l I'e~10l\C'O. to go the same vovage again, and

$11M 11g left two hundred pounds 1n the hands of my
fiicud's widow, I embaiketi in thcs same vessel.----

t'.'
,1

t:6 11 111' 1311' 11:25 or

This was one of the most unhappy voyages that ever
man made; for as we were steering between the
Canary Islands and the African shore, we were sur-
prised 1n the {:11 1 ofthe 1110111111" bv Moonsh rover
0t Salee 11116 gave chase to us With all the sail she
could make Vie 11 ere obliged to submit, and were
all ca1ried prisoners into Salee, a port belonging to
the Moors.

l11as ke'1t h1' the captain of the rover as his

.111 prize, and made his sla1e.

M1 master, l1: 11hr.1 the l mar-boat of our E 11 :lish
ship, had a little state room, or cabin, built 111 the
middle 01 it, like '11 barwe. In this pleasure- boat 11e
fiequentlv 11ent out fishing; and one day he had
appointed to no out 11'1tl1 two 01 three Moors of dis-
tinction, and had therelore sent over night a larger
store ofpro1'1sions than usual: and ordered me to get
readv t11o or thtee fusces 11itl1 11011 der and shot
11l1icl1 11 ere on board his ship; tot that thev design-
ed to l1a1e sport at fouling as 11el1 as he hintr. But
in the morning he came on board, telling: me that his
guests had declined goinU, and ordered n19.11ith the
man and boy, to sail out 11ith the boat, and catch
some fish, for his friends were to sup with him.

At this moment the hopes of my deliverance dart-
ed into mv thoughts ;----e1er1 thing being prepared,
11c sailed out oi the port to fish; bnto purposeh.

catching- none, l told Mulet- that this would not do,
and that we must stand farther oil", whichhe 215.7166-
ing to, 110 set the sails. and l,i1a1i11g the helm, ran
the boat out near a league farther, anod then brought
her to, as if I 11011l1llish;wl1EURn giving the. [101 the

helm, lstept {0111"sa1d , and SLOOping behind thenoamsox cursor. 7

Moor, took him by surprise and tossed him into the
sea; he arose immediately, for he swam like a cork,
and called to me to take him in ; but fetching out
one of the fowling pieces, I presented it at him,
and told him, that it he came near the boat, I would
shoot him, so he turned about, and swam towards
the land, and, as he was an excellent swimmer, I
make no doubt but that he reached the shore with
ease.

When he was gone I turned to the boy, whom
thev called Xur1,a11d :aid to him, " Xury, it you
11ill be fai hlul to me, I will make you a great man,
but it 1011 will not stroke vour face to be true to me,

that 15. to swear by Mahomet and his fathers
beard) l must throw 1011 into the sea too" The
boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that
i could not mistrust him; he swore to be faithful to
me. and to go over all the world with me.

While I was in view of Muley, I stood out to sea,
but it no SOOner grew dark, thanl changed my
course, and steered to the south. 1 made such sail,
that before the end of the next day, I believe, 1 was
bevond the Emperor of Morocco 5 dominions. Yet
so dreadful were my apprehensions offalling again
into my master' 5 hands, that I would not stop to go
on shore, till lhad sailed 1n this manner five da}: .
and then the wind shifting to the southward, I ven-
tured to come to an anchor at the mouth ofa little
Tl\EURl'.

The principal thing I 11 anted was fresh water; but
though I was 110 less afraid of the savages than of
the wild beasts, our necessities oblilred us to land,
for we had not a pint. The next morning Xury ask-
ed for one of the jars, and said he would go and
seek for water. I asked him why he would
go. The boy answered with so much affec-
tion, that I could not help loving him. -----" 11' wild
man comes, thev eat me _Vou 1.;0 aan'.' "Well,

XurV," said I, " we will both go, and it the wild men
come, we will kill them. the} shall eat neither of
us. I then gaie X111} a dram out of one of the case
bottles, and haVin: hauled the boat as new the
shore as w e tli1.111~._:htp10p-.1. \\ 11 VV aded to land, carry-
ing nothing but our arms. and two jars for water.

The bOV' Seein; 1' a low 111 lCL about a mile up the
countrV',ran1l1led thither; and, bV'- and- by I saw
him come runnin -'1 tonards me. 11 hen, 111115111111; he
might be pinsned 11} some 1""10'C3, or fiightened
by some VVild beast I ran to meet him; but 11 hen
I came nearer, ls saw something- hanging 01"e1 his
shoulder, which was a creature he had shot, likea
hare, and we found it Very Good meat; but the
meat iov thatpnor anV' came VVith, "as to tell me
that he had tound 000d water, and seen no wild
mans. \\ e theietore filled ourja1s, feasted on our
hare, and then set sail.

Seieml timesp :fter, we were 0 '1lieed to go ashore
for fresh VV ater; and once in patticiilar, eatly 1n the
morning, XurV' called with to me, and told me,
that "e had best go farther of} the shore;----- "for."
513's he, "look, yonderlies a dieadful monster fast
asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a
great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under
the shade of a piece of the hill that hung a little
over him; upon which, charginn' my thiee guns 1
took aim at his head, butlaVinga with his loot rais-
ed a little above his nose, the sine hioke his lee".He started up growling, but fell down again ; and
gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard; but
firing again, and shooting him in the head, I had
the pleasure to see him drop. Iresolved to take of?
his skin, and going ashore, the boy and I accom-
plished it. Then spreading it on the top of our
cabin, the sun dried it in two day's time, and it
afterwards served me to lie upon.

About ten days after, as I was steering out to
sea, in order to double a cape, I had the view of
some islands, which I supposed to be those of Cape
Verd. I was afraid of venturing so far from the
shore, for if I should be taken with a fresh gale of
wind, I might never be able to reach again the one

i or the other. In this dilemma I sat down in the
g cabin: when on a sudden Xury cried out in afright.

'~ " Master! Master! a ship,"foolishly imagining that.
" thatit was his master's ship, come so far in pursuit
of us, I jumped out of the cabin, and saw that it

. was a Portuguese vessel, and Instantly stretched _
. out to sea with all the sail I could make; they
L' perceived me by the help of their glasses, and
T shortened sail to let me come up. A Scots sailor
j on board called to me, and I answered, that lhad
.. made my escape from the Moors at Salee. They
:- very kindly took me in and all my goods.

" We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and
' arrived at All Saints Bay in about twenty-two days.
The generous captain recommended me to an honest

' man who had aplantation, with whom I lived tillI
had learnt the manner of planting and making sugar,
after which I purchased a piece of land, and becarg'ef,
_. a planter. I had lived there about four years, and. .

noarxsox cnusoe. . 9
l

    
  
   
 
    

Ol
1
l

 

10 anvnxrunns or

had contracted an acquaintance among several mer-
chants. I had frequently talked to them of the
method of purchasing negroes on the coast oqui-
nea, and they being pleased 111th the project, easily
prevailed on me to make a 10) age for that purpose.
We fitted out a ship of about one hundred and
twenty tons burthen,p which carried six guns, and
fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and
myself.

In this vessel 1 set sail. We had very good weather
for about twelve days; but soon after we had cross-
ed the line, a violent hurricane drove us quite out
of our reckoning, and for many days together not
any in the ship expected to save their lives. In this
distress one of our men early in the morning cried
out, ' l and. "' and we had no sooner run out of the
e- li)lll in hopes of seeing where we were, but the
ship struct upon a shoal. It is not easy to concei1e
our consternation; for as the rage of' the sea was
great we supposed that the ship would, in a few
minutes, break to pieces. We had a boat on board,
11 hich the mate took hold of, and with the help of
the rest of the men flung her over the ship's side,
and getting all into her, committed ourselves to
God's mercy. " e steered towards land, but after
11 e had rowed, or rather been driven, about a league .
and a half, a wave, mountain high, came rolling a<<
stern of us with such fury that it overset the boat
at once, and separated us one from another. This
ware carried me a vast way towards the shore, and
liming spent itself, went back, and left me upon
the land almost drv, but halfdead. I stood still a
few moments to mom er breath, and then took toaonixsox cnusos. ll

my heels, and with all the strength I had left me.
ran towards the shore. Igot to the main land,
clambered up the clifts of the shore, and sat me
down upon the grass. Having rested myself, I
walked along the shore in search of fresh water ;
having: found some and quenched my thirst, I put
some tobacco in my mouth, to prevent hunger, and
having climbed a tree rested myself till morning.
I then found the sea calm, and the tide ebhed so
far out that i could come within a quarter of a mile
of the ship. The weather being extremely hot, I
pulled off my clothes and took to the water; when
I came to the ship,l observed a small piece of rope
hanging down, I got hold of it. and got into the
forecastle. To my great joy I saw that all the
, ship's provisions were dry, and being well diSposed
_ to eat, I went into the bread room, and slipped on
a waistcoat, filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat
as I went about other things. I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a dram.
As I found several spare yards, I let them down
with rcpes by the ship's sides, and going: down to
them, tied them together, and made a raft, placing
several pieces of plank upon them crossways, and
laid uponit all the pieces of board thatcame to hand.
I next emptied three of the seamen's chests: then
lowered them down upon the raft, and filled them
with bread. some dried goat's flesh and three Dutch
cheeses. I found several cases of bottles, in which
were some cordial waters, and about five or six gal-
lons of attack; these I stowed by themselves, there
being no room for them in the chests. I also:let.
down the carpenter's chest, which was worth more

2'

- '. -5'Kaac.
to me than a ship load ot' gold. I next found two
good fowling-pieces, and tho pistols, with some
ponder-horns, t11-o barrels of powder, and two old
rusty swords, all of which I placed on the raft, and
with this 1m aluable cargo resol1 ed to put to sea.
My raft went very well, and with it I entered a
creek, where l thrust it on a flat piece of ground,
over which the tide flowed, and there fastened it by
sticking a broken oar into the ground. Thus I stay-
ed till the water ebbed, 11 hen I placed my cargo
safe on land. At night I barricadoed myself round
with the chests and boards 1 had brought on shore.
The next day [resolved to make a second voyage.
\Iy raft being too unwieldy, I swam to the ship, _
and made another, on which I placed two or three
bags of nails and spikes, some tools and fire-arms,
barrels of musket bullets, a large bag of small shot,
and all the men' s clothes I could find, a square fore

topsail, a hammock, and some bedding , all which
I brought safe to land.

I now made a little but with the sails, and some
poles, and intoitl brought every thing I knew would
spoil either with the sun or rain; [piled all the
empty chests and casks in a circle round the hut to
fortify it; I blocked up the door with boards; and
spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying
my two pistols just at my head, and my gun by me,
I went to bed, and slept very quietly all night.

Every day at low water, I 11 cut on board, and
brought away something. I had been thirteen days
on shore, and had been: eleven times on board the
ship. Indeed had the calm weather continued, I
pelieve I should have brought away the whole ship,ItoaIusox causes. 13

piece by piece: but preparing the twelfth time to
go on board, I found the wind began to rise , how-
ever at low water I went. ' rummaging the cabin, I
discovered alocker with drawers in it, in one of which
[found two or three razors, and a pair of large
scissors, with ten or a dozen good knives and forks,
and in another about thiItv- six pounds worth of
gold and silver coin. At the sight of this money
I smiled to myself, and said aloud," 0 thug! what
art thou good for. 7' One of these kniIes is worth
all this heap; I lIaIe no manner of use for thee;
even remain where thou art, and go to the bottom.
However, upon second thoughts, I took it away,
and wrapping it all in a piece of canvas began to
think of making another raft, but while I was pre-
paring it, the wind began to rise, and to blow off
shore; I then found ito was time to be gone, least
I should not be able to reach the shore , accord-
ingly 1 let myself down into the water, and swam
to land.

It blew very hard all night; and In the morning
\Ihen I looked out, no more ship was to be seen.
Inow went in search of a place wheIe I might
fix my dwelling, endeavouring to choose one where
I might have the advantage of a healthy situation,
fresh water, and security. I found a little plain on
the szde of a rising hill, which was there as steep
as the side of a house, so that nothing could come
down to me from the top. On the one side of this
rock was a hollow place like the entrance of a
cave, before which I resolIed to fix my tent This
plain was not abOIe one hundred yards broad, and
twice as long, descending to the sea.

Bl4 .11'11'1-2.\"1't'1tr.s 111.-

Before I set up 1111 tent, Idrew an half circle be.
fine the hollow place, which extended twenty
yards, and in this halt cirIr. '- e pitched two 2011s of
strong stakes.dii1ing them i1: to the gtound like
piles , 31.111111 11;-d on the top. Then I took the
pieces 01' Cttblel had cut in the ship, and laid them
in rows one upon another up to the top: and this
fence was so strong; that neither man nor beast
could enter it. The entrance I made by a short
ladder to go O\'1:l' the top. which when I was in I
lifted ai'tt-r 1111-. Into this fence I by degrees
carried all mg: 1L1 l1es.allm1' pr01isions ammunition,
and stores, and m 1th me a large tent to secure mv-
Se 11 and the-111 1mm the we ather. \Vhen I had done
th' 15 I be gun to 11011-1 my wav into the rock, laying
all the earth and stones i (log out within mv fence, ;
in the manne1 ot a terrace . and thus I had a cave '
just behind m1 hut.

But befme the al101e works were completed, a
sudden storm of thunder and lioh tning filled me
with the greatest tenor; for my powder suddenlv
daited Into my mind, and my heart sunk within
me at the thought, that at one blast it might be
dest101ed--on which not onlv my defence, but the
prmiding of my food entirelv depended. No
sooner was the storm over, than I laid aside every
Other work to make, boxes and bags, in order to
separate my powder. I put them into holes up
and down the rocks, in such a manner, that one
parcel could not fire another.

While all this 11 as doing, I walked out at least
once 01er1 d 1, 111th my gun, as to see ifI could
kill any thing fit for food, and to acquaint 1111sel
with what the island produced. The first time I
went out [had the pleasure to find that there were
goats in the island; but they were so shy, that it
was the most difficult thing in the world to come
up with them; but observing that they did not
easily see objects above them, I killed them by
climbing the rocks, and shooting at those in the
valley. I found in the woods a sort of wild pigeon,
which built in holes of the rocks; and taking some
young ones, Iendea-voured to bring them up tame,
but when they grew old they flew away; however,
I frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which were very good meat.

After I had been about ten or twelve days on
shore, it came into my thoughts thatI should lose
my reckoning of time, and should not be able to
distinguish the Sundays from the working days.
To prevent this, I set up a large square post on
the shore where I first landed, and out upon it
with a knife, "I came on shore here the 30th of
September, 1652." Upon the sides I cut every
day a notch and every seventh was as long again
as the rest, and every first day of the month as
long again as that long one, and thus I kept my
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning.

1 got from the ship, some pens, ink, and paper;
some mathematical instruments, and three good
bibles, With several other books, which I carefully
secured. I also brought to shore with me two cats,
and a dog swam on shore, which was a trusty ser-
vant to me many years; nay he was so good a
companion that! was at a loss for nothing that he
could fetch me; and he only wanted power of
speech to become a most agreeable friend. '
When my habitation was finished, Ifoundit
far too small to contain my moveables: I had
hardly room to turn 1111'sell';so I set about en-
largzingr n11'ca1e, and worked sidewa1s into the
rock farther than my outside pale, and hewing a
way throu 2h, made a back door to my store-house.
I then made me a table and chair, which were
great con1en1tntes: shelved one side of my cave,
and knocked up pieces of wood in the rock, to
hang: n11 things 011. When my cave was set 111
ri1_:111.s , it lookid like a general magazine of all
necessary things.

What a difitrent situation was I now in, from
that l was in when I first landed,when lwas afraid
of perishing' with l111111_:t-,r or of being devoured bv
11il1l l1t-11s1s .---I 11111111111111 killed goats for my sub-
sistence,11hose i it supplied 1111 lamp, which was
a dish made of clay baked in the sun; and for a
wick, I made use ot'oakum. In my rummmgjng
among the thin gs, I tounrl a little bacr with some
husks ot com in it; and wa 1ting it, I shook itout
by the side of my fortification. 'Ihis was just be-
fore some hea1y rain; and about a month after-
wards, I saw some green stalks shooting out oft'ne
ground; but how great was my astonishment,
when some time after I saw about ten or twelve
ears of ba11e1! It was some time before I recol-
lected the be g: with the husks; and I thought ilzat
they could have been produced b1; nothing- less
than a miracle. II ith this barley there came up
also a few stalks of rice: and these were worth
more to me than li.ty times their weight 111 nold;
and I caielully p1esei1ed them for seed.
When I had been about a year in the island, I
was taken extremely ill, which frightened me
terribly, imagining I should die for want of proper
help. This fit of illness proved a violent ague,
which made me so weak, that I could hardly carry
my gun : and when the fit was on me, I was almost
perished with thirst. One night, as I was rumin-
ating on my sad condition, expecting the return of
my fit, it occurred to my thoughts, that the Brazil-
ians took no physio but tobacco; and 1 went,
directed by heaven no doubt, to search for some
in the chest; and there I found a bible! Ibrought
both that and the tobacco to my table; Isteeped
some of the last in mm; some 1 burnt in a pan of
coals, holding my head over the fume; and some
I chewed. During the interval of this Operation,
I Opened my book; and the first words on which
I cast my eyes were--" Call upon me in the day
of trOuble, and I will deliver thee." The words
struck me; but I could read no more, for the to-
bacco made me excessive sleepy. I therefore went
to bed, and falling into a sound sleep, I believe I
slept two days; and awoke perfectly recovered.

1 now took a survey of the island; and at about
two miles distance from my habitation, found some
fine savannahs, and a little further a variety of
fruit, melons upon the ground, and vines covered
with clusters of grapes. I proceeded with my dis-
coveries, and came to an Opening that seemed to
descend to the west, where every thing was in such
constant verdure, that it looked like a beautiful
garden. I carried some grapes and a few limes
back with me; but the grapes were spoiled before13.1121itt1'11'1tasor

I got home. I 110111 the next day and gather d a
large quantity of grapes and hung them upon th1
out branches of' the trees, that they might cure and
dry in the sun; but as for the limes and melons,I
carried as many as I could well stand under.

1 was so enamoured with this place, that! built
m1 seii 21 ho11~xc1 f1 need with a double hedge; and,
this country hon se, 1151 called it, cost me two
momhs' labour; but. 1 hardly began to enjoy my
hahitation. when the rains came on, and [was
obliged to retreat to my old one, taking with me |
my grapes, which were now become fine raisins 01' '
the sun.

I had been concerned for the loss of one of my
cats; but about this time she came home, and en-
creased my family with three young kittens: she a
he wing bled, as l stipposed by a 11ild eat of which
there were some in the 11 oods. and they soon mul-
tiplied so last that [was ob! iged to diive them
hom me.

The rainy and dry seasons 110w appeared quite
regular to me. 1 dug a piece of giound as well
as I could, with a wooden spade of my own mak-
i11-,;, and began to sow my own grain; but as I
11115 (loin): it. it occured to my thoughts thatl
would not sow all. for fear it should not grow, so
I reserved about ahandt'ul ofeach sort; and well it
was I did so; for it did not come up till many
months afterwaros. When I saw it did not grow,
l sought for moister ground, and dug up a piece
11e1re1 my hon er. 11l1ici1 ansuered toe my wishes;

..11 my eiop amounted to oout haif'a peck each
l1: 11d: 111 this means] 1121s made master of my
   
       

  

  

.' ""'%f~r-1>>ni='g

.i . '~ '.
\ , .- L, ' - -. "
" ' L"'~ - " ' :f
Wrxmm

Robinson Crusoe discovering the Fruit.

Foot in the Land. _11111213ng (insult; 19

business; knew when to sow, and that I might
expect two seL-d times, and mo harvests chiy

V1 ar , for the corn lset first came up after the nex
wet season.

When the rains were over, I made a visit to my
bower where I found the stakes I set for my
defence were shot up into trees, which I pruned,
and made as much alike as possible; and they
lit came a complete shade. This was my work in
the dry season; and to employ 111V's elt' when I
could notgo ab10ad,I made baskets, haVing, when
:1 child taken much delight to see a basket
maker.

In one of the dry seasons I took another ramble,
armed with my'gun and hatchet, and guarded by
my laithful dog. \\ hen I had passed the vallev 1n
VVliich stood mV' bower, I came within View of the
5in, ' and it be mg a clear d11_V,I plaian- discovered
land; but VVhetherisland or continent, I could not
tell; Iguessed it e011ld not be less than twenty
leagues off. I imagined it VV1is some saVage coast,
and such indeed it pTOV'10d In this journev I
catched a parrot, having knocked it dOVVn VVith a
stick, brought it home with me, and taught it to
speak. I found in the lower grounds hares; but
as they were not like what I had seen l was
afraid to eat them; and I had no need to make
experiments, as Iliad goats, pigeons, and tuitle,
VVhich added to 1m grapes, Leadenhall Market
could not haVe furnished a better table. Here
"as also an infinite number of ('0le but I was
too sparing 0t mv powder to shoot them. I
tiaVelled about tVVelVe miles eastward along the'20 ,tnvexrcnes or

shore, and then setting up a great post for a
mark, returned homeward, designing that my next
tour should be the contrary way, till [came to
this post.

I took a different way home from that I went;
but unfortunately lost myself, and wandered
about very uncomfortably; till at last I was oblig.
ed to find out the sea side, to seek for my post,
being tired to death with the heat of the weather
and the weight of my arms.---l now rested myself
a week, employed in the weighty affair of making
a cage for my parrot, which soon became one of
my favourites.

My corn was now coming up; and the goats
and hares, having tasted the sweetness of the
blade, lay at itnight and day, as soon as it Sprang .
out of the ground, so that it could get no time to
shoot into a stalk. To defend it, I surrounded it
with a hedge, and, in the mean while, shooting
some of the creatures by day, I set my dog to
watch it by night, which he did so faithfully, that
the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew,
and began to ripen apace. When the corn was in
ear, I was nearly as much troubled by birds; but
having killed three, Iused them as we do mur~
derers in England,---hanged them in chains, to
serve as a terror to the rest. Not a fowl after-
wards came near my corn, indeed, near the place,
as long as my scare crows hung there.

When the corn was ripe, I made me a scythe
with a sword, and cut of? none but the ears,
which I rubbed out with my hands. At the end
of my harvest, I guessed I had a bushel of riceRoms-sow cnusor. '21

and two bushel and a half of barley. I kept all
this for seed, and bore the want of bread ,with
patience, asI had now a tolerable prospect of
having as much as I wanted.

This article of bread was a great difficulty; I
had neither plough nor harrow. For the firstl
; made my shovel do; and to supply the place of a
' harrow, I went over it myself, dragging after me
the heavy bows of a tree: and when I came to
T make bread, I had innumerable wants; I wanted
a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and
malt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake
it. However I had six months to contrive all these
things in. In the mean time 1 enlarged my arable
land. I made me some mishapen pots of clay,
that all broke in the sun, except two, which I
cased in wicker-work; butl succeeded better in
little pans, flat dishes, and pitchers, when the sun
baked surprising hard; but they would not bear
the fire so as to hold any liquid, and I wanted one
to boil my meat.

One day, after I had dressed my dinner, I went
to put out my fire, and found a piece of one of my
earthen vessels burnt as hard as a stone, and as
red as a tile: this taught me to burn my pipkins;
and I soon wanted for no sort of earthen vessels.
When I found that 1 had made a pot that would
hear the fire, I set it on with a piece of kid, in
order to make me some broth, which answered
tolerably well.

I made me a wooden mortar and pestal, and
also a sieve out of some of the seamen's neck.
cloths. and at length made a sort of oven of a
broad shallow earthen vessel, and a tiled hearth.
When I baked, I dre the live embers forwards
upon the hearth, till it was very hot; then sweep.
ing them away, I set down my loaves, whelming
the earthen pot over them, which baked my barley
bread as well as the best oven in the world.

My thoughts often ran upon the landI had
seen: and I began to make myself a canoe. .
I felled a great cedar, but when the impossibility
of launching this heavy thing came into my mind,
[gave myself this foolish answer, " Let me but
once make it, and I'll warrant I'll get it along
when it is done." But all my devices to get it in-
to the water failed me, and therefore I gave it
over, determining to enjoy whatI had, without
repining for what I could not get.

My clothes now began to decay; so I made
myself two waistcoats out of some watch coats,
which lasted me a great while. I made a cap out
of a goat's skin, with the hair side outwards to
throw off the rain, and also another waistcoat of
the same skin ; but I must acknowledge that they
were wretchedly done. I made me too an um~
brella, whichl could shut up, and take abroad
with me; and this secured me both from the heat
and the rain.

Inow built me a small boat, intending togo
round my little kingdom. but in which I had near-
ly lost my life: almost dead with fatigue, lat
length arrived at my little castle. i got over the
fence, and laid me down to sleep in the shade;
but judge my surprise, when I waked, at a voice
calling me by the name several times, " Robin.nonrxsox (arson. 23

Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe, where are you?
where have you been ?" I was so dead asleep at
first, that I thought I dreamt somebody spoke to
me: but as the voice continued to repeat " Robin
Crusoe," l waked dreadfully frightened; but my
eyes were no sooner open, than I saw Pol sitting
on the hedge, and immediately knew that it was
ne that spoke to me. I immediately called him ;
and the poor sociable creature came as he used
to do, and sat on my thumb, crying, " Poor Robin
Crusoe," as if he had been overjoyed to see me
again.

I began now to perceive my powder considerably
abated ; dreading what should become of me when
Icould kill no more goats, (for my kid did not
breed,) I set snares to catch some alive ; but my
snares were broken, and my bait devoured. At
length I resolved to try pit-falls; in One of which
I found three kids--a male and two females; these
kids I brought home. It was some time before
they would feed; but, however, they grew tame,
and I found that I'might supply myself with goat's
flesh, when I had no powder or shot left. I in-
closed a piece of ground to keep my goats, propos-
ing, as my flock increased to add more ground to
my inclosure; and I had soon, not only goat's
flesh to feed upon, but milk too; for now I set up
a dairy, and made myself butter and cheese. It
would have made a Stoic smile, to see me and my
family sit down to dinner. There was my majesty,
all alone like a king, attended with my servants.
Poll, my favourite, was the only person permitted
to talk to me. My dog was grown very old, sat
always at my right hand, and my two cats, one on
the one side of the table, and the other on the other,
expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a
mark of Special favour.

I had at length a great mind to go to the point
of the island, to see how the shore lay, and resolv-
ed to travel thither by land. And now, reader, I
I will giie thee a short sketch ot the figure I made.
I had a great high, shapeless cap, made of a goat's
skin, a jacket, with the skirts coming down to the.
middle of my thighs; and a pair of Open kneed
hrecches of the same, with the goat 5 hair hanging
to the middle of my leg. Stockings and shoes I
had none , but I had made a pair of somethings
I scarcely know what to call them, to flap over my
legs like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous
shape; and so indeed were all the rest of my
clothes. I had a broad belt of goat-skin dried;
and I hung on one side a saw, and on the other a
hatchet, I had another belt, not so broad, fastened
over my shoulder. Under my arm hung two
pouches, for my shot and powder. On my back I
carried a basket; on my shoulder a gun, and over
my head, a great, clumsy, umbrella. My beard
was cut short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimmed into a pair of large Maho-
metan whiskers. But as for my figure, I had so
few to observe me, that it was of no manner of
consequence.

In this figure I went my new journey, and was
out five or six days. I was exceedingly surprised
with the print of a man s naked foot on the shore.
which was plainly to be seen on the sand. I lis-
teued, I could hear nothing, I went upon a rising
ground, to look farther, but I could see only that
one impression. There was plainly a foot, toes,
heel, and every part very distinct. I hurried home
to my fortifications, looking behind me every two
or three steps, and fancying every tree, bush, and
stump to be a man. lhad no sleep that night,
but. my terror gradually wore ofl'; however 1
strengthened my fortification, and planted a number
of stakes on the outside of my wall, which grow-
ing, became a thick grove. After having secured
my habitation in the strongest manner possible, I
sought for a place of security for my live goats;
and at length found a piece of ground, rendered
almost inaccessible by nature, so that it cost me
but little pains to make it so; and then I removed
the she-goats and two he-goats into it.

After I had thus secured one part of my live
stock, I went about the whole island, and rambled
more to the western point than I had ever done
before. I was presently convinced, that the seeing
the print of a man's foot was not such a strange
thing in the island as I had imagined, for on my ap.
preaching the shore I was perfectly confounded,
nor is it possible to express the horror Ifelt at
seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet,
and other bones of human bodies: and particularly
a place, where, as I supposed, there had been a
fire made, and a circle dug in the earth for the
savage wretches to sit down to their inhuman
feasts. ltumed away my face from the horrid
. spectacle, and left the place as soon as possible.
Some time after, in the midst of a very stormy

c
night, I was started at the firing of a gun: I has~
tened up to the t0p of my hill: and heard another.
Iimagined that these were signals of a ship in
distress; and such it proved, as I discovered the
next day. I cannot explain the emotion I felt at
the sight of this wreck. " O that there had been
but one saved i" cried i, "that 1 might have had
one companion, one fellow creature to have spoken
to, and have comforted him in his affliction."

Under the power of this impression, nothing
would serve me, but I must go in my boat to the
wreck, which lay at a little distance. [furnished
myself with a stock of provisions, for fear of being
driven out to sea; and having begun my voyage,
I in two hours time reached the ship, which was
Spanish built.--She stuck fastjammed in between
two rocks, and the stern and the quarter were
beaten to pieces by the sea. On coming near it,
a dog yelped and cried; but there was no other
living creature on board; and all the goods were
spoiled by the water. 1, however, took two of the
seamen's chests into my boat, without knowing
what was in them.

When I had gor my treasure home, and began
to unload, 1 found several bottles filled with cor-
dial waters, and some neckcloths and shirts, which
were very useful to me; about 1,100 pieces of
eight, and about a pound weight of solid gold;--
but of what use was this to me? 1 would have
given it all for three or four pairs of shoes and
stockings.

After this acquisition, i lived in my old manner,
though terrified with fears of the savages. One
morning very early, I saw five canoes of them on
shore. I ciambered up my hill, and by the help
of my perspective, discovered no less than thirty
dancing round a fire. I soon after saw two mi-
serable wretches dragged out of the boats; one of
whom was immediately knocked down, but the
other, starting from them, ran with incredible
swiftness along the sands towards me. I confess
I was horridly frightened, when I saw him come
my way, imagining he would be pursued by the
whole body; however, I kept my station, and
quite lost my apprehensions when I found but
three followed him. He greatly outran them, and
was in a fair way of escaping them all, when com-
ing to a creek, he plunged into it, landed, and
ran on as swift as before. Of the three that follow-
ed, but two entered the water, the other returning
back. I hastily fetched my guns from the foot of
the ladder; and having a short cut down the hill,
I clapped myself in the way between the pursuers
and the pursued. hollowing aloud to him that fled,
and beckoning my hand for him to stop; then
rushing at once upon the foremost, knocked him
down with the stock of my piece. The other
stopped, as if frightened, but when I advanced
towards him, I perceived he was fitting his bow to
to shoot me; upon which I shot him dead direct-
1y. The poor savage who had fled was so terrified
at the noise of my piece, though he saw his enemy
fallen, that he stood stock still, but seemed rather
inclined to fly than to come towards me. How-
ever, when I gave him signs of encouragement, he
came nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve
c 9.
steps; on his coming close again, he laid his head
upon the ground, and, placed my foot upon it.
But there was more work to do; the man I had
knocked down came to him, and my savage began
to be afraid. I then presented the piece to tht
man, when the poor fellow, whose life I had saved,
made a motion for my sword, which I gave him;
and he struck off his enemy's head at one blow,
and in a quarter of an hour buried both the bodies
in the sand. I then took him away to a cave at
the further part of the island. Here [gave him
bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught
of water, which he wanted much; and havingD re-
freshed him, I made signs for him to lie downa up-
on some rice- -,straw which the poor creature did

and soon went to sleep.

He was a well-made, handsome fellow, of about
twenty-six years of age. of an olave-coloured com-
plexion, with long black hair. He had a small
nose, that was not flat; and fine teeth, as white
as ivory. After he had slept about an hour, he
awaked again, and came running to me in the
enclosure, just by where I had been milking my
goats; then falling down again. he laid his head
flat upon the ground, and set my foot upon it, as
before; and after this, made all possible signs of
thankfulness, subjection, and submission. I be-
gan to speak to him, and to teach him to speak to
me; and first, Imade him know that his name
should be Friday, which was the day on which I
saved his life. I taught him to say Master, and
let him know that was to be my name. The 1 ext
day I gave him clothes, at which he seemed pleas.
ed. As we went by the place where he had buried
the two men, he pointed exactly to the spot,
making signs that the would dig them up again,
and eat them: at which Iappeared very angry,
and beckoned with my hands to him to come
away, which he did immediately.

Having now more courage, and consequently
more curiosity, I took my man Friday with me,
giving him the sword in his hand, with the bows
and arrows at his back, whichI found he could
use very dexterously. I also gave him a gun to
carry; and taking two for myself, away we march-
ed to the place where his enemies had been: when
I came there, my blood ran cold in my veins; the
place was covered with human bones, and the
ground dyed with blood; great pieces of flesh
were left here and there, half eaten, mangled, and
scorched,[ saw three SCllllS, five hands, and the
bones of three or four legs and feet: and Friday'.
by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon; tha:
three of them were eaten up, and be, pointing
to himself, was the fourth; and that they had
been conquered, and taken prisoners in war.

I caused Friday to collect the remains of tlllS
horrid carnage; then to light a fire, and burn them
to ashes. When this was done, we returned to
our castle. The next day I made a little tent
outside of my fortification, and at night took in
my ladder, that he might not be able to get at me
while I slept. But there was no need of this pre-
caution; for never man had a more faithful ser-
vant,-he had the same affection for me as a child
has for his father ; and I dare say, he would have
sacrificed his life to save mine. I was greatl1 de-
lighted with him, and made it my business to
teach him e1 er1 thing pmper to render him useful;
especially to speak, iDand understand me when I
spoke; and he was so merry, so diligent, and so
pleased when he could understand me, or make
me understand him, that he was very agreeable
compan1.

Alter I had been two or three days returned to
my castle, l was desirous to bring. him oil from
the relish of human flesh; so I took him out with
me one morning to the woods, 1n order to take a
kid from my herd; but as I was going, I
saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two
young kids sittimr by l1e1 , when making: signs to
Friday not to 5th, 1 shot one of the kids. zail-"001'
Friday, who had at a distance seen me kill the
sa1age his enem1, but did not see how it was
done, trembled, and look so amazed, that I thought
he 11ould have sunk down: he did not see the
kid I had shot, but ripped up his waistcoat to feel
if he 11' as not wounded, and thouuht I was resolv-
ed to kill him; tor he came and kneeled down to
me, and embracing my knees, seemed to entreat
me not to kill him. But taking him by the hand,
I laughed at him, and pointed to the kid I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which
he did.

The next 11:11 I set him to beat out some corn,
and silt 1t, and 1n a little time Friday was able to
do all the work for me, as well as I could do it
1111self'. in short, this 11 as the pleasantest year I11011121503 cnusoe. 31

had led in the island; for as my man began to talk
pretty well, I had some use for my tongue again.

From this time I had a mind to ventureo over,
and see if I could possibly Join these bearded men.
not doubting but we might find some means of
escaping from theme.

[was now enterino into the 27th year of my
captivity, and intended soon to set sail; when one
morning I bid Fridav go to the sea-shore to see if
he could find a turtleb; but he had not long been
gone, when he came running back, and eiied, " 0
master! 0 sorrow ! O bad'."---~" What's the mat-
ter Friday?" said I. " O yonder there," said he,
" one, two, three! canoe! one, two, three. "'--

" Well, Friday," said I, " do not be frightened."

I then took my perSpective glass, and went up
the side of the hill, when I saw twenty-one
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes. I bid
him see what they were doing: he did so, and
told me that they were all about the fire, eating
the flesh of one of their prisoners; and that a
bearded man lav bound upon the sand, whom he
said they would kill next.

I had not a moment to lose, for two had st00p-
ed down 10 untie the Christian, 1n order to murder
him. " Now," said I, " Friday, do as you see me
do." I laid the muskets down, and took one;
and then we both fired. Three were killed, and
five wounded. The rest jumped up immediately
on their feet; but knew not where to run.

I resolved to pn1sue them, and ran to the canoe,
calling to l riday to follow me; but 1 was no
sooner in the canoe, than I fouiid another poor
creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot. I im<<
mediateiy cut the twisted flags; and seeing that
he had been bound so tight that he was almost
dead, I gave him a dram, and ordered Friday to
tell him of his delircrance; but when the poor
fellow [Ooked in his face, and heard him speak,
it would have moved any one to tears to have
seen how he kissed, emb1aced, hugged him, danc-
ed. sung. and then cried agairi. It was some time
time before I could make him tell me what was
the matter; but when he came to himself, he said,
he was his own dear father. He then sat down
by him, held the old man's head close to his bo-
som. and chafcd his arms and ancles, which were
stiff with binding.

The Spaniard. having expressed to me the ut-
most g1atitutie for his deliverance, gave me an
account of the shipwreck, and the situation of his
companions; and it was resolved that Friday's
father and the Spaniard should go in the boat to
fetch them over.

About eight days after they were gone, Friday
wakened me one morning, by crying out, " Master,
they are come" I dressed! I dressed and has-
tened to the t0p of thehill, and plainly discovered
an English ship lying at anchor.

They ran the boat ashore on the beach, and
eleven men landed, three of them unarmed, who,
by their gestures seemed to be prisoners: and one
oi them I could perceite using the most passionate
gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, while
the two others, though their grief seemed less ex-
tramgant, appeared pleading: for mercy. At thisaosrxsos cacsoz. 33

instant I saw a villain lift up his arm to kill one of
the prisoners; but he did not strike him. The
men having left the prisoners and gone into the
woods,ol went up to them with my man Friday,
and said to them in Spanish, "who are you, gen-
tlemen ?" They started at the noise; but pre-
pared to fly. I then said, in English, " Gentlemen,
perhaps you may have a friend near you whom
, you little expect. Tell me your case." "I was
commander of that ship," replied one of the pri-
soners; " my men have mutinied against me, and
if they do not murder me, they intend to leave me
and these two gentlemen ashore in this desolate
place; they are but in that thicket, and l tremble
for fear they have seen you." Having concerted
matters with the captain, and armed ourselves, we
went to the sailors, and the captain reserving his
own piece, the two men shot one of the villains
dead, and wounded another. He who was wound-
ed cried out for help, and l coming up, gave orders
for Sparing their lives, on condition of their being
bound hands and feet while they stayed in the
island.

A little time after another boat came. We
formed an ambuscade, but one of the principal
ring--leaders in the mutiny, with two of the crew
coming towards us, the captain was so eager that
he let fly, killed two on the spot, the third ran for
it. I immediately advanced with my whole army,
upon which Will Atkins, one of the ring-leaders,
called out, "For God's sake, captain, spare my
life." The captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion, and trust to the gover-

. a
v , ' '
4'
. - i .' 3'," .
M ' '6'"
A - "Cr"- 4 :4 -n. .' .-I' ..

-Y

34 ADVENTURES OF

nors mercy, upon which they all submitted. And
with their assistance we seized the ship.

When I saw my deliverance thus put into my
hands, I was ready to sink with surprise , I was
not able to answer one 11 0rd, but a flood of tears
brought me to myself, and a little while after I re-
covered my speech. Ithen in my turn embraced
him as my deli1erer, and we rejoiced together.
Having brought the prisoners before me, lo asked
them what they had to say in their own defence, tel-
ling them I had p011 er to execute them there.

They pleaded the captain's promise of mercy. I
then told them that I intended to go passenger in
the ship, with all my men; but that they, if they
went, could onlyg no as prisoners , observing, how-
ever, that they might, if they chose it, stay in the
island.- This they gladly accepted, and I prepared
to go on board the next day. The captain return-
ing to the ship, got every thing ready for my recep-
t1on.

'When he was gone, I talked to the men, told
them my story, and how I managed all mv house-
hold business; left a letter fo1 fifteen Spaniards,
and made them promise to heat them in com-
men with themselves The next day I went on
board the ship, taking Friday with me: thus I
left the island aftero being on it twenty eight
vears, and arrived safelyo in England. Some
time after I went to Lisbon, to look after my
effects in the Brazils, and found the generous
captain, who had been so much my friend, still
alive, and he put me in the way of recovering
the produce of my plantations. And a few

\ROBINSON enuson. 35

months after there arrived ships in the Tagus,
with effects for my use, to the amount of fifty
thousand pounds, besides one thousand a year
which I expected to receive annually from my
plantation.

FINIS

 
  

 

--_

Hammer and Brewis, Printers, Love Lane, Ratchet-9. .-___.. .___,_,..-c
.1111...) 1* ~ >>
J'c'vnmi'n 130035. .-i-_'g.)

k UB' '81!!!) BYJ. BYS'II, 3. CLOTH FAIR,VEST-BRITHFI}'U.

_..--.-----.-._

inn 11112. sl'xPENCE EACH.' - :
Futons-and 111.111 many calourcd'if'lates. '

Aladdin .11 th'eWoxiaerful Sintlbad th'e Sailo't.

 

F) ~e-----'C/.------'v----'

M

 

 

_ Lump ) Robinson Crusoe:
'(. .. illrcn in 1:110 W 0011 Nursery' Rhymes
C'inder ella . N urserIng nglns
U... k the Giant killer Livle ack and the Goat
Jack. and 3113331111 stalk White Cat. , 3Q)" .
Ali Balm, (11 the Fur Puss' 1n Boots , ' - .
'1'31'01'1-9, . ' .:11:.p Quarle '> '
Clam '."l-.nmb P.. .1 Try an<l_ the Beast

  

Whittir ngton and his Cat' ; I' 1111 f 110.; _.
.B111111.Homl ' ( {i'yu Shoes

Blue Beard . 1 111L111:.1t'11s

Valentine (111(1 Qrson ' It mat-11 .1116 Mzfifiage
Sex en! hampio'm , of (Joe Robin .
My Mother -> 111:2 1th and F-nneml of
Re'd 1311 Eng HOME . Cock P011111

Gan-1 Ed"- '11)" Warwick, and many oiiters in' twp ass.
BIISLAJLLAVFOUS JUVENILE BOOK.>> '

3

'1; WORLD: 11>>: M1NlA'hERE of 2:1. Panorama 0.11m
fag-toms 11ml Costumes of all b11111 011s: 1llusxratcd 111th
, wentwfour beautiful coloured. 1511.111115va y I111:
10 11111 and [em-few pr'ice as. > (3: , "AM
fsdfs. new and splendid cditidn .Egoz's'i'ums. elm-j '.
'iniug one hundwd beautifl. 1:.mmmfil1'fiqvon' Sibel; 1;.
. inted on fine pay -1, 110'. 1711336 1511;119:151 '11! PS5 1110'!- one' '
~11toncl. 11115. 513112 4121110. 1111150111 ban "and and);
'1hlPSbom1fir1dluttcred,ldSSf-fi?~'Y=m 3111:3915 .
'31-'11 sa's 1111111111. PP'JMER'"

1113111011111 11cc 0.. 1... .413. , .-
mm s NE'v Lo'x'noz'v 113, 1'11311.' 113.136.11.53, ,5.)