"*"mewzxwwmvwrwvwwmwr r w>>- - '
m-r-n- '~ _.-.~:.-.' ' ,'* -

TIIB

 

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

BY

DANIEL DE FOE;
WITH

A MEMOIR OF THE AUTHOR, AND AN ESSAY
ON HIS "'RITINGS.

nmmmmmw 123$? GRANIDVEEEIEo

NEW YORK:
D. APPLETON 61, CO.

.7"an AT 1113 MN "Pl: AND mnemn FOUNDRY.

1841.MEMOIR OF DE FOE.

DANIEL FOE, or, as he subsequently styled himself, (though at what time and on
what occasion is not known,) Dr: Fox, was born in the parish of St. Giles's, Crip-
plegate, London, in the year 1661. The earliest of his ancestors, of whom there is
any account, was Daniel Foe, a yeoman, who farmed his own estate at Elton, in
N orthamptonshire. He maintained a pack of hounds; from whence it may be reason-
ably inferred that his means were above competency. A custom of the times in be-
stowing party names on brutes is thus mentioned by our author: "I remember," he
says, " my grandfather had a huntsman that used the same familiarity with his dogs;
and he had his Roundhead, and his Cavalier, and his Goring, and his Waller, and
all the generals of both armies were hounds in his pack ; till, the times turning, the
old gentleman was fain to scatter the pack, and make them up of more dog-like sur-
names." It is from his grandfather that De Foe is supposed to have inherited landed
property ; for in his " Review," a work we shall often have occasion to consult, he
says, " I have both a native and an acquired right of election." Our author's father,
James Foe, followed the trade of butcher in St. Giles's, Cripplegate ; and these few
barren facts are all that is tobe gathered of the ancestors of Daniel De Foe. " He
had," says Mr. Wilson, in his excellent work, "The Life and Times of Daniel De
Foe," a work abounding with the most curious and minute information on the period
of which it treats--" He had some collateral relatives, to whom he alludes occasion-
ally in his writings, but with too much brevity to ascertain the degree of kindred."

At an early age, De Foe is said to have shown that vivacity of humor, and that
indomitable spirit of independence, that remained with him through after-life, " mak-
ing a. sunshine in the shady place " of a prison, and arming him as the champion of
truth and humanity in the most perilous times. An anecdote related by our author
is illustrative of the discipline that governed the home of his boyhood. During that
part of the reign of Charles 11., when the nation feared the ascendency of Popery,
and it was expected that printed Bibles would become rare, many honest people
employed themselves in copying the Bible into short-hand. To this task young De
Foe applied himself; and he tells us that " he worked like a horse till he had written
out the whole of the Pentateuch, when he grew so tired that he was willing to risk
the rest." The parents of De Foe were Non-conformists, and his education was
consonant to the practice of that faith. Family religion formed an essential part of
its discipline; and it was made matter of conscience to instruct the children of a
family and its dependants in their social, moral, and religious duties.

Although the enemies of De Foe vainly endeavored to sink his reputation by
representing him as having been bred a tradesman, there is ample evidence to provevi menom or m: roe.

that he was originally intended for one of the learned professions." When he had,
therefore, sufficiently qualified under inferior tutors, he was, at about fourteen years
of age, placed in an academy at Newington Green, under the direction of " that
polite and profound scholar," the Reverend Charles Morton, who was subsequently
defended by his pupil, some aspersions having been cast upon the character of the
master by an ungrateful scholar who had deserted to the church. De Foe writes,
" I must do that learned gentleman's memory the justice to affirm, that neither in
his system of politics, government, and discipline, nor in any other of the exercises
of that school, was there any thing taught or encouraged that was antimonarchical
or destructive to the constitution of England."

Of De Poe's progresg under Mr. Morton, it is impossible now to speak with any
certainty. lle tells us, in one of his " Reviews," that he had been master of five
languages, and that he had studied the mathematics, natural philosophy, logic, geog-
raphy, and history: he was one of the few who, in those days, studied politics as a.
science. He went through a complete course of theology, and his knowledge of
ecclesiastical history was also considerable. He was, however, attacked by party
malice as " an illiterate person, without education." To this he calmly makes
answer:--" Those gentlemen who reproach my learning to applaud their own,shall
have it proved that I have more learning than either of thorn--because I have more
manners." He adds, " 1 think I owe this justice to my excellent father, still living,
(170.5,) and in whose behalf I fully testify, that if I am a blockhead, it is nobody's
fault but my own." lle proceeds to challenge his slandcrer " to translate with me
any Latin, French, and Italian author, and after that to re-translate them crossways,
for twenty pounds each book; and by this he shall have an opportunity to show the
world how much De Foe, the hosier, is inferior in learning to Mr. Tutchin, the
gentleman."

At one-and-twenty, De Foe commenced the perilous trade--most perilous in his
day--of author; at the which he labored through good and through evil report,
with lasting honor to himself, and enduring benefit to mankind, for half a century.
It is now ascertained that De Poe's first publication was a lampooning answer to
" L'l-Zstrange's Guide to the Inferior Clergy," and bore the following quaint title:
--" Speculum Crape-Gownorum ; or, a Looking-Glass for the Young Academicks
new Foyl'd : with Reflections on some of the late High Flown Sermons: to which is
added, an Essay towards a Sermon of the Newest. Fashion. By a Guide to the
lnferiour Clergie. Ridentem discere Verum Quis Vetat. London: printed for E.
Rydal. 1692." This title De Foe borrowed from the crape gowns then usually
worn by the inferior clergy; and in the book, he fights the fight of the Disscnters
against what he terms the libels of the established clergy. " The fertility of the
subject," says Mr. Wilson, " soon produced a second part of the 'Speculum; ' in
which the author deals more seriously with the government, and by a practical view
of the efl'ect of persecution, exposed its absurdity."

We have entered more at length into the nature and purpose of De Poe's first
book, than will be permitted to us by our limits to do with each of the works that
now followed, in rapid profusion, from the pen of our author. All that we purpose
to ourselves is, to give the strongest outlines of his character,--the principal events
of his career; and, avoiding, on one hand, a jejune brevity, that confines itself to
mere dates, attempt not, on the other side, a minute description of events incompat-
ible with our present object.

' " It is not often," says De Foe, in his " Review," vi. 341, " that I trouble you with
any of my divinity 3 the pulpit is none of my oflice. It was my disaster first to be set
apart for, and then to be set apart from, the honor of that sacred employ."mentors or DE roe. vii

When the duke of Monmouth landed at Lyme, De Foe was among those who
joined the standard of the hapless nobleman. " A romantic kind of invasion," says
Welwood, " and scarcely paralleled in history." At the age of four-and-twenty,
we see De Foe, the author of " Robinson Crusoe," a soldier; as ready with his
sword ss prompt with his pen, in the cause of rational liberty. 01' Monmouth, De
Foe seems to have had some previous knowledge, having otlen seen him at Ayles-
bury races, where the duke rode his own horses--a circumstance alluded to by our
author in his " Tour." De Foe had the good fortune to escape the vengeance visited
upon so many of the duke's supporters, and returned in safety to London; where,
leaving the stormy region of politics, he now directed his attention to trade. The
nature of his business has been variously represented. In several publications of the
time, he is styled at'hosier ;" but, if we may believe his own account, he was a
hose-factor, or the middle man between the manufacturer and the retail dealer.
This agency concern he carried on for some years, in Freeman's Court, Cornhill ;
Mr. Chalmers says, from 1685 to 1695. On the 26th of January, 1637-8, having
claimed his freedom by birth, he was admitted a liveryman of London. In the
Chamberlain's book, his name was written " Daniel Foe."

When the Revolution took place, De Foe was a resident in Tooting, in Surrey,
where he was the first person who attempted to form the Dissenters in the neigh-
borhood into a regular congregation. De Foe was for many years a resident in this
part of Surrey; it is likely that he had acountry-house there during the time that he
carried on his hose-agency in Cornhill. De Foe was one of the most ardent wor-
shippers of the Revolution: he annually commemorated the 4th of November as a
day of deliverance. " A day," says he, " famous on various accounts, and every
one of them dear to Britons, who love their country, value the Protestant interest,
or have an aversion to tyranny and oppression. On this day, he (King William)
was born; on this day, he married the daughter of England; and on this day, he
rescued the nation from a bondage worse than that of Egypt; a bondage of soul, as
well as bodily servitude; a slavery to the ambition and raging lust of a generation
set on fire by pride, avarice, cruelty, and blood." In order to do honor to the
king, and add to the splendor of the procession, on the royal visit to Guildhall,
many of the citizens volunteered to attend William as a guard of honor on the
occasion. Among these was Daniel De Foe.

The commercial speculations of our author, though at the first prosperous, were
ultimately unsuccessful. That they were of a various character, is evident from the
fact of his having engaged with partners in the Spanish and Portuguese trade. It
is very clear, from a passage in his " Review," that he had been a merchant-adven-
turer. In the number for January 2'7, 171], he alludes to an old Spanish proverb,
" which," says he, " I learnt when I was in that country." It further appears that,
while residing there,he made himself a master of the language. 'De I-'oe's losses by
shipwreck appear to have been very considerable. The occupations of trade, how-
ever, according to De Foe's own confession, assert ill with literary feelings. " A
wit turned tradesman ! " he exclaims; " no apron-strings will hold him: 'tis in vain
to lock him in behind the counter; he's gone in a moment." He concludes 2--- " A
statute of bankrupt is his Brena: 0mm, and be generally speaks the epilogue in the
Fleet Prison or Mint."

In allusion to the misfortunes of our author, Mr. Chalmers observes : --- " With
the usual imprudence of genius, he was carried into companies who were gratified
by his wit. He spent those hours with a small society for the cultivation of polite
learning, which he ought to have employed in the calculations of the counting-
house; and, being obliged to abscond from his creditors in 1692, he naturally attrib-
uted those misfortunes to the war, which were probably owing to his own misconductviii sumo": or or: Foe.

An angry creditor took out a commission of bankruptcy,which was soon superseded,
on the petition of those to whom he was most indebted, who accepted a composition
on his single bond. This he punctually paid, by the etforts of unwearied diligence;
but some of these creditors, who had been thus satisfied, falling afterwards into
distress themselves, De Foe voluntarily paid them their whole claim, being then in
rising circumstances, in consequence of King William's favor." De Foe being
subsequently reproaclred by Lord Haversham for mercenary conduct, he tells him,
in 1705, that, " with a numerous family, and no help but his own industry, he had
forced his way, with undiscouraged diligence, through a set of misfortunes, and
reduced his debts, exclusive of composition, from seventeen thousand to less
than five thousand pounds."

It deserves to be remembered that, in the time of De Foe, our laws against bank-
rupts were as inhuman as they were foolish. "The cruelty of our laws against
debtors," says De Foe, " without distinction of honest or dishonest, is the shame of
our nation. I am persuaded, the honestest man in England, when by necessity he
is compelled to break, will early fly out of the kingdom rather than submit. To
stay here, this is the consequence: as soon as he breaks, he is proscribed as a
criminal, and has thirty to sixty days to surrender both himself and all that he has
to his creditors. If he fails to do it, he has nothing before him but the gallows,
without benefit of clergy; if he surrenders, he is not sure but he shall be thrown
into gaol for life by the commissioners, only on pretence that they doubt his oath !
Wlurl must (Ire man do?" We have reformed something of this in our day, yet
much remains undone; for the bankrupt is still left at the mercy of the malevolent
or ignorant creditor.

It is certain that De Foe, whilst under apprehension from his creditors, resided
some time at Bristol. " A friend of mine in that city," says Mr. Wilson, " informs
me that one of his ancestors remembered Dc Foe, and sometimes saw him walking
in the streets of Bristol, accoutred in the fashion of the times, with a fine flowing
wig, lace rutllcs, and a sword by his side; also, that he there obtained the name of
t the Sunday gentleman,' because, through fear of the bailitl's, he did not dare to
appear in public upon any other day." De Foe was wont to visit " The Red Lion,"
kept by one Mark Watkins, who, in after times, used to entertain his company with
an account ot'a singular personage, who made his appearance in Bristol, clothed in
goat-skins, in which dress he was in the habit of walking the streets, and went by
the name of Alexander Selkirk, or Robinson Crusoe! It was during this retreat
from London that De Foe wrote his celebrated " Essay upon Projects," though he
did not publish it until nearly five years afterwards.

It appears that at this time De Foe was invited, by some merchants of his acquaint-
ance residing in Cadiz, to settle in Spain, with the ofi'er of a good commission:
" but," says our author, " Providence, which had other work for me to do, placed a
secret aversion in my mind to quitting England upon any account, and made me
refuse the best offer of that kind, to be concerned with some eminent persons at
home, in proposing ways and means to the government for raising money to supply
the occasion of the war, then newly begun." De Foe suggested a general assess-
ment of personal property, the amount to be settled by composition, under the
inspection of commissioners appointed by the king. It was, doubtless, owing to
these services, that De Poe was appointed to the ollice of accountant to the commis-
sioners of the glass duty, in 1695: the commission ceased in 1699. It was probably
about this time that De Foe became secretary to the tile-kiln and brick-kiln works at
Tilbury, in Essex. Pantiles had been hitherto a Dutch manufacture, and were
brought in large quantities to England. To supersede the necessity of their impor-
tation, these works were erected. The speculation proved unsuccessful, De Foe' "231013 or nr: roe. is

himself losing by its failure no less than three thousand pounds. He continued the
works, it is believed, until the year 1703, when, being deprived of his liberty for a
libel, the undertaking came to an end.

Towards the close of the war, in 1696--7, De Foe gave to the world his " Essay
upon Projects;' a work alike admirable for the novelty of the subject, and the clear-
ness and ingenuity with which it is treated. The projects of our author may be
classed. under the heads of politics, commerce, and benevolence; all having some
reference to the public improvement. The first relates to banks In general, and to
the royal or national bank in particular, which he wishes to be rendered subservient
to the relief of the merchant, and the interests of commerce, as well as to the pur-
poses of the state: his next project relates to highways; a third, to the improvement
of the bankrupt laws; a fourth, to the plan of friendly societies, formed by mutual
assurance, for the relief of the members in seasons of distress; a fifth,_for the estab-
lishment of an asylum for " fools," or, more properly, " naturals," whom he de-
scribes as " a particular rent-charge on the great family of mankind: " he next sug-
gests the formation of academics, to supply some neglected branches of education;
one of these was for the improvement of the English tongue, " to polish and refine
it; " and this project combined a reformation of that " foolish vice," swearing: the
next project of our author was an academy for military studies; and, under the head
of " Academies," he suggested an institution for the education of females: --- " We
reproach the sex every day," says he, " with folly and impertinence, while, I am
confident, had they the advantages of education equal to us, they would be guilty of
less than ourselves."

In January, 1700-], appeared De Poe's celebrated poem of " The 'I'rueoBorn
Englishman." It was composed in answer to " a vile, abhorred pamphlet, in very
ill verse, written by one Mr. Tuchin, and called 'The Foreigners,' in which the
author--who he then was, I knew not," says De I-'oe--" fell personally upon the
king and the Dutch nation." How many thousands familiar with the following
new proverbial lines, know not that with them opens " The True-Born Englishman " :

" Wherever God erects a house of prayer,
The devil always builds a chapel there;
And 'twill be found, upon examination,
The latter has the largest congregation ! "

De Poe traces the rise of our ancient families to the Norman invader, who can-
toned out the country to his followers, and " every soldier was a denizen." The
folly of indulging this pride of ancestry is finely painted in the following lines :--

" These are the heroes who despise the Dutch,
And rail at new-come foreigners so much ;
Forgetting that themselves are all derived
From the most seoundrcl race that ever lived.
A horrid crowd of rambling thieves and drones,
\Vho ransacked kingdoms and dispeopled towns ;
The Piet, and painted Briton, treacherous Scot,
By hunger, then, and rapine hither brought;
Norwegian pirates, buccaneering Danes,
More red-haired qfspn'ug everywhere remains .-
'Vho, joined with Norman-French, compound the breed
Prom whence your Trne~born Englishmen proceed.
And lest by length of time it be pretended
The climate may the modern race have mended,
Wise Providence, to keep us where we are,
Mixes us daily with exceeding care."
De Foe concludes with the following striking lines : --

"' Could but our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their offspring thus degenerate;
How we contend for birth and names unknown,
And build on their past actions, not our own;
They'd cancel records, and their tombs deface,
And then disown the vile, degenerate race;
For fame of families is all a cheat 3
"1'1: rzitsoxsr. warez: osu buns cs GREAT."

" When I see the town full of lampoons and im'cctives against Dutchmen," says
De Foe, in his " Explanatory Preface," " only because they are foreigners, and the
king rt-proaehed and insulted by insolent pedants and ballad-making poets, for
employing foreigners, and being a foreigner himself, I confess myself moved by it
to remind our nation of their own original, thereby to let them see what a banter
they put npon'thcmselves; since, speaking of Englishmen ab origins, we are really
all foreigners ourselves."

It is to this poem that Do Foe was indebted for a personal introduction to King
William. He was sent for to the palace by his majesty, conversed with him, and
had repeated interviews with him allerwards. The manners and sentiments of De
Foe appear to have made such a favorable impression on the king, that he ever
after regarded him with kindness ; and conceiving that his talents might be turned
to a beneficial account, he employed him in many secret services, to which he
alludes occasionally in his writings.

The efi'eet produced upon the country by the satire was most beneficial. De Foe
himself, nearly thirty years afterwards, writes, " National mistakes, vulgar errors,
and even a general practice, have been reformed by a just satire. None of our
countrymen have been known to boast of being Truc~born Englishmen, or so much
as use the word as a title or appellation, ever since a late satire upon that national
folly was published, though almost thirty years before."

In 1700-], on the meeting of the fifth parliament of King William, we find De
Foe strenuously engaged advocating the necessity of settling the succession in the
Protestant line ; an important object with \Villiam, as the only means of perpetua-
ting the benefits which the nation had reaped from the Revolution. To this great
end, De Foe devoted all his energies, laboring with unwearied zeal in the cause.
His conduct on the imprisonment of the Kentish gentlemen, whose names are
historically associated with the presentation of the famous Kentish petition, was
marked with all the intrepidity of his character. The Commons had imprisoned
the petitioners, who prayed the house for the settlement of the Protestant succes-
sion, for having presented a petition " scandalous, inaclent, and seditious." On
this De Foe drew up his celebrated "Legion Paper." In what manner it was
communicated to the house does not appear upon the journals. It was reported at
the time that De Foe, disguised as a woman, presented it to the Speaker as he
entered the House of Commons. The " Legion" petition rang like a tocsin
throughout the kingdom. As, however, the author remained concealed, the Com-
mons did not think lit to pass any particular censure upon it. The Kentish petition-
ers were discharged by the prorogation of parliament on the 24th of June: they
were subsequently feasted at Mereers' Hall, where De Foe attended. " Next the
Worthies," says a pamphlet of the time, " was placed their secretary of state, the
author of the 'Legion Paper :' and one might have read the downfall of parlia-
ments in his very countenance.""251013 0!" DE P03. xi

By the death of King William, " more mortally wounded," says De Foe, " with
the pointed rage of parties, and an ungrateful people, than by the fall from his
horse," our author lost a kind friend and powerful protector. Toward the latter
part of this reign, De Foe took up his abode at Hackney, and resided there many
years. Here some of his children were born and buried. In the parish register is
the following entry :--" Sophia, daughter to Daniel De I-'oc, by Mary his wife,
was baptized, December 24, I701."

The next important work of De Foe --a work that exercised the greatest influ-
ence on his fortunes-- was the " Shortest Way with the Dissenters ;. or, Proposals
for the Establishment of the Church; 1702." In this work, the author, assuming
the character of an Ultra High Churchman, advocates the adoption of the severest
measures against the Dissenters. "'Tis vain," writes De Foe, 'deg' to trifle in this
matter. The light, foolish handling of them by fines, is their glory and advantage.
If the gallows instead of the comptcr, and the galleys instead of the lines, were the
reward of going to a conventicle, there would not be so many sufi'erers." These
arguments found high favor with both the universities. The High Church party
never suspected the sincerity of their partisan, and, charmed and won by the fierce
doctrines of their champion, were unsuspicious of the satire of their extravagance.
It was, however, Dc Poe's hard fate to be misunderstood by both parties. Whilst
the High Churchmen congratulated themselves on the addition of another advocate,
the Dissenters treated him as a real enemy. The Church party, however, fell into
the trap laid for them by De Foe; for, by expressing their delight at the fiery senti-
ments of the author, they avowed them as their own true feelings on the question. Do
Foe subsequently taunts the party thus : --" We have innumerable testimonies,"
he says, " with which that party embraced the proposal of sending all the Dissent-
ing ministers to the gallows and the galleys; of having all their meeting-houses
demolished; and being let loose upon the people to plunder and destroy them." in
another place, De Foe characteristically portrays the common fate of the subtlety
of wit, when judged by the multitude. He says, " All the fault I can find with
myself as to these people (the Dissenters) is, that when I had drawn the picture, I
did not, like the Dutchman with his man and bear, write under them, ' This is the
man,' and ' This is the bear,' lest the people should mistake me; and having, in a
compliment to their judgment, shunned so sharp a reflection upon their senses, I
have left them at liberty to treat me like one that put a value upon their penetration
at the expense of my own." The first detection of our author is said to have been
owing to the industry of the earl of Nottingham, one of the secretaries of state.
When the author's name was known, people were at no loss to decipher his object;
and those who had committed themselves by launching forth in his praises were
stung with madness at their own folly. [t was at once resolved by the party in
power to crush De Foe by a state prosecution. In the height of the storm, our
author sought concealment; when a proclamation was issued by the government,
ofi'ering PS50 for the discovery of his retreat, and advertised in " The London
Gazette," for January 10, 1702--8. It is as follows: --

" Whereas Daniel De Foe, alias De Fooe, is charged with writing a scandalous
and seditious pamphlet, entitled " The Shortest Way with the Dimmers." He is
a middle-sized, spare man, about 40 years old; of a brown complexion, and dark-
brown colored hair, but wears a wig; a hook nose, a sharp chin, gray eyes, and a
large mole near his mouth; was born in London, and for many years was a hose.
factor in Freeman's Yard, Cornhill; and now is owner of the brick and pantile
works, near Tilbury Fort, in Ewex: whoever shall discover the said Daniel De Foe
to one of Her Majesty's principal secretaries of state, or any of Her Majesty's jus-
tices of peace, so he may be apprehended, shall have a reward of .610, which Her
Majesty has ordered immediately to be paid upon such discovery."xii "carom or or: roe.

In the House of Commons, it was resolved that the book " be burnt by the hands
of the common hangman in Palace Yard." The printer of the work and the book-
seller being taken into custody, De Foe issued forth from his retirement, to brave
the storm, resolving, as he expresses it, " to throw himself upon the favor of gov-
ernment, rather than that others should be ruined by his mistake." De Foe was
indicted at the Old Bailey Sessions, the 24th of February, 1703, and proceeded to
trial in the following July. It may be gathered from his own account of the prose-
cution, that when his enemies had him in their power, they were at a loss to know
what to do with him. He was therefore advised to throw himself on the mercy of
the Queen, with a promise of protection; which induced him to quit his defence,
and acknowledge himself as the author of the offensive w0rk. On this, De Foe
was sentenced to pay a fine of 200 marks to the Queen ; to stand three times in the
pillory; to be imprisoned during the Queen's pleasure; and to find sureties for his
good behavior for seven years.

The people, however, were with De Foe. Hence he was guarded to the pillory
by the populace; and descended from it with the triumphant acelamations of the
surrounding multitude. De Foe has himself related, that " the peOple, who were
expected to treat him very ill, on the contrary, pitied him, and wished those who
set him there were placed in his room, and expressed their affections by loud shouts
and acclatnations when he was taken down." Tradition reports, that the pillory was
adorned with garlands, it being in the middle of summer. The odium intended for
De Foe fell upon his pcrsecutors, and the pillory became to him a place of honor.

A triumphant evidence of the high spirit of De Foe--a spirit elevated and
strengthened by its unconquerable love of truth - is manifested by the fact that, on
the very day of his exhibition to the pe0ple, he published " A Hymn to the Pil-
lory." This poem, which successively passed through several editions, being
eagerly bought up by the people, opens nobly as follows : --

" Hail, hieroglyphic state machine,
Contrived to punish fancy in 3
Men that are men, in thee can feel no pain,
And all thy insigttificants disdain.
Contempt, that false new word for shame,
Is, without crime, an empty name,
A shadow to amuse mankind,
But never {rights the wise or well-fixed mind;
l'irtuc despises human scorn,
And scandals innocence adorn."

De Foe is now presented to us, stripped of his fortunes, and a prisoner. In con-
sequence of his imprisonment, he could no longer attend to his pantile works,
which produced the chief source of his revenue, and they were consequently given
up. By this affair he lost, as he himself informs us, PS3,500; and he had now a
wife and six children dependent upon him, with no other resource for their support
than the product of his pen. Hence the leisure of De Foe, whilst in Newgate, was
not that of idleness or dissipation. Some of his subsequent writings leave no doubt
that he now stored his mind with those facts relative to the habits and pursuits of
the prisoners, which he has detailed with so much nature as well as interest. A
great part of his time was devoted to the composition of political works, which our
limits will not permit us to dwell upon. It was likewise whilst in Newgate that he
projected his " Review," a periodical work of four quarto pages, which was pub-
lished for nine successive years, without intermission; during the greater part. of
the time, three times a week, and without having received any assistance whatever
in its production. Throughout this work, he carried on an unsparing warfare
against folly and vice in all their disguises: it pointed the way to the " Tatlers,"
" Spectators," and " Guardians," and may be referred to as containing a vast body
of matter on subjects of high interest, written with all the author's characteristic
spirit and vigor.

The Tories vainly endeavored to buy up De Foe ; but Newgate had no tenors for
him, and he continued at once their prisoner and their assailant. Upon the acces-
sion of Mr. Harley to office, his own politics not being dissimilar to those of De Foe,
the minister made a private communication to our author, with the view of obtaining
his support. No immediate arrangement, however, took place between them, as
De Foe remained a prisoner some months afterwards. Notwithstanding, it is most
likely that the queen became acquainted with De Foe's real merits through the me-
dium of the minister, and was made conscious of the injustice of our author's suf-
ferings, which she now appeared desirous to mitigate. For this purpose, she sent
money to his wife and family, at the same time transmitting to him a sufficient sum
for the payment of his fine, and the expenses attending his discharge from prison.

On his release from prison, De Foe retired to Bury St. Edmunds. Party clamor,
and party malice, however, pursued him there. On the miserable libels issued at
this time against him, he says, "I tried retirement, and banished myself from the
town. I thought, as the boys used to say, 'twas but fair they should let me alone,
while I did not meddle with them. But neither a country recess, any more than a
stone doublet, can secure a man from the clamor ot' the pen." In his elegy on the
author of " The True-Born Englishman," he alludes to the report that the Tories
had exerted themselves in his favor. He says in answer: --

" So I, by "'higs abandoned, bear
The Satyr's unjust lash ;
Dye with the scandal of their help,
But never saw their cash."

It appears that, in 1705, De Foe was employed by Harley to execute some mis-
sion of a secret nature, which required his presence upon the continent. The mis-
sion, whatever it was, appears to have been attended with some danger, and to
have required his absence for about two months. Harley seems to have been so
well satisfied, that. upon De Poe's return, he was rewarded with an appointment at
home. In 1706, De Foe wrote voluminously on the subject of the union with Scot-
land; which measure he advocated with all the strength of his powers. This ad-
vocacy obtained for him a confidential mission to Scotland, where he was received
with great consideration. "mile in Edinburgh, he published his " Caledonia," &c.,
a poem in honor of Scotland and the Scots nation. Of the union, he says in his
" Review," " I have told Scotland of improvement in trade, wealth, and shipping,
that shall accrue to them on the happy conclusion of this afi'air; and I am pleased
doubly with this, that I am likely to. be one of the first men, that shall give them
the pleasure of the experiment." In 1708, De Foe was rewarded with an appoint-
ment and a fixed salary. When the union was completed, he published "The
Union of Great Britain." In 1710, De Foe resided at Stoke-Newington, and ap-
pears to have been comfortable in his circumstances. In 1712 was closed the last
volume of the "Review." In along prefitee to this volume, De Foe has a most
eloquent defence of this work, and of the mode in which he had conducted it
NOthing can be finer, more manly, or more conclusive. In allusions to his suffer-
ings during the progress of the work, he says, "I have gone through a life of
wonders,--and am the subject of a vast variety of providenees: l have been fed
more by miracle than Elijah when the ravens were his purveyors. l have, some
tinie ago, summed up my life in this distich: ~--
No man has tasted difl'ering fortunes more,
And thirteen times I have been rich and poor.

In the school of affliction, I have learnt more than at the academy, and more
divinity than from the pulpit: in prison, I have learnt to know that liberty does not
consist in open doors, and the free egress and regress of locomotion. l have seen
the rough side of the world as well as the smooth; and have, in less than half a year,
tasted the difference between the closet of a king and the dungeon of Newgate."
This preface may be considered as a review --a summing up of the events of De
Poe's political life, and, as such, is of the highest value for the noble spirit of con-
scious truth breathing in and animating every line of it. As a piece of English, it
is exquisite for its innate strength, -- the beauty of its simplicity. De Foe, however,
was again doomed to taste the dungeon sweets of Newgate, being committed there
upon the foolish charge of writing libels in favor of the Pretender.

After the death of Queen Anne, De Foe, who had been a political writer for thirty
years, retired from the thorny field, to the more pleasant paths of instructive fiction.
Whilst writing " An Appeal to Honor and Justice," he was struck with apoplexy:
he, however, recovered, and in the early part of 1715, committed to the press one of
his most valuable treatises, " The Family Instructor." In 1719 appeared the
immortal " Robinson Crusoe." Nearly the whole circle of booksellers had in vain
been canvassed for a publisher. William Taylor, the fortunate speculator, is said to
have cleared a thousand pounds by the work, which rose into immediate popularity,
despite of the rancorous assaults of the petty, vulgar minds abounding amongst De
Fee's political enemies. There can be no doubt, that the idea of the work was first
suggested to De Foe by the story of Alexander Selkirk, which had been given to the
public seven years before. The enemies of De Foe charged him with having obtained
this man's journal, and from iLscontents, producing " Robinson Crusoe." The truth
is, De Foe was as much indebted to Selkirk, for the materials used in his immortal
work, as was Vandyke, for his portraits, to the colorinan who furnished him with
pigments. In a number of " The Englishman," Sir Richard Steele gave the true
and particular history of Selkirk. The place in which " Robinson Crusoe " was
composed, has been variously contested. It seems most probable (says Mr. Wilson)
that De Foe wrote it in his retirement, in Stoke-Newington, where he resided during
the principal part of Queen Anne's reign, in a large white house, rebuilt by himself,
and still standing in Church Street. The work has been printed in almost every
written language--has been the delight of men of all crecds and all distinction:--
from the London apprentice in his g-arret, to the Arab in his tent.

" Robinson Crusoe " was speedily followed by the "Account of Dickory Crooke,"
the " Life and Piracies of Captain Singleton," the " History of Duncan Campbell."
the " Fortunes and Misfortunes of Moll Flanders," the "Life of Colonel Jacque,"
the " Memoirs of a Cavalier," and that extraordinary work, the "Account of the
Plague." "'c might possibly have laid before the reader a correct list of the multi-
farious productions of our author, many of them, until of late, most difficult to be
obtained, had not the spirit of the times called for complete editions of De Foe's
Works; most welcome and valuable offerings to the reading part of the nation.

The latter years of De Poe's life must have been those of competence ---a most
honorable competence, insured to him by his works, and the rapidity with which
editions followed editions. There is, however, a too miserable proof of his sufi'er-
ings, inflicted upon him by the cruelty and undutifulness of his son, who, to quote
a letter of De Foe, written in his anguish, " has both ruined my family and broken my
heart." De Foe adds,--" I depended upon him. I trusted him, I gave up my two
dear, unprovided children into his hands; but he has no compassion, and sufl'ers
them and their poor dying mother to beg their bread at his door, and to crave, as if
it were an alms, what he is bound under hand and seal, besides the most sacred
promises, to supply them with; himself, at the same time, living in a profusion of
plenty. It is too much for me."

For some years before his death, De Foe was tormented with those dreadful mal-
adies, the gout and the stone, occasioned, in part, most probably, by his close appli-
cation to study, whilst making posterity the heirs of undying wisdom. De Foe
expired on the 24th of April, 1731, when he was about seventy years of age, having
been born in the year 1661. The parish of St. Giles's, Cripplegate, in which he
drew his first breath, was also destined to receive his last. He was buried from
thence, on the 2Gth of April, in Tindall's burial-ground, now most known by the
name of Bunhill-Fields. His wife died at the latter end of the following year. De
Foe lei! six children, two sons and four daughters, whose descendants are living at

the present time.

The character of De Foe was but the practical example of his noblest writings.
As a citizen of the world, his love of truth, and the patience, the cheerfulness with
which he endured the obloquy and persecution of his enemies, endear him to us as a
great working benefactor to his race. His memory is enshrined with the memories
of those who make steadfast our faith in the nobility and goodness of human nature.
As a writer, De Foe has bequeathed to us imperishable stores of the highest and the
most useful wisdom. If he paint vice, it is to show its hideousness; whilst virtue
itself receives a new attraction at his hands. His poetry is chiefly distinguished for
its fine common sense; it has no flights -- it never wraps us by its imagination, but
convinces us by its terseness; by the irresistible eloquence of its truth. De Foe's
prose, though occasionally careless, is remarkable for its simplicity and strength.
What he has to say, he says in the shortest manner, and in the simplest style. He
does not-- the vice ofour day--hide his thoughts under a glittering mass of words,
but uses words as the pictures of things. It is owing to this happy faculty, this un-
forced power, that De Foe occasionally rises, as in many instances in the golden
volume now offered to the reader, almost to the sublime. In his picture of the
despair of Crusoe, we have, in words intelligible even to infancy, a wondrous delin-
eation ot'the soul of man in a most trying and most terrible hour. De Foe is, in
the most emphatic sense of the word, an English writer. Cobbett has been com-
pared to him; and in many of the minor parts of authorship there is, certainly, a
similitude; but Cobbctt was singularly deficient of imagination, the power which
gave a color and a beauty to all that De Foe touched, even though of the homelicst
and most unpromising materials.THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

(
' .' .4} was born in the year 1632, in the
3) - city of York, of a good family,

though not of that country, my
father being a foreigner of Bre-
men, who settled first at Hull:
he got a good estate by merchan-

' lived afterwards at York; from
whence he had married my moth-
er, whose relations were named
' Robinson, a very good family in
that country, and from whom I
was called Robinson Krcutznacr;
but, by the usual corruption of
words in England, we are now
called--nay, we call ourselves, and write our name--Crusoe; and so my
companions always called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieutenant-colonel to an Eng-
lislt regiment of foot itt Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous Colonel
Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards.
What became of tny second brother I never knew, any more than my father
or mother did know what was become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to atty trade, my head be-
gan to be filled very early with rambling thoughts: my father, who was very
ancient, had given ttte a competent sltare of learning, as far as house-educa-
tiott attd a country tree-school generally go, and designed me for the law;
bttt I would be satisfied With nothing bttt going to sea; and my inclination to
this led ttte so strongly against the will, nay, the commands of my father, attd
against all the etttreaties attd persuasions of my mother and other friends,
that there seemed to be something fatal in that propension of nature, tending
directly to the life of misery which was to befall tne.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent counsel
against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one morning into his
chamber, where he was confined by the gout, attd expostulated very warmly
with me upon this subject: he asked me what reasons, more titan a mere
wandering inclination, I had for leaving my father's house and my native
country, where I might be well introduced, attd had a prospect of raising my
fortune by application attd industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told
me it was men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring, superior
fin-tunes on the other, am] who went abroad upon adventures, to rise by
enterprise, attd make themselves fitmous itt undertakings of a nature out of
the common road; that these things were all either too far above me, or too
far below me; that mine was the middle state, or what tttight be called
the upper station of low life, which lte had fottttd, by long experience, was
the best state itt the world, the most suited to ltttnttut happiness, not exposed
to the miseries and hardships, the labor and suflbrings of the mechanic part
oftnattkind, attd ttot embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy
ol'the ttppcr part ofdegmankind. He told me I might judge of the happiness
of this state by this one thing, viz., that this was the state of life which all
other people envied: that kings have li'equently latttented the miserable cott-
seqnenee ot'lu-ing born to great things, and wished they had been placed iii
the middle of the two extremes, between the mean attd the great; that the
wise man gave his testimony to this, as the just standard oftrtte felicity, when
he prayed to have neither poverty ttor riches.

lie bade ttte observe it, attd I should alt 'ays find, that the calamities of life
were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind; but that the
middle station ltad the fewest disasters, attd was ttot exposed to so many vicis-
situdes as the higher or lower part of mankind; nay, they were not subjected
to so many distcntpers, and uneasiness, either" of body or mind, as those were
who, by vicious living, luxury, and extravaganees on one ltand, or by hard
labor, want of necessaries, attd mean or insufficient diet on the other hand,
bring distempers upon themselves by the natural consequences of their way
of living; that the middle station of life was calculated for all kind of virtues
and all kind ofenjoyments; that peace and plenty were the ltandmaids of a
middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness, health, society, all
agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were the blessings attendingor noatssos causes. 3

the middle station of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly
through the world, and comibrtably out of it, not embarrassed with the labors
of the hands or of the head, not sold to a life of slavery for daily bread, or
harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and
the body of rest; nor enraged with the passion ot'envy, or the secret burning
lust ot'ambition for great things; but, in easy circumstances, sliding gently
through the World, and sensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the
bitter; feeling that they are happy, and learning by every day's experience to
know it more sensibly.

 

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most afi'ectionate manner,
not to play the young man, nor to precipitate myself into miseries which
nature, and the station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided against;
that l was under no necessity of seeking my bread; that he would do well
for me, and endeavor to enter me fairly into the station of life which he had
been just recommending to me; and that, if I was not very easy and happy
in the world, it must be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it; and that
be should have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in
warning me against measures which he knew would be to my hurt; in a
word, that, as he Would do very kind things for me it'I would stay and settle at
home, as he directed, so he would not have so much hand in my misfortunes
as to give me any encouragement to go awar, and, to close all, he told me
1 had my elder brother for an example, to whom he had used the same
earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the Low Country wars, but
could not prevail, his young desires prompting him to run into the army,
where he was killed ; and though he said he would not cease to pray for me,
yet he would venture to say to me, that, if I did take this foolish step, God
wottld not bless me, and I would have leisure hex-caller to reflect upon having
neglected his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery.

I observed, in this last part of his discoutse, which was truly prophetic,--
though I suppose my lather did not know it to be so ltitnselfi--I say, [observed
the tears run down his thee very pleutifully, especially wlten he spoke of my
brother who was killed; and that when he spoke of my having leisure to
repent, atul none to assist ttte, he was so moved that he broke off tlte dis-
course, and tohl tue his heart was so full he could say no more to me.

I was sincerely afleetcd with this discourse, as indeed who could be other-
wise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at
home. according to my tiither's desire. But, alas! it tetv days wore it all off;
and, in short. to prevent any of my father's timber importnnities, in a few
weeks after, I resolved to run quite away from him. However, I did not act
quite so hastily, neither, as the first heat of tny resolution prompted; but I took
my mother, at a time when I thought hcra little pleasantcr than ordinary,
and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world,
that I should never settle to any thing with resolution enough to go through
with it, and my lather had better give me his consent than force me to go
without it; that I was now eighteen years old, which was too late to go
apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure, ifl did, I
should never serve out tny time, but I should certainly run away from my
master before tny time was out, and go to sea; and ifshe would speak to my
lather to let me go one voyage abroad, it'I came home again, and did not like
it, I would go no more ; and I would promise, by a double diligence, to recover
the time that I had lost.

This put my tnothcr into a great passion: she told me site knew it would
be to no purpose to speak to my lather upon any such subject; that he knew
too well what was my interest to give his consent to any thing so much for
my hurt; and that she wondered how I could think of any such thing alter
the discourse I had had with tny father, and such kind anti tender expressions
as she knew my father had ltscd to me; and that, in short, if I would ruin
myselt; there was no help for me; but I might depend I should never have
their consent to it; that, for her part, she would not have so tnuch hand in
my destruction; and I should never have it to say that my mother was
willing when my lather was not.

Though my mother rctitsed to tnovc it to my father, yet I heard afterwards,
that she reported all the discourse to him, and that my lather, alter showing
a great concern at it, said to her, with a sigh, "That boy might be happy if he
would stay at home; but it' he goes abroad, he will be the tnost miserable
wreteh that ever was born; I can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a year afier this that I broke loose, though, in the
mean time, I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of settling to busi-
ness, attd frequently expostulating with my father and mother about their
being so positively determined against what they knew my inclinations
prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, whither I went casually, and
without any purpose of making an elopement that time--but, 1 say, being
there, and one of my companions being going by sea to London, in his
father's ship, and prompting me to go with them, with the common allure-or nonmsox cacsoz. 5

meat of a seafaring man, that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I
consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so much as sent them
word of it; but, leaving them to hear of it as they might, without asking
God's blessing or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or
consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the lst of September, 1651,
Iwent on board a ship bound for London. Never any young adventurer's
misfortunes, I believe, began sooner or continued longer than mine. The
ship "as no sooner got out of the Humber but the wind began to blow and
the sea to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as I had never been at sea
before, 1 Was most inexpressibly sick in body and terrified in mind I began
now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I was over.
taken by the judgment of Heaven tin- my wicked leaving my liither's house,
and abandoning my duty. All the good counsels of my parents, my titther's
tears and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my mind; and my
conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has
been since, reproached me with the contempt of advice, and the breach of
my duty to God and my ihther.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea went very high, though
nothing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few
days alter; but it was enough to affect me then, who was but a young sailor,
and had never known any thing of the matter. I expected every wave would
have swallowed us up, and that every time the ship fell down-- as I thought
it did--in the troutrh or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more: in
this agony of mind, lmade many vows and resolutions, that if it would please
God to spare my life in this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry
land again,I would go directly home to my father, and never set it into a
ship again while I livad; that I would take his advice, and never rim myself
into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of
his observations about the middle station of life; how easy, how comfortably
he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea, or
troubles on shore; and, in short, I resolved that I would, like a true repent-
ing prodigal, go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm lasted,
and, indeed, some time after; but the next day, the wind was abated, and
the sea calmer, and I began to be a little 'mured to it: however, I was very
grave for all that day, being also a little seasick still; but towards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening
followed; the sun went down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning;
and, having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the
sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more seasick, but very
cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea, that was so rough and terrible
the day before, and could be so calm and so pleasant in so little a time after.
And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion, who had
indeed enticed me away, comes to me. " Well, Bob," says he, clapping me
upon the shoulder, "how do you do alter it? I warrant you were frighted,
wer'n't you, last night, when it blew but a capful of wind?"--"A capful
d'you call it?" said I; "'twas a terrible storm."---"A storm, you fool you,"
replies he, "do you call that a storm? why, it was nothing at all; give us but
a good ship and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as
that; but you're but a flesh-water sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a bowl ofa

6 Tm: LIFE AND mvnxrrnes

 

punch, and we'll tin-get all that; d'yc see what charming weather 'tis now?"
To make short this sad part of my story. we \vcnt the way of all sailors: the
punch was made, and l was made halt'drunk with it; and in that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon my past
Conduct,all my resolutions for the future. In a word, as the seawas returned
to its smoothness ol'snrlhee and settled calmness by the abatement of that
storm, so, the hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions
ol'being swallowed up by the sea being tbrgotten, and the current of my for-
mer desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that I made in
my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflection; and the serious
thoughts did, as it were, endeavor to return again sometimes; but I shook
them oil; and roused myself from them, as it were, from a distemper, and
applying myself to drinking and company, soon mastered the return of those
fits,--- tbr so I called them ;--and I had, in live or six days, got as complete a
victory over my conscience, as any young fellow that resolved not to be
troubled with it, could desire: but I was to have another trial for it still; and
Providence, as in such cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely
without excuse: for it' I would not take this for u deliverance, the next was
to be such a one as the worst and most hardened wretch among us would
conf ss both the danger and the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into Yarmouth Roads; the
wind having been contrary, and the Weather calm, we had made but little
way since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and here
we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at south-west, for seven or eight
days, during: which time a great many ships from Newcastle came into the
same roads, as the common harbor where the ships might wait fora wind
for the river.
"'0 had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided it up
the river, but that the wind blew too flesh, and. after we had lain four or
five days, blew very hard. llowever, the roads being reekoned as good as
a harbor, the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our men
were unconcerned, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent
the time in rest and mirth, alter the manner of the sea; but the eighth day,
in the morning, the wind 'uiereased, and We had all hands at work to strike
our topmasts, and make every thing snug and close, that the ship might ride
as easy as posible. By noon, the sea went very high indeed, and our ship
rid l'orecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice our
anchor had come home; upon which our master ordered out the. sheet-
anehor, so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and tlte cables veered out
to the better end.

By this time, it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now 1 began to see
terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves. The
master, though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet, as he
went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself say.
several times, "Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be all lost; we shall be

\-

s
" . "it
"\
w ' >\'\\*'\~\
.\\'
\'.~\\ ,
_\8 rm; use AND anvex'rvaes

all undone!" and the like. During these first hurries, I was stupid, lying
still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my temper.
I could ill resutne the first penitence which I had so apparently trampled
upon, and hardened myself against. I thought the bitterness of death had
been past, and that this would be nothing, too, like the first; but when the
master himself came by me, as I mid just now, and said we should be all
l0st,I was dreadfully frighted. I got up out of ray cabin, and looked out;
but such a dismal sight I never saw: the sea went mountains high, and
broke upon us every three or tour minutes; when I could look about, I
could see nothing but distress round us; two ships that rid near us, we
found, had cut their masts by the board, being deep laden; and our men
cried out, that a ship which rid about a mile ahead of us was foundered.
Two more ships, being driven li'om their anchors, were run out of the roads
to sea, at all adventures, and that not with a mast standing. The light ships
fared the best, as not so much laboring in the sea; but two or three of them
drove, and came close by us running away with only their spritsail out
belin'e the wind.

Towards evening, the mate and boatswain begged the master of our ship
to let them cut away the tbremast, which he was very unwilling to do; but
the boatswain protesting to him that, if he did not, the ship would founder,
he consented ; and when they had cut away the fore-mast, the mainmast stood
so loose, aml shook the ship so much, they were obliged to cut her away, also,
aml make a clear deck.

Any one must judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who was
but a young sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at but a little.
llut ifl can express at this distance the thoughts I had about me at that time,
I was in tenfold more horror ot'mind upon account of tny former convictions,
mnl the having returned from thctn to the resolutions I had wickedly taken
at first, than I was at death itself: aml these, added to the terror of the stortn,
put me into such a condition, that I can by no words describe it. But the
worst was ttot come yet; the storm continued with such fttry, that the seamen
themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse. \Ve had a good
ship; but she was deep laden, and wallowcd in the sea, that the seamen
every now and then cried ottt, she would founder It was my advantage, in
one respect, that I did not know what they meant by founder, till I inquired.
However, the storm was so violent, that I saw, what is not otlen seen, the
master, the boatstvain, and some others, more sensible than the rest, at their
prayers, and expecting every moment when the ship would go to the bottom.
In the middle of the night, and tntdcr all the rest of our distresses, one of the
men that had been down on purpose to see, cried out, we had sprung a leak;
another said, there was four feet water in the hold. Then all hands were
called to the pmnp. At that very word, my heart, as I thought, died within
me; and I fell backwards, upon the side of my bed where I sat, into the
cabin. However, the men roused tne, and told me that I, that was able to
do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another; at which I stirred
up, aml went to the pump, and worked very heartily. \Vhile this was doing,
the master, seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride out the storm,
were obliged to slip, and run away to the sea, and would come near us,
ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what they
meant, was so surprised, that I thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful
thing happened. In a word, I was so surprised, that I fell down in a swoon.
 

As this was a time when every body had his own me to think of, nobody
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man stepped Up to
the pump, and thrusting tne aside with his that, let me lie, thinking I had
been dead; and it was a great while before 1 came to myselti

\Ve worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it Was apparent
that the ship would founder; and though the storm began to abate a little,
yet as it was not pogihle she could swim till we might run into any port,
so the master continued firing guns lbr help; and a light ship, who had rid
it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us It was with the
utmost hazard the boat came near us; but it was iltipossible for us to get
on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's side: till, at last, the men
rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives to save outs, our men cast
thetn a rope, over the stern, with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after nmeh labor and hazard, took hold at; and we hauled
them close under otlr stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no pur-
pose for them or us after we were in the boat, to think of reaching to their
own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards
share as much as we could; and our master promised them, that it' the boat
was staved upon shore, he would make it good to their master; so, partly
rowing, and partly driving, our beat "em away to the northward, sloping
towards the shore nImOst as far as Winterton Ness.

we were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our slap but
we saw her sink; and then I understood for the first time what was meant
bya ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to

210 THE LIFE AND ADVl-INTL'H IS

look up, when the strainer: told me she was sinking; {hr from that moment ,
they rather put tne into the hunt, than that I might be said to go in; my
heart was, as it Wow. dead within me, partly with flight, partly with horror
of mittd, aml the thoughts of what was yet het'ore me.

"'hile We were in this eotulition,--tl:e tuelt yet laboring at the our to
bring the boat mar the sla-re,---we could see (when, our boat mounting
the Waves, We were able to see the shore) a great many la-ople running
along the strand to assist us when we should come near; but We made
hut slow \\':t_\' towards the shore; nor Wort: We ahle to reach the shore, till,
being past the lighthouse at \Viulertun, the shore titlls otl' to the \vestward
towards Crotner, and so the land hroke otl' a little the violence of the Wind.
Here we got in; and, though not without much dittieulty, got all safe on
shore, aml walked atierwards on foot to Yarlnouth, where, as unfin'ttnzate
men, we were used With great lutmanity, as well hy the magistrates of the
town, who assigned us good quarters, as hy partieular tllt'l't'llittlts and
owners of ships, and had money given us sullieient to eat-r;v us either to
London, or haek to Hall, as we thought tit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone hack to Hall, and have gone home,
I had been happy, and lay lather, an emblem of our hlessed Savior's parable,
had even killed the. tinted ealt' [or me; tor, hearing,r the ship I Went away
in Was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it Was a great while helbre he had
any assurances that I Was not drowned.

But my ill line. pushed me on now with an ohstinacy that nothing could
resist; and though I had several times lotnl calls from tny reason, and my
more composed judgment, to go home, yet I had no potver to do it. I know
not what to 'all this, our will I urge that it is a seeret, overruling decree,
that hurries us on to he the instrttments of our own destruetion, even though
it he Delia-o us, and that we rush upon it with ottr eyes open. Certainly,
Nothing hut some such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and Which
it was impassihlc for me to escape, could have pushed me Iin'Ward against
the eahn reasonings and persuasious ol'my most retired thoughts, and against
two such visihle instructions as I had met with in my first attempt.

My ('omrade, who had helped to harden me hetbre, and who was the
master's son, was now less thrward than I. The first time he spoke to me
alter We Were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days,-----lbr we
were separated in the town to several quarters,---l say, the first time he
saw me, it aptwared his tone was altered, and looking very melancholy, and
shaking his head, asked me how I did, and telling his lather who I waS, and
how I had come this voyage only tor a trial, in order to go litrthcr abroad
His father turning to me, with a very grave and concerned tone, "Young
man," says he, "you ought never to go to sea any more; you ought to take
this for a plain and visible token that you are not to he a seatitring man."
'deg\\'hy, sir," said I. " will you go to sea no tnore ?" "That is another case,"
said he; " it is my calling, and theretorc my duty; but as you made this
voyage tor atrial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you of What you
are to expect if you persist. Perhaps this has all helitllen us on your ac-
eount, like Jonah in the ship of "'atshish. Pray," continues he, "what,
are you.: atul on what account (lid 1 go to sea?" L'pon that, I told him
some of my story; at the end of Winch he burst out into a strange kind of
passion. " What had I done," says he, " that such an unhappy wretch should
come into my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship With theeor nontxsox CRL'SOE. 11

again for a thousand pounds." This, indeed, was, as I said. an excursion:
of his spirits,-- which were yet agitated by the sense of his lt)&~',--lllld was
farther than he could have authority to go. llowever, he allcrwards talked
very gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my tiuher, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin; told me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against

 

me. "And, young man," said he, "depend upon it, it' you do not go lnck,
wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but disasters and disappoint-
ments, till your litther's words are fulfilled upon you."

"'e parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and I saw him no
more; which way he went,l know not. As for me, having some money
in my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as well as on the
road, had tuauy struggles with myself what course of life I should take, and
whether I should go home, or go to sea.

As to going home, shame Opposed the best motions that offered to my
thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I should he laughed at
among the neighbors, and should be ashamed to see, not my litther and
mother only, but even every body else: from whence I have since olien
observed how incongruous and irnuional the common temper of mankind
is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them in such
cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent;
not ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be esteemed tools,
but are ashamed of the returning, which only can make them be esteemed
wuse men.

In this state of life, however, I .tained some time, uncertain what
measures to take, and what course of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance
continued to going home; and as I staid awhile, the remembrance of the12 'rtn: LII-'1; no wrenches

distresl had been in wore off; and as that abated, tlte little motion I had
in thy desires to return wore oil' with it, till at last I quite laid aside the
thoughts of it, and looked out tor a voyage.

That evil influence which carried Inc first away from my father's house,--
whieh hurried tuc into the wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune,
and that impressed those eonceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf
to all good advice, and to tlte entreaties, and even the commands, of my
tather,--I say, the same inllueuce, whatever it was, presented the most
unfortunate of all enterprises to my view; and I went on board a vessel
bound to the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to
Guinea.

It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures I did not ship
myself as a sailor, whereby, though I might, indeed, have worked a little
harder than ordinary, yet at the same time I ltad learnt the duty and oflice
ot'a lbrentast-Ittatt, and, in time, might have qualified myself for a mate, or
lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was always nty fate to choose for
the \t'ot'se, so I did here; tor having money in my pocket, and good clothes
upon tuy back, I would always go on board ill the habit ol'a gentleman; and
so I neither ltad any business in the ship, ttor learnt to do any.

It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good company in London;
which does not always happen to such loose and unguided young fellows
as I then was: the devil generallv not omitting to lay some snare for them
very early , but it u as Itot so with me. I first fell acquainted with the
master of a .4le who had been on the coast of Guinea, and who, having
had very good success there, was resolved to go again; this captain, taking
a lEuII-y to my conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that time,
hearing me say] had a mind to see the world, told me, if I would go the
voyage with him, I should be at no expense; I should be his messmate and
his companion: and il'I could carry any thing with me, I should have all
the advantage of it that the trade would admit; attd perhaps I might meet
with some encouragement.

I embraced the otl'cr; and entering into a strict friendship with this cap-
tain, who was an honest, plain-dealing utau, I went the voyage with him,
and carried a small adventure with tue, which, by the disinterested honesty
of my friend, the captain, I increased very considerably; for 1 carried about
PS40 in such toys and tritlcs as the captain directed me to buy. This PS40
I had tnustcrml together hr the assistance of some of ntv relations whom I
eortcspondcd with; and who, I believe, got my lather, or at least my mother,
to contribute so much as that to Int fiIst adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful, in all my
adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend, the
captain; under whom, also, I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics
and the rules of navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's
course, take. an observation, and, in short, to understand some things that
were needt'IIl to be understood by a Sailor; for, as he took delight to intro-
duee Inc, I took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both
a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces of
gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return,
almost PS300; and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have
since so completed my ruin.

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes, too; particularly that I
was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive
heat of the climate; our principal trading being upon the coast, from the
latitude of 15 degrees north even to the line itself.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great mis-
fortune, dying soon alter his arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again;
and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his mate in the former
voyage, and had now got the command of the ship. This was the unhap-
pies! voyage that ever tnan made; for though Idid not carry quite PS100 of
my new-gained wealth, so that I had PS200 left, and which I lodged with tny
friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible mislbrtuues
in this voyage; and the first was this, viz: our ship, making her course
towards the Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and the African
shore, was surprised, in the gray of the morning, by a Turkish rover of
Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make. We crowded,

 

also, as much canvass as our yards would spread, or our masts carry, t'o have
got clear; but, finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come
up with tts in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our ship having twelve
guns, and the rogue eighteen. About three in the afternoon, he came up
with us, attd bringing to, by mistake, just atltwart our quarter, instead of
athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of ottr guns to bear on
that side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which made him sltecr off
again, after returning our fire, and pouring in also his small shot from near
two hundred men, which he had on board. However, we had not a man
touched, all our mett keeping close. llc prepared to attack us again, and
we to defend ourselves; bttt laying us on board the next tittte upon our
other quarter, he entered si.\1y men upon our decks, who immediately fell
to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging. \Ve plied them with small
shot, balf-pikes, powder chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them
twice. However, to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our ship
being disabled, and three of our men killed, and eight wounded, we were
obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging
to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I apprehended; nor
was I carried up the country to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men
were; but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and
made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his business. At this
surprising change at" my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable
slave, 1 Was portectly ovcrwhelmed; and now I looked back upon my fa-
ther's prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable, and have none
to relieve me, which I thought was now so etl'ectually brought to pass, that
1 could not be worse; that now tlte hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and
l was undone without redemption; but, alas! this was but a taste of the
misery l was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house, so] was
in hopes that he would take me with him when he went to sea again, be-
lieving that it would some litne or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish
or Portugal man-ollwar; and that then 1 should be set at liberty. But this
hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left me
on shore to look after his little garden, and do the common drudgery of
slaves about his house; and when he came home again from his cruise, he
ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship.

Here I nil-<<litated nothing but my escape, and what method! might take
to etl'eet it; but found no way that had the least probability in it; nothing
presented to tnnke the supposition of it rational; her I had nobody to com-
municate it to, that would embark with me; no fellow-slave, no English-
man, lrislnnan, or Scotsman there, but myself; so that Mr two years, though
I often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never had the least en-
couraging prospect of putting it in practice.

After about two years, an odd eiremnstance presented itscll: which pttt
the old thought of making some attempt lbr my liberty again in my head.
My patron lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his ship,--
whieh, as I heard, was Mr want ot'money,--he used, constantly, once or twice
a week, sometimes oflener, it'the weather was litir, to take the ship's pinnace,
and go out into the road a-fishing; and, as he always took me and a young
Marcscp with him to row the boat, we made hitn very merry, and 1 proved
very dexterons in catching fish; insomneh that sometimes he would send me
with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth --the Maresco, as they called
him ---to catch a dish of fish for him. -

It happened one time that, going a-fishing in a stark calm morning, a fog
rose so thick that, though we were not hall'a league from the shore, we lost
sight of it; and rowing we knew not whither or which way, We labored all
day and all the next night, and when the morning came, we found we had
pulled ofl' to sea instead of pulling in for the shore; and that we were at least
two leagues ti-om the shore: however, we got well in again, though with a
great deal of labor and some danger, for the. wind began to blow pretty fresh
in the morning; but particularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more care of him-
self for the future; and having lying by him the long-boat of our English
ship he had taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing any more without a.
compass and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who
also was an English slave, to build a little state-room, or cabin, in the middle
of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer,
and haul home the main-sheet; and room before for a hand or two to stand
and work the sails; she sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton sail;
and the boom gibed over the top of the cabin; which lay very snug and low,or ROBINSON cnesos. 15

and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat on,
with some small loekers to put in some bottles ot' such liquor as he thought
fit to drin '; and particularly his bread, rice, and cotl'ee.

We went ti'equently out with this boat a-tishing, and as] was most dexterous
to catch fish for him, he never went without me. It happened that he had
appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or tor fish, with two or
three Moms of some distinction in that place, and for whom he had provided
extraordinarily, and had therelbre sent on board the boat over-night a larger
store of provisions than ordinary; and had ordered me to get ready three
l'uzees, with powder and shot, which new on board his ship, tor that they
designed some sport of feeling as. well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the next morning with
the boat washed clean, her ancient and pendants out. and every thing to ac-
commodate his guests; when hy-aud-hy my patron came on hoard alone, and
told me his guests had put oti' going, upon some business that fell out, and
ordered me, with the man aml boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and catch
them some fish, for that his friends \vere to sup at his house; and commanded
that as soon as I got some fish, [should bring it home to his house; all which
I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts,
for now! tbund l was like to have a little ship at my command; and my
master being gone, 1 prepared to furnish myselt; not for fishing business, but16 Tue use AND anvss'rcass

for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whither
I should steer; for any where, to get out of that place, was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor, to get
something for our subsistence on board, for I told him we must not presume
to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was true: so he brought a large
basket of rusk, or biscuit of their kind, and three jars with fiesh water, into '
the boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evi-
dent, by the make, were taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed
them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there
before for our master: I conveyed also a great lump of beeswax into the boat,
which weighed above half a hundred weight, with a parcel of twine or thread,
a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all of which Were of great use to us alter-
wards, especially the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him,
which he innocently came into also: his name'was Ismael, whom they call
Muley, or Moely; so I called to him; "Moely," said I, "our patron's guns are
on board the boat; can you not get a little powder and shot? it may be we
may kill some alcamics (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he
keeps the guuucr's stores in the ship." "Yes," says be, "I'll bring some;"
and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held a pound and a
half of powder, or rather more; and another with shot, that had five or six
pounds, with some bullets, and put all into the boat; at the same time, I had
lbund some powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which I filled
one of the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty, pouring what
was in it into another; and thus furnished with every thing needful, we sailed
out ofthe port to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew
who we were, and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish. The wind
blew from the N. N. E, which was contrary to my desire; for, had it blown
southerly,I had been sure to have tnade the coast of Spain, and at least
reached to the Bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it
would, Iwould be gone from that horrid place where I was, and leave the
rest to fate.

Alter we had fished some time and catched nothing,---for, when I had fish
on my hook,I would not pull them up, that he might not see them,--I said to
the Moor, "This will not do; our master will not be thus served; we must
stand farther off" He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being in the head of
the boat, set the sails; and, as I had the helm, I run the boat out near a league
farther, and then brought her to, as if I would fish; when, giving the boy the
helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped
for something behind him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his
twist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose immediately, -- for
he swam like a cork,--and called to me, begged to be taken in, told me he
would go all over the world with me. He swam so strong after the boat that
he would have reached me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon
which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-pieces, 1 pre--
sented it at him, and told him I had done him no hurt, and if he would be
quiet, I would do him none. " But," said I, "you swim well enough to reach
to the shore, and the sea is calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I
will do you no harm; but if you come near the boat, I'll shoot you through
the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty." So he turned himself about,
and swam for the shore; and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.Pages

17 - 18
Missing

From
Originalor noemsotv CRUSOB. 19

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and have
drowned the boy; but there was no venturing to trust him. When he was
gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, "Xury,
if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a great man; but if you will not
stroke your litee to be true to me,"-- that is, swear by Mahomet and his titther's
beard, --" I must throw you into the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and
spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him, and swore to be lhitht'ul to
me, and go all over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out directly
to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward, that they might think me
gone towards the strait's mouth, (as indeed any one that had been in their
wits must have been supposed to do ;) for who would have supposed we
were sailed on to the southward to the truly Barbarian coast, where whole
nations of Negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes, and destroy
us; where we could never once go on shore but we should be devoured by
savage beasts, or more merciless savages of human kind?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course, and
steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little towards the
cast, that I might keep in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of
wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by the next day
at three o'clock in the afternoon, when 1 first made the land, 1 could not be
less than one hundred and filly miles south of Sallee; quite beyond the em~
peror of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabouts, for
we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dreadful appre-
hensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would not stop, or go on
shore, or come to an anchor: the wind continuing fair till I had sailed in that
manner five days, and then the wind shitting to the southward, I concluded
also that, if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would now give
over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth
of a little river, I knew not what, or where; neither what latitude, what
country, what nation, or what river: I neither saw, or desired to see, any
people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. "'e catne into this
creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and
discover the country; but as soon as it Was quite dark, we heard such dread-
ful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew
not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of
me not to go on shore till day. " Well, Xury," said I, "then I won't; but it
may be we may see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
"Then we give them the shoot gun," says Xury, laughing, "make them run .
wey. " Such English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. Ho" ev er,
Iwas glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a drum (out of our
patron' s case of bottles) to cheer him up. After all, Xury' s advice was good,
and I took it; we dropped our little anchor, and lay still all night; I say still,
for we slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast, great creatures (we
knew not what to call them) of many sorts, come down to the seashore, and
run into the water, wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of
cooling themselves; and they made such hideous how lings and yellings, that
I never, indeed, heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and, indeed, so was I too; but we were both
more fi'ighted when we heard one of these mighty creatures come swimming
 

towards our boat; we could not see him, but we might hear him by his
blowing to be a monstrous, huge, and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion,
and it might be so, for aughtl know; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh
the anchor and row away. "No," says I, "Xury; we can slip our cable,
with the buoy to it, and go off to sea; they cannot follow us far." I had no
sooner said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever it was) within two oars?
length, which something surprised me; however, I immediately stepped to
the cabin-door, and, taking up my gun, fired at him; upon which he imme-
diately turned about, and swam towards the shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises, and hideous cries and
howlings, that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as higher
within the country, upon the noise or report of the gun,-- a thing I have some
reason to believe those creatures had never heard before: this convinced me
that there was no going on shore for us in the night on that coast; and how to
venture on shore in the day, was another question, too; for to have fallen into
the hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the
hands of lions and tigers; at least, we were equally apprehensive of the
danger ofit.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other
for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat; when or where to get it
was the point. Xury said, if I would let him go on shore with one of the
jars, he would find if there was any water, and bring some to me. I asked
him why he would go; why I should not go, and he stay in the boat. The
boy answered with so much affection, that made me love him ever after.
Says be, "If wild mans come, they eat me, you go wey." " Well, Xury,"
said I, "we will both go, and if the wild mans come, we will kill them; they
shall eat neither of us." So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a
drum out of our patron's case of bottles, which I mentioned before; and we
hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper, and so waded
on shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming of canoes
with savages down the river; but the boy, seeing a low place about a mile up
the country, rambled to it; and by-and-by I saw him come running towards
me. I thought he was pursued by some savage, or frighted with some wild
beast, and I ran forwards towards him to help him; but when I cattle nearer
to him, I saw something hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
that he had shot, like a hare, but different in color, and longer legs: however,
we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the great joy that
poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good water, and seen no
wild mans.

 

But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for water, for, a
little higher up the creek where we were, We found the water fresh when the
tide was out, which flowed but a little way up; so we filled our jars, and
feasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared to go on our way, having
seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part ofthe country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well that the
islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd Islands also, lay not far off
from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an observation to know
what latitude we were in, and not exactly knowing, or at least remembering,
what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or when to
stand off to sea towards them; otherwise I might now easily have found some
of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along this coast till I came
to that part where the English traded, Ishould find some of their vessels
upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where [now was, must be that
country which, lying between the emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
Negroes, lies waste and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the Negroes
having abandoned it, and gone further south, for fear of the Moors, and the
Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness; and,
indeed, both fotsaking it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions,
leopards, and other furious creatures which. harbor there; so that the Moors
use it for their hunting only, where they go like an army, two or three thou-
sand men at a time; and, indeed, for near a hundred miles together upon
this coast, we saw nothing but a waste, uninhabited country by day, and
heard nothing but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.

Once or twice in the daytime, I thought I saw the Pico of Tenerifi'e, being
the high top of the Mountain Tenerifl'e in the Canaries, and had a great
mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but, having tried twice,
I was forced in again by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for
my little vowel; so I resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along
the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we had left this
place; and, once in particular, being early in the morning, we came to an
anchor under a little point of land which was pretty high; and, the tide be-
ginning to flow, we lay still to go further in. Xury, whose eyes were more
about him than, it seems, mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we
had best go timber ofl'the shore; " for," says he, " look, yonder lies a dreadful
monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep." I looked where he pointed,
aml saw a dreadful monster, indeed; for it was a terrible great lion, that lay
on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the bill, that hung, as
it were, a little over him. "Xury," says I, "you shall go on shore and kill
him." any looked frighted, and said, " Me kill ! he eat me at one tnouth ;"
one mouthful, he meant. However, I said no tuore to the boy, but bade him
lie still; and I took our biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and
loaded it with a good charge ofpowdcr, and with two slugs, and laid it down;
then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and the third (for we had three
pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could
with the first piece to have shot him in the head; but he lay so with his
leg raised a little above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee,
and broke the bone. Ile started up, growling at fil'SI, but, finding his leg
broke, fell down again ; and then got up ttpon three legs, and gave the most
hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not hit him
on the head; however, I took up the second piece immediately, and, though
he began to move ofi; fired again, and shot him in the head, and had the
pleasure to see him drop, and make Inn little noise, but lie struggling for life.
Then Xury took heart, and would have me let him go on shore. "Well, go,"
said I ; so the boy jumped into the water, and, taking a little gun in one
hand, swam to shore with the other hand ; and, coming close to the creature,
put the muule ofthe piece to his ear, and shot him in the head again, which
dcspatched him quite.

This was game, indeed, to us, but this was no food; and I was very sorry
to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a creature that was good for
nothing to us. However, any said he would have some of him; so he
comes on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet. " For what, Xury?"
said I. "Me out 03' his head," said be. However, Xury could not cut off23 - 24
Missing

From
Original
his head, but he cut oil' a foot, and brought it with him, and it was a mon-
strous great one.

I bethought mysell; however, that perhaps the skirt of him might, one way
or other, be ot'sotne value to us; aml I resolved to take ot't'ltis skin it'I could.
So Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury was much the better
workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took tts both up
the whole day; bttt at last we got oti'the hide ot'hitn, and, spreading it on the
top ol'our cabin, the sun ct'l'ectually dried it ill two days" titne, aml it after-
wards served me to lie upon.

Alter this stop, We tnade on to the southward continually for ten or twelve
days, living very sparing on ottr provisions, which began to abate \'cry ntttclt,
attd going no ottener into tlte shore than we were obliged to for fresh water;
my design itt this was, to make. the River Gambia or Senegal, that is to say,
any where about the Cape dc Verd, where l was itt hopes to meet with some
European ship; and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to take, but
to seek tor the islands, or perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all
the ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to
Brasil, or to the East Indies, made this cape, or those islands; and, in a
word, I put the whole ot'my fortune upon this single point, either that I must
meet with some ship, or mttst perish.

"'lten I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have said,
Ibegau to see that the land was inhabited: and, iii two or three places, as
we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to l0ok at us: we could
also perceive they were quite black, and stark naked. I was once in-
clined to have gone on shore to them: but Xtu-y was tny better counsellor,
and said to me, "No go, no go." However, I hauled in nearer the shore,
that I might talk to them, and I found tltey ran along the shore by tne a
good way. I observed they had no weapons in their hands, except one, who
had a long, slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, am] that they would
throw them a great way with good aitu; so I kept at a distance, but talked
with them by signs as well as Iconld; and, particttlarly, tnade signs lbr
something to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they would
fetch me some meat. Upon this, 1 lowered the top of my sail, and lay by,
and two of thettt ran up into the country, and in less than halt' an hour came
back, and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh attd some corn, such as
is the produce of their country; bttt we neither knew what the one or the
other was: however, we were willing to accept it; but how to come at it
was our next dispute, for] was not for venturing on shore to them, and they
were as much ati-uid of US; but they took a safe way for us all, for they
brought it to the shore, and laid it dawn, and went and stood a great way
off till we fetched it on board, attd then catne close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make them
amends; but an opportunity oflered, that very instant, to oblige them
wonderfully; for while we were lying by the sltore, came two mighty
creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury from the
mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male pursuing the female, or
Whether they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any more than we
could tell whether it was usual or strange; butI believe it was the latter,
because, in the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the
night; and, in the second place, we found the people terribly frighted,
especially the women. The man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from

4
them, but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into
the water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the Negroes, but
plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they had come for
their diversion. At last, one of them began to come nearer our boat than at
first I expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all
possible expedition, and bade Xury lead both the others. As soon as he
came fairly within my reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the head:
immediately he sank down into the water, but rose instantly, and plunged
up and down, as if he was struggling for life; and so, indeed, he was: he
immediately made to the shore; but between the wound, which was his
mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just before he reached
the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures at the
noise and fire of my gun; some of them were even ready to die for fear,
and fell down as dead with the very terror; but when they saw the crea-
ture dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made signs to them to come to
the shore, they took heart, and came to the shore, and began to search for
the creature. I found him by his blood staining the water; and by the help
of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted,
and fine to an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up their hands with
admiration, to think what it was I had killed him with.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and the noise of the gun,
swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains li-om whence they came;
nor could I, at that distance, know what it was. I found quickly the Negroes
were for eating the flesh of this creature; so I was willing to have them take
itas a favor from me; which, when I made signs to them that they might
take him, they were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with
him; and though they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood,
they took ofl'bis skin as readily, and much more readily, than we could have
done with a knife. They offered me some of the flesh, which I declined,
making as if! would give it them; but made signs for the skin, which they
gave tne very freely, attd brought tnc a great deal more of their provisions,
which, though I did not understand, yet I accepted. I then made signs to
them lbr some Water, and held cut one of thy jars to them, turning it bottom
upWard, to show that it was empty, and that I Wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to sotne ol'their friends, and there came two Women, and
brought a great vowel tnade of earth, and burnt, as I supposed, in the sun;
this they set down to me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars,
and filled them all three. The women were as stark naked as the men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and water; and,
leaving tny friendly Negroes, I made l'orWard lbr about eleven days tnore,
without ofi'ering to go near the shore, till I saw the land rttn ottt a great
length into the sea. at about the distance of lbur or five leagues before me;
and, the sea being very calm, I kept a large oiling, to make this point. At
length, doubling the point, at about two leagues from the land, I saw, plainly,
land on the other side, to seaward: then I concluded, as it was most certain
indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and those the islands called, li'om
thence, Cape de Verd Islands. However, they Were at a great distance, and
I could not well tell what I had best to do; tor il' I should be taken with a
fresh of wind, I might neither reach one t.r other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin, and sat
me down, Xury having the helm: when, on a sudden, the boy cried out,
"Master, master, a ship with a sail !" and the foolish boy was tiigltted out
of his wits, thinking it tnust needs be some 01' his master's ships, sent to
pursue us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach. I
jumped out of the cabin, and itttmedintely saw, not only the ship, bttt what
she was, viz., that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to
the must of Guinea, for Negroes. But, when I ob-erved the course she
steered, I was soon convinced they were bound some other way, and did not
design to come any nearer to the shore; upon which I stretched out to sea
as much as I could, resolving to speak with them, if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I l'otmd I should not be able to come in
their way, but that they would be gone by before I could make any signal to
them; but after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it
seems, saw me, by the help of their perspective glasses, and that it was some
European boat, which they supposed must belong to some ship that was lost;
so they shortened sail to let me come up. I was eneoumged with this, and
as I had my patron's ancient on board, I made a wall of it to them, for a
signal of distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told me
they saw the smoke, though they did not heat- the gun. Upon these signals,
they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me; and in about three hours'
time, I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and in French,
but I understood none ol'them; but, at last, a Scots sailor, who was on board,
called to me; and I answered him, and told him I was an Englishman, that
I had made my escape out of slavery from the Moors, at Sallee; they then
bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all my goods28 THE LIFE AND aovex'ruass

It was an incxpressible joy to me, which any one will believe, that I was
thus delivered, as I esteemed it, ti-om such a miserable, and almost hopeless
condition as I was in; and I immediately ofi'ered all I had to the captain
ot'the ship, as a return tor my deliverance; but he generously told me he
would take nothing from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to
tne, when Icamc to the Brasils. " For," says he, "I have saved your life
on no other tenns than I would be glad to be saved myself; and it may, one
time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition. Besides,"
said he, "when I carry you to the Brasils, so great a way from your own
country, if I should take from you what you have, you will be starved there,
and then I only take away that life I have given. No, no," says he, " Seignior
higlesc," (Mr. Englislunan,) "I will carry you thither in charity, and those
things will help to buy your subsistence there, and your passage home again."

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the performance,
to a tittle; for he ordered the Seamen, that none should ofl'er to touch any
thing I had: then he took every thing into his own possession, and gave me
bark an exact inventory of them, that I might have them, even so much as
my three earthen jars.

As to my bout, it was a very good one; and that he saw, and told me he
would buy it of me thr the ship's use; and asked me what I would have for
it. I tohl him, he had been so generous to me in every thing, that I could
not otl'er to make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to him; upon
which he told me he would give me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces
of eight tbr it, at Brasil; and when it catne there, if any one ofl'ered to give
nan-e, he would make it up. He offered me, also, sixty pieces of eight more
for my boy Xury, which I was loath to take; not that I was not willing to
let the captain have him, but I was very loath to sell the poor boy's liberty,
who had assisted me so faithiitlly iu procuring my own. However, when I
let him know my reason, he owned it to he just, and offered me this medium,
that he would give the boy an obligation to set him free in ten years, if he
turned Christian. Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to him,
I let the captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brasils, and arrived in the Bay de
Todos los Santos, or All &ints' Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And
now I was once more delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of
life; and what to do next with myself, I was now to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough remem-
ber: he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats
for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat,
and caused every thing I had in the ship to be punctually delivered to me;
and what I was willing to sell, he bought of me; such as the ease of bottles,
two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of beeswax,---for I had made
candles ofthe rest: in a word, 1 made about two hundred and twenty pieces
ofeight of all my cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brasils.

Ihad not been long here, before I was recommended to the house of a
good, honest man, like himself; who had an ingenio, as they call it, (that is, a
plantation and a sugar--house.) [lived with him some time, and acquainted
myself, by that means with the manner of planting and making of sugar; and,
seeing how well the planters lived, and how they got rich suddenly, I resolved,
it'I could get a license to settle there, I would turn planter among them; to-
solving, in the mean time, to find out some way to get my money, which Ior ROBINSON 030503. 29

 

had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of a
letter of natumlization, I purchased as much land that was uncured as my
money would reach, and lbrmed a plan 1hr my plantation and settlement;
such a one as might be suitable to the stock which I [tropesed to myself to
receive from England.

Iliad a neighbor, a Portuguese, of Lisbon, but born of English parents,
whose name was \Vells, and in much such circumstances as lwas. lcall
him my neighbor, because his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on
very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we rather
planted for food than anything else, for about two years. However, we
began to increase, aml our land began to come into order; so that the third
year we planted some tobacco, and made, each of us, a large piece of ground
ready for planting canes in the year to come: but we both wanted help;
and now I found, more than before, I had done wrong in parting with my
boy Xury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no great wonder.
Iliad no remedy but to go on: I had got into an employment quite remote
to my genius, and directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for which I
forsook my father's house, and broke through all his good advice; nay, I
was coming into the very middle station, or upper degree of low life, which
my father advised me to before; and which, if I resolved to go on with, I might
as well have staid at home, and never have fittigued myself in the world, as
I had done; and I used oflen to Say to myself, 1 could have done this as well
in England, among my friends, as have gone five thouwnd miles off to do it
among strangers and savages, in a wilderness, and at such a distance as
never to hear limn any part of the world that had the least knowledge of me.

In this manner, I used to look upon my condition: with the utmost regret.
1 had nobody to converse with, but now and then this neighbor; no work to
be done, but by the labor of tny hands; and I used to say, I lived just like a
man cast away upon some desolate ishmd, that had nobody there but himself:
But ltow just has it been! attd how should all men reflect that, when they
compare their present conditions with others that are worse, Heaven may
oblige them to make the exchange, and be convinced of their former felicity
by their experience! I say, how just has it been that the truly solitary life I
reflected on, iii an island of mere desolation, should be my lot, who had so
often unjustly compared it with the lite which I then led, in which, had I
continued, I had, in all probability, been exceeding prosperous and rich!

I was in some degree settled in my measures for carrying on the plan-
tation, bclhre tny kind friend, the captain of the ship that took me up at sea,
went back; tor the ship remained there, in providing his lading, and pre-
paring for his voyage, near three months; when, telling him what little
stock I had lett behind me in London, he gave me this fi-iendly and sincere
advice: "Seignior Inglcse," says he,--for so he always called me,--"if you
will give tne letters, and a procuration here in form to me, with orders to the
person who has your money in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to
such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this coun-
try,l will bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my return; but,
since. luuttatt ailitirs are all subject to changes and disasters,l would have
you give orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which, you say, is half
your stock, aml let the hazard be run lbr the first, so that if it come safe, you
may order the rest the same Way; aml, if it tniscarry, you may have the
other half to have recourse to for your supply."

This was so wholesome advice, atul looked so friendly, that I could not
but be convinced it was the best course I could take; so I accordingly
prepared letters to the gentlewomun with whom I had left my money, and
a procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my adventures--
my slavery, PSI'EIIK', and how I had met with the Portugal captain at sea, the
humanity of his behavior, and what condition I was now in, with all other
necessary directions lbr my supply; and when this honest captain came to
Lisbon, he Ihuud means, by some of the English merchants there, to send
over, not the order only, but a full account of my story, to a merchant at
London, who represented it efi'ectually to her; whereupon she not only
delivered the money, but, out of her own pocket, sent the Portugal captain
a very handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in English goods,
such as the captain had writ for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and
he hmught them all mfe to me to the Brusils; among which, without my
direction, (for l was too young in my business to think of them,) he had
taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils, necessary for
my plantation, aml which were of great use to me.

v When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortunes made, for I was surprised
with the joy of it; and my good steward, the captain, had laid out the five
pounds, which my friend had sent him for a present for himself; to purchase
and bring me over a servant, under bond for six years'service, and would
not accept of any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I would have
hitn accept, being of my own produce.

Neither was this all; but my goods being all English manufitctnrea such
 

as cloths, stufi's, baize, and things particularly valuable and desirable in the
country, I found means to sell them to a very great advantage; so that I
might say, I had more than four times the value of my first cargo, and was
now infinitely beyond my poor neighbor, I mean in the advancement of my
plantation; for the first thing I (lid, I bought me a Negro slave, and a
European servant also; I mean another besides that which the captain
brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our great- \
est adversity, so was it with me. I went on, the next year, with great success
in my plantation; I raised filly great rolls of tobacco on my own ground,
more than I had disposed of for necessaries among my neighbors; and these
fifly rolls, being each of above a hundred weight, were well cured, and laid
by against the retum of the fleet from Lisbon; and now, increasing in busi-
ness and in wealth, my head began to be full of projects and undertakings
beyond my reach; such as are, indeed, often the ruin of the best heads in
business. Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had room for all
the happy things to have yet befallen me, for which my father so earnestly
recommended a quiet, retired life, and of which he had so sensibly described
the middle station of life to be full of ; but other things attended me, and I
was still to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries; and, particularly, to
increase my fault, and double the reflections upon myself; which in my litture
sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these miscarriages were procured
by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering
abroad; and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest views
of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects, and those
measures of life, which nature and Providence concurred to present me with.
and to make my duty.

As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my parents, so I
could not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy view I had of
being a rich and thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash
and itmuodcratc desire of rising faster than the nature of the thing admitted;
and thus I cast myself down again into the deepest gulf of human misery
that ever tnan tell into, or, perhaps, could be consistent with life, and a state
of ltcalth ill the world.

To come, then, by the just degrees, to the. particulars of this part of my
story: You may suppose, that, having now lived almost four years ill the
Brasils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation,
I had not only learned the language, but had contracted acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at
St. Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my discourses among them,
1 had frequently given thetn an account of toy two voyages to the coast of
Guinea: the manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how easy it was
to purchase, upon the coast, for tritieg--such as beads, toys, knives, scissors,
hatehets, bits of glass, and the like,----not only gold dust, Guinea grains,
elephants' teeth, dun, hut Negrmrs, for the set-\iee of tho Brasils, in great
ttlllnlu't's'.

'l'hey listened always very attentively to my discourses on these heads,
but especially to that part uhich related to the buying Negroes; which was
a trade. at that time. not only not titr entered into, but, as litr as it was, had
been carried on by the assientos. or permission of the kings of Spain and
Portugal, and engrossed in the. public stock; so that tetv Negroes were
brought, and those excessive dear.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters of my
acquaintam-e, and talking of those things very earnestly, three of them came
to me the nevt morning. atul told me they had been musing very much upon
what I had disenttrsed uith them of the last night, and they came to make
a secret propoml to me; and, atier enjoining me seen-cy, they told me that
they had a mind to tit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plan-
tations as well as l, and were straitencd for nothing so much as servants;
that, as it Was a trade that could not he carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they desired to make
but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide them
among their own plantations; aml, in a word, the question was, whether I
would go their supercargo in the ship, to nmnage the trading part, upon the
coast of Guinea; and they otliered me that I should have tny equal share of
the Negroes, without providing any part of the stock.

This was a tiiir proposal, it must he conti-sscd, had it been made to any
one that had not lnul a Settlement aml plantation of his own to ltJok alter,
Which was ill a litir way of coming to be very considerable, and with a good
stock upon it. But tbr me, that was thus entered and established, and had
nothing to do but go on as I had begun, the three or four years more, and
to have sent tor the other hundred pounds ti-om England; and who, in that
titne, and with that little addition, could scarce have t'ailcd of being worth
three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing too: for me to
think ol'sucb a voyage, was the most preposterous thing that ever loan, in
such circumstances, coultl he guilty oti

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no tnore resist the
offer, than I could restrain my tirst rambling designs, when my lathev's good
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, l told them 1 would go, with all
my heart, it'thcy would uudertake to look after my plantation in my absence,
and would dispose of it to such as l should direct, it'l miscarried. This they
all engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants to do so; and!
made a formal will, disposing of my plantation aml etii-ets, in case of my
death, making the captain of the ship, that had saved my file, as bctbro,
my universal heir; but obliging him to dispose of my etl'ects as 1 had
directed in my will; one halt' ot' the produce being to himselt; and the other
to be shipped to England. .

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my etii-cts, and to keep up
my plantation: had I used half as much prudence to have looked into my
own interest, and have made a judgment of what I ought to have done aml
not to have done, I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an
undertaking, leaving all the probable. views of a thriving circumstance, and
gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its common hazards, to say
nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular mislbrttmcs to myseltl

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my limcy, rather
than my reason; and, accordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo
furnished, and all things done as by agreement, by my partners in the voyage,
] went on board in an evil hour, the 1st of September, 1659, being the same
day eight year that I went ti--om my hither and mother at Hall. in order to act
the rebel to their authority, aml the fool to my own interest.

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty ton burden, carried six guns.
and fourteen men, besides the toaster. his boy, and myselt'; we had on board
no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for our trade with
the Negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and other trifles, especially
little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.

The same day I went on board, we set sail, standing away to the northward
upon our own coast, with design to stretch over for the African coast, when
they came about 10 or 12 degrees of northern latitude, which, it seems, was
the manner of their course in those days. We had very good weather, only

5
excessive hot, all the way upon our own coast, till we came to the height of
Cape St. Augustine; ti'om whence, keeping litrther oil' at sea, we lost sight
ot'land, and steered as it' we were bound for tlte lsle Fernando de Noronha,
holding ottr course N. E. by N., attd leaving those isles on the east. In this
course, we passed the line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our last
observation, itt 7 degrees '22 minutes northern latitttde, when a violent tor-
nado, or hurricane, took us quite out of our knowledge; it began from the
south-east, came about to the north-west, and then settled in the north-east;
from whence it blew in sttclt a terrible manner, tltat, tor twelve days together,
we could do nothing bttt drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry us
whither ever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during:r these
twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up;
nor. indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the stortn, one of our men
die of the calenture, and one man and the boy washed overboard. About
the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master made an observation
as well as be cottld, and found that he was in about ll degrees north latitude,
bttt that he was 22 degrees of longitude dill'erencc west ii'ont Cape St. Au-
gustine; so that he found he was gotten upon the coast of Guiana, or the
north part of "rash, beyond the River Amazons, toward that of the River
Oroonoqnc, connnonly called the Great River; and began to consult with
tne what cottrse he should take, tbr the ship was leaky and very much
disabled, and he was going directly back to the coast of Bras".

1 was positively against that; and, looking over the charts of the sea-coast
ol'.\mcrica with him, we cottcludcd there was no inhabited country for us to
have recourse to, till we 'ame within the circle of the Caribbce lslattds, and,
then-litre, resolved to stand away for lSarbatloes: which, by keeping OK at
sea, to avoid the in-dral't ol' the Buy or Gulf of Mexico, we might easily
perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail; whereas we cottld not
possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa without some assistance,
both to our ship and to ourselves.

With this design, we changed our course, and steered away N. W. by W.,
in order to reach some of our English islands, where I hoped for relief; but
ottr voyage was otherwise determined; for, being in the latitude of 1'2
degrees 18 minutes, a second storm came upon us, which carried us away
with the same itnpetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the way of all
human commerce, that, lmd all ottr lives been saved as to the sea, we were
rather in danger of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our
own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men, early in
the morning, cried out, " Land! " and we had no scatter rttn out of the cabin
to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts ill the world we were, but the
ship struck upon a sand: and, in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the
sea broke over her in such a manner, that we expected we should all have
perished immediately; and we were immediately driven into our close
quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and spray of the sea.

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the like condition, to
describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances. We
knew nothing where we were, or upon what land it was we were driven;
whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited; and, as
the rage of the wind was still great, though rather less than at first, we could
not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes, without breaking
in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn immediately
about. In a word, we sat looking upon one another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as preparing for another
world; for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this: that which
was our present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that, contrary to
our expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the master said the wind
began to abate.

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet, the ship hav-
ing thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her
getting ofi', we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do
but to think of saving our lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our
stern, just before the storm, but she was first stared by (lashing against the
ship's rudder, and, in the next place, she broke away, and either sunk, or was
driven off to sea; so there was no hope from her. We had another boat on
board, but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing: however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces
every minute, and some told us she was actually broken already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boat, and, with the
help of the rest of the men, they got her slung over the ship's side; and,
getting all into her, let go, and committed ourselves, being eleven in number,
to God's mercy, and the wild sea; for, though the storm was abated consid-
erably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the shore, and might be well
called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw plainly that the
sea went so high that the boat could not live, and that we should be inevita-
bly drowned. As to making sail, we had none; nor, if we had, could we
have done anything with it: so we worked at the our towards the land,
though witlt heavy hearts, like men going to execution; lbr we all knew tltat,
when the boat cattle nearer the shore, slte would be dashed in a thousand
pieces by the breach of the sea. lloweVer, we committed our souls to God
in the most earnest manner; and, the wiml driving us towards the shore, we
hastened our destruction with our own hamls, pulling, as well as we could,
towards land.

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal, we
knew not: the only hope, that cottld rationally give us the least shadow of
expectation, was, it" we might happen into some hay or gulf, or the mouth of
some river, where by great clatnee. we might have run our boat ill, or got
under the lee ofthe land, and perhaps made smooth Water. But there Was
nothin;.r of this appeared; but, as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the
land looked more l'riglttlitl than lhe sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half, as we
reckoned it, a ragingr wave, mountain-like, came rolling astcrn of us, and
plainly bade tts expect the coup (leg-race. In a word, it took us with suclt a
titry, that it overset the boat at once, and, separating: us, as well from the boat
as from on 2 another, gave us ttot titne hardly to say, "0 God!" lbr we were
all swallowed up in a motm-nt.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when l sunk
into the water; for, though I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from the. waves so as to draw breath, till that wave, having driven me, or
rather carried me, a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent itself,
went back, and leltntc upon the land almost dry, bttt halfdead with the water
I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that, sec--
in;.' myself nearer the main land than 1 expected, I got upon my feet, and
endeavtn-ed to make on towards the land as last as I could, before another
wave should return attd take tnc up again. But I soon found it was impossi-
ble to avoid it; lbrl saw the sea cotne alter me as high as a great hill, and
as furious as an enemy, which I had no means or strength to contend with.
My business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I
could; and so, by swimming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself
towards the shore, if possible, --- my greatest concern now being that the sea,
as it would carry inc :1 great way towards the shore when it came on, might
not -arry me back again with it when it gave back towards tltc sea.

The wave that cattle upon tne again, buried me at once twenty or thirty
feet deep in its own body, and I could tcel myselfcarried with a mighty three
and swiftncss towards the shore a ver ' great way; but I held my breath, and
assisted myself to swim still forward with all my might. I was ready to
burst with holding tny breath, when, as l fidt myself rising up, so, to my im-
mediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot out above the surface of the
water; and though it was not two seconds of time that I could keep myself
so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. l was cov-
ered again with water a good while, but not so long bttt I held it out; and,
finding the water had spent itself, and began to retum, I struck forward
against the return ot'thc waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood
still a few moments, to recover breath, and till the waters went from me, and
then 100k to my heels, atul ran, with what strength 1 had, farther towards the
shore. But neither would this deliver me train the fury of the sea, which37 - 38
Missing
From
Original
came pouring in alter tue again; and twice more I was lifted up by the
waves and carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last titne of these two had well nigh beett tidal to me; for the sea,
having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rather dashed me, against
a piece of a rock, and that with such force, as it left me senseless, and
indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow, taking my side and
breast, beat the breath, as it were, quite out of any body; and, had it re-
turned again immediately, I must have been strangled in the Water: but I
recovered a little before the return of the waves, and seeing I should be cov-
ered again with the water, I resolved to hold last by a piece of the rock, and
so to hold my breath, if possible, till the \VuVe went back. Now, as the
waves were not so high as at first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the
wave abated, and then tetched another run, which brought me so near the
shore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow me
up as to carry me aWay ; and the next run I took, [got to the main land: where,
to my great comfort, I t'lambered up the chills ol' the shore, and sat me down
upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and thank God
that my life was saved, ill a case wherein there was, some minutes before,
scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to express, to the life,
what the eestasies and transpons of the soul are, when it is so saved, as I
may say, out of the very grave; and I do not wonder now at the custom,
viz., that when n malet'aetor, who has the halter about his neck, is tied up,
and just going to be turned on; and has a reprieve brought to him,--l say, I
do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood that very
moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits
from the heart, and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands; and my whole being, as
I may say, wrapt up in the contemplation of my deliverance; making a thou--
sand gestures and motions, which I cannot describe: reflecting upon all my
comrades that were drowned, and that there should not be one soul saved
but myself; for, as for them,l never saw them afterwards, or any sign of
them, except three of their hats, one cup, and two shoes that were not
fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel,-- when, the breach and froth of the
sea being so big,! could hardly see it, it lay so far ofl;----aml considered,
Lord! how was it possible I could get on shore?

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my condition,
I began to look round me, to see what kind of place I was in, and what was
next to be done; and I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I
had a dreadful deliverance; for lwas wet, had no clothes to shifl me, nor
any thing either to eat or drink, to comfort me. Neither did I see any pros-
pect before me, but that of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by
wild beasts; and that which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had
no weapon, either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to
defend myself against any other creature that might desire to kill me for
theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, 9. tobacco-pipe, and a
little tobacco in a box. This Was all my provision; and this threw me into
terrible agonies of mind, that, for a while, I ran about like a madman. Night
coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what would be my
lot, if there were any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night they
always come abroad for their prey.

All the remedy that ofi'ered to my thoughts, at that time, was, to get up
into a thick, bushy tree, like a fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and
where I resolved to sit all night, and consider the next day what death I
should die, for as yet 'I saw no prospect of life. Iwalked about a furlong
from the shore, to see if I could find any fi'esh water to drink, which I did,
to my great joy; and, having drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to
prevent hunger,I went to the tree, and, getting up into it, endeavored to place
myself so as that, if lshould sleep, I might not fall; and, having cut me a
short stick, like a'trunchcon, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and,
having been excessively liitigned, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comforta-
bly as, I believe, few could have done in my condition; and found mySelf
the most refreshed with it that I think I ever was on such an occasion.

When I wakcd, it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm abated,
so that the sea did not rage and swell as before; but that which surprised
me most was, that the ship was lifted ofi' in the night from the sand where
she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the
rock which I at first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the wave
dashing me against it. This being within about a mile from the shore where
I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on board,
that, at least, I might save some necessary things lbr my use.

When 1 came down from my apartment in the tree,l looked about me
again; and the first thing I found was the boat, which lay, as the wind and
the sea had tosed her up, upon the land, about two miles on my right hand.
Iwalked as far as Icould upon the shore to have got to her, but found a.
neck or inlet of water btuween tue am! the boat, whieh was about ltalfu tuile
broad; so I came back tbr the present. being more. intent upon getting at tlte
ship, where I hoped to timl something for my present subsistence.

A little after noou,l lbtmtl the sea very calm, and the title chbed so far
out, tltut [could come within a quarter of a tnile of the ship. And ltere I
found a fresh renewing of my grief: IN I saw evidently, that if we had kept
on board, we had been all sale: that is to say, We had all got safe on shore,
and I had ttot been so miserable as to be Iell entirely destitute of all comfort
atnl company, as I now was. This fort-ed tears from my eyes again; but, as
there was little relief itt that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship- so I
pulled otl' my elothes,--tbr the weather was hot to extremity,-and took
the Water. But. when I came to the ship, tny ditlieulty was still greater to
know how to get on board: Ibr. as she lay aground. atul high out of the
water, there. was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. lswattt rotttul her
twice: and the seeoud time I spied a small piece of rope, wltieh I wondered
I (lit! not see at first. hung down by the fore-ehains so low, as that, with great
ditiieulty,l got hold of it: and, by the help of that rope, I got up into the
foreeastle of the ship. Here I tinmd that the ship was bulged, and hada
great deal of water in her bold, but that she lay so on the side of a bank of
hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank,and
her head low, almost to the water. By this means, all her quarter was free,
and all that was itt that part "as dry: for you may be sure my first Work was
to search. and to see what was spoiled and what was free: and, tirst, 1 found
that all the ship's provisions were dry atnl nntottehed by the water; atttl,
being very well disposed to eat, I went to the h 'ad-roottt, attd tilled nty pork-
ets with biscuit, and eat it as I went about other things; for 1 had no time to
lose. I also found some. rttttt itt the great eabin, of whieh I took a large
dram, attd which I had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what was
before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to titrnish myself with many
things which I tbresaw would be very necessary to toe.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be luul: and this
extremity roused my application. We had several spare yards, and two or
three large spars of wood, and a spare. topmast or two itt the ship. I resolved
to fall to work with these; and l tltntg as many oftbetn overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope, that they might not
drive away. \thn this was done, I went down the ship's side; and, pulling
them to me, I tied four of them together at both ends, as well as I could, in
the limo of a rail, and, laying two or three short pieces of plank ttpon theta,
cmssways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not able
to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light: so I went to work, and
with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare toptuast into three lengths, and added
them to my raft, with a great deal of labor and pains. But the hope of fur-
nishing myself with necessaries, encouraged me to go beyond what I should
have been able to have done upon another occasion.

My ralt was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight. My next
care was what to load it with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from
the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering this I first laid all the
plank or boards upon it that I could get; and, having considered well what
I most wanted, I first got three of the seatnen's chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my tall. The first of these

6
I filled with provisions, viz., bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of
dried goats' flesh. (whieh we lived maeh upon,) and a little r-mainder of
European eoru, which had been laid by tor some fo\\'ls which we brought to
sea with us; but the linvls were killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together: but, to my great disappointment, l Ibund afterwards that the
rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As tor liquors, I liumd several eases 0f bot
tles belonging to our skipper, in whieh were some eordial waters, and, in all,
about live or six gallons of rack. These I stowed by themselves, there being
no need to put them into the chest, nor no room for them. While I was
doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though very ealm; and 1 had the
tnortitiration to see tny eoat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore,
upon llu' sand, swim away: as lbr my hreeehes, whieh were only linen, and
open-ltneed, l swatn on board in them and my stat-kings. However, this put
me upon rummaging for clothes, of whieh I found enough, bttt took no more
than I wanted for present use, lorl had other things which my eye was more
upon; as, first, tools to work with on shore: atul it was after long seam-hing
that I found out the earpenter's ehest, which was indeed a very useful prize
to me, and mueh more valuable than a ship--hiding of gold would have been
at that time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing
time to look into it: tor I knew, in general, what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition aml arms. There were two very
good lint ling-pieces in the great eabiu, and two pistols: these I seemed first,
with some powder-horns and a small bag: of shot, and two old rusty swords.
I knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where
our gunner had stowed them; but with much search 1 found them, two of43 - 44
Missing
From
Original
them dry and good; the third had taken water. Those two I got to my rail,
with the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and began
to think how I should get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, or
rudder; and the least capful of wind would have overset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements: 1st, a smooth, caltn sea; 2dly, the tide rising,
and setting in tothe shore; 3dly, what little wind there was blew me towards
the land. And thus, having found two or three broken oars belonging to the
boat, and, besides, the tools which were in the chest, I found two saws, an
axe, and a hannuer; and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or there-
ahouts, my rati went very well, only that I found it drive a little distant from
the place where I had landed before; by which I perceived that there was
some indrail of the water, and consequently I hoped to find some creek or
river there, which I tnight make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before me a little opening of the
land, and 1 found a strong current of the title set into it; so I guided my raft,
as well as I could, to keep in the middle of the stream.

But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if i had, I
think verily would have broke my heart; for, knowing nothing of the coast,
my raft ran aground, at one end of it, upon a shoal, and, not being aground at
the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped otl' towards
the end that was afloat, and so ihllen into the water. I did my uttnOst, by
setting my back against the chests, to keep them in their places, but could
not thrust 011' the raft with all my strength; neither dtu'st I stir from the pos-
ture I was in; but, holding up the chests with all my might, I stood in that
manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of the water brought me
a little more upon a level; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft
floated again, and I thrust her at? with the earl had into the channel, and
then, driving up higher, I, at length, found myself in the mouth of a little
river, with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide running up. I
looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing
to be driven too high up the river; hoping, in time, to see some ship at sea,
and, therefore, resolved to place myself as near the coast as I could.

At length I spied a little core on the right shore of the creek, to which,
with great pain and difl'iculty,l guided my rail, and at last got so near, as
that, reaching ground with my ear, I could thrust her directly in; but here I
had like to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again; for, that shore lying
pretty steep, --that is to say, sloping--there was no place to land, but where
one end of my float, if it ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink
lower, as before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All that I could
do, was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the mil with my oar
like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of
ground, which I expected the water would flow over; and so it did. As soon as
I found water enough,-- for my rail drew about a foot of water,--I thrust her
on upon that flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her, by stick-
ing my two broken oars into the ground; one on one side, near one end, and
one on the other side, near the other end; and thus I lay till the water ebbed
away, and let! my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to View the country, and seek a proper place for my
habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure them from whatever might
happen. \Vhere I was, I yet knew not; whether on the cc atineat, or an
island; whether inhabited, or not inhabited; whether in danger of wild beasts,46 was LII-'3 AND amen-runes

or not. There was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very swep
and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills, which lay as in a
ridge from it, northward. I took out one of tlte Ibwling-pieces, and one of
the pistols, and a horn of powder; and, thus artned, I travelled for discovery
up to the top of that hill; where, aiier I had, with great labor and difiiculty,
got to the top, 1 saw my line, to my great affliction, viz., that I was in an
island, environed every way with the sea; no land to be seen, except some
rocks, which lay a great way of}; and two small islands, less than this, which
lay abottt three leagues to the west.

I tiiund also that the island lwas in was barren, and, as I saw good reason
to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, ol'whont, however, I saw none;
yet I saw abundance of tbwls, but knew not their kinds; neither, when I
killed them, could I tell what was fit tor food, and what not. At my coming
back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a
great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had been fired there since the
creation of the world. I had no sooner fired, but from all the parts of the
wood, there arose an innumerable munbcr of t'owls, of many sorts making a
confused screaming, and crying, every one according to his usual note; but
not one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I took
it to be a kind ofa hawk, its color and beak resembling it, but it had no
talons or claws more than common. Its flesh was earrion, and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to tny rail, and fell to work to
bring my cargo on shore, \\'ltlt'll took ttte up the rest of that day: what to do
with myself at night I knew not, nor, indeed, where to rest; for I was afraid
to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might devour
me; though, as I afterwards found, there was really no need for those fears.

Ilowever,as well as lttould,l barricadoed thyself round with the chests
and boards that I had brought on shore, and tnude a kind of a but for that
night's lodging. As tin' food, 1 yet saw not which way to supply myself, ex-
cept that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out of the wood
where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great many things out of
the ship, which would be useful to me, and particularly some of the rigging
and sails, and such other things as might come to land; andI resolved to
make anotlter voyage on board the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that
the first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved
to set all other things apart, till I had got every thing out of the ship that I
could get. Then I called a council,--that is to say, in my thoughts,--
wliether I should take lxzck the raft; but this appeared impracticable: sol
resolved to go, as before, when the tide was down; and 1 did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a checkemd
shirt, 8 pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second rafi; and, having
had experience of the first, I neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so
hard, but yet I brought away several things very useful to me: as, first, in the
carpenter's stores, 1 found two or three bags full of nails and spikes, algneat
screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatehets; and, above all, that most useful thing
called a grindstone. All these I secured together, with several things belong--
ing to the gunner; particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of
musket bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with some small
quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small shot, and a great roll of
sheet lead; but this last was so heavyI could not hoist it up to get it over
the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I could find, and a
spare foretopsail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded
my second rali, and brought them all sati: on shore, to my very great comfort.

I was under some apprehensions, during my absence from the land, that,
at least, my provisions tnight he tlevonred on shore: but, when I came back,
I found no sign of any visitor: only there sat a creature, like a wildcat, upon
otte of tltc chests, which, when I came towards it, ran away a little distance,
and then stood still. She sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked
titll in my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented
my gun to her, but, as she did not understand it, she. was perfectly uncon-
cerned at it, nor did she oll'er to stir away: upon which I tossed her a bit of
biscuit, though, by the way, I was not very li'ee. of it, for my store was not
great; however,I spared her a bit, I Say, and she went to it, smelled of it,
and ate it, and looked (as pleased) for more; bttt I thanked her, and could
spare no more; so she mar -hed oti'.

Having got my second cargo on shore,---though I was fain to open the
barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being
large casks,--l went to work to make me a little tent, with the sail, and
some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into this tent I brought
every thing that I knew would spoil, either with rain or sun: and I piled
all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from
any sudden attempt, either from man or beast.

When I had done this, 1 blocked up the door of the tent with some boards
within, and an etnpty chest set up on end without; and spreading one of the
beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and my gun at
length by me, I went to bed lbr the first time, and slept very quietly all night,
for] was very weary and heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and
had labored very hard all day, as well to (etch all those things from the ship,
as to get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds, now, that ever was laid up, I
believe, for one man; but I was not satisfied still; for, while the ship sat
upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing out of her that
1 could; so every day, at low water,l went on board, and brought away
mmething or other; but, particularly, the third time I went, I brought away
as touch of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine
I could get, with a piece of spare canvass--which was to mend the sails
upon occasion,--and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word,I brought
away all the sails, first and last; only that I was thin to cut them in pieces,
and bring as much at a time as I could; for they were no more useful to be
sails, but as mere canvass only.

But that which comforted me more, still, was, that at last of all, after I had
made five or six such voyages as these, and thought! had nothing more to
expect from the ship that was worth my meddling with,--I say, alter all this
I found a great bogshead of bread, and three large runlets of rum, or spirits
and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour; this was surprising to me,
because I had given over expecting any more provisions, except what was
spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and
wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which 1 cut out; and,
in a word, 1 got all this safe on shore also.48 THE mm: AND anvzn'rvnes

The next day,I made another voyage; and now, having plundered the
ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began with the cables, and,
cutting the great cable into pieces, such as I could iuove,l got two cables
and a hawser on shore, with all the iron work I could get; and, having cut
down the spritsail-yard, and the Inizzen-yard, and every thing I could, to
make a large rali,I loaded it with all those heavy goods, and came away;
but my good luck began now to leave me; for this unit was so unwieldy, and
so overladen. that, alter I was entered the little cove where I had landed the
rest of my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it.
overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for myself, it was
no great harm, for I was near the shore ; but as to my cargo, it was a great
part 01' it lost, especially the iron, which I expected would have been of great
use to me; however, When the tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable
ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite labor; for l was thin to dip
for it into the water--a work which fatigued me very much. Alter this, I
went every day on board, and brought away what I could get.

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times. on
board the ship; in which time I had brought away all that one pair of hands
could well be supposed capable to bring; though I believe, verily, had the
calm weather held,I should have brought away the whole ship, piece by
piece; but, preparing the twelfth time to go on board, 1 found the wind be-
gan to rise; however, at low water, I went on board; and though I thought
I had rummaged the cabin so effectually as that nothing more could be
found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found
two or three razois, and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen
of good knives and forks; in another, I found about thirty-six pounds value
in tuoney,---some Europetnt coin, some Brasil, some pieces of eight, some
gold, and some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "0 drug!" said I, aloud,
"what art thou good lbr? Thou art not worth to me, no, not the taking ofi'
of the ground; one of those knives is worth all this heap; I have no tnauner
of use lbr thee; o'en remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a
creature whose life is not \vortli saving." However, upon second thoughts,
I took it away; and, wrapping all this in a piece of canvass, I began to think
of making another roll; but while I was preparing this, I found the sky
overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a
flesh gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that it was in vain
to pretend to make a rail with the wind off shore; and that it was tny busi-
ness to he gone before the tide of flood beg: m, otherwise I might not be able
to reach the shore at all. Accordingly, I let tny'soll down into the water,
and swam arrow the channel which lay between the ship and the sands, and
even that with difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things I had
about inc, and partly the roughness of the water; for the wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

But I was gotten home to tny little tent, where I lay, with all my wealth
about me, very secure. It blew very hard all that night, and, in the morn-
ing, when I looked out, behold! no more ship was to be seen! I was a little
surprised; but recovered myself with this satisfactory reflection, viz., that I
had lost no time, nor abated no diligence, to get every thing out of her that
could be useful to me; and that, indeed, there was little lett In her that I was
able to bring awav, if I had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any thing out of her,
except what might drive on shore from her wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces
ofher afterwards did; but those things were of small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself against
either savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island;
and I had many thoughts of the method how to do this, and what kind of
dwelling to make; whether! should make me a cave in the earth, or a tent
upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both; the manner and de-
scription of which, it may not be improper to give an account of:

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement, particularly
because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near the sea, and I believed it
would not be wholesome; and, more particularly, because there was no fresh
water near it; so I resolved to find a more healthy and more convenient spot

of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which I (band would be proper
for me: let, health and fresh water, I just now mentioned; 2dly, shelter from
the heat of the sun ; :Idly, security from ravenous creatures, whether men or
beasts; 4thly, a view to the sea, that, if God sent any ship in sight, I might
not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing to
banish all my expectation yet.

7
In search of a plut'c proper for this, 1 found a little plain on the side of a
rising,r hill, whose t'ront towards this little plain was steep as a house-side, so
that nothing could come down upon tne from the top. On the side of this
roek there was a hollow plat-e, worn a little way in, like the entrance or door
of a rave; bttt there was not really any rave, or way into the rork, at all.

()n the flat ot' the green, just lit-lore this hollow place,l resolved to pitch
my tent. 'l'his plain was not above a hundred yards broad, and about twice
as long, and lay like a green belore my door; and, at the end 01' it, descended
irregularly every way down into the low ground by the sea-side. It Was on
the N. N. W. side of the hill; so that it was sheltered ti'otn the heat every
day, till it eatne to a \V. and by 5. sun, or thereabouts, which, in those
countries, is near the Setting.

lit-titre I set up my tent, I drew a llfllr-t'll't'lt! belilrc the hollow place,
"'llit'll took in about ten yards, in its semi-diameter, from the rock, and twenty
yards, in its diameter, from its beginning: and ending.

1" this half--circle l pin-lied two rows of strong stakes, driving them into
the ground till they stood very lll'lll, like piles, the biggest end being ottt of
the ground about five feet and a half. and sharpened on the top. The two
rows did not stand above six iln'hes from one another.

Then I took the ltlt't't-s ot' eahle \"lllt'll I had cut in the ship, and laid them
in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between these two rows of

_ IIWE,'
M .,ee.-uv. :- . ._
stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes iii the inside, leaning against thetn,
about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a post: and this fence was so
strong, that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it. This cost me
a great deal of time aml labor, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring
theta to the place, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this. place I made to be, not by a door, but by a short
ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when l was in,l lifted over alter
me; and so 1 was completely fenced in aml fortified, as I thought, from all
the world, aml consequently slept secure in the night, which otherwise 1
could not have done; though, as it appeared alierwards, tltere was no need
of all this caution ti'otu the enemies that l apprehended danger from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with intiuite labor, I carried all my riches, all
my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which yott have the account
above; and I made me a large tent, which, to preserve tnc from the rains,
that in one part of the year are very violent there, I made double, viz., one
smaller tent within, aml one larger tent above it; and covered the upper-
most with a large tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails.

And now I lay no more fora while in the bed which] had brought on
shore, but in a hammock, which was, indeed, a very good one, and belonged
to the mate of the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every thing that would spoil
by the wet; and, having thus enclosed all my goods, 1 made up the entrance,
Which, till now, I had lell open, attd so passed aml repassed, as I said, by a
short ladder.

"'heu I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and, bring-
ing all the earth and stones that I dug down, out, through my tent, I laid
them up within my fence, in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the
ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I made Inc a cave, just
behind my tent, which served me like a collar to my house.

It cost me much labor and many days before all these things were brought
to perfection; and therefore I must go back to some other things which touk
up some of my thoughts. At the same time, it happened, after I had laid my
scheme for the setting up my tent, and making the cave, that, a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened, and,
after that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the efi'ect of it. I was not
so much surprised with the lightning, as I was with a thought which darted
into my mind as swift as the lightning itself: 0, my powder! My very heart
sank within me when I thought that, at one blast, all my powder might be
destroyed, on which, not my detence only, but the providing me food, as I
thought, entirely depended. l was nothing near so anxious about my own
danger, though, had the powder took tire, I had never known who had
hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that, alter the storm was over,
I laid aside all my works, my building and tbrtifyiug, and applied myself to
make bags and boxes, to separate the powder, and to keep it a little and a
little in a parcel, in hope that, whatever might come, it might not all take fire
at once; and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible to make one
part fire another. I finished this work in about a fortnight; and I think my
powder, which, in all, was about two hundred and forty pounds weight, was
divided in not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been
weal did not apprehend any danger from that; so I placed it in my new52 war. LIFE AND anvnzv'renns

cave, which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen; and the rest I hid up and
down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking
very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing,! went out, once at least every
day, with my gun, as Well to divert myselt; as to see if I could kill any thing
fit for tbod; and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with what the island
produced. The first tintc I "em out, I presently discovered that there were
goats in the island, which was a great satislitction to me; but then it was
attended with this mistimune to me, viz, that they were so shy, so subtle,
and so switt of foot, that it was the ditiieultest thing in the world to come at
them; but I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now and
then shoot one, as it soon happened; for, after l had found their haunts a
little, I laid wait in this ntauuer tor them: I observed, it" they saw me in the
valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they would run away, as in a ter-
rible fright; but if they were. feeding in the valleys, and I was ttpon the
rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence I concluded, that, by the
position of their optics, their sight was so directed downward, that they did
not readily see objects that were above them: so, afterwards, I took this
tnethod,--I always elimbed the reeks first, to get above them, and then had
frequently a lair mark.

The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat, which
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved tue heartily;
but when the old one 11-", the kid stood stock still by her, till I came and
took her up; aml not only so, bill when l :arried the old one with me, upon
my shoulders, the kid liillowed tne quite to my enclosure; ttpou which I
laid down the dam, and took the kid in my artus, and carried it over my
pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame; lntt it would not eat: so I was forced
to kill it, tunl ate it myseltl These two supplied me with tleslt a great while,
tor I eat sparingly, atnl saved my provisions--my bread especially--as much
as tmssihly I could.

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely necessary to provide
a place to make a fire in, and fuel to burn; and what I did for that, as also
how I enlarged my cave, attd what conveniem'es I made, I shall give a full
aeeotlltt of in its place; but I must now give some little account of myself;
and of my thoughts about living. which, it tnay well be supposed, were not
a low.

I had a dismal prospect of my comlition; for, as l was not cast away
upon that island without being driVen, as is said, by a violent storm, quite
out of the course of our intended voyage, aml a great way, viz., some hun-
dreds of leagues, out of the ordinary course of the trade of mankind,l had
great reason to consider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this desolate
place, and in this desolate matmcr, I should end my life. The tears would
run plentititlly dowtt tny thee when I made these reflections; and, some-
titnes,l would expostulate with myself why Providence should thus com-
pletely ruin its creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable; so
without help, abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be ra-
tional to be thankful for such a lite.

But something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts,
and to rcprove me; and, particularly, one day, walking, with my gun in my
hand, by the sea-side,l was very pensive upon the subject of my present
condition, when reason, as it were, expostulated with me the other way,53 - 54
Missing

From
Original
thus: " \Vell, you are in a desolate condition, it is true; but, pray remember,
where are the rest of you? Did not you come, eleven of you, into the boat?
\thre are the ten? Why were not they saved, amd you lost? \Vhy were
you singled out? Is it better to be here, or there?" And then I pointed to
the sea. All evils are to be considered With the good that is in them, and
with what worse attends them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my sub-
sistence, and what would have been tny case it' it had not happened (which
was a hundred thousand to one), that the ship floated li'otn the place where
she first struck, and was driven so near to the shore, that I had time to get
all these things ottt of her; what would have been my case, il' I had been to
have lived in the condition in which I at first came on shore, without neces-
sarics of life, or necessaries to supply and procure them; " Particularly," mid
l, aloud, (though to myself,) " what should I have done without a gun,
without ammunition, without any tOols to make. any thing, or to work with,
without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering?" and that now
I had all these to a suflieient qtuuuity, and was in a lair Way to provide
myself in such a manner as to live without my gun, when my ammunition
was spent; so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting without any want, as
long as I lived; for I considered, from the beginning, how] would provide
for the accidents that might happen, and for the time that was to come, even
not only after my ammunition should be spent, but even alter my health and
strength should decay.

lconfess, I had not entertained any notion of my annnunition being de-
stroyed at one blast,--l mean my powder being blown up by lightning; and
this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me, when it lightened and
thundered, as I observed just now.

And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation ofa scene of silent life,
such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world belbre, I shall take it from
its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th
ol'September, when, in the manner as above saith! first set foot upon this
horrid island; when the sun, being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almOst
just over my head; for l reckoned myscll; by observation, to be in the
latitude of 9 degrees 22 minutes north ot'the Line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my thoughts,
that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books, and pen and ink,
and should even forget the Sabbath days from the working days; but, to
prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large post, in capital letters; and,
tanking it into a great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first landed, viz,
"I came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659."

Upon the sides of this square post I cut, every day, a notch with my knife,
and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and every first day of
the tnonth as long again as that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place, we are to observe that, among the many things which I
brought out of the ship, in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, I
made to it, I got several things of less value, but not all less useful to me,
which I omitted setting down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper;
several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping;
three or four compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives,
Charts, and books of navigation; all which I huddled together, whether I
    

\ "fig-3274* A}
._> 'efi" agar; S7: l/v'g'f

' ."ir - _L' _ . i .
_ ____ "Effigy ;

, '....
'r-'M'.-s .-'

 
    

might want them or no; also, I found llll't't! wry L'mnl Bil-It's, \t'hit'h came to
me in my 'argo li'om Englatnlwml which I had pzu'kt'ti up among my things;
some Portuguese hunks also; and, among: tlu-m, two or lltrt't' l'opish prayer
books, aml svwral otlwr hooks. all \\'llit'lt lvan-l'nlly Sl't'lll't'ti. Ami I must
not li-rgt-t. that m: had in tho ship a <<log, atnl hm rats, ol'u'lmsu eminent his-
tory I may haw,- m't'asintt to say smut-thing. in its place; tin' I carried both the
-ats with m0: aml as lhr tlw <<lug, lu- jmnpml out of the ship of himsclt; and
swam on short.- to mu tln: (lay illll'l' l \w-nt on short.- with my tits! tango, and
was a trusty st-rvant to nn- many yI-ars: I wanted nothing that In: could lint-h
Inc, nor any t-otnpany that In- ('mlhl makv up to mu: 1 only Wanted to have
him talk to nir, Inn that wunhl not <<lo. As I ohsvru-Il lu'l'onr, I found pens,
ink. and papm', and I hushamlml tin-m to tlu- utmost; aml I shall show that,
"hih- my ink Iasn-tl, I kept things wry mac-t, hut alit-r that Was gonv, I could
not : lizr I could not lllllkl' any ink, hy any nu-ans that l t-onhl tlt'ViS'J.

And this put mo in mind that l "'antml many things, notwithstanding all
that l haul amassI-cl togt-tlu-r: and, of tln-su-, this of ink was one; as, also, a
spatlv, pic-k-axv, aml shun-l, to dig or rc-mou- lln- varth; llH'lllt'S, pins, and
thread ; as linr l'uu-n, I soon learned to man that "ithuut much tlitliculty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily; and it was near
a whole year before I had entirely tinislied tny little pale, or sttrronntled my
habitation. 'I'he piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I could well Iili,
were a long time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and more, by tar, in
bringing home: so that I spent smut-times two days in cutting and bringing
home one of those posts, and a third day in driving it ittto the ground; for
which purpose, I got a h -avy piece of wood at lirst, bttt at last bethought
mysell'ol' one of tlte iron crows: which, however, thottgh I found it, yet it
made driving those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. Iiut
what need I have. been concerned at the tediousness of anything I had to
do, seeing I had time enonglt to do it in? nor had Iany other employment,
it' that had been over, at least that I could foresee, except the ranging the
island to seek II)I' tiioil, which I tlid, more or less, every day.

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circumstance I
was reduced to: and I drew up the state of my atlinirs in writing. not so
much to leave them to any that Were to come after me. -- liir I was like to have
but li'w heirs-- as to delivvr my thoughts ti'om daily poring upon them. and
atllieting my mind: and, as my reason hegnn now to master tny dcspond-
ency, I began to comfort myselfus Well as I coultl, and to set the good against
the evil, that I might have smoothing to distinguish my case li'om Worse; and
I stated it \ery impartially, like debtor atttl creditor, --the comforts I enjoy ed
against the miseries I sutli:red,--thus:--

Goon.

But I am alive; and not drowned, as
all my ship's company were.

But I am singled out, too, from all the
ship's cn-w, to be spared from death;
am! he that miraculously saved line from
death, can tIt'IIVt'l' me from this condition.

EVIL.
I am out upon a horrible desolate
island, \'nItI ot'all hope of recovery.
I am singled out and separated, as it
were, from all the world, to be tmserable.

I not divided from mankind,--a_soli-
taire ; one banished from human society.

I hav . not clothes to cover me.

I am without any defence, or means

But I am not starved, and perishing
on a barren place, affording no suste-
nature.

lint I am in a hot climate, where, if!
had clothes, I could hardly wear them.

Iiul I am cast on an island where I

see no wild beasts to hurt me. as I saw
on the coast of Africa; and what If I
had been shipwrecked there!

lint God \vonderl'ullv sent the ship in
near enough to the shore, that l have
gotten out so many necessary things as
will either supply my wants,or enable me
to supply myself, even as long as I live.

to resist. any violence of man or beast.

I have no soul to speak to or relieve
Illl'.

I'pon the. whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there was scarce
an) condition in the world so misemble, but there was something negative,
or something positive, to be thanklitl tor in it: and let this stand as a direc-
tion, li-om the experience ot'the most miserable ofall conditions in this world,
that We may always find in it something to comfort ourselves from, and to
set, in the description of good and evil, on the credit side of the account.

Having now brought my mind a little. to relish my condition, and given
over looking out to sea, to see ifl could spy a ship, --- I say, giving over these
things, I began to apply myself to accommodate my way of living, and to
make things as easy to me. as I could.

lhave ab'eady described my habitation, which was a tent under the side

8
of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts and cables; but I might
now rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs,
about two that thick on the outside; and, alter some time, (I think it was a.
year and a half.) I misc-d raliers limit it, leaning to the reek, and thatched or
covered it with honghs of trees, and such things as I could get, to keep out
the rain; which I found, at some times of the your, very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale, and
into the cave which I had made behind me. But 1 must observe, too, that at
first this was a confused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no order, so
they took up all my place ; I had no room to turn myself; so I set myself to
enlarge my cave, and work liirlher into the earth; for it was a loose, sandy
reek, which yielded easily to the labor I bestowed on it; and so, when I
finmd I was pretty sale as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the right
hand into the rock; and then, turning to the right again, worked quite out,
and made me a door to come out on the outside of my pale or fortification.

 

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it was a back way to my tent
and to my storehouse, but gave me room to store my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as I
found I most. wanted, as, particularly, a chair and a table; for without these
I was not able to enjoy the few eomlbrtsl had in the world; I could not
write, or cat, or do seve'al things with so much pleasure, without a table;
so I went to work. And here I must needs observe, that, as reason is
the substance and original of the mathematics, so, by stating and squaring
every thing by reason, and by making the most rational judgment of things,
every man may be, ill time, master of every meehanie art. I had never
handled a tool in tny lite; and yet, in time, by labor, applieation, and eon-
trivanee, I Ibtmd, at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made it,
especially if! had had tools. IIo\vever,I made abundance of things, even
without tools ; and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, whieh,
perhaps, \vere never made that way beliire, aml that with infinite labor. For
example, it'l wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set
it on an edge betbrc toe, and hew it flat on either side with my axe, till I had
brought it to be thin as a plank, aml then dnb it smooth with my adze. It is
true, by this method I eould make but one board out of a whole tree; but
this I had no remedy tor but patient-e, any more. than I had a..- the. prodigious
deal of time and labor whieh it took me. up to make a plank or board: but
my time or labor was little worth, aml so it was as well employed one way
as another.

However, I made me a table, and a chair, as I observed above. in the first
place; and this I did on! ol'tlu- short pieees ol'boards that I brought on my
rati from the ship. But, when I had wrought out some boards, as aboveJ
made large shelves, of the breadth ot'a toot and a halt; one ow.- another. all
along one side of tny 'ave, to lay all my tools, nails. and iron work on: and,
in a word, to separate every thing at large in their plat-es, that I might eome
easily at them. I knocked pieees into the "all ot'tbe roek to hang my guns
aml all things that \vonld hang up: so that, had my eave been to be seen, it
looked like a general magazine of all neeessary things: and I had every thing
so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all neeessaries so great.

And now it was when I began to keep a journal of every day's employ-
ment; tor, indeed, at first, I was in too mneh hurry, aml not only hurry as to
labor, but in too much diseomposnre of mind: aml my journal would have
been full of many dull things: tor example, I must have said thus--"53w.
30M. After I got to shore, and had eseaped drowning, instead of being
thankful to God for my deliveranee,---having first vomited with the great
quantity of salt water whieh was gotten into my stomaeh. and reeovering
myself a little, --I ran about the shore, wringing my hands, and beating my
head and face, exelaiming at my misery, aml crying out, 'I was umloue, un-
done!' till, tired and titint, I was tbreed to lie down on the ground to repose,
but dtnst not sleep, for fear of being devoured."

Some days after this, am! after I had been on board the ship, aml got all
that I could out of her, yet I could not t'orbear getting up to the top of a
little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship: then timcy
at a and distance I spied a sail, please mysell' With the hopes of it. and then,
alter looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite, aml sit down and
weep like a child, and tints increase my misery by my folly.

But having gotten over these things in some measure. and having settled
my hottsehold stuff and habitation, made tue a table and a chair, and all as
handsome about me as I could, I began to keep my journal; of whieh I shall
here give you the c0py, (though in it will be told all these partieulars over

again,) as long as it lasted; Ibr, having no more ink, I was timed to leave
it ofll00 was Lira AND "veterans

THE JOURNAL.

September 30, "559. ], poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe, being ship-
wrecked, during a dreadlitl storm, in the oiling, eame on shore on this
dismal, uutbrtnnate island, which .I called "The Island of Despair;" all the
rest of the ship's company being droWued, atul myself almost dead.

All the rest of that day I spent in atllietiug myself at the dismal circum.
stauees l was brought to, vim, I had neither tired, house, clothes, weapon, nor
plut'c to tly to; and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death before
me; either that! should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages,
or starved to death tbr want of tbod. At the approach of night, I slept in a
tree, tbr ti-ar of wild creatures, but slept soundly, though it rained all night.

OrIqu-r 1. III the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the ship had floated
with the high tide, and was driven on shore again mueh nearer the island;
whit-h, as it was some eomfort on one hand,-- for, seeing her sit upright,and
not broken to pieces, I hoped, it' the wiml abated, I might get on board, and
get some food and necessaries out of her for my reliel',-so, on the other
hand, it renewed my grit-fat the loss ot'my comrades, Who, 1 inmgitted, if we
had all staid on board, might have saved the ship, or, at least, that they would
not have been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the men been saved,
We. might perhaps have built as a boat, out of the ruins of the ship, to have
carried us to some other part of the world. I spent great part of this day in
perplexing myselfou these things; but, at length, seeing the ship almost dry,
I went upon the sand as. near as l rould, and then swam on board. This
day also it eontituted raining, though with no wind at all.

From the lst of ()clube-r lo the 24th. All these days entirely spent in
many several voyages to get all I could out ofthe ship, which 1 brought on
shore, every tide of tlood, upon rails. Much rain also in the days, though
with some intervals of lair weather; luu, it seems, this was the rainy season.

011. '. . l overset tny raft, and all the goods I had got upon it; but, being
in shoal water, and the things being ehietly heavy, I recovered tnuny of them
when the tide was out.

041. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of wind; during
whit-h time the ship broke in pit-res, (the wind blowing a little harder tlum
belbre,) and was no more to be seen, exeept the wreek of her. aml that only
at low water. I spent this day in eoveriug and securing the goods which I
had saved, that the ruin might not spoil them.

Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find out a place to fix
my habitation, greatly eoueerncd to sceure myself from any attack in the
night, either ti'om wild beasts or men. Towards night, 1 fixed upon a proper
plaee, umlcr a melt, and marked out a semicircle for my encampment;
whit-h I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification, made of
double piles, lined within with cables, and without with turf

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my goods to
my new habitation, though, some part of the time, it rained exceeding hard.

The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with my gun, to seek
for some food, and discover the country; when I killed a she-goat, and her
kid followed me home, which latterwards killed also, because it would not
feed.

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for the first
night, making it as large as I could, with stakes driven in to swing my ham-
mOek upon.

Aim. 2. I set up all tny chests and hoards, and the pieces of timber which
made my rails, and with them limited a fiance round me, a little within the
place I had marked out tbr my timification.

Alba. 3. I went out with Ill ' gun, and killed two fowls like ducks, which
were very good lbod. In the atlernoon, went to work to make me a table.

:Vov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work, of going out
with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion: viz, every morning I
walked out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain; then em-
ployed myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then eat what i had to live
on: and from tWelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather heing excossive
hot: and then, in the evening, to work again. The working part of this day
and ol'lhe next were wholly employed in making.r my table; tbr l was yet hut
a very sorry workman, though time and necessity made me a complete natu-
ral mechanic. soon tiller, as I believe they \vonld do arty one else.

.'Vov. 5. This day, Well! abroad with my gun and my dog, and killed a
wildcat; her skin pretty soft, hut her tlesh good for nothing: every creature
that I killed, [took ofl'the skins, and preserved them. Corning hack by the
sea-shoreJ saw runny sorts of sex --lhwls, which I did not understand; hut
was surprised, and almost li'ightetl, with two or three seals, which, while I
was gazing at, not well knowing what they wore, got into the sea, and
escalu-d me for that time.

.V'or. ti. After my morning walk, I went to work with my table again, am!
finished it, though not to my liking; nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled, fair weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th,
and part of the 12th, (for the llth was Sunday,) I took wholly up to make
me a chair, and with nmch ado brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to
please tne; and, even in the making, I pulled it in pieces several times.

N ote.--l soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting my mark for
them on my post, I lbrgot which was which.

Nov. l3. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceedingly, and cooled
the earth; lntt it was accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frighted me dreadtitlly, for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over,
I resolved to separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels as

possible, that it might not be in danger.
JVov. l4, l5, 16. These three days I spent in making little square chests

or boxes which might hold about a pound, or two pound at most, of powder;
and so, putting the powder in,I stowed it in places as secure and remote
from one another as possible. On one of these three days, I killed a large
bird that was good to eat, but I knew not what to call it.

.v'V'ov. 17. This day I began to dig behind tny tent, into the rock, to make
room for my farther convenient-y.

Note--Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz., a pick-axe,
a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket; so I desisted from my work, and
began to consider how to supply that Want, and make me some tools. As
for a pick-axe, I made use of the iron crows, which were proper enough,
though heavy; but the next thing was a shovel or spade; this was so abso-
lutely necessary, that, indeed, I could do nothing ell'ectually without it; but
what kind of one to tnuke I knew not.

JV'ov. Id. The next day, in searching the woods, 1 found a tree of that
wood, or like it, which, in the lirasils, they call the iron tree, for its exceeding
hardness; of this, with great labor, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut apiece,
and brought it home, too, with ditiiculty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and my having no other way, made me
a long while upon this machine; for I worked it effectually, by little and
little, into the form ofa shovel or spade; the handle exactly shaped like ours
in England, only that the board part having no iron shod upon it at bottom,
it would not last me so long; however, it served well enough for the uses
which I had occasion to put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made
ailer that fashion, or so long a-making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or a wheelbarrow. A basket I
could not make by any means, having no such things as twigs that would
bend to make wicker-ware, at least, none yet found out; and as to a wheel-
barrow,l fancied I could make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of;
neither did I know how to go about it; besides, I had no possible way to
make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in ; so I
gave it over; and so, for carrying away the earth which I dug out of the cave,
I made me a thing like a bod, which the laborers carry mortar in, when they
serve the bricklayers This was not so dificult to me as the flanking the
shovel; and yet this and the shovel, and the attempt which I made in vain to
make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than four days--I mean always
excepting my moming walk with my gun, which I seldom thiled, and very
seldom failed also bringing home something fit to eat.

Nov; 23. My other work having now stood still, because of my making
these tools, when they were finished I went on, and, working every day, as
my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widening
and deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously.

Note--During all this time, I worked to make this room, or cave, spa-
cious enough to aceonnnodate me as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a.
dining-room, and a cellar. As for my lodging,l kept to the tent ; except that
sometimes, in the wet season of the year, it rained so hard that I could not
keep myselt'dry, which caused me alter-wards to cover all my place within
my pale with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and
load them with flags and large leaves ol'trces, like a thatch.

December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished; when, on a
sudden, (it seems I had made it too large,) a great quantity of earth tell down
from the top and one side; so much, that, in short, it ti'ighted me, and not
without reason, too; for it'l had been under it, I had never wanted a grave-
digger. Upon this disaster, I had a great deal of work to do over again, for I
had the loose earth to carry out; and, which was of more importance, 1 had
the ceiling to prop up, so that 1 might be sure no more would come down.

Dec. ll. This day I went to work with it accordingly, and got two shores,
or posts, pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of boards across over
each post; this I finished the next day; and, setting more posts up with
boards, in about a week more I had the root' secured ; and the pests, standing

in rows, served me for partitions to part 011' my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the 2011., I placed shelves, and knocked up
nails on the posts, to hang every thing up that could be hung up; and now I
began to be in some order within doors.

Dec. 20. Now! carried every thittg into the cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set up sortie pieces of boards, like a dresser, to order tny
victuals upon ; but boards begaut to be very scarce with me: also 1 made me
another table.

Dec. 24. Much mitt all night and all day; no stirring out.

Dec. 25. Rain all day.

Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler than before, and pleasanter.

Dec. '27. Killed a young goat, and latued another, so as that l catched it,
and led it home in a string; when I had it hotne,l bound and splintered up
its leg, which was broke.

N. B.--l took sttch care of it that it lived; and tlte leg grow well. and as
strong as ever; but, by tny nursing it so long, it grew tame, and led upon
the little green at my door, atul would not go away. This was the first time
that l entertained a thought ot'breeding up some tame creatures, that 1 might
have tbod when my powder atul shot was all spent.

Dec. 28, 2.", 30, 3|. Great beats, and no breeze; so that there was no
stirring abroad, except in the evening, tirr tbod; this time I spent in putting
all my things in order within doors.

Juutmry l. Very hot still: but I went abroad early and late with my gun,
and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, going litrther ittto the
valleys which lay towards the centre of the island, I found there were plenty
of goats, though exceeding shy, and hard to come at; however, I resolved to
try if] could not bring my dog to lumt them down.

Jun. '2. Accordingly, the next day, 1 went out with my dog, and set him
upon the goats; but 1 was mistaken, tor they all laced about upon the dog,
am] he knew his danger too well, tor he would not come near them.

Jan. 3. I began my fiance or wall; which, being still jealous of my being
attacked by somelualy, I resolved to make very thick and strong.

N. ll. --'l'his wall being described before, I purposely omit what was said in
the journal; it is sufficient to observe, that l was no less time than front the 3d
ot'Jauuary to the l-lth of April, Working. finishing, atul perfecting this wall;
though it was no more than about twenty-tour yards in length, being a half
circle, li'otu one place in the rock to another place, about eight yards from it,
the door of the cave being ill the centre, behind it.

All this time, I worked very hard; the rains hindering me many days,
nay, sometimes weeks together; bttt I thought I should never be perfectly
secure till this wall was finished ; and it is scarce credible what inexpressible
labor every thing was done with, especially the bringing piles out of the
woods and driving them into the ground; for I made them much bigger
than I needed to have done.

W'hen this wall was finished, and the outside double-fenced, with a turf-
wall raised up close to it, I mrsuaded myself that if any people were to come
on shore there, they would not perceive any thing like a habitation; and it.
was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a very remark-
able occasion.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game every day,
when the rain lu-rmitted me, and made frequent discoveries, in these walks,

ot'somcthing or other to my advantage; particularly 1 found a kind of wild
pigeons, who build, not as wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house-
pigeona, in the holes of the rocks; and, taking some young ones, I endeav-
ored to breed them up tame, and did so; but when tltcy grew older, they
- flew all away, which, perhaps, was at first for want of feeding them, for I had
nothing to give theta; however, I frequently found their nests, and got their
young ones, which were very good tueat. And now, in the managing my
household affairs, I found myselfwanting itt tnany things, which I thought
at first it was impossible for Inc to make; as, indeed, as to some of them, it
was: for instance,l could never make a cask to be hooped. Iliad asmall
runlet or two, as I observed betbre, but I could ttevcr arrive to the capacity
ofmaking one by them, though I spent tnany weeks about it: [could neither
put in the heads, or join the slaves so true to one another as to tuake them
hold Water; so I gave that also over. In the next place, I was at a great loss
for candles; so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by
seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump of bees'-
wax with which I made candles in my African adventure; but I had none
of that now; the only remedy I had was that, when I had killed a goat, I
saved the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay, which I baked in the
sun, to which I added a wick of some oukutn, I made me a lamp; anti this
gave me light, though not a clear, steady light, like a candle. In the middle
ofall my labors, it happened, that, rummaging tny things, I lbund a little bag,
which, as I hinted before, had been filled with corn, for the feeding of poul-
try, not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ship catne from
Lisbon. What little remainder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured
with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag bttt husks and dust; and, being
willing to have the bag for some other use, (I think it was to put powder in,
when I divided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use,) I shook the
husks of corn out of it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains just now mentioned, that I threw this
stuff away, taking no notice of any thing, and not so much as remembering
that I had thrown any thing there; when, about a month after, or there-
abouts, I saw some few stalks ofsomethiag green, shooting out of the ground,
which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen; bttt [was surprised.
and perfectly astonished, when, alter a little longer time, I saw about ten or
twelve cars come out, which were perfect green barley, of the sante kind as
our European, ~nay, as our English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion of my thoughts
on this occasion: I had hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all;
indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my head, nor had entertained
any sense of any thing that had belitllen me, otherwise than as chance, or, as
We lightly say, what pleases God; without so much as inquiring into the end
of Providence in these things, or his order in governing events in the world.
But after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which I knew was not proper
for com, and especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled me
strangely, and I began to suggest, that God had miraculously caused his
grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and that it was so directed
purely for my sustenance, on that wild, miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes, and I
began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my
account, and this was the more strange to me, because I saw, near it still,
all along by the side of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved

966 run use. AND Amen-runes

 

to he stalks office, and which I knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa,
when l was ashore there.

I not only thought these the pure protluetions of Providence. for my sup-
port, hut, not doubting hot that there was more in the place, I went all over
that part ol'the island where I had heett hel'ore, peering in every corner, and
under every rock. to see thr more of it, but I eottltl not find any. At last, it
occurred to my thoughts that I had shook a bag ot'ehieken's meat out in that
place, and then the wonder began to reuse; and I must confess, my religious
tlnmlttitlness to God's providence begun to abate. too, upon the discovering
that all this was nothing but what was emtltntm; though I ought to have
been as thankful tor so strange aml unthreseen providence, as if it had
been mirtu'ulous: [or it was really the work of Providence as to me, that
should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should remain
unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped
from heaven; as, also,that I should throw it out in that particular place,
where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately;
whereas. if I had thrown it any where else, at that time, it had been burnt
up and destroyed.

l carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may he sure, in their season,
which was about the end of June; and, laying up every corn, I resolved to
sow them all again, hoping, in time, to have some quantity sutiicicnt to sup-
ply me with bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I could allow
myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I
shall say flllt'rWfll'tls, in its order; for I lost all that l sowed the first season,
by not observing the proper time; for I sowed it just before the dry season.
so that it never came up at all, at least hot as it would have done; of Which
in its place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks of rice,
which I preserved with the saute care, and whose use was of the same kind,
or to the same purpose, viz., to make me bread, or rather food; for I found
ways to cook it up without baking, though I did tltat also alter some time.

But to return to my journal:--

I worked excesive hard these three or four months, to get my wall done;
and the 14th of April, I closed it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door,
but over the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of
my habitation.

.'Iprt'l Iii. I finished the ladder; sol went up with the ladder to the top,
and then pulled it up ailer me, and let it down in the inside: this was a com-
plete enclosttre to me; ibr within I had room enough, and nothing could
come at me li'om without, unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day otter this wall was finished, I had ahnost had all my
labor overthrown at once, and myself killed; the case was thus:---As I was
busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, just at the entrance into my cave, I
was terribly l'rightcd with a most dreadful, surprising thing indeed ; for, all on
a sudden, I tbund the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my cave,
am! from the edge of the hill over my head, and two of the posts I had set
up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily scared; but
thought nothing of what Was really the cause, only thinking that the top of
my cave was litllcn in, as some of it had done before; and, for fear I should
be buried in it, I ran lbrward to my ladder, and not thinking myself sail.-
there neither, I got over my wall, for fear of the pieces of the hill which]
expected might roll down upon me. lwas no sooner stepped down upon
the firm ground, but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake; for the
ground I stood on shook three times, at about eight minutes' distance, with
three such shocks us would have overturned the strongest building that could
be supposed to have stood on the earth; aml a great piece of the top of a
rock, which stood about half a mile "'0!" tue, next the sea, fell dowu. with
such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my lite. Iperceived, also, the
very sea was put into violent motion by it; and I believe the shocks were
stronger under the water than on the island.

I was so much amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the like, nor
discoursed with any one that had, that I was like one dead or stupefied; and
the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed at
sea; but the noise of the falling of the rock awakcd me, as it were, and,
rousing me from the stupefted condition I was in, filled me with horror; and
I thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon my tent and all my house.
hold goods, and burying all at once; and this stuik my very soul within tne a
second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I began
to take courage; and yet I had not heart enough to go over my wall again,
for fear of being buried alive, but sat still upon the ground, greatly east down
and disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All this while, I had not the least
serious, religious thought; nothing but the common " Lord, have mercy upon
me!" and when it was over, that went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as if it would
rain; soon alter that, the wind arose, by little and little, so that, in less than
half an hour, it blew a mom dreadful hurricane; the sea was, all on a sudden,
covered over with foam and froth: the shore was covered with the breach6.9 THE urn AM; AN :x-rvnss

ol' the water; the. trees were torn up hy the roots; and a terrible storm it
was This held ahout three hours, aml then hegaa to abate; and ill two
hours more. it was stark eahn, and hogan to rain very hard. All this while, I
sat upon the ground. \'ery mueh territied and dejected; when, on a sudden,
it value into my thoughts, that these winds and rain being the eonsetpteuecs
ot' the e:u'thquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might
\'t'ltlltl't' into my eare again. With this thought, my spirits began to revive;
and. the rain also helping.r to persuade me, I went in, and sat down in my
tent: hat the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down
with it: aml I was Iiireed to go into my rare, though very mneh afraid atul
uneasy. lin' li-ar it should titll on my head. This \'iolent rain tort-ed me to a.
new work. \iz.. to eat a hole tlu'ough my new liirtiliealion, like a sink, to let
the water go out. w'hieh would else haye drowned my rare. After I had
been in my eare tor some time, and linmd still no more shot-ks ol' the 'arth-
quake li-llow. I began to he more eomposed. And now, to support my
spirits. whirl. indeed wanted it \'ery nun-h, I went to my little store, atul took
a small sup ot'rum: whieh, however, I did then, aml always, very sparingly,
knowing I euuld hau- no more when that was gone. It eontimted raining
all that night. and great part of the new day, so that I eouhl not stir abroad ;
but. my mind being "fire emuposed. I hegau to think of what I luul hes! do;
t'utu'lttulilt'.' that. it' the island was sultjeet to these earthquakes, there would
he an loin-z tor toe in a ':t\'e, but I must eonsider ol' huildiug me some. .IittIc
hut in an open plaee, whieh I might surromul with a wall, as I had done
here. and \'u make myself seeure from wild heasts or men; hut eoneluded,
il'l staid where I was. I should eertainly, one little or other. be buried alive.

\Vith these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent Ii'om the plan: where it
now stood. whit-h was just under the hanging preripiee ol' the hill; and
whit-h. it' it should he shaken again, would eertamly tall upon my tent; atul I
spent the two next days, heiu;_r the ISM: and 20th ol':\pri|, in eontriviug where
and how to remove my habitation. 'I'he li-arol' heiny.r swallowed up alive,
tnade me. that I never slept in quiet; and yet the apprehension of lying
ahroad, without any li-nee. was almost equal to it: hut still, when I looked
about. aml saw how every thing was put in order, how pleasantly cotteealed
I was, and how sali- li'om danger, it made me very loath to remove. In the
mean time, it m'etlrred to me that it would require a vast deal oftimc for me
to do this. am! that I must he eontented to run the \'enturc where I was, till
I had lormed a 1an li.r mysell; aml had seenred it so as to remove to it.
So. with this n-snlution. I eomposed myselt' tor a little, and resolved that I
would go to work with all speed to hnild me. a wall with piles and rahles,
&e.. in a e'uele. as IM'Iitl'l', and set my tent up in it when it was l'unshed; hat
that I would venture to stay where I was till it was linished,aud lit to re-
nuwe. This was the 'Jlst.

.'Ipril 2*). The next morning: I hogan to consider of means to put this
resolve into exeeution: hat I was at a great loss about my tools. I had three
large axes, and ahumlaaee ol'hatehets, (tor we -arried thc hatehets for traffic
with the Indians:) hat with mneh ehopping and cutting knotty, hard wood,
they were all full ol'noteln-s, and dull, and. though I had a grindstone, I could
not turn it, and grind my tools too. This eost me. as much thought as a
statesman would have bestowed upon a gnnal point of politics, ora judge
upon the lite and death of a man. At length, I contrived a wheel with a
string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my hands at liberty.69 - 70
Missing

From
Originalor uoumson causal-z. 7)

 

Note--I had never seen any sueh thing in l-Ingland,---nr, at least, not to
take notiee how it was doom--though since I have elm-Ned it is very eom-
mon there; besides that, my grindstoue was very large and heavy. This
machine cost me a tit" week's work to bring it to perihelion.

April 28,2). These two whole days I took up in grinding my tools; my
maehine for turning my grindstone perlbrming very well.

.'lpn'l 30. Having perceived my bread had been low a great while, now I
took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which
made my heart very heavy.

fling I. In the morning, looking toward the sea-side, the tide being low,
Isaw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a
cask; when I came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or three pieces of
the wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the late hurricane; and,
looking towards the wreck itselt; i thought it seemed to lie higher out of the
Water than it used to do. I examined the barrel whieh was driven on shore,
and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the
powder was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it tiirther on shore
for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck
of the ship to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed. The fore-
castle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up at least six feet,7'2 'rtu: use no anvexrvntzs

and the stern, which was broke in pieces, and parted from the rest, by the
force ol'the sea, soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed, as it were,
up, and ~ast on one side; and the sand was thrown so high on that side next.
her stern, that, whereas there was a great place of water before, so that I
eould not eome within a quarter ol'u tuile ol' the wreck without swimming, I
eould now walk quite up to her when the tide Was out. I was surprised
with this. at first, hut smut eoneluded it must be done by the earthquake;
and, as by this violent-e the ship was more broke open than lbrmerly, so
many things eame daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and which
the winds aml water rolled hy degrees to the land.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my habita-
tion, and l husied mysell' mightily, that day especially, in scan-hing whether
I eonld make any way into the ship; but I lintud nothing was to be ex-
peeted of that kind, 1hr all the inside. of the ship was choked up with
sand. However. as I had learned not to despair of any thing, I resolved to
pull every thing.r to pieees that I eonld of the ship, eoueludiug that every
thing: I enuld get li--om her would he ol'some use or other to me.

Mug; 3!. l hegan with my saw, and ettt a pieee of a beam through, which
I thought held some of the upper part or quarter-<<leek together; ntul when I
had eut it through, I eleared away the sand, as Well as l eould, from the side
whieh lay highest; hat, the tide eoming in, l was obliged to give over for
that time.

.lluy 4. I went a-fishing, hut eaught not one fish that l durst eat of; till I
was weary ol'my sport: "11"", 3"" going to leave oil; I caught a young dol-
phin. I had made me a long line of some. rope-yarn, hut I had no hooks;
yet I Iiwpu-utly eaught lish enough, as much as leared to eat; all which I
dried in the sun, and eat tltetn dry.~'I

. or aoamsox causos. 73

May 5. \Vorked on the wreck; cut another beam asunder, and brought
three great fir-planks otl' from the decks, which I tied together, and made
swim on shore when the tide of flood -amc on.

allay 6. \Vorked on the wreck; got several iron bolts out of her, and other
pieces of iron-work; worked very hard, and came home very much tired,
and had thoughts ol'giving it over.

31a}, 7. \Vent to the wreck again, lntt not with an intent to work, but
found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down, the. beams being cut;
that several pieces ot'the ship scented to lie loose, and the inside of the hold
lay so open that I could see into it, but almost full of water and sand.

.May 6. \Vcnt to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench up the
deck, which lay now quite clear ot'thc water or sand. I wrenched open two
planks, aml brought them on shore also with the tide. I left the iron crow
in the wreck for next day.

Mn; 9. \Vcnt to the wreck, and with the crow made way into the body
of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them with the. crow, but
could not break them up. 1 fish also a roll of English lead, and could stir it,
but it was too heavy to remove.

May 10--14. Went every day to the wreck: and got a great many pieces
of timber, and boards, or plank, and two or three hundred weight of iron.

Mag 15. l 'arricd two hatchets, to try il' I could not cut a piece at? of
tlte roll of lead, by placing the edge of ouc hatchet, and th'iving it with the
other; but as it lay about a tbot and a half in the water, [could not make
any blow to drive the hatchet.

J!!!" 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck appeared more
broken by the force of the water; but Ista'ul so long in the woods to get
pigeons lbr lbotl, that the title prevented my going to the wreck that day.

Jluy 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a great dis~
tancc, near two miles ofl'tne, but resolved to see what they were, and found
it was a piece ofthe head, but too heavy for me to bring.r away.

Jim; 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck; and, with hard
labor, I loosened some things so much with the crow, that, the first blowing
tide, several casks floated out, and (Wu of the scumen's chests; but the wind
blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber,
and a hogshead, which had some Brusil pork in it, but the salt water and the
sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always appointed, during this
part of my employment, to be when the title was up, that I might be ready
when it was ebbed out; and, by this time, I had gotten titnber, and plank,
and iron-Work, enough to have built a good boat, it" I had known how; and
also I got, at sev-ral times, and in several pieces, near one hundred weight
of the sheet-lead.

June 16. Going down to the sea-side,l found a large tortoise, or turtle.
This was the first I had seen; which, it seems, was only my misfortune, not
any defect of the place, or scarcity; for, bad i happened to be on the other
side of the island, 1 might have had hundreds of them every day, as I found
afterwards, but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.

June 17 I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her threescore eggs;
and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savory and pleasant that ever
I tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but of goats and fowla, since I landed
in this horrid place.

' 10
June 18. Rained all day, and I staid within. I thought, at this time, the
rain felt cold, and I was something chilly, which I knew was not usual in
tltat latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had heett cold.

June 20. No rest all night: violent pains in nty head, attd feverish.

June '3]. Very ill; li'ighted almost to death with the apprehensions of my
sad condition,--to be sick, attd no help; prayed to (iod, for the first time
since the stormotl'oI'IIull, httt scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts
being all confused.

June 2'2. A little better; but under dreadful amirehensions of sickness.

June '23. Very had again; cold and shivering. and then a violent headache.

June '24. Much better.

June '25. An aguc very violent: the fit held me seven hours; cold tit, and
hot, with faint sweats after it.

June '26. Better; atul, having no vietuals to eat. took my gun, bttt found
myself very weak; however, I killed a she-goat, and with much ditiieulty got
it home, attd broiled some of it, and eat. I would Iain have. stewed it, and
made some broth, lntt had no pot.

Jam '27. The ague agaitt so violent that I lay abed all day, and neither
eat nor drank. I was ready to perish tiirthirst; bttt so weak,l had ttnt
strength to stand up, or to get myself any water to drittk. Prayed to God
again, but was light-headed; attd when I was not, Iwas so ignorant that I.
knew not what to say; only] lay and cried, "Lord, look upon me! Lord,
pity me! Lord, have mercy ttpou me!" I suppose I did nothing else for two
or three hours; till, the lit Wearing oil; I fell asleep, atul did not Wake till tar
in the night. \Vhen I awoke, I found myself much reli'eshed, bttt weak, and
exceeding thirsty: however, as I had no water it: my whole habitation, I Was
lin'et-d to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. Itl this second sleep.I
had this terrible dream :---I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew, after the earthquake,
and that I "'l\\' a man descend tion: a great, black cloud, in a bright flame of
tir ', and light upon the ground: he was all over as bright as a flame, so that
leuuld butjust bear to look towards him: his countenance was tnost inex-
prcssibly dreadlitl, impossible for words to describe: when he stepped upon
the ground with his feet, I thought the earth trctnhlcd,just as it had done
bethre itt the eartluluake, and all the air looked, to my apprehension, as if
it had been tilled "ith tlashcs of tire. Ile was no sooner lattded upon the
earth, Inn he moved tin-ward towards me, with a long spear or weapon itt his
hand, to kill me; and, when he 'atue to a rising ground, at some distance, he
spoke to tne, or I heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the
terror of it. All that I can my I understood was wisp--"Seeing all these
things have not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die;" at which
words, I thought he litied up the spear that was in his hand, to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account, will expect that I should be able
to describe the horrors of my sottl at this terrible vision; I tttcatt, that even
while it was a dreamI I even dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any more
possible to describe the impression that remained upon my tniud when I
awaited, and found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received by the good instruc-
tion of my father was then worn out, by an uninterrupted series, for eight
years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant conversation with none butsuch as were, like myself; wicked and profane to the last degree. I do not
remember that I had, in all that time, one thought that so much as tended
either to looking upwards towards God, or inwards towards a reflection upon
my own ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or
conscience of evil, had entirelyoverwhelmed me; and Iwas all that the
must hardened, unthinking, wicked creature, among our common sailors, can
be supposed to be: not having the least sense, either of the tear of God in
danger or ot'thanklillncss to God in deliverance.

In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the more easily
believed, when I shall add, that, through all the variety of miseries that had
to this day belidlen Inc, I never had so much as one thought of it being the
hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for my sin,---my rebellious
ln-havior against my lather, or my present sins, which were great,---or so
much as a pnnishtnent for the general course of my wicked lite. "'heu I
was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I never had
so much as one thought of what would become of me, or one wish to God
to direct the whither I should go, or to keep me from the danger which
apparently surrounded me, as Well li'om voracious creatures as cruel savages;
hat I was merely thoughtless ot' a God or a providence, ----acted like a mere
brute, from the principles ol'nature, and by the dictates ot'common sense only,
and indeed hardly that. "'hcn I was delivered, aml taken up at sea by the
Portugal captain, well used, and dealt justly and honorably with, as well as
charitably, I had not the least thanklidness in my thoughts. "'hen, agaiu,1
was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger ot'drowning, on this island, I was as
tiir ti-om remorse, or looking on it as a judgnu-nt; I only said to mysell'otien,
that I was an unlin-tunate dog, and born to be always miserable.

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and lbund all my ship's crew
drowned, and myself spared, I was surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and
some transports of soul, which, had the gran-e of God assisted, might have
come up to true thanklillness: but it ended where it began, in a more com-
mon flight of joy, or, as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the least
rcllection upon the distinguished goodness of the ham! which ha. . preserved
me, and had singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed;
or an inquiry why Providence. had been thus merciful unto me; even just
the some common sort of joy which seamen generally have, aller they are
got safe ashore from a shipWreck, which they drown all in the next bowl of
punch, aml forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my life was
like it. Even when I was, afierwards, on due consideration, made sensible
of my condition, --how I was cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach of
human kind, out of all hope of relief; or prospect of redemption,--as soon
as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I should not starve and perish lor
hunger, all the sense of my afiliction were off; and I began to be very easy,
applied myself to the works proper for my preservation and supply, and was
far enough fi'om being afflicted at my condition, as a judgment from Heaven,
or as the hand of God against me; these were thoughts which very seldom
entered my head.

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my jonmal, had, at first, some
little influence upon me, and began to affect me with seriousness, as long as
Ithought it had something miraculous in it; but as soon as ever that part
of the thought was removed, all the impression that was raised from it wore
oft~ also, as I have noted already. Even the earthquake, though nothing
could he more. terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing to the
inrisihle Power which alone directs such things, yet no sooner was the
first lright over. hat the impression it had made went otI' also. I had no
more sense of (End, or Ilis judgments,-- much less: of the present afiliction
ot'my eireumstam-es being from Ilis hand,--than il'I had been ill tlte most
prosperous eomlitiun of life. But now, when l hegau to he sick, and a
leisurely view ol'the miseries ol'death came to plaec itsell' before me; When
my spirits began to sink ttmler the hurdcn of a strong distemper, and nature
was exhausted with the violence of the l'ever,--conseienee, that had slept so
long. began to awake, aml I hegan to reproach myself with my past life,
in "IIII'II I had so evidently, hy uncommon wiekedmms, provoked the justice
of (End to lay me muler uneommon strokes, and to deal with me in so
t'itulit'tive a manner. 'I'hese relleetions oppressed me lhrthe second 0r third
day ol' my distemper; am] in the \'IUIt'IIt'l'. as well of the fever as of the
dreadlitl reproaehes of my eouseienee, extorted some words li'om me like
praying to (hid, though I cannot say they were either a prayer attended with
desires or with hopes: it was rather the voice of more flight and distress.
My thoughts were eontitsed, the. eonvietions great upon my mind, and the
horror of dying in such a mise'ahle eomlition, raised vapors into my head
with the mer- apprehension: and, in these hurries of my soul, I knew not
what my tongue might express; httt it was rather c.\elamation, such as,
'~ Lord. what a miserahle ereature am I! I" should he siek,l shall certainly
die liir nanl ol'help: and what will heeome of me?" Then the tears burst
out ol'iuy eyes and I could say no more tor a good while. In this interval,
the good :uhiee ol'my Iiuher eame to my mind, and presently his prediction,
which I nu-ntioned at the beginning of this story, vi7.., that il' I did take this
limlish step, God would not bless the, aml I would have leisure hereafter to
retleet upon having negleeted his eounsel, when there might he none to
assist in my recovery. "Now," said I aloud, "my dear litther's words are
eome to pass; God's justiee has overtaken me, aml l have none to help or
hear me. I t'tfjt't'letl the wire of I'rovidem-e, which had nu-reilitlly put me
in a posture or station of lili' wherein I might have been happy attd easy;
hat I would neither see it myselt; or barn to know the hlessing of it from
my parents. I left them to mourn over my thlly,and now I am left to mourn
under the eonseqnem-es ot'it: I refused their help aml assistanre, who would
lune Iitied me in the world, and would have made every thing easy to me;
and now I hate ditliculties to struggle with, too great lbr even nature itself
' Then I cried
This was the first prayer,

to suppor , and no assistance, no help, no t'otltlitrl, lln adviee.'
mu, " Lord, he my help, tor l ant in great distress."
il'l may -all it so, that I had tnade lin' many y -ars.

But I return to myjournalz--

June '28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had had, and
the lit heiug entirely oil; I got up: and, though the l'right and terror of my
dream was very great, yet I eonsidered that the [it of the agtte would rctum
again the next day, and now was my time to get something to refresh and
support myself when I should he ill; and the first thing I did, I filledn large,
square ease-houle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed;
and to take oil the chill or agaish disposition of the water, I put about a
quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I got me a
piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could out very little.
I walked about; but was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy hearted,
under a sense of my miserable rendition, dreading the return of my dis-
temper the next day. At night, I made my supper of three of the turtle's
eggs: which I roasted in the ashes, attd eat, as we call it, in the shell; and
this was the first hit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing to, even, as [
could remember, in my whole liti-. At'ter I had eaten, I tried to walk, but
tintnd tuyselt'so weak, that I could hardly carry a gun, for I never went out
without that; so I went but a little way, and sat down upon the ground,
looking out. upon the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and

 

smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these oeenrred to me:--- "'hat
is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? \Vheuee is it pro-
duced? And what am I, and all the other creatures, wild utul tame, human
and brutal? thnee are we? Sure we are all made by some secret power,
who formed the earth and sea, the air and sky. .\tnl who is that P Then it
fiillowed, most naturally, It is God that has made all. Well; but, then, it came
on strangely, if God has made all these things, he ,rntides and gorerns them
all. and all things that concern them: tor the power that could make all
things, must certainly have power to guide and direct them: it' so, nothing
can happen in the great circuit of His works, either withottt His knowledge
or appointment.

And it'ttcthing happens without His knowledge, He knows that 1 am here,
anti atn in this dreadl'td condition: anti if nothing happens without llis ap-
pointment, He has appointed all this to bet'all me. Nothing oeeurred to my
thought, to contradict any of these conclusions; and therefore it rested upon
me with the greater force, that it must needs be. that God had appointed all
this to befall me; that l was brought into this miserable circumstance by His
direction, He having the sole power, not of me only, but of every thing that
happened in the world. Immediately it lbllowed, Why has God done this to
me ? What have I done to he thus used? My conscience presently checked
me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed; and methought it spoke to me like
a voice,--" Wretch! dost Uwu ask what thou hast done? Look back upon a
dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not done. Ask, \Vhy is
it that thou wort not long ago destroyed? \Vhy wert thou not drowned itt
Yarmouth Roads? killed in the fight when the ship was taken by the Sallee
tnateof-war." devoured by the wild beasts on the coast ofAfrit-a? or drowned
lure, when all the crew perished httt thyself? Dost thou ask, What have I
done ? " l was struek dumb With these reflections, as otte astonished, and ltad
not a word to say, --- no, not to answer to myself, bttt rose up pensive and sad,
walked baek to my retr mt, and went up over my wall, as if] had been going
to bed; but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to
sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be
dark. Now, as the apprehension of the return of my distemper territied me
very mneh, it oeeurred to my thought, that the Brasilians take no physie. but
their tobat'eo, tor almost all distempers, and I had a piece ot'a roll of tobaeeo
in one of the ehests, which was quite cured, and some also that was green,
and not quite eured.

I went, direeted by lleaven, no doubt; for int this chest I found a cttre both
for soul attd body. I opened the chest, atul found what I looked for, viz., the
tobaeet : and, as the few books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of
the Bibles wbieh I mentioned before, and which, to this time, I had ttot found
leisure, or so nun-It as inelittatiou, to look into. I say, I took it out, and
brottght both that and the tobaeeo with tue to the table. ""ltat use to make
ofthe tohaeeo I knew not, as to my distemper, or whether it was good for it.
or no; but I tried several experiments with it, as if] was resolved it should
hit one way or other. I first took a pieee of a lent; and chewed it ill my
mouth, whieh, indeed, at tirst, almost stupelied my brain, the tobacco being
green and strong, and that I had not been mueh used to. Then I took some
and steeped it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose ofit
when I lay down; atul, lastly, l burnt some upon a putt of coals, and held
my nose elose over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it, as Well tbr the
lteat, as almost tbr sutlbeation. In the interval of tltis operation, I took
up the Bible, aml began to read, but my head was too much disturbed
with the tohaeeo to bear reading, at least at that time; only, having opened
the book eusually, the first words that oeeurr-d to me were these--" Call
on me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt
glorily me." These words \ver- \'t't'_\' apt to lay atse, aml made some
impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so
ntueh as they did afterwards; tbr, as tbr being delircml, the word had no
sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in thy
apprehension of things, that I began to say as the children of lsrael did
when they were promised llesh to eat, "('au God spr-ad a table. in the
wilderness?" so I began to say, "('au God himself deliver me from this
plaee?" And, as it was not lbr ntany yeats that any hopes appeared, this
prevailed very often upon my tltoughts; but, however, the words made a
great impression upon tue, and l mused upon them very often. It grew now
late. aml the tobaeeo had, as I said, dext'd my head so mueh that l inclined
to sleep- so I left my Iautp burning in the rave, lest I should want any thing
in the night, and went to bed. But below I lay down. I did what I never
had done in all my life; I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that if I 'alled upon him in the day of trouble, he would
deliver me. Alter my broken and inuwrfect prayer was over, I drank the
rum in which I had steeped the tobacco; which was so strong and rank of
the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it down; immediately upon this I
      

Eli", 3:.
5:5
g

'5'
L, .r'
W

went to bed. I found presently it flew up ittto my head violently; bttt I fell
into a sound sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must necessarily
be near three o'clock in the alleruoou the next day; nay, to this hour I am
partly ot'opiuiou, that I slept all the next day aml night, and till almost three
the day alter; for, otherwise, I know not how I should lose a day out of my
reckoning in tlte days of the week, as it appeared, some years after, I had
done: for if I had lost it by crossing and merossing the Line, I should have
lost more than one day; but certainly I lost a day in my account, and never
knew which way. Be that, however, one Way or the other, when I awaited,
l tbund myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful;
when Igot up, I was stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach
better, tbrI Was hungry; and, in short, I had no fit the next day, but con-
tinued much altered for the better. This was the 29th.

The 30th Was my well day, of course, and I Went abroad with my gun, but
did not care to travel too far. Ikilled a sea-fowl or two, something like a
brand goose, and brought them home; but was not very forward to eat
them; so I eat some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good.
This evening, I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me good
the day before, viz., the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so much
as before, nor did I chew any of the lent; or hold my head over the smoke;
however, I was not so well the next day, which was the first ot'July, usI hoped
Ichould have been; for I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much.

July 2 I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and dosed myself
with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I drank.

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not recover my full
strength for some weeks after. While I was thus gathering strength, my
thoughtsran exceedingly upon this scripture -- "I will deliver thee ;" and the
impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever
expecting it; but, as I was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it
occurred to my mind thatI pored so nmch upon my deliverance from the
main affliction, that I disregarded the deliverance 1 had received; and I was,
as it were, made to ask myself such questions as these, viz.:--Have I not
been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness? from the most distressed
condition that could he, and that was so frightful to me? And what notice
had 1 taken of it? Ilad I done my part? God had delivered me, but I had
not glorified him; that is to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that
as a deliverance; and how could I expect greater deliverance? This touched
my heart very much; and immediately I knelt down, and gave God thanks
aloud, for my recovery from my sickness.

July 4. In the morning, I took the Bible, and, beginning at the New
Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed upon myself to read
awhile every morning and every night; not'tying myself to the number of
chapters, but as long as my thoughts should engage me. It was not long
after I set seriously to this work, but I found my heart more deeply and
sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life. The impression
of my dream revived; and the words, " All these things have not brought
thee to repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened providentially, the very
day, that, reading the Scripture, I came to these words: "He is exalted a
Prince and a Savior, to give repentance, and to give remission." I threw
down the book; and, with my heart as well as my hands lificd up to heaven,
' in a kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David!
Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance!" This was
the first time I could say, in the true sense of the words, that I prayed in all
my life; for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a true
Scriptui'e view of hope, founded on the encouragement of the word of God;
and from this time, 1 may say, I began to have hope that God would
hear me. '

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, " Call on me, and I
will deliver thee," in a different sense from what I had ever done before; for
then 1 had no notion of any thing being called deliverance, but my-being de-
livered from the captivity I was in; for though I was indeed at large in the
place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst sense
in the world. But now I learned to take it in another sense; now I looked
back upon my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful,
that my soul sought nothing of God but deliverance from the load of guilt
that bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing; I
did not so much as pray to be delivered li'om it, or think of it; it was all of
no consideration, in comparison to this: And I add this part here, to hint to
whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a true sense of things,
they will find deliverance li'om sin a much greater blessing than deliverance

from aflliction.

 

But, leaving this part, I return to my journal : ---

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my way
of living, yet much easier to my mind; and my thoughts being directed, by a
constant reading the Scripture and praying to God, to things of a higher

12
nature, 1 had a great deal of eomfim within, which, till now, I knew nothing
of; also, as my health and strength returned, I bestin'ed myself to furnish
myscll' with every thing that I wanted, and make my way of living as
regular as I could.

l"rom the -lth ol'Jnly to the Hill, I was chiefly employed in walking about
with my gun in my lautd, a little and a little at a little, as a man that was
gathering up his strength atier a fit of sickness: tor it is hardly to be
imagined how low I was, and to what weakness 1 was reduced. The appli-
cation which I made Ilse of was perli-ctly new, atnl perhaps what lntd never
cured an agltc beliirc; neither can I t'ccommcnd it to any one to practise, by
this experiment; ntnl, though it did carry otl' the lit, yet it rather contributed
to weakening mo; litr I had li'ctpn-nt convulsions in my nerves and limbs lbr
some time: I learned li'om it also this, in particular, that being abroad in the
rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could be,
especially in those rains which came attendcd with storms aml hurricanes
of wind: tin', as the rain which came in the dry season was almost always
acconnmuicd with such storms, so I tinmd that rain was much more dau-
gerons than the rain which tell in September atnl Ut'luln't'.

lhad bet-ll now in this unhappy island ahot'c ten months: all possibility
ol'delivcram-e from this comlilion seemed to be entirely taken li'om Inc; and
lftrmly believed tlntt no lnnnan shape had ever set foot upon that place-
llaviug now secured my habitation, as I thought, litlly to my mind. I had a
great desire to tnak ' a more pcrli-ct discovery ol'thc island, and to see what
other prmlnctious I might lind, which I yet knew nothing of.

It was on the 15th of July that l lwgan to take a tuorc particular survey
ol'thc island itscllI I went up the creek first, where, as l hinted, I brought
my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide
did not llow any higher; atnl that it was no more than a little brook of run-
ning water, aml very fresh aml good; Inn, this being the dry season, there
was hardly any water in some parts of it; at least, not enough to run in any
stream, sons it could be perceived. ()n the banksot'this hrook,l linmd many
pleasant savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and,
on the rising parts of thctn, next to the higher grounds, where the water, as
it might be stlptmsctl, never m-crtlowed, I found a great deal of tobacco,
green, and growing to a great aml very strong stalk: there were divers other
plants which I had no notion of, or understanding about, aml might, perhaps,
have virtttes of their own, which I could not find out. I searched for the
museum root, Which the Italians, in all that climate, make their bread of, lntt
I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not understand them.
I saw several sugar- nines, lntt wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect.
I contented myself with these discoveries tor this titne, nml came back,
musing with myself what course I might take to know the virtue and good-
ness of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover; lntt could bring
it to no conclusion; tor. in short,l had made so little observation wltilel
was in tltc lirasils, that I know little of the plants in the tield; at least, very
little that might serve me to any purpose now in my distress.

The next day, the ltith, I went up the same way again; and, after going
snout-thing titrther than I had gone the day before, I lbnnd the brook and the
savannas began to cease, and the country became more woody than before.
In this part, I found ditl'ercnt fruits, and particularly] found melons upon the
ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the vines had spread,83 - 84
Missing
From
Original
indeed, over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now in their prime,
very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding
glad ot'tbem; bttt I was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them,
remetnlu'ring that when I was ashore in liarbary, the eating of grapes killed
several of our I'Ittglisbmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them into
fluxes and tievcrs. But I timnd an excellent use. for these grapes; and that
was, to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep thetn as dried grapes or raisins
are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome as
agreeable to eat, when tto grapes might be to be had.

I spent all that evening there, aml went not baek to my habitation: which,
by the way, was the tirst night, as I might say, I had lain t'rmu home. In

' the night, I took my first eontrivauee, and got up into a tree, where I slept
well; atnl, the next morning, proceeded upon my discovery, travelling nearly
limr miles, as I tnigbt judge by the length of the valley, keeping still due
north, with a ridge ol'hills on the south and north side of me. At the end of
this march, I came to all opening. where the country seemed to descend to
the west; and a little spring ol'li'esh water, which issued out of the side of
the hill by me, ran the other way, that is. due east; and the country appeared
so ti'esh, so green, so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure, or
tlonrish of spring, that it looked like a planted garden. I descended a little
on the side of that delicious vale, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure,
though mixed with my other atllieting thoughts, to think that this was all my
own; that I was king atnl lord ol'all this country inth-ti-asibly,aml had a right
of possession; :nnl, it'I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance as
completely as any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of
cocoa-trees, orange, atul lemon, and eitrou-trees; but all wild, atnl very ti-w
bearng any ti'uit, at least, not then. However, the green limes that I gathered
were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome: atul I mixed their juice
alierwards with water, whirl: made it very wholesome, and very cool and re-
fi'eshing. I liumd, now, I had business enough, to gather atnl carry home;
and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes as limes aml lemons, to
litrnish ntysell'tbr the. wet season, which I knew was approaching. In order
to this, Igathered a great heapol' grapes in one place, a lesserheap in another
place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and, taking
a ti-w ol'each with mc,l traVelled homeward; uml resolved to come again,
and bring a bag or sack, or what I cottld make, to carry the rest home. Ae-
cordiugly, having spent three days in this journey, I came home, (so I must
now call my tent and my cave;) but. before I got thither, the grapes wore
spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and the weight of the juice, having broken
them and bruised theta, they Were good tor little or nothing: as to the limes,
they were good, bttt I cottld bring but a lirw.

The next day, being the 19th,] went back, having made me two small
bags to bring home tny harvest; but I was surprised, when, coming to my
heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered thetn, I found
them all spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some
there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this, I concluded there were
some wild creatures thereabonts, which had done this; but what they were, I
knew not. However, as Ifound there was no laying them up on heaps and no
carrying them away in a sack, but that one Way they would be destroyed, and
the other way they would be cntshed with their own weight, I took another

course; for I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and Inmg them upon the
out-hranenes of the, trees, that they might euro and dry in the sun ; and as for
the limes aml lemons, I carried as many hack as I could well stand under.

When I catne home from this journey, I eoutemplated with great pleasure
the li'uitlidm-ss of that valley, and the pleasantness ol' the situation; the se-
eurity li'om storms on that side the water, am! the wood; and concluded that
I had pin-hm] upon a place to [ix my ahode, which was hy tar the worst part
ol'the eonntry. l'pon the whole,l hogan to consider of removing my habita-
tion: and to look out for a place. equally sali- as where now I was situate, if
possible. in that pleasant, fruitful part of the island.

This thought ran long in my head, and l was exeeodiug t'ond ofit for some
time. the pleasantm-ss ot'the place tempting me; hit! when] 'ame to a nearer
\'it'\\' of it, I considered that l was now by the sea-side, where it was at least
possihle that soon-thing might happen to my advantage; and, by the same
ill littc that hmught me hither, might bring some other unhappy \vrotcltes to
the same place; aml though it Was srarco prohahle that any such thing
should o\'t'r happen, yet to enclose myselt' :unong the hills and woods iIt the
centre of the island, was to anticipate my hondage, atul to render such an
atiiiir not only improlaahle. hut impossihle: and that, then-litre, I ought not,
by any Ineans. to remove. However, I was so enamored of this place, that I
spent mun-h of my time there tiu- the whole n'maining part of the month of
July: aml though. upon second thoughts. I resolved as above, not to remove,
yet I lntilt Inc a little ltilul ol'a howor. and surrounded it, at a distance. with t1
strong li-m-e. being a double hedge. as high as I could reach, Well staked, and
tilled helm-en with hrush-woml: aml here I lay \'cry secure, sotuotimes two
or three nights together: always going over it with a ladder. as holiu'e ; so that
l linicicd nmv,l had my country house aml my sea-coast house; and this
Work took me up to the lit-ginning ol'August.

I had but newly tinished my ti nee, and hogan to enjoy my lahor, when the
rains cattle on. and made me stick close to my lirst hahitation: tiir, though I
had made me a tent like the other. with a piece 01' a sail, and spread it very
well. yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me ti-om storms, nor a cave
behind me to retreat into when the rains were extmnrdinary.

.'\ltmll the lit-ginning of August. as I said. I had finished my howor, and
hogan to enjoy myselll The 3d of .-\ngust,l timnd the grapes I had hung
up were perli-ctly dried, and, indeed, were oxeellont good raisins 01' the sun;
so i hogan to take tln-m down from the trees, and it was very happy that I
did so, tor the rains which tiillowod would have spoiled them, and] had lost
tho host part of my winter thud : tor I had ahove two lnmdred large hunches
of them. No sooner had I taken them all down, aml carried most of them
homo to my cave, hut it hogan to min : atul from hence, which was the 14th
ot'August. it rained more or less, every day, till tlte middle. of October, and
sometimes so violently, that lcnuld not stir out of my are for several days.

In this season,l was nmch surprised with the increase of my family; I had
been concerned tor the loss ol'one of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as
I thought, had been dead : and l hoard no more talc or tidings of her, till, to
my astonishment, she came homo, about the eml ot'August, with three kittens.
This was the more strange to me, because, though I had killed a wildcat, as
1 called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was a quite different kind from our
European rats: and the young cats were the same kind of house-breed like
the old one; and hath my cats being females, I thought it very strange. But
from these three cats, I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats, that I
 

0X <<um ww
was. forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, attd to drive them from
my house as much as lwssible.

From the l-ltb ot'.\ngnst to the Qtith, int'essant rain. so that Ieould not stir,
and was now very 'aretitl not to be. mueh wet. In this cottiim-ment, I began
to be. straitened t'or tbod; but venturing out twiee. I one day killed a goat;
and the last day, which was the ma, tinmd a very large tortoise, which was
a treat to tne, am] my food was regulated tlmsz--l eat a bnneh ot' raisins for
my hreakiitst; a piet'e ot' goat's flush, or ot'the turtle, tiir my dinner, broiled;
for. to my great mistimune, I laid no Vessel to boil or stew atty thing; and two
or three of the turtle's eggs tiir my slipper.

During this eontinetnent in tny eover by the rain, I worked daily two or
three hours at enlarging my cave, and by degrees worked it on towards one
side, till I cattle to the outside of the hill, aml made a door or nay out.whieh
eatne beyond tny three or wall: and so I value in and ottt this way. But I
was not perleetly easy at lying so open; tbr, as l ltad managed Inyselt'lM-thre,
I was in n perti-et enelosure: whereas, now, I thought I lay exposed, and open
for any thing to come in ttpon me: aml yet I eonld not pereeive that there was
any living thing to fear, the biggest ereature that I had yet seen ttpott the
island being a goat.

Stpl'. 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my landing. 1
east up the notches on tny post, and found I had been on shore three hun'
dred and sixty-live days. I kept this day as a solemn i'ast, setting it apart to
religious exercise, prostvating myself on the ground with the most serious
humiliation, confessing my sins to God, aeknowledging his righteousjudg--
meats upon me, and praying to hitn to have mercy on me through Jesus
Christ: and not having tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till
the going down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit-cake and a bunch of grapes,
and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. I had all this time observed
no Sabbath-day; for, as at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I
had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making a longer
notch than ordinary for the Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any
of the days were; but now, having cast up the days as above, I found I had
been there a year; so I divided it into weeks and set apart every seventh day
for a Sabbath; though I found, at the end of my account, I had lost a day or
two in my reckoning. A little at'tvr this, my ink lu'gan to fail me, and so I
contvntml Inyst-lt' to nso it Inorv sparingly, and to writo down only the most
rvlnarkahlo orvnts ot' my liti-, without continuing a daily memorandum of
otla-r things.

'l'la- rainy st-ason and the dry st-ason hogan now to appoar rvgnlar to me,
and I Iu-arm-d to diridc- Ila-In so as to prmido tiir tln-m accordingly; but I
honght all my a-xlwric-m'o lwtim- I had it, and this I am going to relate, was
one of tho most discouraging t'X'It'I'IIIN'IIIS that l mado at all.

I han- na-ntiom-d that I had saw-d the li-w vars ot' harh-y and rico, which
I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of thonlsolt't's, and I lie-
IIt'\'t' tln-rc "'t't't' ahout thirty stalks of rim-, and about twt-nty ot' harloy: and
now I thought it a propvr than to sow it. al'tor tho rains,th sun bring in its
sontln-rn position. going ti'om mo. ;\('t'tlrtII|l,'.'I_\',I dug upa pic-('0 of ground as
wvll as I could with my "mull-It spado. and. dividing it intotwo parts, I sowed
my grain : hot. as I was so" ing. it casually ovvurn-d to my thoughts that I would
not sow it all at tirst. lwt-ausv I did not know win-n was tln- propvr tinn: for
it : so I stun-(I about two thirds ol' tla- sot-d. Ioa\'ing about a handlitl ot'oat'h.
It was a gn-at t-omtiirt to nn- at'ta-rwards that I did so, Mr not our grain 01'
what I sum-d this than l'fllltl' to any thing: tor, tla- dry months tiillowing, the
earth having had no rain al'n-r tlu- H't'tI was sown, it had no llltllsllll't' to assist
its growth, and tumor rann' up at all till tln- wot season had vonn- again, aml
tla-n it grow as if it had hm-n hut m-wly sown. Finding my first svvd did
not grow, "'IIII'II l c-asily imagiln-d was hy tho drought, I sought tor a moistor
pit-w of ground to malo- anotlwr trial in. and I dug up a llIt't'l' of ground nt'ar
my now hoot-r, aml sowt-d Ila- rc-st ot'my sm-d in I"vhrnary. a littlo IM'IIH'Q' the
varnal mlninox: and this, having tho rainy months of March and April to
water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but, having
part of the seed letl only, alnl not daring to sow all that I had, I had but a
small quantity at last, tny whole crop not amounting to above halt' a peek of
each kind. But by this exln-riment l was made master ot'my business, and
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow, aml that lmight expect
two seed-titties and two harvests every year.

While this i'ut'tt was growing. I made a little discovery, which was of use
to me al'tertt'at'ds. As soon as the mitts were over, and the Weather lwgan to
settle. "'Illt'Il was about the month of Noveudwr, I made a visit up the coun-
try to my bower, where. though I had ttot been some months. yet I tinuul
all things just as I letl them. The rirrle or double hedge that I had made
was not only tirnt and entire. bttt the stakes "'IIII'II I had cutout ot'sume trees
that grew tlu-n-almuts, were all shot out. :uul grown with long branches, as
nun-h as a willow-tree usually shoots the tirst year after lapping its head. I
could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were rut than. I was sur-
prised, and yet very Well pleased. to see the young trees grow: and I pruned
them. and led them up to grow as much alike as l eould: aml it is warm:
credible how beautiful a figure they gn-w into in three years : so that, though
the edge made a eiri'le ol'about t\\'euty-ti\'e yards in diameter, yet the trees---
lior such I might now call them ---snott covered it, atnl it was a complete shade,
sntlieieut to lodge under all the dry season. This tnade me resolve to cut
Some more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round tny
wall, (I mean that of my tirst dwelling.) \\'I|II'I| I did; and, placing the trees
or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards' distance from my first fence,
they grew presently, and were at first a line cover to my habitation, and aller-
wards served tbr a defence also, as I shall observe in its order.

I tintud, now, that the seasons of tlte year might generally be divided, not
into sttttttttt'r and winter, as itt Europe, but ittto the rainy seasons and the
dry seasons; which Were genentlly thus:--

The halt'ol' February, the whole of March, and the hall' of April;--- rainy,
the sun being then on or near the equinox.

The halt' of April, the whole of May, Jnttc, and July, and the half of Att-
gnst :--dry, the sun being then to the north ot'the Line.

The halt'ot'Augnst, the whole of Septemlmr, and the hall' of October; --
rainy, the sun being: then come back.

The half of October, the whole of November, December, atnl January, and
the hall'ot' February ;---dry, the sun being then to the south ot'the Line.

The rainy seasons smut-titties held longer or shorter, as the winds happened
to blow; but this was the gent-ml ohsen'ation I made. Alter I had tinmd by
experience the ill consequences of being: abroad in the mitt, I took care to
furnish myself with provisions lwlbrehand, that I might ttot be obliged to go
out : and I sat within doors as nun-h as possible during.' the wet months. This
time I found much employment, and t'i-rysuitable also to the titne, tbr It'ound
great occasion for minty things which I had no Way to furnish myself with
but by ltard labor and constant application; tuirtienlarly, ! tried many ways
to make myself a basket, but all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved
so brittle, that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent adv-mange to
me, now, that, when I was a boy, I used to take great delight in standing at a
lmsketqnaker's itt the town where my father lived, to see them make their
Wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are, very otlieious to help. atul a

stem observer of the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
1290 The use no wves'rvnes

lending a hand, I had, by tltese means, full knowledge of tlte methods of it,
tltat I wanted nothing but the materials; whett it came ittto tny mind that the
twigs ot'thut tree ti-om whence I cut tny stakes that grew, might possibly be as
tough as the sallows, willows attd osiers itt England, attd I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the. next day,l went to tny country house, as I called it, and,
cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to nty purpose as nntch as I
cottld desire; whereupon I came the next time prepared with hatchet to cut
down a quantity, which I soon found, for there Was great plettty of them.
These I set up to dry within my circle or hedge, and, when they were fit for
use, I carried them to tny cave; and here, during the next season, I employed
myselt' itt making, as well as I could, a great tnany baskets, botlt to carry
earth, or to carry or lay up atty thing, as I had occasion ; and though I did not
finish them very handsomely, yet I tnade them sulficiently serviceable l'or tny
purpose; tttnl thus, afterwards, I took care. never to be. without them; and as
tny wicker-ware dccayed,I tuade more, especially strong, deep baskets, to
place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity
"lull.

Having mastered this ditiiculty, atul employed a world of time about it, I
ltestit'etl my scll'to see, it'poss-ible, how to supply two Wants. I had no vessel
to lmitl any thing that was liquid, except two runlets, which were alnmst full
ol'rum. atul some glass bottles, --sotne ot'the common size, attd others which
were t'asc-lmttltts'osqtutrt', for the holding of waters, spirits, &c. I had ttot so
nmeh as a pot to boil any thing, except a great kettle, which I saved out ot'the
ship, atnl which was too bit,' for such use asldesired it, viz, to tttake broth, and
stew a bit ot'meat by itsclti The second thing I thin would have had, \vas a
tobacco-pilw, luu it was itntmssilile to ttte to make one; hoWever, I found a
eontrivance tor that too, at last. I employed myself in planting ttty second
rows ot'stakcs or piles, aml itt this wicker--working all the summer or dry
season, when another business took tttc up more time than it could be int-
agined I could spare.

I mentioned before. that I ltad a great mind to see the whole island; and
that I had lt'tu'cllt'tl up the brook, and so on to where I built my bower, and
where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the other side of the island. I
now resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side; 80, taking
my gun. a hatchet, and tny dog,and a linger quantity ot'powder and shot than
usual, with two biscuit-cakes, aml a great bttnch ot' raisins in my pottclt for
my store, I began my journey. "'hen I had passed the vale where my bOWCI'
stood, as abort-,1 came within view ot'thc sea to the West; and it being avery
clear day, I titirly descried land, whether an island or a contittent, could not
tell; bttt it lay very high, extending from the \V. to the \V. S. W'., at a very
great distance; by my guess, it could ttot be less than fifteen or twenty
leagues otli

I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise titan that I
knew it must be part of America; aml, as I concluded, by all my observa-
tions, must be near the Spanish dominions, and, perhaps, was all inhabited by
savages, where, in should have landed,I had been in a worse condition than
I was now; and, theretbre,I acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence,
which I began now to own and to believe ordered every thing for the best;
lsay, Iquieted my mind with this, and left afllicting myself with fruitless
wishes of being there.

Besides, alter some pause upon this afl'airJ considered that if this land was
the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or other, see some vessel pass
or repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the savage coast between
the Spanish country and Brasils, which are indeed the worst of savages; for
they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and thil not to murder and devour all the
human bodies that fall into their hands.

With these cousiderations,l walked very leisurely forward; I found that
side of the island, where I now was, much plwsanter than mine; the open
or savanna fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very tine
woods. lsaw abundance of parrots, and thin I would have caught one, if
lmss'ihle, to have kept it to he tame. and taught it to speak to me. I did, after
some pains-taking, catch a young .parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick,
and, having recovered it, I brought it home; but it was some years before I
could make him speak; however, at last I taught him to call me by my name
very thmiliarly. But the accident that followed, though it be a trifle, will be
very diverting in its place.

l was exceedingly diverted with this joumey. I found, in the low grounds,
hares (as I thought them to he) and foxes; but they ditl'ercd greatly trout all
the other kinds 1 had met with, nor could I satisfy myselfto eat them, though
I killed several. Bntl had no need to be Venturous, forl had no want of
food, and of that which was very good too; especially these three sorts, viz,
goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise ; which, added to my grapes, Leadenhall
Market could not have furnished a table better than I, in proportion to the
company; and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause
for thankfiilness that l was not driven to any extremities for food, but had
rather plenty, even to dainties.

I never travelled in thisjoumey above two miles outright in a day,or there~
abouts; but I took so many turns and retums, to see \that discoveries I could
make, that 1 came weary enough to the place where I resolved to sit down
for all night; and then I either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded my-
self with a row of stakes, set upright in the. ground, either from one tree to
another, or so as no wild creature could come at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I had taken
up my lot on the worst side of the island; for here, indeed, the shore was
covered with innumerable turtles; whereas, on the other side,l had found
but three in a year and a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls of
many kinds, some which I had seen, and some which I had not seen,
before, and many of them very good meat, but such as I knew not the names
of, except those called Penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of my powder
and shot, and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which I
could better feed on; and though there were many goats here more than on
my side the island, 'et it was with nmeh more difliculty that I could come
near them, the country being flat and even, and they saw me much sooner
than when I was on the hill.

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine; but yet
I had not the least inclination to remove; for, as I was fixed in my habitation,
it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here to be,"
it were, upon a journey, and from home. However, I travelled along the
shore of the sea towards the cast, I suppose about melve miles;and then,
setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go
home again, and that the next journey I took should be on the other side of
the island, east from my dwelling, and so romul till I came to my post again;
oi'wbieh in its plat-e.

I took another way to 00""! hat-k than that 1 went, thinking I could easily
keep all the island so much in my View, that l eould not miss finding' my first
dwelling by viewing.' the eouutry: but I lbuud myself mistaken; lbr, being
come about two or three miles, I tinmd myselt' dost-ended into a very large
valley. but so snrroumled with hills, and those bills covered with wood, that
l eould not see which Was my Way by any direetion but that of the sum, not
own then, unless I knew very well the position ofthe sun at that little ot'the
day. It happened to tny titrther misthrtuue, that the weather proved hazy
for three or tbnr days : while I was in the valley, and not being able to see the
sun, I wandered about very nneomtbnably, am] at last was obliged to find out
the sea-side. look tor my post, and eome back the same way I went: and then
by easy journeys, I turned homeward, the weather brill}! exceeding hot, and
my gun, ammunition, hatehet, and other things, \'ery heavy.

In this journey my d0}.r surprised at young kid, and seized upon it, and 1,
running in to take hold of it, eaught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I
had a great mind to bring: it home it' I eould, for I had otien been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, am! so raise a breed of
tame goats, which might supply me when my powder and shot should be all
spent. .I made a collar to this little creature. and with a string which I made
of some mpeyarn, which 1 always carried about me, I led him along, though
with some ditiieulty, till I came to my bowvr; and there I enclosed him, and
lefl him, tbr l was very impatient to be at home, from whence I had been
absent above a mouth.93 - 94
Missing
From
Original
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my old
hutch, and lie down in my hannnock-bed. This little wandering journey
without settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me, that my own
house, as I called it to myselt; was a pertect settlement tome, compared to
that; and it rendered every thing about me so comfortable, that I resolved I
would never go a great way treat it again, while it should be my lot to stay
on the island.

I reposed tnyself here a week, to rest and regale mySelf atler my long
journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty atliiir
of making a cage for my Poll, who began now to be a mere domestic, and to
be mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid
which I had penned in within my little circle, and resolved to go aml tetclt
it home, or give it some food; accordingly I went, and found it where I left
it, for, indeed, it could not get out, lntt was almost starved for want of food.
I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such shrnlm as I could find,
aml threw it over; and, having tied it, I tied it as I did betbre, to lead it away;
but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it, for
it followed me like a dog; and, as I continually tetl it, the creature became so
loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time one of my do-
mestics also, and would never leave me afterwards

The rainy season of the attttunnal equinox was now come, and I kept the
30th of September in the same solemn manner as before, being the anniver-
sary of my landing on the island, having now been there two years, and no
more prospect of being delivered than the first day I came there. I spent
the whole day in humble and thanktitl acknowledgments of the many wonder-
ful mercies which my solitary condition was attended with, and without
which it might have been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and
hearty thanks that God had been pleased to discover to me, even that it was
possible I might be tnore happy in this solitary condition, than I should have
been in a liberty of society, and in all the pleasures of the World; that he
could fully make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want
of human society, by his presence, and the communications of his grace to
my soul; supporting, comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his
providence here, and hope for his eternal presence hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy this life I
now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed,
abominable life I led all the past part of my days; and now I changed both
my sorrows and my joys; my very desires altered, my affections changed
their gusts, and my delights were perfectly new li'om what they were at my
first coming, or, indeed, for the two years past

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for viewing the coun-
try, the anguish of my soul at my condition would break out upon me on a
sudden, and my very heart would die within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts I was in, and how 1 Was a prisoner, locked up with
the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without
redemption. In the midst of the greatest composures of my mind, this
would break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands, and
weep like a child; sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work,
and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground for
an hour or two together; and this was still worse to me, for if I could burst
out into tears, or vent myself by words, it would go 01?, and the grief, having
exhausted itself; would abate.96 Tm; Lin: AND anvrznwuss

 

But now! began to exercise myself with new thoughts; ldaily read the
Word ot'God, and applied all the eotntbrts of it to my present state. One
morning, being: very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words--" I will never,
never leave thee nor forsake thee." Immediately it occurred that these
words were to me: why else should they be directed in such a manner, just
at the moment when l was mourning over my condition, as one forsaken of
God and man? " Well, then," said I, "it' God does not forsake me, of what
ill consequence ean it be, or what matters it. though the world should all
tbrsake me, seeing. on the other haml, it" I had all the world, and should lose
the flavor and blessing ol'God, there would be no eomparison in the loss?"

From this moment, i began to conelude in my mind, that it Was possible
for me to be more, happy in this forsaken, solitary condition, titan it was
probable I should e\'t'r have been in any other particular state. in the world;
and with this thought, I was {wing to give thanks to God for bringing tue to
this plaec. I know not what it was, but something shocked my mind at that
thought, and l durst not speak the words. "How canst thou become such a
liypm'rile," said 1, even audibly, "to pretend to be thankful for a condition,
which, however thou maycst endeavor to be contented with, thou wouldst
rather pray Incartily to be deliven-d trout ?" So I stopped there; but, though
I could not say I thanked God for being there, yet I sincerely gave thanks to
God for opening my eyes, by whatever afilicting providences, to see the former
condition of my life, and to mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never
opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within tue blemd God for
directing my friend in England, without any order of mine, to pack it up
among my goods, and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck
ot'thc ship.

'l'lms, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year: and, though
I have not given the reader the trouble ot so particular an account ot my
\vorks this-year as the. tirst,y'ct, III gent ral, it may be observ,cd that l was \ery
seldom idle, but having regularly divided my time according to the several
daily employments that were before me, such as, first, my duty to God, and
the reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart sotne time for, thrice
every day; secomlly, the going abroad with my gun for tood, which g-u-
erally took me up three hours in every IIIoruing, when it did not rain:
thirdlv, the ordering, cutting, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or
catchcd for my supply; these took up great part of the day; also, it is
to he Considered, that in the middle of the day, when the sun was in the
zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that about four
hours in the evening was all the time 1 could be supposed to work in,
with this exception, that sometinn-s I changed my hours of hunting and
working, and went to work in the IIIorning, and abroad with my gun in the
afternoon.

To this shon time allowed for labor, I desire may be added the exceeding
lalmriousncss of my work; the many hours which, for want of tools, want
of help, and want of skill, every thing I did took up out of my time; for
example, I was full two and forty days making me a board tbr a long shelf,
which I wanted in my cave; whereas, two sawyeIs, with their tools and a
saw-pit, would have out six ot'them out of the same tree in halt'a day.

My case was this: it was to be a large tree which was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I Was three days a
cutting down, and two more cutting otl'the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or
piece ol'titubcr. With inexpressible hacking and bowing, 1 reduced both the
sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough to move; then I turned
it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board from eml to end; then,
turning that side downward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be
about three inches thick, and smoath on both sides. Any one may judge the
labor of my hands in such a piece of Work, but labor and patience carried
me. through that, and many other things: [only observe this, in particular, to
show the reason why so much of my time went away with so little work,
\i'l.., that what might be a little to be done with help and tools, was a vast
labor, and required a prodigious time to do alone, and by hand. But, not-
withstanding this, with patience and labor,l went through many things, and,
indeed, every thing that my circumstances made necessary to me to do,as
will appear by what follows.

I was now, in the months of November and December, expecting my crop
of barley and rice. The ground I had Inanurod or dug up for them was not
great; for, as I observed, my seed of each Was not above the quantity of half
a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by Sowing in the dry season; but now
my crop promised very well, when, on a sudden, I found I was in danger

oflosing' It all again by enemies of several sorts, w hicb it was scarce possible
to keep from It; as, first, the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares:

who, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay' tn it night and day, as soon as it
1398 'rue Lire AND aovam'eaes

came up, and eat it so close, that it could get no time to shoot up into
stalk.

This [saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure about it with a
hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil ; and the tnore, because it
required speed. Ilowever, as my arable land was but small, suited to tny
crop,l got it totally \vell fenced, in about three weeks' timc;and, shooting
some of the creatures in the daytime, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark all night
long; so, in a little time, the enemies lbrsook the place, and the corn grew
very strong and well, and began to ripen apaee.

lint, as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the blade, so the
birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear; lbr, going along
by the place to see how it throve, I saw nty little crop surrounded with
Ibwls, of I know not how many sorts, who stood, as it were, watching till I
should be gone. I immediately let fly among them, for I always had my gun
with me. I had no sooner shot, but there rese up a little cloud of t'owls,
which I had not seen at all, li'om among the corn itselll

This touched me sensibly, for I forestw that in a few days they would
devour all my hopes; that I should he starved, aml never be able to raise a
crop at all ; and what to do I could not tell; however, I resolved not to lose
my corn, il' lmssible, though I should watch it night and day. In the first
place, I went among it, to see what damage was already done, and found they
had spoiled a good deal of it, but that, as it was yet too green for them, the
loss was not so great; but that the remainder was like to be a good crop, it'it
could be saved.

I staid by it to load my gun, and then, coming away, I could easily see the
thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was
gone away; and the event proved it to be so; for, as I walked ofi;as it' I was
gone, I was no sooner out ot'their sight, than they dropped down, one by one,
into the corn again. I Was so provoked, that I could not have patience to
stay till more came on, knowing that every grain that they eat now was, as
it might be said, a peck-loaf to me in the consequence; but, coming up to the
hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them. This was what I wished for;
so I took them up. and served them as we serve notorious thieves in Eng-
land, vi7.., hanged them in chains for a terror to others. It is impossible to
imagine, almost, that this should have sttch an effect as it had; for the foods
would not only not come at the corn, but, in short, they l'orsook all that part
of the island, atul I could never see a bird near the place as long as my
scare-crows hung there. This Iwas very glad of, you may be sure: and
about the latter end of December, which was our second harvest of the
year, I reaped my corn.

1 was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down; and all I could do
was to make one, as well as I could, out of one of the broadsworda, or
cutlasscs, which I saved among the arms out of the ship. However, as my
first crop was but smalLI had no great dilliculty to cut it down; in short, I
reaped it my way, tor I cut nothing oil' but the ears, and carried it away in a
great basket which I had made, and so rttbbed it out with my hands; and, at
the end of all my harvesting, I lbnnd that out of my half-peck of seed I had
near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley; that is
to say, by my guess, for I had no measure at that time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me, aml I foresaw that, in99 - 100
Missing

From
Original
time, it would please God to supply me with bread; aml yet, here I was per-
plexed again, for I neither knew how to grind, or make meal of my corn, or,
indeed, how to clean it and part it; nor, if made into meal, how to make
bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it; these
things being added to tny desire of having a good quantity for store, and to
secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to pre-
serve it all for seed against the next season; and, in the mean time, to em-
ploy all my study and hours ofworking to accomplish this great work of
providing myself with corn and bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. "l'is a little
wonderful, and what I believe feW people have thought much upon, viz., the
strange tnultitnde of little things necessary in the providing, producing, eur-
ing, drecm'ing, making, and finishing this one article of bread.

I, that Was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to my daily
discouragement, and was made more sensible of it every hottr, even after I
had got the first handful of seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up unex-
pectedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel to dig it.
"'13", this I conquered by making me a wooden spade, as I observed before;
but this did my work but in a wooden manner; and though it cost me a great
many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only wore ottt the sooner,
but made my work the harder, and made it be performed nun-h worse. How-
ever, this I bore with, and was content to Work it out with patience, and bear
with the badness of the performance. When the corn was sown,l had no
barrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy bough of
a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be called, rather than rake or barrow it.
When it was growing and grown, I have observed already how many things
I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thrash,
part it from the chafi', and save it. Then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to
dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; and yet
all these things I did without, as shall be observed; and yet the corn was an
inestimable comfort and advantage to me, too. All this, as I said, made every
thing laborious and tedious to me; but that, there was no help tor; neither
was my time so much loss to me, because, as I had divided it, a certain part
of it was every day appointed to these works, and as I had resolved to use
none of the corn tbr bread till I had a greater quantity by me, I had the next
six months to apply myself wholly, by labor and invention, to fttrnish myself
with utensils proper for the performing all the operations necessary for
making the corn, when I had it, fit for my use.

But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed enough to sow
above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's work, at least, to
make me a spade, which, when it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and
very heavy, and required double labor to work with it; however, I went
through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near
my house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good
hedge, the stakes of which were all cut off that wood which I had set before,
and knew it would grow; so that, in one year's time, I knew I should have a
quick or living hedge, that Would want but little repair. This work was not
so little as to take me up less than three months, because a great part of that
time was of the wet season, when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that
is, when it rained, and I could not go out,I found employment on the follow-102 THE urn AND anvsmcans

 

iug occasions; always observing, that all the while I was at work, I diverted
myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I quickly
learned him to know his own name, and at last to speak it out pretty loud,
Poll, which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the island by any month
but my own. This, therefore, was not my work, bttt an assistant to my work,
for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as follows; viz.,
I had long Sltldit'tl to make mySt-ll; by some means or other, some earthen
vesselsavhieh, indeed, I wanted sorely ; but knew not where to come at them:
however, considering the heat of the climate,l did not doubt but if] could
find out any such clay, I might boteh up some such pot as might, being
dried in the sun, be hard enough and strong enough to bear handling, and to
hold any thing that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was ac.
cessary in the preparing corn, meal, &c., which was the thing I was upon, I
resolved to make some as large as 1 could, and fit only to stand like jars, to
hold what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell how many
awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I
made; how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not being
stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many cracked by the over-violent
heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how many fell in pieces with
only removing, as well before as after they were dried; and, in a word, how,
after having labored hard to find the clay,--to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it,--l could not make above two large earthen ugly things
(I cannot call them jars) in about two months' labor.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted them very
gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker baskets, which I had
made on purpose for them, that they might not break; and as between the
pot and the basket there was a little room to spare, I studied it full of the rice
and barley-straw; and these two pots, being to stand always dry, I thought
would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was
bruised. '

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I made
several smaller things with better success; such as little round pots, fiat
dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and any things my hand turned to; and the heat
of the sun baked them strangely hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen pot to
hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which none of these could do. It
happened after some time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat,
when I went to put it out after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of
one of my earthen-ware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red
as a tile. Iwas agreeably surprised to see it, and said to myself, that cer-
tainly they might be made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn some
pots I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of gla-
zing them with lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I placed three
large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile, one upon another, and placed
my fire-wood all round it, with a great heap of embers antler them. I plied
the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots
in the inside red-hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at
all; when I saw them clear red,l let them stand in that heat about five or six
hours, till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or run ; for
the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the heat,
and would have run into glass if I had gone on; so I slacked my fire grad-
ually till the pots began to abate of the red color; and, watching them all
night, that I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I had three
very good (I will not say handsome) pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as
hard burnt as could be desired, and one of them perfectly glazed with the
running of the sand.
Alter this experiment. I need not say that I Wanted no sort of earthen-
ware I'or tny use: lntt I must needs say, as to the shapes of them, they were
very iudili'erent, as any one tuay suppose, when I had no way of making
them, lntt as the cltildren make dirt pics, or as a woman would make pics'
that never learned to raise paste.

No joy at a thing: of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, when I
found I ltad made an earthen pot that would hear the tire; and I Itatl hardly
patience to stay till they were cold, before I set one on tltc lire again, with
some water in it, to boil me. some nteat, which it did admirably well; and
with a piece ol'a kid I made some very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal,
and several other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would have
had it been.

My next concern was to get me tt stone mortar to stamp or beat some com
in : tor as to the mill, there was no thought of an'it'ing to that perfection of
art with one pair ol'hauds. To supply this want, I was at a great loss; Ibr,
ol'all the trades iii the world,l was as perlitctly mtqualilied for a stone-cutter,
as litr any whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it with. Ispeut
tuany a day to find out a great stone bi}.I enough to cut hollow, autl make fit
litr a mortar, aml cottld Iind none. at all, except what was in the solid rock,
and which I had no way to dig or ettt out; nor, indeed, were the rocks in
the island of hardness sutlicient, but were all of a sandy, crumbling stone,
which neither would hear the Weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break the
corn without tilling it with sand; so, after a great deal 01' time lost in
searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out for a great block
of hard wood, which I Iinmd, indeed, mnclt easier; and getting one as big as
I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside with my axe
and hatchet, and then, with the, help ot'tire, and infinite labor, made a hollow
place in it. as the Italians in Brasil make their canoes. Afler this, I made a
great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood ; attd this I
prepared nttd laid by against I had tny next crop of corn, when I proposed to
tnyselt'to grind, or rather pound, my corn into tneal, to make my bread.

My next ditiiculty was to make. a sieve, or scarce, to dress my meal, and to
part it from the bran and the husk; without which I did ttot see it possible I
could have any bread. This was a most dillieult thing, so muelt as but to
think on, tbr, to be sure, I had nothing like the necessary thing to make it; I
mean tine thin canvass or stall; to scarce the meal through. And here I was
at a full stop for many months; nor did I really know what to do; linenI
had none lett, but what was mere rags; I had gmtts'-Ituir, but neither knew
how to weave it or spilt it; and had I known how, here were no tools to work
it with: all the remedy that I found titr this was, that at last I did remember
I had, among the seamen's clothes which were saved out of the ship, some
neckeloths ot'calico or muslin; and with some pieces of these I made three
small sieves proper enough for the work; and thus I made shift for some
years; how I did aflerwards, I shall show itt its place.

The baking part was the next thing to he considered, and how I should
make bread when I came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast: as to that
part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much
about it; but for an oven, 1 was, indeed, in great pain. At length, I found
out an experiment for that also, which was this: I made some earthen vessels
very broad, but not deep, that is to soy,abont two feet diameter, and not above
nine inches deep; these I burned in the tire, as I had done the other,and
laid them by: and when I wanted to bake,l made a great fire upon my
hearth. which I had paved with some square tiles, of my own baking and
burning also: lntt I should not -all them square.

When the lire-wood Was burned pretty mueh into embers, or live coals, I
drew them lbrward upon this earth, so as to eoyer it all over; and there let
them lie till the hearth was very but: then, sm-eping away all the embers,
I set down my Ioal', or loaves, and. whelming down the ~artben put upon
them, drew the embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add
to the heat: and thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
lmrley-lna\'es,aml lu-eaine, in little tinu'.a gmul pastry-rook into the bar-
gain: liir I made mysell'sm-ml cakes and puddings ot' the rice: but I made
no pies. neither had I any thing to put into them, supposing I had, except the
llesh either ol'l'owls or goats.

    

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me up most part of
the third your of my abode hero; lbr it is to be observed, that, in the in-
tervals of these things, I had my new harvest and husbandry to manage; for
I reaped my eom ill its Season, and earried it home as well as I could. and
laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out, tbr I had
no liner to thrush it on, or instrument to tluash it with.

And now, indeed, my stock ol'eorn inereasing, I really wanted to build my
barns bigger; I wanted a plaee to lay it up in. l'orthe inerease ot'the corn now
yielded me so mueh, that I had ul'the barley about twenty bushels, and ol'tho
riee as much, or more, insomneh that now I resolved to begin to use it
l'reely; tbr my bread had been quite gone a great while; also I resolved to
see. what quantity would be snll'ieient for me a whole year, and to sow but
enee a year.

Upon the whole,l found that the forty bushels of barley and riee were
much more than I could consume in a your: so! resolved to sow just the
same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity
would fully provide me with bread, &.c.

All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my thoughts ran
ll'06 Till; LIFE AND .\l)\'l'.'.\"l'l,'RI-'.S

many times upon the prospeet ol' land, which I had seen from the. other side
of the islaml; and I was not without seeret wishes that I wore on shore there,
lam-yiug that, seeing the main land, and an inhabited eouutry,l might find
some way or other to eonvey myself liu'ther, and perhaps, at last, find some
Im'ans ol'eseape.

But, all this while. I made no allowanee tin" the dangers ol'sueh a eonditiou,
and how I might tiill into the hands of savages, aml, perhaps, sueh as I might
have reason to think tar worse than the lions and tigers: ot' Ali'i 'a', that, it' I
onee route in their power, I should rtm a hazard of more than a thousaml
to one of being killed, aml perhaps of being eaten; lbr I had heard that the
people ol'the (.'arihlman eoast were eaunihals, or unto-eaters, and I knew by
the latitmle that I eould not be tiiroti'l'rom that shore. 'I'hen, supposing they
were not eaunihals. yet that they might kill me, as many Europeans who had
liilleu into their hands had been served. even when they had been ten or
twenty together-- nun-II more I. that was but one, and eould make little or no
deli-nee: all these things,l say, whieh I ought to have eonsidered well at,
and did east up in my thoughts at'n-rwards, yet took up none of my appre-
hensions at lirst,and my head ran mightily upon the thought ol'getting orer to
the shore.

Now I wished tor my boy Xury. aml the long-boat with the shoulder-of-
muttou sail, with whieh I sailed above a thousand miles on the eoast ol'Ali'iea;
but this was in vain: then I thought I would go and look at our ship's boat,
whieh, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore a great way, in the
storm, when we were lirst east away. She lay altnost where she did at lirst,
but not quite; aml was turned, by the t'oree ot' the waves and the winds,
almost bottom upward, against a high ridge of beaehy, rough sand, but no
water about her, as betiire. I" had had hands to have. refitted her, and to have
lanm-hed her into the water, the boat would have done well enough, and I
might have gone baek into the Ih'asils with her easily enough; but I might
have litreseetl that I eonhl no more turn her and set her upright upon her
bottom, thanl eouhl rename the island; however, I went to the woods, and
eat levers aml rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I
eonld do: suggesting to myself, that, it' I eould but turn her down, I might
repair the damage she had received, and she would be a Very good boat, and
I might go to sea in her very easily.

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless: toil, and spent, I think,
three or tour weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible to heave. it up
with my little strength, I lie" to digging away the sand, to tnulermiue it,
and so to make it tidl down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it
right in the fall.

But when I had done this, I Was unable to stir it up again, or t6 get
under it, mueh less to more it lot-ward towards the water; so I was
lin-eed to give it over; and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat,
my desire to \'etltltrc o\'er the main increased, rather than decreased, as
the means liar it seemed imlmssible.

This, at length, put me upon thinking whether it was not possible to
make myself a eanoe, or lwriagua, sueh as the natives of those climates
make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, of the trunk
ot' a great tree. This 1 not only thought possible, but easy, and pleased
myselt'extremely with the thoughts of making it, and with my having much
more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians, but not at
all considering the particular inconveniences which I lay under more than
the Indians did, viz, want of hands to move it, when it was made, into the
water--u diflieulty much harder for me to surmount tlmn all the eons-queuees
of want of tools could he to them: tor what was it to me, if that, when I
had chosen a vast tree in the woods, I might with mueh trouble out it down,
it; alter I might be able with my tools to hew and duh the outside into the
proper shape of a hoot, oml burn or em out the. inside to make it hollow, so
to make a boat of it; it; after all this, I must leave it just there where I linmd
it. and Was not ahle to Itulm'h it into the water?

One would have thought I eould not have had the least reflection upon my
mind of my eil'eumstnnees, while I was making this hoot, but I should have
immediately thought how I should get it into the sea: hut my thoughts Were
so intent upon my \'oynge over the sea in it,th.-it I newronee considered how
I should get it ofl'ot'the land; am] it Was r ~all_\', in its own nature, more easy
for tne to guide it over flirty-live. miles of sea, than nlmut forty-five fathom of
land. where it lay, to set it nlIoat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did, who
had any ot' his senses awake. I pleased myself with the design, without de-
termining.r whether I Was ever able to undertake it: not hot that the ditlieulty
ot' lannehing my boat eame otlen into my head; but I put a stop to my
inquiries into it, by this tholish answer, which I gave myself: " Let me first108 THE urn AND Am'sx'rcmzs

make it; I warrant 1 will find some way or other to get it along when it is

done."
This was a must preposterous method; but the eagerness' of my fancy

prevailed, and to uork I Went. l l'elled a cedar tree, and I question much
Whether Solmnon et'er had such a one lbr the. building ol'thc Temple of JC-
rusalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter at the. lower part, next the
stump, and lbur feet t'lt't'elt inches diameter at the end of twenty--two l'cct,
alter which it lessened l'ura while, and then parted into branches. It was not
without inlinitc labor that l li-llcd this tree; I was twenty days hacking and
bewingat it at the bottom: 1 was fourteen more getting,r the branches and
limbs, and the vast spreading head of it, cut ml; which I bucked and llcwcd
through with axe and hatchet, aml incxpressible labor; after this, it cost me
a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, aml to something like the
bottom of a. boat, that it might swim upright, as it ought to do. It cost me
near three months more to clear the in.~ide, and work it out so as to make an
exact boat of it; this I did, indeed, without lire, by a mere mallet and chisel,
and by the dint ol'bard labor, till I had brought it to be u very handsome
pet-iagua, and big enough to haw carried six-and-twenty men, and, eon-
Seqncntly, big enough to Inn-e carried nu.- and all my cargo.

"'heu I had gone. through this Work, I was extremely delighted With it.
The boat \\'a.~~ really much bigger than cwr I saw a canoe or periaguu, tbat
was made of one tree, in my me. Many a weary stroke it bad coat, you may
be sure; and had I gotten it into the water, 1 make no question but 1 should
have begun the maddest voyage, uml the most unlikely to he performed, that
ever was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me: though they cost me
intinite labor, too. It lay about one hundred yards from the water, and not
more; but the first inconveniem-e was, it was uphill towards the creek.
Well, to take away this diseonragentent, I resolved to dig into the surthce of
the earth, aml so make a declivity: this I lu-gun, and it cost too a prodigious
deal of pains; (but who grudge pains that have their deliverance in view ?)
but when this was worked through, aml this difficulty managed, it was still
much the same, lin- leould no more stir the canoe than I could the. other
boat. Then I measured the distance ol'ground.and resolved to cut adoek or
canal, to bring the Water up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe
down to the water. "'cll. I began this work: atnl when I began to enter
upon it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stufl'
was to he thrown out,l tintnd that, by the number ol'hands I had. being: none
but my own, it must have been ten or twelve years before I eouhl have gone
through with it; thr the shore lay so high, that at the upper end it must have
been at least twenty feet deep; so at length, though with great reluctancy,
I gave this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily; and now 1 saw, though too late, the lolly 0f
lutginniug a \\ ork belore we count the cost, and betbre We judge rightly of
our own strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this w'ork,l tinished my fourth year in this place, and
kept my anniversary with the same devotion. and with as much condiu't as
curr belhre; tor, bv a constant study aml serious application to the "'ord of
God, am! by the asststauee ol'his grace, I gained a ditli-rent knowledge than
what I had before. I entertained dill'erent notions of things. I looked now
upon the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no ex-
pectation trounand, indeed, no desires about; in a word, I had nothing. indeed,
to do with it, nor was ever likely to have; so I thought it looked. as We may,
perhaps, look upon it llet'eatler, vi7..,as a place! had lived in, bttt was eonte ottt
of it ; and well might I say, as Father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and
thee is a great gult'tixcd."

In the tirst plan-,1 was removed li-om all the wickedness of the world
here; I had neither the lust of the tlesh, the Inst of the eye, or the pride of
litin 1 had nothing to covet, for I had all that [was now capable ot'enjoying:
l was lord ot'thc whole manor; or, it' I pleased, I might call tnysz-ll' king or
emperm over the whole country which I had possession of: there. were. no
rivals: I had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with
me; I might have raised ship-loadings of corn, but I had no use for it: so I
let as little grow as I thought enough for my occasion. I had tortoise or tur-
tle enough, but now and then one was as much as I could put to any use: I
had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; and I had grapes enough
to have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to ltavc loaded that tleet
when it had been built.

lint all I could make use of was all that was valuable; I had enough to eat
and supply my wants, and what was all the rest to me? If! killed more
flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or vermin; if I sowed more corn
than I could eat, it tnust be spoiled; the trees that I cut down were lying to
rot on the ground; I could make no more use of them than for fuel, and that
I had no occasion for but to dress my food.
In a word, the naturc and experience of things dictated to me, upon just
retleetiou, that all the good things of this world are no timber good to us
than they are Iin- our use; and that, whatever We may heap up, indeed, to give
othets, we enjoy just as mueh as we ran use, and no more. The most
eovetous gripint,r miser in the world would have been cured of the vice of
eoretonsuess, it' he had been in tny ease; tor l possessml infinitely tnore than
I knew what to do with. I had no room for desire, except it was of things
whieb I had nut, and they were but trilles, though, indeed, of great ltse to
me. l had, as l hinted betiire, a pareel ot'money,as well gold as silver, about
thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stufl'lay: lbad
no manner ot' business tor it: aml I often thought with ntyselt, that I would
have given a handtitl ol'it tor a gross ol' tolmeeo-pipes, or for a hand-mill to
grind my eoru: nay, I would have. given it all for sixlu'nny-wortb ol'turnip
and t'arrot seed out of England. or for a handful of peas atld beans, and a
bottle ot'ink. .-\s it was, I had not tlte least advantage by it, orbenelit from it;
but ther - it lay in a d 'awer, attd grew tuotddy with the dump of the cave itt
the wet seasons: attd il'l had had tlte drawer lilll of diamonds, it ltud been
the same ease: they had been of no tuanner of value to me, because ot'no use.

I had now brought my state of liti: to be tnueh easier in itself than it was
at litst. and nun-h easier to my mind. as Well as to my body. I l'requently sat
down to turn! with Ihankt'tdness. and admired the hand ot'God's provident-e,
wbieh had thus spread my table in the wilderness. I learned to look more
upon the bright side of my eomlition,aud less upon the dark side, and to
eonsider what I enjoyed. ratherthan what I wanted : and this gave tne, some-
times. sneh seen-t eomtorts. that I eanuot express them; and whit-h I take
notiee ot' here. to put those diseontented people in tniud of it, who cannot
enjoy eotnliu'tably what (ind has given them, be -ause they see and covet some-
thing: that he has not given them. All ottr diseontents about what we want,
appeared to me to spring from the want of thankt'nlness for what We have.

Another r 'Ilt't'liutt was of great use to toe, and doubtless would be so to
any one that should lidl into sueb distress as mine was; and this \ 'as, to emu-
pare my present eonditiun with what I at first exported it should be; nay, with
what it would eertainly have been, if the good providelu'c ol'God had not
womlerlitlly ordered the ship to be am up nearer to the shore, where I not
only eonhl eome at her. but eottld bring what I got out of her to the shore,
tbr my relief and emotiirt : without whieh, I had wanted lbr tools to work,
weapons for deli-nee. or gunpowder and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to myself. itt
the most lively eolors. how I must have aeted if I had got nothing out ot'the
ship: how Ieoehl not have so mueh as got any l'ood,e.\'eept fish and tar-
tles : :ttu! that.as it was long betbre l tbund any ot'them,l must have perished
first: that I should have lived, it'l had not lwrished, like a tnere savage; that
in had killed a goat or a linvl, by any eoutrivanee, I had no Way to flay or
opett it. or part the flesh ti-ont the skin and the. bowels, or to cut it up; but
must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast.

'l'hese retleetious made tue very sensible ot'the goodness of Providence to
me. and very thanklitl litr my present condition, with all its hardships and
tnistiirtunes: and this part also I eannot but rceonunend to the reflection of
those who are apt, in their misery, to say, " ls anyatilietion like mine?" Let
thetn eonsider how nnu'h worse the eases of some people are, and their case
might have been, if Providence had thought fit.
I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort my mind with
hopes; and this was comparing my present situation with what I had de-
served, and had therefore reason to expect lion: the ham! of Providence. I
had lived a dreadiiil life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of
God. I had been well instructed by lather and mother; neither had they
been wanting to me, in their early endeavors to infuse a religious awe of
God into my miml, a sense of my duty, aml what the nature and eml of my
being required of me. But, alas! litlliug early into the scanning lite, which,
of all lives, is the most destitute of the li:ar ot'God, though his terrors are
always before them--I say, liilling early into the seafaring life, aml into 50' -
faring company, all that little sense of religion which I had entertained was
laughed out of me by tny messmatcs; by a hardened dcspising of dangers
and the views ofdcath, which grew habitual to toe; by my long absence from
all manner ofopportunities to converse with any thing but what was like my-
self, or to hear any thing that was good, or tended towards it.

So void was 1 ol every thing that was good, or of the least sense of what I
was, or was to he, that, in the greatest delivemnces I enjoyed, --sueli as my
escape ti'om Sallee; tny being taken up by the Portuguese master of the
ship; my being.' planted so well in the Brasils; my receiving the cargo from
linglaml, and the like,-- I never had once the words, " Thank God," so much
as on my mind, or in my mouth; nor in the gr -atest distress had 1 so much
as a thought to pray to hitn, or so much as to my, " Lord, have mercy upon
me!" no, nor to mention the name of God, unless it was to swear by and
hlaspbeme it.

I had terrible reflections upon tny tnind for many months, as I have already
observed, on account of my wicked and hardened lite past;and when I looked
about me, and considered what particular providences had attcmled me since
my coming into this place, aml how God had dealt bonntitidly with me; had
not only punished tue less titan my iniquity had deserved, but had so plenti-
fnlly provided for tne,--this gave me great hopes that my repentance was
accepted, and that God had yet mercy in store for me.

With these reflections, I worked my mind up, not only to a resignation
to the will of God ill the present disposition of my circumstances, but even to
a sincere thankfulness for my condition ;and that I, who was yet a living man,
ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins ; that
I enjoyed so many mercies which I had no reason to have expected in that
place; that I ought never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and
to give daily thanks for that daily bread, which nothing but a crowd 01' won-
ders could have brought; that I ought to considerI had been ted even by a
miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long
series of miracles; and that I could hardly have named a place in the unin-
habitable part of the world where I could have been cast more to my ad-
vantage--a place where, as I had no society, which was my affliction on one
hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my
life; no venomous creatures, or poisonous, which I might feed on to my hurt;
no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow
one way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to make
it a life of comfort, but to be able to make my sense of God's goodness to
me, and care over me in this condition, be my daily consolation; and alter I
did make a just improvement of these things,l went away, and was no
more and.112 Tm: mm: mm anvaswuaas

I had now hoou here so long, that many things whioh I brought on shore
for my holp woro oithor quite gono, or \'ory mnch wastod, and near spout.

My ink, as I ohsorvod, had hoon gono somo timo, all but a wry littlo, which
I ekod out with wator, a littlo and a Iittlo, till it was so palo, it soarco Iot't any
apln-aranoo. of black upon the papcr. As long as it lastod, I mado "so of it
to minun- down the days of tho month on which any rcmarkahlc thing hap-
ponod to mo: and, first. by casting up timcs past, I rcmomhorod that tltoro
was a stnmgo oonctu't'onco ol' days in tlto various providoncos which hoti-Il
mo, and which. ifl had hoou stiln-rstitionsly inclincd to ohsort'o days as tittal
or tia1unato, I might hayo had roason to have lookod upon Willi a gl'cat dcal
of curiosity.

First. I had ohson'od, that tho samo day that I hroko away from my l'athor
am! my ti'ionds, atnl ran away to "all. in ordcr to go to scn: tho s'uno day,
alh-rwards, I was takcn by tho Salloo utan-ol'-\\'at', and made a slam: the
satuc day of tho yoar that I cscapod out of tho wrcck of that ship in Yar-
moath Roads, that samo day-your aliorwards I tnado my oscapo. l'ront
Sallco in a boat: tho samo day of tho yoar I was horn on, \'i7.., the 30th of
Sopn-mhor, that samo day I had my Iiti- so miraculously savod twonty-six
yoars alior. whon I was cast on shoro in this island; so that my wicked lite
atul my solitary lili' hogan both on a day.

'I'ho noxt thing to my ink hoing wastod, was that of my hroad,--I moan
tho hisonit which I brought out of tho ship; this I had hushandod to the last
dogroo, allowing mysolt' hut ono cakc of broad a day for above a your; aml
yot I was quito without hroad II)!' noar a your hotbro I got any corn of my
own: and grout roason I had to ho thankful that I had any at all, the getting
it hoiug, as has hoou alroudy olrscrt'od, noxt to miraculous.

My clutln's, too, hogan to dot-ay mightily; as to linon, I had had none a
good whilo, oxcopt soulo chcckorcd shirts which I thund in the chords of the
otlu-r scatuou, and which I carotidly proson'od, hot'ansc. many times I could
hoar no othor clothos on In" a shirt; aml it was a wry gn-at holp to me that
I had, among all tho. mon's olothos of tho ship, almost throo dozen of shirts.
Thoro woro also, indccd, soycral thick watch-omits ot' the soamon's which
won: loti, hut thoy woro too hot to woar; aml, though it is true that the
woathor was so violontly hot that thoro. was no nood ot' olothos, yot I could
not go quito nakod,--no, though I had hocn inclinod to it, which I was not,
----nor oould I ahido tho. thought of it, though I was all alono. The reason
why I l'OlIItI not go ankotl was, I could not boar tho. hoat of tho. sun so well
whoa quilo uakod as with sotuo olothos on; any, tho vory hoat ti'oqnontly
hlistorotl my skin; whoroas, with a shirt on, tho air itsolt'mado some motion,
and, whistling umlor the shirt, was twotiihl coolor than without it. No more
could I ovor bring myself to go out in the hoat ot' the sun without a cap or a.
hat: tho hoat ot'the sun, heating with such \'ioIonoc as it does in that place,
would giro mo tho hoadacho. proscntly, hy darting so directly on my head,
without a cap or hat on. so that I could not hear it; whereas, if I put on my
hat, it would prosently go away.

I'pon thoso viows, I hogan to consider shout putting the few tags I had,
which I callod clothos, into some order; I had wont out all the Waistcoats!
had, and my husinoss was now to try if I could not make jackets out of the
groat watch-coats which I had by mo, and with such other materials as]
had; soI sot to work a-tailoriug, or rather, indeed, a-botching, for I made
most piu-ous work of it. However, I made shift to make two or three new
 

waistcnats, which I hoped would serve tne a great while: as litr brooches or
drawers, I made but a very sorry shili indeed till alierwards.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins ot'all the creatures that I killcd,--l
mean four-footed ones--and Iliad hung them up stretched out with sticks in
the sun, by which means some of them were so dry aml hard that they were
tit for little; but others, it seems, were very uselitl. The first thing I made
ot'these was a great cap tor my head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot
otl'thc raitt: and this I performed so well, that aller this I made me a suit of
clothes wholly of these skinsz-- that is to say, a waistcoat, and hreeches open
at the knees, and both loose, liir tltey Were rather wanting,' to keep me cool
than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they were
wretchedly made: for in was a had carpenter, I was a worse tailor. IIOW-
ever, they were sueh as I made Very good shill with: and when I was abroad,
il'it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being onterrnost,l
was kept very dry.

Alter this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me an umbrella;
l was, indeed, itt great want of one, and had a great mind to tnake one; I had
seen them made in the. Brasils, where they are very useful in the great heats
which are there, and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater too,
being nearer the equinox; besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it
was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took a
world of pains at it, and was a great while before 1 could make any thing

15ll-l 'rut: LIFE AND Anvssrunss

likely to hold; nay, aller I thought I had hit the Way, I spoiled two or three
beliire I tuade one to my mind: bttt at last I made out: that answered itttlillbr-
eutly Well: the tuaitt tlillienlty I liumd was to make it to let down. I could
make it to spread, but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it was not
portable lin' me any way but just over my ltead, whieh would not do. How.
ever, at last, as I said, I made one to answer, and eovered it with skins, the
hair upwards. so that it east oll' tlu: 'ain like a pent-house, atul kept olI'thc
sun so etli-etttally, that leouhl walk out in the ltottest ot' the weather with
greater adtautage than I eottld belitre in the eoolest,aud, when I had tto need
ot'it, eonhl elose it. and earry it utuler my arm.

This I lived mighty eotntiu'tably, my mind being entirely composed by
resigning to the will of God, and throwing myselt' wholly upon the disposal
ot'his providenee. This made my |iti-. better than sot-iable: for, when I began
to regret the want of eouversation, I would ask mysell; whether thus eon-
\ersing mutually with uty own thoughts, and (as I hope I tuay say) with even
God himself, by ejaeulatious, was not better than the utmost enjoyment of
Iuttnan soeiety itt tlte world.

I eaunot say that, alter this, for live years, any ext 'aordinary tlting hap-
pened to me: httt I lived on iii the same eont'se, in the same posture atul
plaee. just as belitre: the ehiet' things I was employed in, besides my
yearly labor of lllttltllllg my barley aml riee, and eating my raisins, of both
uhieh I always kept up just enough to have sutlieient stuek of one year's
provision heliu'eltaml: lsay, besides this yearly labor, and my daily pursuit
of going out with my gun. I had one labor, to make me a eanoe, whieh, at
last. I finished: so that, by digging a eanal to it of six Ii-et wide and four li'et
deep. I brought it ittto the et'eek, altnosl ball' a mile. As lbr the first, which
\\':;s so vastly big. as I made it uithout eonsidering In-lin'ehantl, as I ought to
do. how lshotthl be able to Iattueh it. so. never being able to bring it into the
water, or bring llte water to it. I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as n,
ntetnommlntn to teaelt toe to be wiser the next time: indeed, the next time,
though I eonld not get a tree proper for it, and \\'as ill a place "here I euttld
not get the water to it at any less distanee than, as I have said, near hall' a.
mile, yet, as I saw it "as praetieable at last, I never gave it ot'er: and,
though I was ttear two years about it, yet I never grudged my labor, itt hopes
of having a boat to go ml to sea at last.

Ilouever. though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of it was not
at all answerable to the design nhieh I ltad in view when I made the first;
I m -an of venturing over to the (u'rttfirmtt. where it was above forty miles
broad; aeeordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to pttt an end to that
design. and now I thought no more of it. As I had a boat, my next design
was to make a erttise round the island: for, as I had been on the other side
in one plaee, erossing. as I have already deseriln'd it. over the land, so the
dist-overies I made in that little journey ttaule me very eager to see other
parts of the enast: atul now I had a boat,l thought of nothing bttt sailing
round the island.

For this purpose, that I might do every thing with discretion and consid-
eration, I titted up a little mast in my boat, and made a sail to it out of some
ot'the pieees ot'the ship's sails whielt lay itt store, atnl of which I had a great
stoek by me. Ilaving titted my mast aml sail, and tried the boat, I found she
would sail very well: then I made little loekers, or boxes, at each end ot' my
boat, to put provisions neeessaries, ammunition, Sun, into, to be kept dry,
 

either from rain or the spray of the sea; and a little, long, hollow place I cut
in the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang
down over it, to keep it dry.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a must, to stand over
my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me, like an awning; and thusI
every now and then took a little voyage upon the sea; but never went far
out, nor far fi'om the little creek. At last, being eager to view the circum-
ference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my cruise; and accordingly
I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of loaves (cakes, I
should rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice,
(a food late a great deal of,) a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder
and shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of those which, 1191
mentioned before, I ,had saved out of the seamcn's chests: these I took, one
to lie upon, and the other to cover me in the night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my captivity,
which you please, that I set out on this voyage; and I found it much longer
than I expected; for, though the island itself was not very large, yet, when I
came to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two
leagues into the sea, some above water, some under it; and beyond that a
shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a
great way out to sea to double the point.

\Vhen first I discovered them, I was going to give over my enterprise, and
come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea;
and, above all, doubting how I should get back again; so I czune to an
anchor; for I had made me a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken

grappling which I got out of the ship.
Having sovurt'd my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, climbing up
on a hill, which scouted to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent
of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the scat from that hill where I stood, l perceived a strong,
and, indeed, a most t'urious current, which ran to the east, and even Canto
close to the point: and I took the more notice of it, lxrt'uuse I saw there
might be somc dangcr, that when I came into it, I might be carried out to sea
by the strength of it, and not In- able to make the. island again; and, indeed,
had I not got tirst upon this hill. l hclicvc it wottld have hecu so: for there was
the Stlttlt' current on the other side the island, only tltat it set otl'at a larther
distant-c, am] I saw there was a strong eddy underthe shore; so I had nothing
to do hat to get out ot'tht- first current. aml I should presently he. in an eddy.

I lay here, however, two days. lit-cause the wiml hlowing pr 'tty ti'esh at
'3. S. l')., and that lK'lllfJ just t-ont'ary to the said current, mode a great
hr and: of the sea upon the point: so that it was not salie tiir me to keep too
t'lost- to the shore tipr the hrcavh, nor to go too titr oll; because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning. the wiml having ahatt-d over night, the sea
was 'ahn. aml I ventured: Ian I am a warning-piece again to all rash and
ignorant pilots; do no sooner was I come to thc point, when l was not even
my hoat's length from the shut". hot I tiuunl myself in a great depth of
water. and a cttrrcnt like the sluicc ot' a mill: it earricd tny hoat along with
it with sin-h violence that all I could do could not keep her so nun-h as on
the edge ot'it; Ian I tinmd it hurried mt- t'arthcr atul farther ottt ti'om the
eddy, whirl: was on my lct't hand. There was no wiml stirring to help
Inc, and all I could do with my paddlcs signified nothing; and now I brown
to givc myselt' ovcv tiu- lost: ti-r, as the current was on hoth sides of the
island, I kucw in a li-w leagucs' distance they must join again, aml then I was
irrt-covcrahly gone; nor did I scc any possihility of avoiding it; so that I had
no pmspt-ct hctiirc mc hut ot' pcrislting. not hy the '-a,--t'or that was ralm
enungh,-- hat of starving tor hunger. I had, indeed, titund a tortoise on the
shore, as hig.r almost as l eould liti, and had tossed it into the boat: and I had
a grcat jar of fresh wan-r, that is to say, one of my earthen pots; but what
was all this to lit-inn.r driven into the vast (M' am, where, to he sure, there was
no shore, no main land or island, tin' a lhousaml leagues at least?

And now I saw how casy it "as tor the providence of God to make even
the ntost tnisa-rahlc comlition of mankind worsc. Now I looked hark upon
tny desolate, solitary island, as the most pleasant ltlttt't' in the world ; and all
the happiness my heart could wish tor was to he hut there again. lstretrlted
out my hands to it, with ragor wishes. " 0 happy desert!" said I, "I shall
never see thee more. 0 miserable cr nature! whither ant I going?" Then I
reproarhed myself with my unthanktill tcmper, and how I had ropined at
my solitary condition; and now what would l give to he on shore there
again! Thus we never see the true state of our condition till it is illus-
trated to us by its voutrarics, nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by
the want of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation l was now
in, being driven than my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be)
into the wide or am, almost two leagues, and in the utmost. despair of ever
recovering it agtiu. However, I worked hard, till, indeed, my strength was
almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the northward, that is,
towards the side of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly 1 could;
when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought! felt a little
breeze of wind in my face springing up from S. S. E. This cheered my heart
a little, and especially when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty gentle
gale. By this time, i was go! at a frightful distance from the islaml, and, had
the least cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another way,
too; tor I had no compass on board, and should never have ltaowtt how to
have steered toward the island, if! had but once lost sight of it; bttt the
weather continuing clear, I applied myself to get up [by mast again, and
spread my sail, standing away to the north as tnuch as possible, to get out
ot'the current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch away, I
suv, even by the elearness ot'the water, smne alteration of the cttrrent was
hear; lin', where the current was so strong, the water was foul: but, per-
ceiving tlte water clear, I found the current abate; and presently I found, to
the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks: these
rocks I tintnd caused the current to part again, atnl, as the main stress ofit
ran away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other
returned by the repulse of the rocks, aml made a strong eddy, which ran
back again to the north-west, with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon the
ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder theta, or who
have been ill such like extremities, may guess what my present surprise of
joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream ofthis eddy; and the
wind also tieshcning, how gladly I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully
betin'e the Wind. and with a strong tide or eddy under foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again, directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the northward than the
current which carried me away at first: so that, when I came near the
island, 1 found myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the
other end ot'the island, opposite to that which I Went out from.

When i had made something more titan a league of way by the help of
this current or eddy, l timnd it was spent, and served tnc no farther. How-
ever, I tbund that being between two great currents, viz., that on the south
side, which had lntrried tne away, attd that on the north, which lay about a
league on the other sitle,---l say, between these two, in the wake of the
island, I found the water at least still, and running no way; and having still
a breeze of wind lair for me, I kept on, steering directly for the island,
though not tanking such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a league ot'the island,
1 found the point ot'the rocks which occasioned this disaster, stretching out,
as is described before, to the southu'ard, and casting off the current more
stintherly, had, of course, made another eddy to the north; and this I found
very strong, but not directly setting the way my course lay, which was due
West, but almost full north. However, having a fresh gale, l stretched across
this eddy, slanting north-west; and in about an hour came within about a
mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.

When I was on shore, I hall on my knees, and gave God thanks for my
deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat;
and, refreshing myself with such things as] had, I brought my boat close to'
the shore, in a little cove that I had spied, under some trees, and laid me
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labor and fatigue of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat; I had run
so mnrh hazard, and knew we tnueh of the ease, to think of attempting it by
the way I went out; and what might be at the other side (I mean the west
side)l knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures; so [only
n-sulved in the "turning to make my way westward along the. shore, and to
see. il'there was no ereek where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to
liuve her again. il'JJvaI-ted her. In about three miles, or then-abouts, coast-
ing the shore, I eame to a very good inlet or buy, about a mile over, Which
narrowed till it eame to a \'t'l'_\' little rivnlet or brook, where I found a very
convenient harbor lbr my boat, and where. she lay as if she had been in a.
little doek made on purlmse tor her. Here I put in, and buying stowed my
boat very sale, I went on shore, to look about me, and see where I was.

I soon limnnl I had but a little passed by the place where I had been
belbre, when I t'avelled on that to that share: so, taking nothing out of my
boat but my gun and mulm-lla, -- tbr it was exceedingly hot, ---I began my
nmreh. The way was eomlbrtahle enough after such a voyage as I had been
upon. and I rem-bed my ohl bower in the evening, where l lonnd every thing
standing as I left it: Ibrl always kept it in good order, being, as I said
betbre, my eunntry house.

I got over the leave, aml laid tne down in the shade to rest my limbs, for I
Was wry weary, and MI asleep; but judge you, it" you can, that read my
story. what a surprise I nmst be in, when I was awaited out of my sleep by a
Vuit'e, eallin;r me by my name seVeral times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe;
poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe ? Where are you?
Where have you been ?" .

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or paddling. as it
is called, the first part of tltc day, aml with walking the latter part, that I did
not wake thoroughly, but, dozing between sleeping and waking, thoughtI
dreamed that somebody spoke to me; bttt as the voice continued to repeat
"llohin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe," at last I began to wake more perfectly, and
was at first dreadfully frightened, atul started up in the utmost consternation;
but no sooner here any eyes open, but I saw my I'oll sitting on the top ot'the
hedge; and immediately knew that it Was he that spoke to me; tor just itt
such bemoaning language I had used to talk to hint, and teach him; and he
had learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon my linger, atul lay his hill
close to tny litee, and cry, "l'oor Robin Crusoe! \Vhere are you? Where
have you been? IIow came yott here?" attd such things as I had taught
him.

llowover, even though I knew it Was the parrot, and that imleed it could
he nobody else, it was a good while belitre. I could compose myself. Fitst,
I was amaZed how the creature got thither; atnl then, how he should just
keep about the place, and no where else: but, as I was Well satisfied it could
be nobody but honest I'oll,l got ot'er it; and, holding out my hand, and
calling him by his name, " Pull," the sociable creature eatne to me, am! sat
upon my thnmb,a.~t he used to do, and continued talking to tne--"l'oor
Robin Crusoe! and how did I cotne here.= uml where had I been ? "--jnst us
il'he had been overjoyed to see me again: and so I carried him home along
with me.

I now had enough of rambling to sea litr some time, and had enough to do
for tnany days, to sit still, and reflect upon the danger I had been in. I would
have been very glad to have had my boat again on my side oftlte island; but
I knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the
island, which I had gone round, I knew \vcll enough there was no venturing
that \ 'ay; my very ltetn't would shrink, uml my very blood rttn chill, bttt to
think of it; and as to the other side of the, island,l did ttot know how it
might be there; but, supposing the current ran with the same three against
the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other,I might run the same risk
of being driven down the stream, and carried by the island, as I had been
before of being carried away li'om it. So, with these thoughts, I contented
myself to be without any bout, though it had been the product of so many
mouths' labor to make it, and ofso many more to get it into the sea.

In this government of my temper, I remained near a year, and lived a very
sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and, my thoughts being very
much composed as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning myself
to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I lived really very happily itt all
things, except that of society.

I improved myself; in this time, itt all the mechanic exercises which my
necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I believe I could, upon oc-
casion, have made a very good carpenter, especially considering how few
tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen ware, and
contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which I found infinitely
easier and better; because I made things round and shapable, which before
Were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think I was never more vain of120 Tue. urn Asa aovns'ruaes

my own performanee, or more joyful for any thing I found out, titan for my
being able to make a tolmeeo-pipe; and, Ill-nigh it was a very ugly, clumsy
thing, when it was done, aml only httrned red, like. other eanhen ware, yet,
as it was hard and tirm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly com-
fimml with it, for I had been always used to smoke; and there were pipes in
the ship, but I forgot them at first, not thinking that there was tohat'eo in the
island; aml afterwards, when I searehed the ship again, I could not come
at any pipes at all.

In my wieker ware, also, I improved much, and made abundance of neces-
sary lmskets, as well as my invention showed me; though not very hand-
some, yet they were sueh as We": very handy and eonvenient tbr tny laying
things up in, or li-tehiug things home. For example, if] killed a goat abroad,
I eonld hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it, am! out it in pier-es, and bring it
home in a basket; and the like by a turtle: I eonld eat it up, take out the
eggs, and a piet'c or two of the flesh, whieh was enough for me, and bring
them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also, large, deep
baskets were the n-eeivers of my eorn, which I always rubbed out as soon as
it "as dry, and eured, and kept it in great baskets.

I began now to perceive my powder abated eonsiderahly; this was a want
whieh it was impossible tor tne to supply, and I began seriously to consider
what I must do when I should have no more powder; that is to say, how I
should do to kill any goals. I had, as is observed, in the third year of my
being here, kept a young kid, and bred her up tame, and l was in hopes of
getting a lie-goat ; but I eonld not by any means bring it to pass, till my kid
grow an old goat; and, as I could never find in my heart to kill her, she died
at last of mere age.

But, being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and, as I have said,
my ammunition growing low, I set myselt'to study some art to trap and snare
the goats, to see whether I eonld not eateh some of them alive; and, particu-
larly, I wanted a she-goat great with young. For this purpose,l made snares
to hamper them; and I do believe they were more than once taken in them;
but tny tat-kle was not good, litr I had no wire, and I always found them
broken, and my bait devoured. At length,I resolved to try a pit-fall: so I
dug several large pits in the. earth, in plat-es where. I had observed the goats
used to feed, aml over those pits l plaeed hurdles, of my own making too,
with a great weight upon them; and several times I pttt ears of barley and
dry riee, without setting the trap; and I eonld easily pereeive that the goats
had gone in anal eaten up the eoru, tiir I eonld see the marks of their feet.
.-\I leugth,l set three traps in one night, and, going the next moraing,l found
them all standing. and yet the bait eaten mnl gone: this was very dist-our-
aging. However, I altered my traps : and, not to trouble you with particulars,
going one morning to see my traps, I found in one of them a large, old he-
goat, and in one ot'the others, three kids, a male and two females.

As to the old one,I knew not what to do with him; he was so fierce, I
durst not go into the pit to hint; that is to say, to go about to bring him away
alive, whieh was what I wanted; Ieould have killed him, but that was not
my business, nor would it answer my end; so I even let him out, and
he. ran away as it'he had been frightened out of his wits. But I did not then
know what I afterwards learned, that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let
him stay there three or four days without food, and then have carried him
some water to drink, and then a little eorn, he would have been as tame as
 

. v. Q. . ":4; ..~
" ,fwfl'gy'f';
one of the kids; for they are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures, where
they are well used.

However, tor the present, I let him go, knowing no better at that time.
Then I went to the three kids, and, taking them one by one, I tied them with
strings together, and with some ditlit-ulty brought them all home.

It was a good while belbrc they would tired; but, throwing them some
sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be tame. And now 1 found
that, if! expected to supply myself with goat's flesh, when I had no powder
or shot leli, breeding some up tame was my only way; when, perhaps, I
might have them about my house like a flock of sheep. But then it occurred
to too, that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else they would always
run wild when they grew up; and the only way for this Was, to have some
enclosed piece of ground, well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep
them in so eflectually that those within might not break out, or those without
break in. '

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet, as I saw there
Was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first work was to find out a proper
piece of ground, where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water
for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will think I had very little contri-
vance, when l pitched upon a place very proper for all these, (being a plain,
open piece of meadow land, or savanna, as our people call it in the western
colonies) which had two or three little drills of fresh water in it, and at one
end was very woody; I say, they will smile at my forecast, when I shall tell

1612deg} 'rnt: Lin: no Am'ns't'ctttzs

them, I began by enclosing this pieee of ground, in such a manner that my
hedge or pale must have been at least two tniles about. Nor \ 'as the muti-
ness of it so great as to the enmpass,--li)r, if it was ten miles about, I was
like to have time enough to do it in: but ldid not eonsider that my goats
would be as wild in so mnelt eompass as it" they had had the whole island,
aml I should have so mueh room to chase them in that I should never catch
them.

My hedgi- was begun and earried on, I believe about liliy yards, when this
thought neeurred to me: so I presently stopped short, atnl, tor the first be-
ginning; l resol\'ed to enelose a pieee nl'abont one lmndred aml tit'ty yards in
length. and one lntmlred yards in breadth; whielt, as it would tnaiutaiu as
many as I should have in any reasonable time, so, as my stock increased, I
enuld add more ground to my enelnsnrc.

This was aeting with some prudent-e, and I went to work with courage. l
was about three months hedging in the first piece: and, till I had done it,
I tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used them to heed as near
me as possible, tn make them linniliar: and very often I Would go and carry
them some ~ars of barley, or a handful of riee,and feed them out of my
hand: so that, after my enclosure was linished, and I let them loose, they
-.onld lollow me up and down, bloating after me tor a handful of eorn.

'i'his answered my end; and, in about a year and a hall', I had a tloek of
about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years more,I had three aml
tin-ty. besides several that I took and killed for my food. Alter that,l en-
elosed tire sere 'al pieees ot'gronnd to feed them in, with little pens to drive
them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out of one piece of ground
into another.

But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's flesh, to feed on when
] pleased, but milk too--a thing which, indeed, in the beginning, I did not
so mueh as think 0|; aml whit-h, when it came into my thoughts, was really
an agreeable surprise; {or now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a
gallon or two of milk in a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of lbod
tn en-ry er rature, dietates even naturally how to make use of it, so I, that had
never milked a eow, mueh less a goal, or seen butter or cheese made, only
when l was a boy. after a great many essays aml miscarriages, made me both
butter and eheese at last: also salt, (though! limnd it partly made to my
hand by the heat of the sun upon some of the roeks of the sea,) and never
wanted it alierwzn'ds. llow nzereitinlly eau our Creator treat his ereatur s,
even in those ennditions in whielt they seemed to be twerwhelmed in de-
struetinu! llow ean he sweeten the bitterest provident'es, aml give Its eause
to praise him for dungeons and prisons! \\'hat a table was here spread for
me in a wilderness, where I saw nothing at lirst but to perish for hunger!

It would hare made a Stnie smile to have seen me and my little l'amily sit
down to dinner: "W!" was my majesty, the print'e and lord of the whole
island: I had the lives of all my std-jeets at my absolute eommand; I could
hang, d 'aw. giro liberty, and take it away: aml no rebels among all my sub-
jeets. Then to see how like a king I dined, too, all alone, attended by my
servants! l'nll, as it'he had been my litt'orite, was the only person permitted
to talk to me. My dog. who was now grown very old and crazy, and had
finmd no speeies to multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand; and
two eats, one on one side nt'the table, and one on the other, expecting now
and then a hit from my haml, as a mark of special lin'or.123 - 124
Missing
From
Original
But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at first, for they
were both of them dead, and had been interred near my habitation by my
own hand; but, one of them having multiplied by! know not what kind
ot'crcatnre, these were two which I had preserved tame; whereas the rest
run wild in the woods, and became, indeed, troublesome to me at last; tor
they would often come into my house, and plunder me too, till at last I was
obliged to shoot thetn,and did kill a great many; at length, they leti me. "'ith
this attendance, and in this plentititl manner, I lived; neither could I he said
to want any thing but society; and of that, some time after this, I was like to
have too much.

I was something impatient, as l have observed, to have the Ilse of my boat,
though very loath to run any more hazards; and, therelore, sometimes I sat
eontriving ways to get her about the island, and at other times I sat myself
down contented enough without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my
mind to go down to the point of the island, where, as l have said, in my last
ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the current set,
that 1 might see What I had to do: this inclination increased upon tne every
day, and at length I resolved to travel thither by land, following the edge of the
shore. I did so; but had any one in England been to meet such a man as
l was, it nulst either have frightened him, or raised a great deal of laughter;
and as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I could not but smile at the
notion of my travelling through Yorkshire, with suclt an equipag', and in
such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure, as tiillows:---

I had a great, high, shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with a flap hang-
ing down behind, as well to keep the sun from tne as to shoot the rain oti'
from running into my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as
the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to about the
middle of the thighs, atul a pair of open-knced breechcs of the saute; the
breecltcs were tnade ol' the skin (if an old Ito-goat, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of
my legs; stockings and shoes I had ttonc, but had tttade me a pair of some-
things, I scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to flap over tny legs,
aml laee on either side, like spatterdashcs; but of a most barbarous shape,
as, indeed, were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together with two
thongs ot' the same, instead of buckles ; and in a kind of a frog on either sitlo
of this, instead ot'a sword attd dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet; one on
one side, and one on the other. I had another belt, not so broad, and fastened
in the same manner, which hung over my shoulder; attd at the end of it, ttttder
my left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skiu,too; in one of which
hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I candegied my basket,
and on my shoulder my gun, and over my head a grcat, clumsy, ugly, goat's-
skin umbrella, bttt which, after all, was the most necessary thing I had about
tut-.tht to my gun. As for my face, the color of it was really not so mulatto-
like as one might expect from a tttun not at all careful ol'it, atul living within
nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My heard I ltad once sufl'ercd to grow
till it was about a quarter ot'a yard long: but, as I ltatl both scissors and
razors sullicicut, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimmed into a large pair oi'Mahontctan whiskers, such as I had
seen worn by some 'l'urks at Sallce; for the Moors did not wear such,
though the Turks did. ()I' "lose moustachios or whiskers, [will not say
they were long enough to ltattg my but upon them, bttt they were ol'a length
aml shape monstrous enough, and such as, itt England, would have passed for
frightful.

But all this is by the by: for, as to my figure, I had so few to observe me
that it'wasul' no tnanuer of consequence; so I say no tnorc to that part. In
this kind ol'tigure I went my new journey, and was out five or six days. I
travelled tit-st along the sea-shore, directly to the place where I first brought
my boat to an anchor, to g-t upon the rocks; attd, having no boat now to
take care ol',l went over the land, a nearer way, to the same height that I was
upon betin'c : when. looking forward to the point of the rocks which lay out,
and which I was obliged to double with my boat, as is said almve, l was sur-
prised to see the sea all smooth and quiet ; no rippling, no tnotion, no current,
any more there than it: any other places. I was at a strange loss to under-
stand this. atul resolved to spend sometime in the observing it, to see it'
nothing than the sets of the tide had occasioned it; bttt ] was presently con-
vinced how it was, via, that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and join-
ing with the current of waters from some great river on the shore, must be
the occasion of this current; and that, according as the wind blew more
lbrcihly than the west, or fimu the north, this current came nearer, or went
timber from the shore: tbr waiting thcreabouts till evening, I Went up to
the rock again. and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the cur-
rent again as hctbre, only that it ran timber off; being near half a league from
tlte slutl't': whereas, in my arse, it set close upon the shore, and hurried
me and my canoe along with it; which, at another time, it would not
have done.

This observation convinced tne that I had nothing to do but to observe the127 - 128
Missing
From
Original
ebbing and tlte flowing of the tide, and I might very easily bring tny boat
about the island again; but when I began to think of putting it in practice, I
had such a terror ttpon tny spirits, at the remembrance of the danger I had
been in, that 1 could not think ot'it again with any patience; but, on tlte ('ull-
trary,l took up attotlter resolution, which was more sat'e, though tuorc labori-
ous; and this was, that I would lmild or rather tuake tue attotlter periagua
or canoe; and so have one for one side of the islaml, and one for the other.

You are to understand, that now I had. as I may call it, two plantations in
the island; one, my little litrtitication or tent, with the wall about it, uttdcr
the rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time, I had enlarged into
several apartments or caves, otte withitt another. One of these, Which Was
the driest and largest, and had a door ottt beyond my wall or fortification, --
that is to say, beyond where tny wall joined to the rock,-- was all tilled up with
the large earthen pots of which I have givett an account, and with limrteen
or tittecn great baskets, which would hold live or six bushels each, where I
laid up ttty stores of provisions, especially my corn, some ill the car, cttt elf
short li'om the straw, attd the other rttbbetl out with my hand.

As lbr my Wall, made, as before, with long stakes or piles, those piles grew
all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and spread so very much,
that there was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any habitation
behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land, and upon
lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn land, which [kept dttly cultivated
and sowetl, and which dttly yielded tne their harvest itt its season; and
whenever I had occasion lbr tuore cortt, I had tnore land adjoining as lit
as that. .

lit-sides this, I had my country seat; and I had now a tolerable plantation
there also; tor, first, I had tny little bower, as I called it, which I kept in
repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which encircled it in constantly fitted
up to its usual height, the ladder standing always in the inside: lkcpt the
trees, which at first were no more than tny stakes, bttt were now grown very
firm atul tall, always cut, so that they might spread and grow thick and wild,
and make the tnore agreeable shad -; which they did ellectually to my tnitttl.
In the middle ol'this, I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail,
spread over poles set up for that purpose, and which never wanted any
repair or renewing; and under this] had made me a squah or couch, with the
skins ot'the creatures I had killed, and with other salt things; and a blanket
laid on them, such as belonged to ottr sea-lxrdding, which I had saved, and a
great watch-coat to cover me; antl here, whenever I had occasion to be
absent from my cltiet'seat, I took up my cottntry habitation.

Adjoining to this, I had my enclosures [hr my cattle, that is to say, my
goats: and, as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fiance and enclose
this ground, I was soanxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break
through, that I never left otl' till, with infinite labor, I had stuck the outside
ol'the hedge so full of small stakes, tuul so ttcar to one another, that it was
rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through
between them; which allerwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in
the next rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a wall, indeed stronger
than any wall.

This will testify for me that l was not idle, and that l spared no pains to
bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable support; for

17
I considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand
Would he a living: magazine ot'tlesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me, as long
as I lived in the place, il'it were to he forty years; and that keeping them in
my reach, Ilt'Ilt'mlNl entirely upon my pertecting my enclosures to such a,
degree, that I might be sure of keeping them together; which, by this
method, indeed, I so etl'ectually secured, that when these little stakes began
to grow. I had phoned them so Very thiek, that l was tbrced to pull some of
them up again.

 

In this place, also, I had my grapes growing, which I principally depended
on for my winter store of raisins, and which I never fixiled to preserve very
carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and,
indeed, they were not only agreeable, hut medicinal, wholesome, nourishing,
and reti'e.slnil|;_r to the lust degree.

As this was also about half-nay between my other habitation and the. place
where I had laid up my boat, I generally staid and lay here ill my way
thither: [hr 1 used li'equcntly to visit my boat; and I kept all things about,
or belonging to her, in very good order: Sometimes I went out in her, to
divert myselt; but no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever
above a stone's east or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of being131 - 132
Missing
From
Original
hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents or winds, or any other
accident. But now I come to a new scene of my lite.

It happened one day, about noon, going towards tny boat, I was exceeding-
ly surprised with tlte print ot'rt man's naked iimt on the shore, which was
very plaitt to be seen in the sand. I stood like one tltundetstruck, or as if]
had seen alt apparition; I listened, I looked round me, but I could hear
nothing, nor see any thing; vant up to a rising ground to look further; I
went up the shore and down the shore, but it was all one; Iconld see no
other impression but that one. I went to it again, to see if there were any
more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but there was no rootn for
that, tor there was exactly the print of a toot--toes, heel, attd every part ot'a
foot: how it came thither I knew not, nor could I itt the least imagine; but,
after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a loan perfectly confused and
out of mysell; I catne home to my fortification; not feeling, as we say, the
ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree, looking behind me at every
two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every stump,
at a distance, to be a man. Nor is it possible to describe how many various
shapes tny afl'rightcd imagination represented things to me in, how many
wild ideas were found every moment in tny fancy, and what strange, un-
accountable whimseys came ittto my thoughts by the way.

When I came to my castle, (for so 1 think I called it ever after this,) I fled
into it like one pursued; whether I went over by the ladder, as first cott-
trived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I had called a door, 1 cannot
remember; no, ttor could I remember the next morning; for never ti'ight-
encd hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with tnore terror of mind than I to
this retreat.

I slept none that night; the farther I was from the occasion of my fright,
the greater tny apprehensions were,--which is something contrary to the
nature of such things, and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in
fear; Int! 1 Was so embarrassed with my own frighttitl ideas ofthe thing, that
I tbrmed nothing bttt dismal imaginations to mysell; even though I was now
a great way ofi' it. Sometimes I litncied it must be the Devil, and reason
joined in with me upon this supposition; tiir how should any other thing in
human shape come into the place? "here was the vessel that brought
them? \Vhat marks were there of any other footstep? And how was it
possible a man should come there? But, then, to think tnat Satan should
take human shape upon him in such a place, where there could be no
manner ofpccasion for it but to leave the print of his tbot behind him, and
that even for no purpose too, for he could not he sure I should see it,--
this was an amusement the other way. I considered that the Devil might
have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified me than this of the
single print of a foot; that, as I lived quite on the other side of the island,
he would never have been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it
was ten thousand to one whether 1 should ever see it or not, and in the sand,
too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high wind, would have defaced
entire! '; all this seemed inconsistent with the thing itseli; and with all the
notions we usually entertain of the subtlety of the Devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all appre<<
hensions of its being the Devil; and I presently concluded, then, that it must
be some more dangerous creature, viz, that it must be some of the savages
0f the main land over against me, who had wandered out to sea in theirr

134 true Ltrt: AND ADVENTURES

canoes, and, either driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had made the
island, aml had been on shore, but were gone away again to sea; being as
loath, perhaps, to have staid in this desolate island as] would have been to
have. had them.

While these rt'lIeeliuus were rolling ttpon tny mind, I was very thankful
in uty thoughts that I was so happy as not to he thereahouts at that time. or
that they did not see my boat, by which they would have conelttded that
sou".- inhabitants had been in the plat-e, and perhaps have searched litrther
tbr me. Then terrible thoughts raeked my imagination about their having
tiiund my boat, and that there were people here; and that, it' so, I should
certainly have them come again in greater numbers, and devour me; tltat
if it should happen so that they should not find tne, yet they would tiud ttty
eta-Insure, destroy all my eorn. and carry away all my flock of lame goats,
and I should perish at last lin' more want.

'I'hus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that former confidence itt
God, which was liutudetl ttpou such wonderful experience as I had had of
his goodness; as it' he that had fed tne by miracle hitherto, could not pre-
serve, by his power, the provision which he had made for me by his good-
ness I reproaehed myself with my laziness, that would not sow any more
corn one year than wouldjust serve tnc till the next season, as it' no accident
would intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upott the. ground;
atul this I thought sojust a reproot; that I resolved tor the future to have two
or tlu'ee y :ars' eoru lwtbrehand; so that, whatever might cotue, I might not
perish tin- want ot'br rad.

Ilow strange a eln-eker-work of Providence is the lite of malt! and by
what secret, ditli-reut springs are the atl'eetions hurried about, as different
ciretunstauees present! 'I'o-day we love what to-morrow We latte; to-dtty
we seek what to-morrow we slum; to-tlay we desire what to-morrow we
fear, nay, even tremble :u the apprehensions of. This Was exomplified in
me, at this time. in the most lively tnanner imaginable; for I, Whose only
afllietiou Was, that I seemed banished frotu human society; that I was alone,
cireuntserilwd by the boundless ocean, cttt otl't'rotu tttaukind, and condemned
to what I 'alled silent lite; that I Was as one whom Heaven thought not
worthy to be ntttubered among the living, or to appear among the rest of his
creatures: that to have seett one of my own species would have seemed to
me a raising me than death to lite, atnl the greatest blessing that Ileaven itsell;
next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow, ---I say, that I should
now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was ready to
sink into the ground at bttt the shadow or silent appearance of a man's
having set his Ibo! iii the islntuL

Such is the uneven state of human life: and it afforded me a great many
curious speculations atterwards, when I had a little recovered my first sur-
prise. Ieousidered that this was the station ofIiti: the infinitely wise and good
providence of God had determined for me; that, as I could not foresee what
the ends ot'divine wisdom might be. in all this, so I was not to dispute his
sovereignty, who, as I was his creature, had an undoubted right, by creation,
to govern and dispose of tue absolutely as he thought Ii ; and who, as I was
acreature that had otl'ended him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn
me to what punishment he thought tit: attd that it was my part to submit to
bear his indignation, beeattsc I had sinned against him. I then reflected,
that, as God, who was not only righteous, but omnipotent, had thought fit
thus to punish and afflict me, so he was able to deliver me; that if he did
not think tit to do so, it was tny unquestioned ditty to resign myself abso-
lately and entirely to his will; aml, on the other hand, it was my duty also to
hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the dictates and directions
ol'his daily providence.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say, weeks and
months; and one particular ell'cct of my cogitatious on this occasion I cannot
omit. One morning, early, lyin;,r in my bed, aml tilled with thoughts about
my danger from the appearances ot'savugcs, I found it discotuposed me very
much; ttpon which these Words of the Scripture -ame into tny thoughts--
H~Call upon tne in the day of trouble, and I will deliVer thee, attd thott shalt
glorily me." Upon this, rising cheerfully ottt of toy bed, my heart was not
only comforted, but I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God
for deliverance: when I had done praying, I took 'up my Bible, and, opening
it to read, the. first words that prcsmttcd to me were, " \\'ait on the Lord, and
he of goml cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the
Lord." It is impossible to express the eomtbrt this gave me. In answer,
I tliauklitlly laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least on that
occasion.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections, it came
into tny thoughts, one day, that all this might be a mere chimera ot'my own,
and that this foot might be the print of my own foot, when I came on shore
from tny boat: this cheered tnc up a little, too, and I began to persuade
myself it was all a delusion; that it Was nothing else but my own foot; and
why might I not come that way from the boat, as well as l was going that
way to the boat? Again I considered, also, that I could by no tneatts tell, for
certain, where I had trod, and where I had not; and that it; at last, this was
only the print of my own toot, I had played the part of those fools who try
to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are frightened at them
more than any body.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I had not
stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I began to starve
for provisions; for I had little or nothing within doors, bttt some barley-
cakcs and water: then I knew that my goats wanted to be milked too, which
usually was myevening,r diversion; and the poor creatures were ill great pain
and inconvenience for want of it; and, indeed, it almost spoiled smite of
them, and almost dried up their milk. Encouraging ntyselt; therefore, with
the belief that this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, attd that
I might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad again,
and went to my country house to milk tny flock; bttt, to see with what fear
I went forward, how otten I looked behind me, how I was ready, every new
and then, to lay down my basket, and rttn for my life, it would have made
any one have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had
been lately most terribly fi-ightened; and so, indeed, I had. However, as I
Went dowa thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I began to be a
little bolder, and to think there was really nothing in it but my own imagina-
tion; but! could not persuade myself fully ot'this, till I should go down to
the shore again, and see this print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and
see if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might be assured it was my
own foot; but when I came to the place first, it appeared evidently to me.
that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore any where
 

thereabouts: secondly, when 1 came to measure the mark with my own foot,
1 found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled my
head with new imaginations, and gave me the vapors again to the highest
degree, so that I shook with cold like one in an ague; and I went home
again, filled with the belief that some man or men had been on shore there;
or, in short, that the island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I
was aware; and what course to take for my security I knew not.

0, what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear! It de-
prives them of the use of those means which reason offers for their reliefi
The first thing I proposed to myself was, to tln'ow down my enclosures, and
turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, lest the enemy should find them,
and then frequent the island in prospect of the same or the like booty; then
to the simple thing of digging up my two cornfields, lest they should find
such a grain there, and still be prompted to frequent the island; then to de-
molish my bower and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of habitation,
and be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the persons inhabiting.

These were the subject of the first night's cogitations after I was come
home again, while the apprehensions which had so overrun my mind were
fresh upon me, and my head was full of vapors, as above. Thus fear of
danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself; when appa-
rent to the eyes; and we find the burden of anxiety greater, by much, then
the evil which we are anxious about; and, which was worse than all this, I
had not that relief in this trouble that, from the resignation 1 used to practise,
I hoped to have. I looked,l thought, like Saul, who eomplained not only
that the l'hilistines were upon ltiut, bttt that God had forsaken him; for I did
not now take dtte ways to compose my mind, by crying to God in tny dis-
trek", and resting ttpott his providence, as I had done before, Mr my deli'nee
and deliverance; which if! ltnd done, I had at least been more elu-ertidly
sltppttrtt'tl mtder this new surprise, attd perhaps carried through it with more
n-solution.

This eonlitsion of nty thoughts kept me awake all night; httt iu the morn-
ing I fell asleep; and having, by the amusement of my mind, been, as it
were, tired, aml my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, aml waked nun-h
hem-r composed than I had ever been before. And now I began to think
Sedately: attd, upon the ttttnost debate with myselt; l eoneluded that this
island (which was so exceedingly pleasant, fruitful, and no titrlher from the
main land thatt as l lutd seen) was not so entirely abandoned as I might im-
agine; that although there were no stated inhabitants who lived on tlte spot,
yet that there tnigltt sometimes come boats of treat the. shore, who, either
with design, or perhaps never but when they were driven by cross winds,
might come to this place; that I had lived here fifteen years now, and had
not met with the least shadow or figure of any people yet; and that. it'at any
time they should be driven here, it was probable they went away agaitt as
soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix hem upon
any occasion; that the most I could suggest any danger front was than any
easual aeeidental landing of struggling people than the ntain, who, as it was
likely, it' they were driven hither, were here against their wills, so they made
no stay here, but went 06' again with all possible speed; seldom staying one
night on shore, lcst they should not have the help of the tides and daylight
back again; and that, therefore, I had nothing to do but to eonsider of some
sal'e retreat, in case 1 should see any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely to repeat that i had dug my cave so large as to bring
a door through again, which door, as I said, came ottt beyond where my t'or-
lilieation joined to the rock; upon matarely considering this thereliire, I
resolved to draw ate a second fortification, ill the same manner of a semi-
circle, at a distance from my wall, just were i had planted a double row of
trees about twelve years before, of which I made. mention: these. trees having
been planted so think before, they wanted bttt lbw piles to be driven between
them, that they might be thicker and stronger, and my wall would he soon
finished. So that 1 had now a double wall; atnl my outer wall was thick-
ened with pieces of titnber, old cables, and every thing leould think of, to
make it strong; having in it seven little holes, about as big as I might put my
arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my "all to about ten feet thick,
with continually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the that of
the wall, and walking upon it; nml through the seven holes I contrived to
plant the muskets, of which I took notice that I had got seven on shore out
Of the ship; these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames,
that held theta like a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven guns in two
minutes' time; this wall I was minty a weary month in finishing, and yet
never thought myself safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for a great
length every way, as full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which
I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand; insomuch, that i believe I
might set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space be~

18
 

tween them and my wall. that I might have room to see an enemy, and they
might have Itn shelter than the young trees. it' they attempted to approaeh
my outer wall.

Thus. in ton yeats' time. I had a thiek grove: and in tire or six years' time
I had a wood lu-Iinre my dwelling. growing so monstrous thiek and strong
that it was. indeed. peril-etly impassahle: and no men. of what kind soon-r,
would ever imagine that ther - "as any thing heyond it, much less a hahita-
tinu. .-\s tinr the way "Illt'Il I proposed to myself to go in aml out. (for I Iell.
an avenue.) it "as h} setting two ladders. one to a part of the ruek which
was low. and then broke in. and letl room to plaee another ladder upon that;
so when the two ladders \\ ere taken down. no man living euuld eome down
to me "Illlnlll doing hitnselt' tuiseltiel'; attd it' they had euntc down, they
"ere still on the outside of my outer wall.

This I tmlh' all the measures human 'Il'IItIt'ltt'I' could suggest Iiir my own
presenatioa: and it will be seen. at length, that they were not altogether
without just reason: though I thresaw nothing at that time more than my
ntere t'-ar suggested to me.

While this was doing. I was not altogether 'areless of my other all'airs;
for I had a great euneern upon me for my little herd ut'goats: they were not
only a ready snppl_\' to me on every oeeasinu. and hogan to he sutlieient for
me. without the expense of powder and shot. hut also without the tittiguc of
hunting alter the wild ones: and l was loath to lose the advantage of them,
and to have them all to nurse up orer again.

For this purpose. atler long consideration, I could think of but two ways
to preserve them: one was. to find another eonrenient pluec to dig a cave
under ground. mid to drive them into it every night: and the other was, to
enclose two or three little bits ot'laud, remote Ii'om one another, and as much
eoneealed as I could. where I might keep ahont half a dozen young goats. in
each place: so that it' any disaster happened to the flock in general, I might
be. able to raise them again with little trouble. and time: and this though it

would require a great deal of time and labor, I thought was the most rational
design.
AerordinglyJ spent some time to timl out the most retired parts of the
island; and l pitched upon one. which was as private. indeed. as my heart
could wish lin': it was a little dtuup piece of ground. in the middle of the
hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost tnyselt' once he-
litrt', endeavoring to come back that way from the eastern part ut'tlu- island.
Here I found a clear piece of land. near three acres, so surrounded with
woods, that it \\'as almost an enclosure by nature; at least. it did not want
near so mueh labor to make it so, as the other pieces of ground I had
worked so hard at.

 

l immediately went to Work with this piece of ground: aml, in less than a
month's time, I had so li'uced it round, that my Hock. 0r hcrd,--eall it which
you please.--who were not so wild now, as at Iirst they might be summsetl
to he, were well enough secured in it; so, without any further tlcltt_\'.l re-
moved teu young she-goats, and two lie--goats, to this piece; and. when they
were there,l continued to perfect the lion-e, till I had made it as secure as
the other; which, however,l did at more leisure, and it took me. up more
time by a great deal. All this lahor l was at the exlwuse ot; purely from my
apprehensions on the account of the print of a man's [but which I had seen;
for, as yet, I never saw any hunum er -ature come near the island; and l had
"my lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my lite
much less comfortable tlum it was before, as may he woll imagined by any
who know what it is to live in the constant snare ot' the [bar of man. And
this I must observe, with grit-l; too, that the disennumsure of my mind had
too great imprezuious, also, upon the religious part of my thoughts; tor the
dread and terror of titlliug into the hands of savages and cauuibals, lay so
upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due temper for application
to my Maker; at least, not with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul
which I was wont to do; I rather prayed to God as under great atfliction and
pressure of mind, amended with danger, and in expectation, every night,
of being murdered and devoured before morning; and] must testify, from
my experience, that a temper of peace, thankt'ulness, love, and affection, is
mueh the more proper name lbr prayer, than that of terror and discompo-
sure; and that under the dread of mischief impending, a man is no more Iit
tor a eotttlbrting pertbrumnee ol' the duty of praying to God, than he is for a
repentance on a sick bed; lor these discomposures alleet the mind, as tlte
others do the hotly; and the dist-ouumsure ol' the mind must necessarily be
as great a disability as that of the body, and much greater,---pru)'Ing to God
being properly an art of the miml, not of the body.

But to go on: after I had thus secured one part of my little living.r stock, I
went about the whole island, searching for another private place to make
sueh another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of the island
than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat.
upon the sea, at a great distance. I had lbutnl a perspective glass or two in
one of the seamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship, but I had it not
about me: aml this was so remote that I could not tell what to make of it,
though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer;
whether it was a boat or not, I do not know; but as l descended from the
bill, I could see no more of it : so I gave it over,-- only I resolved to go no
more out without a perspective glass in my pocket. When I was come down
the hill to the end of the islaml, where, indeed,I had never been bel'orc,I
was presently eonvineed that the seeing the print ot'n man's loot was not
such a strange thin;.r in the island as I imagined; and but that it was a special
pmvidenee that I was cast upon the side of the island where. the savages
Never came, I should easily have known that nothing was more li'equcnt than
for the -anoes limit the main, when they happened to be a little too lin- out
at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbor; likewise, as they
olien met, and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners,
would bring them over to this shore, where, according to their dreadful cuss
toms,---lu:ing ull 'annibals,--they would kill and eat them; of which
hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the share, as 1 said above, being the
S. \I'. point ot' the island, I was pertectly confounded and amazed; nor is
it possible. for me to express the horror of my mind at seeing the shore
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and, par-
ticularly, I observed a plaec where there had been a tire. made, and a circle
dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage wretches had
sat down to their inhuman feastings, upon the bodies ol'their lbllow-erentures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that l entertained
no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while; all my ap-
prehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inluunan,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human nature, which,
though I had heard of it olien, yet 1 never had so near a view of before;
in short, I turned away my face than the horrid spectacle; my stomach grew
sit-k, and I was just at the point of fainting, when nature discharged the
disorder Ii'om my stomach; and, having vomited with uncommon violence,
1 was a little. relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a moment;
so I got me up the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked
on tmrurds my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that pm! of the island, I stood still awhile,
as amazed, and then, recovering myalt; I looked up with the utmost af-141 - 142
Missing
From
Original
fection of my soul, and, with a tlood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks,
that had cast my first lot in a part of the world where l was distinguished
than such dreadful creatures as these; and that, though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given me so numy comtims
in it, that I had still more to give thtuiks for than to complain of; oral this,
above all, that I had, even in this miserable condition, been comtbrted
with the knowledge of IIimscll; and the hope of his blessing: which was
a li-licity more than sullieiently equivalent to all the misery which I had
sutl'ercd, or could sull'er.

In this frame of thanktitlucss I went home to my castle, and Iwgau to
be much easier now, as to the safety of my eiremnstanees, than ever I
was betiirc; tiir I obsen'cd that these wretchcs never came to this island
in search of what they could get; perhaps not seeking, not \vanting. or not
expecting, any thing here; and having otleu, no doubt, been up in the covered,
woody part of it, without tituling any thing to their purpose. I knew I had
been here now almost eighteen years, aml never saw the least footsteps
of human ercature there bet'ore; and I might be eighteen years more as
entirely cone-tiled as I was now, if I did not discover myself to them,
which I had no manner of occasion to do; it being my only business to
keep myscll' entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a better sort
of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to. Yet I entertained
such an abhorrence ol' the savage, wretcltcs that I have been speaking ot;
zeal of the wretched, inhuman custom of their devouring aml eating one
another up, that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within tny
own circlc, liir almost two years alter this; when I say my own circle, I
mean by it my three plantations, viz., my castle, my country seat, (which
I called my hower,) atul my enclosure in the woods: nor did I look alter
this for any other use than as all enclosure for my goats; tor the aversion
which nature gztve me to these hellish wretehes was such, that I was as
t'cart'nl of seeing them as of seeing the Devil himscltl I did not so tuuch as
go to look aller my boat all this time, but began rather to think of making
mc another; for I eouhl not think of ever making any more attempts to
bring the other boat round the island to me, lest lshould meet with some
of these creatures at sea; in which, it'l had happened to have Iiilleu into
their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satistitction I had that I was in no danger of being
discovered by these people, began to Wear otl' my uneasiness about them; and
I began to live just in the same composed manner as before, only with this
ditl'erence, that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more about tne than I
(lid betiire, lest I should happen to be seen by any ot'them: and, particularly,
I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of them, being on the island,
should happen to hear it. It was, theretiure, a very good providence to me
that I had tilrnished myself with a tame breed of goats, atul that I had no
need to hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at theta; and it' I did
catch any of them alter this, it was by traps and snares, as I had done
lxtbre; so that, for two years atler this, I believe, I never tired my gun once
off, though I never went out without it; and, which was more, as I had
saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out with me, or at
least two of them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt. Ialso I'nrbished up
one of the great cutlasscs that I had out of the ship, and made me a belt to
hang it on also; so that I was now a most formidable fellow to look at when
 

\ \:'1\. ,.c"

vmont..sc .\ kn,

 
   

I wont abroad, if you add to thc. fonltt'l: description of myself; the particular
of two pistols. and a grcat hroatlsword hanging at my side in a belt, but
without a scahhard.

'l'hings going on thus, as] havc said, for some timc,l sccmcd, excepting
tlicsc cautious, to ho rmlut-cd to my former calm, sedate Way of livintf. All
tln-sc things lt-ndcd to show inc. tnorc and more, how far my condition was
from lN'lllj.' miscmhlc, comparcd to snow Others: nay, to many other par-
ticulars of "to. which it might liavc plcascd God to have made my lot. It
put mt- upou rcllccting how littlc rcpining thcrc would be among mankind
at any condition ot'liti-, it' pcoplc \vonld rzitltcr compare tltcir condition with
thosc that \\'I'r(' mus-c. in ordi-r to hc thankful, than he always comparing
thcni with those which are honor, to assist their nutrmurings and com-
plantings.

As. in my prcscut condition, there were not really many things which I
wanted, so, indccd, I thought that thc t'rights I had been in about these
savagc wrctchcs, and the conccrn I had been in for my own preservation,
had takcn ofl'the cdge ot'my invcntion for my own conveniences; and I had
droppcd a good dcsign, which I had once beat my thoughts too much upon;
um! that was to try if! could not make some of my barley into malt, and
then try to brew myself some beer. This was really a whimsical thought,
and I reprovcd myself oflcn lbr tlte simplicity ot'it: lbr I presently saw them
would be the want of several things necessity to the making my beer, that
it would be impossible tor ute to supply; as, first, casks to preserve it ill,
which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I could never compass;
no, though I spent not only many days, but weeks, nay. months, in attempt-
ing it, but to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to make it keep,
no yeast to make it work, no eoppcr or kettle to make it boil; atul yet, with
all these things wanting, l verily believe, ltad not the fright-a and terrors I
was in abottt the. savages intervened, I had undertaken it, aml perhaps
brought it to pass, too; for I seldom gave any thing over without accom-
plishing it, when once I had it in my head to begin it. But my invention
' now ran quite another way; for, night aml day, I could think of nothing but
how I might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel, bloody entertain-
ment; and, if postible, save the victim they should bring hither to destroy.
It would take up a larger volume than this whole work is intemled to be, to
set down all the contrivancea I hatched, or, rather, brooded upon, in my
thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or, at least, ti'ightening them,
so as to prevent their coming hitlter any more; but all this was abortive:
nothing could be possible to take effect, unless [was to be there to do it
myself; and what could one man do among them, when, perhaps, there
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with their dares or their bows
and arrows, with which they could shoat as true to a mark as I could with
my gun ?

Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where they made
their tire, and, putting in five or six pounds of gunpowder, which, when they
kindled their fire, would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was
ttear it; bttt as, in the first place, I should be unwilling to waste so lllllt'll
powder upon them, my store being now within the quantity ol'one barrel, so
neither could I be sure of its going 03' at any certain time, when it might
surprise them; and, at best, that it would do little more than just blow the
fire about their ears and li'ight them, but not sufiieicnt to make them forsake
the place: so I laid it aside; aml then proposed that I would place myself
in ambush in some convenient place, with my three guns, all double loaded;
and, in the middle of their bloody ceremony. let tly at them, when I should
be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shot; run! then falling
in upon them with my three pistols and my sword, I made no doubt bttt that,
if there were twenty, I should kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts
for some weeks; and l was so full of it, that I alien dreamed of it, and some-
times, that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I went so for
with it in my imagination. that [employed myself several days to tind out
proper places to put myself itt umbuscadc, as 1 said, to watch for them;
and I went frequently to the place itself; which was now grown more
fitmiliar to me; but while my mind was thus tilled with thoughts of re-
venge, and a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I
may call it, the horror I had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous
wretches devouring one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length I found
a place in the side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might secume wait till
I saw any of their boats coming; and might then, even before they would
be ready to come on shore, convey myself; unseen, into some thickets of
trees, in one of which there was a hollow large enough to conceal mo
entirely; and there I might sit and observe all their bloody doings, and take

19146 Till-2 Lire AND aovenrvncs

my litli aittt at their heads, when they were so close together as that it would
be next to impossible that i should miss tny shot, or that i could litil wound-
ing titree or thur of them at tlte first shot. in this place, then, i resolved to
fix tny design; and, accordingly, 1 prepared two ttntskets and tny ordinary
ibwiing-pieee. The two mnskcts l loaded with a brace of slugs each, and
four or live smaller bullets, about the size of pistol bullets; atni the fowiing-
piece 1 loaded witlt near a hamliiti ot' swan-shot, of the largest size: [also
loaded tny pistols with about lintr bullets each: atni, in this posture, "'2"
provided with amtttttnitiott fora second and third charge, I prepared myself
for my expedition.

After i had tints laid the scheme of my design. and, itt tny imagination,
pttt it ill practice, 1 continually tnade my tottr, every tnorning, up to the top
of the hill, which was than my castle, as I called it, about titrec miles, or
tnore, to see if! could observe atty boats ttpon the sea, coming near the
island, or standing over towards it; but I began to tire of this hard dttty,
after] bad, tbr two or tltrce months, constantly kept my watch, bttt came
always back without any discovery; titere having not, ill all that time, been
the least appeamnee, not only on or near the shore, but on the whole ocean,
so far as tny eyes or glasses cottid reach every Way.

As long as i kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long, also, I kept
up the rigor of tny design; and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a
suitable liirnt ibr so outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty
naked savages. tbr an otii-nce which i had not at all entered into any dis--
t'tlssinll of in my thoughts, any fttrthcr than my passions were at first fired
by the horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of the people of that
country, who, it scents, ltad been sttii'ered by Providence, itt ilis wise d'ny
positimt ol' the world, to have no other guide tlnut that of their own abomi--
noble and vitiated [kiss-ions; and, eoua'qucntly, were left, ttttd perhaps had
been so for some ages, to net such horrid things, and receive. such dreadfitl
customs, as nothing intt nature, ctttireiy abandoned by Heaven, anti actuated
by sotne hellish degeneracy, could have rtttt them into. But now, when, as
l have. said, i began to be weary ofthe li'nitless excursion which 1 ltad made
so long atnl so litr every mortting in vain, so my opinion of the action itself
began to alter; anti 1 began, with cooler and calmer thoughts, to consider
what I was going to engage in; what authority or cttil 1 had to pretend to be
judge and I'Xt'l'lllifllil'i' upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had
thought lit for so many ages to sulli'r, unpnuishcd, to go on, nttd to be, as it
were, the exectttioners of ilis judgments one upon another; how far these
people were olii-nders against me, and what right I had to engage in the
quarrel of that blood which they sited promisettottsly ttpon one another. I
debated this very otien with mysell; tints: "How do I know what God
hitnself judges itt this particular case? It is certain these people do not
commit this as a crime: it is not against their own consciences reproving,
or their light repmaching theta; they do not know it to be an ofi'ence,
and then commit it in defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all
the sins we commit. They think it no tnore a crime to kill a captive taken
in war, than we do to kill an ex; ttor to eat human flesh, than we do to
eat mutton.

When 1 considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I was certainly
in the wrong in it; that these people were not murderers in the sense that I
had before condemned them in my thoughts, any mom titan those Chris.tians were murderers who otien put to death the prisoners taken in battle;
or more ti'ethtllly, upon many oreasions, put "hole lrmnps ot' oxen to the
sword, without ;_'i\'in;_r quarter, though they threw down their arms, and
submitted. in the next plaee, it oeeurred to me, that, although the umge
they gave one another was thus hrulisb and inlutmau, yet it "as really
nothing to me; these people had done me no injury: that it' they attempted
me. or I SIW it neeessary lin' my immediate pn-seruuion, to tall upon them,
something might be said lbr it; but tllat l was yet out ot'tbeir power, and they
really had no knowledge of me, and, eonsetplently, no design upon me: and,
then-lore, it eould not bejust for me to litll upon them; that this \youldjusti-
fy the emuluet ol' the Swmiurds in all their lmrlmrities praetised iu Ann-rim,
where they destroyed millions ol'these people ; who, howvver they Were idola-
tersand barlxu'ians, aml had several bloody and barbarous rites in their eustoms,
sneh as sarrilieing.r human bodies to their idols, \t'ere yet. as to the Spaniards,
very innocent lwuple; and that the routingtbem out ot'tbe country is spoken
Ol' with the utmost abhorrent-e aml detestatiun by even the Spaniards theta-
selves at this time, mul by all other Christian nations in Europe, use mere
butehery, a bloody and unnatural piece of eruelty, unjustifiable either to God
or man; and for which the very name oh: Spaniard is reekoned to be li'igbt-
fill and terrible to all people of lnunanity or of Christian compassion; as if
the kingdom of Spin were particularly eminent tbr the produce of a race
ol'tnen who were without principles ol'teuderness or the. common bowels of
pity to the tnise 'ahle, whieh is reekoned to be a mark of generous temper in
the mitnl.

'I'hese eonsideratious really pttt ute ton pause, and to a kitld ot' a lit" stop;
and l hegan. h_\ little aml little, to he oll' my design, and to eouelude I had
taken wrong measures itt my resolution to attaek the savages; and that it
was not my husiness to meddle With them, unless they first attaeked me;
atnl this it was my business. if tulssihle, to prevent; httt that, it' I Were dis-
eoiered and altaeked hy them. I knew my duty. (In the. other hand, I
argued with unselt'. that lhist 'all_\' was the way ttot to deliver tuyselt; but
mainly to rain and destroy mysell'; tiir, unless I was sure to kill every one
that not only should he on shore at that time, but that should ever eotne on
shore alien-wards. it' hut one of them eseaped to tell their eotmtry people
what had happened. they would eotne over again by thousatuls to revenge
the death of their ti-llows. and Isltould only bring upon tuyselt' :t eertain
destruetiun. whieh. at present. I had no manner ot' oeeasion tin'. l'pou the
"hole. I eonelnded that I ought. neither in prineiple nor itt poliey, one way
or other. to eoneern my self in this atlitir; that my husiness Was. hy all possi-
hle means to <<'oneeal tu_\ selt' than them. and not to leave the least signal to
them to guess hy that there were any living ereatures ttpon the isIand.----l
tneau ot' lunuan shape. Religion joined in with this prudential resolution;
and l was eonviueed now. many ways. that I was perti-etly out of my duty
when l was laying all my bloody sehentes liir the destrnetion ot' innoeent
ereatures. --- I mean innoeent as to me. As to the eritnes they were guilty of
towards one another. Ihad nothing to do with them: tltey were national,
and I ought to leave them to the jnsliee of God, who is the Governor of Int.-
tions. and knows how. hy national punishments, to make a just retrihutiou
lio- national ulli'tn'es. and to bring pnhlie judgments upon those who otli'nd
in a pnhlie manner. In sueh ways as Itest please Him. This appeared so
elear to me now, that nothing was a greater satilen-tion to me than that I
had not heeu sntl'ered to do a thing whieh I now saw so mueh reason to he-
lieve would have heeu no less a sin than that nl'wilt'ul murder, it' I had eouto
Initted it: and I gave most Innnhle thanks on my knees to God that He had
thus delivered me from hlmul-guiltiuess; heseeehing Him to grant me the
proteetiou of His providenee. that I might not (all into the hands of the har-
harians. or that I might not lay my hands ttpon them, unless I have a more
clear eall ti-om Heaven to do it. in deli-nee of my own lite.

In this disposition l eontituted for near a year alter this: and so far was I
from desiring an oeeasiou tor lidliug upon these wreteltes, that in all that
time I never onee went up the hill to see whether there were atty of them in
sight. or to know whether any of them had heeu on shore there or not, that
I might not he tempted to renew any of my eontrivanees against them. or be
protoked. In any advantage that might present itsell; to fall upon them:
only this I did. --I went and removed my boat, whieh I had on the other side
of the island. and earried it down to the east end of the whole island, where
I ran it into a little eote. whieh I tintnd under some high rot-ks. atul where I
knew. hy reason ot' the eurreuts. the savages durst not. at least would not,
route with their hoats upon any aeeotlttt whatever. "'ith my boat I carried
away every thing that I had leti there belonging to her. though ttot neeessary
for the hare going thither. viz. a mast and sail wltieh I had made liir her, and
a thing like an anehor, hut which indeed could not be called either anchor or
grapnel; however. it was the. best I eonld make ol' its kind: all these I
removed. that there might not be the. least shadow of any discovery. or any
appearance ot'any boat. or ot'auy human habitation upon the island. Besides
this, I kept myself, as I said. more retired than ever. aml seldom Went from
my eell. other than upon my eonstant employtm-nt, \iz.. to milk my she-
goats, and manage my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the

 

other part of the Island, was quite out of danger; for certain it is that these
savage people. who sometimes hatmted this island, never eame with any
thoughts of finding any thing here, and eonseiptently never wandered otl'
from the mast; aml I doubt not but they might have been several times on
shore aller my apprehensions Of them had made me cautious, as well
as betbre. Indeed. I looked baek With some horror upon the thoughts
of what my eondition \\'t)IlItI have. been, if! had ehopped upon them and
been diseovered belbre. that; when, naked and tmanned, exeept with one gun,
and that loaded otten only With small shot, I Walked ewry where, Ina-ping and
peering about the islatul to see what I eould get; what a surprise should I
have. been in, it', when I diseoven-d the. print of a man's foot, I had, instead
of that, seen filleen or twmuy savages, and found them pursuing me, and,
by the swil'tness of their running, no lmssibility of my escaping tlu-m! The
thoughts of this sometimes sunk my Very soul within me, and distressed my
mind so mueh that I eonld not soon rec-over it, to think what I should have
done. and how I should not only have been unable to resist them, but even
should not have had present-e of mind enough to do what I might have
done; murh less what nOW, aller so tum-h consideration and preparation. I
might be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of these things, I would
be very melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great while; but I
resolved it all, at last, into thanktiilness to that Providence which had deliv-
ered me than so many unseen dangers, aml had kept from me those mischiel's
which I couhl have no way been the agent in delivering myselt't'rom, because
1 had not the least notion of any such thing depending, or the least suppo-
sition of its being possible. This rem-wed a contemplation which often had
value to my thoughts in tbrna-r time, when first I began to see the mercil'nl
dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we run through in this me; how
womlcrlidly we are delivered when we know nothing of it: how, when we
are in a quandary, (as we call it.) a doubt or hesitation whether to go this
way or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this way, when we intended to
go that way'. nay, when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps business,
has called to go the other way, yet a strange impression upon the mind, than
we know not what springs, and by we know not what power. shall overrule
us to go this way: and it shall afterwards appear, that, had we gone that way
which we should have gone. and even to .uur imagination ought to have
gone. \\ e should have been ruined aml lust. l'pon these. and many like
retlections, l alierwm-ds made it a certain rule with me, that whenever I
Iiumd those secret hints or pressings ot'mind. to doing or not doing any thing
that presented. or going this way or that way. I uc\'er litilcd to obey the
secret dictate; though I knew no other r -ason lbr it than that such a pressure,
or such a hint, hung upon my mind. lcunld give many examples of the suc-
cess ol'this conduct in the course of my lite, but more especially in the latter
part of my inhabiting this unhappy island: besides many occasions which it
is very likely I might have taken notice at; it' I had seen with the same eyes
then that 1 see with now. But it is never too late to be wise: and l 'annot
but advi: - all considering lltt'lt, whose lives are attended with such extraor-
dinary incidents as mine, or even though not so extraordimu'y, not to slight
such secret intimations ot' l'rovidem-e, let them come from what invisible
intelligence they will. That I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account
for: but certainly they are a proof of the. converse of spirits, and a secret
communication between those imbodied aml those unimbutlied, and such a
proof as can never be withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give
some very remarkable instances in the remainder of my solitary residence ill
this dismal place.

I believe the reader ot' this will not think it strange, if I confess that these
anxieties. lltt'sc constant dangers] lived in, and the concern that was now
upon me. put an end to all invention, and to all the. contrivances that I had
laid tor my t'utur' aecounnodations aml conveniences. I had the care of my
safety more now upon my hands than that of my tbod. I cared not to drive
a nail. or chop a stick of wood now, tin' far the noise I might make should
he heard : much less would I lire a gun, tbr the same reason; aml, above all,
I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible
at a great distance in the day. should betray Inc. For this reason, I removed
that part of my business which required tire, such as burning of pots and
pipes, (Vin, into my new apartment in the woods; where, after lhad been
some time. I thund, to my Itnslu'akttllle consolation, a more natural cave in
the. earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he
been at the mouth of it, would be so hard; as to venture in; nor, indeed,
would any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe
retreat.

The month of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, where, by
more accident, (I would say, il' I did not see abundant reason to ascribe all
such things now to I'rovidenee,) I was enttiug down sonic thiek branehesol'
trees to make charcoal; and before I go on I must observe the reason of my
making this charcoal, whieh was thus: I was afraid ot'makinga smoke about
my habitation, as I said before; and yet Ieonld not live there without baking
my bread. eookiug my meat, &e.; so I eontrived to hunt some wood here, as
I had seen done in England, nndertttrll till it heeame elutrk, or dry coal;
and then, putting the tire out, I pn'served the eoal toearry home, and perform
the other serviees liir whieh lire was wanting, without danger of smoke.
Ihtt this is hy the by. "'ltile I was eutting down some wood here, I per-
eeived that, behind a very thiek hraneh of low ln'nshwood or underwood,
there was a kind of hollow plaee: I was enrions to look in it; and, getting
with ditlieulty into the month of it. I lonnd it was pretty large; that is to
say. snllieient lin- me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me;
but I Imlsl eout'ess to yott that I made more haste out than I did in, when,
looking farther into the plat-e, and whieh was perl'eetly dark. I saw two
broad, shitting eyes ol'sonte. er 'ature, whether Ilevil or tnan I knew not,
whieh twinkled like two stars; the dim light than the eaVe's mouth shining
direetly in, and making the. retleetion. However, aller some pause. Ireeov-
ered myselt; and began to eall myself a thousand fools, and to think that he
that was afraid to see the Devil was not lit to live tWenty years in an island
all alone: and that I might Well think there. was nothing in this eave. that was
more li'ightl'ul than myselli l'pon this, plucking up my eonruge, I took up a
lirehraud, and in I rushed again, with the stiek flaming in my hand. I had
not gone three steps in, but I was almost as mneh ti-ightened as IK'IIDI'C; for I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some INIIII, and it was lollowed
by a broken noise, as of words half expressed, aml then a deep sigh again.
Istepped bnek, and was indeed struek with such a surprise that it put me
into a cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my head, I will ttot answer for it
that my hair might not have lilled it oIIZ But still, plucking up my spirits as
well as lcould, and encoumging myself a little with considering that the
power and presence of God was every where, and was able to protect me:
upon this I stepped Iiu'wm'd again, atul by the light of the lirehrand, holding
it up a little oier my head, 1 saw lying on the ground a most monstrous,
t'righttiil, old lie-goat. just making his will. as we say, and gasping for life :
and dying. indeed, of more old age. Istirrctl him a little to see. it' I could
get him out. and he assayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself: and
I thought with myself he might even lie there: lin' if he had li'igbtelted me,
so he would certainly t'rigbt any of the savages, if any one of them should
be so hardy as to come in there while he had any me in him.

I was now recovered than my surprise, and began to look round tue, when
I liulud Ihc 'ave was but very small, that is to say. it might be about twelve
li-et over, but in no manner of shape, neither round nor square, no hands
having chr been employed in making it but those of mere Nature. 1
observed also that there was a place at the litrther side of it that went in
further, but was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands and
knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew not: so, having no candle, I
gave it over for that time; but resolved to come. again the next day, provided
with candles and a tinder-lmx, which I had made of the loek of one of the
muskcts, with some wild tir- in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles of my
own making, (tor I made very good candles now of goats' tallow, but was
hard set for eamllc-wiek, using sometimes rags or rope--yarn, and sometimes
the dried rind of a weed like nettles ;) and, going into this low place, I was
obliged to creep upon all limrs, as l have said, almost ten yards; which, by
the way, I thought was a venture bold enough, considering that I knew not
how liir it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I had got through the
strait, 1 found the roof rose higher up, i believe near twenty feet; but never
was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to look
round the sides and mot' of this vault or cave; the wall reflected a hundred
thousand lights to me than my two candles "'hat it was in the rock,
whether diamonds, orauy other precious stones, or gold, which I rather suppo-
sed it to be, l knew not. The place I was in Was a most delighttitl cavity or
grotto of its kind, as couhl be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was
dry and level, and had a sort of a small, loose gravel upon it, so that there
was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or root': the only dillieulty in it was the
entrance: which, however, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat
as I wanted, I thought that was a eom'enience; sothat lwas really rejoiced at.
the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of those things
which I was most anxious about to this place; particularly, I resolved to
bring hither my magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, vi7... two
iinvling-picces, for I had three in all, and three nulskets, for of them I had
eight in all: so I kept in my castle only five, which stood ready mounted,
like pieces of column, on my outmost fiance; and were ready also to take out
upon any expedition. l'pou this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
happened to open the barrel of powder, which I took up out of the sea, and
which had been wet; and I found that the water had penetrated about three
or four inches into the powder, on every side, which, coking, and growing
hard. had preserved the inside like a kernel in the shell ; so that I had near
sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of the cask; this was a very153 - 154
Missing
From
Original
agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I carried all away thither, never
keeping above two or three pounds of powder with Inc in my castle, for fear
ol'a surprise of any kind: I also 'arried thither all the leadl had let! for
bullets

l limeied myself now like one of the. ancient giants, which were said to
live in caves and ltoles iii the rot-ks, where none. eould eotne at them ; for l
persuaded myself, while I was here, that il' live hundred suvttges Were to
lntnt tne, they could never find me out; or, it' they did, they would not ven-
ture to attaek me here. The old goat, whom I tiaunl expiring, died ill the
mouth of the cave the next day al'tev I made. this diseovery; and I found it.
much easier to dig a great hole ther -, and throw him in and cover him with
earth, than to drag him out: so I interred him there, to prevent alliance to
III." "031'.

l was now itt tlte twenty-third y'ar of lay resident-e itt this island; and
was so naturalized to the plaee, and the manner of living, that, could I have
but enjoyed the certainty tltat no stvages would eome to the place to disturb
me. I could have been content to have eapitulated for spending the rest of
my time there, even to the last moment. till I had laid line down atnl died,
like the old goat, in the eave. I had also arrived to some little diversions
atul amusements, "'llit'll made the lime pass a great deal ntore pleasantly
with tne than it did betbre; as, first, I had taught my l'oll, as I noted betbre,
to speak: aml he did it so litmiliarly, aml talked so artielllatel.' atnl plain,
that it was very pleasant to me: for I believe no bird ever spoke plainer; and
he lived With me no less than six and twenty years: how long he might have
lived alien 'ards I know not, though I know they have a notion in the Brasils
that they live a hundred years. My dog was a pleasant and loving companion
to me lbr no less than sixteen years at" my time. aml then died of tnere old
age. As tor my eats, they multiplied, as l have observed, to that degree. that
l \ 'as obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from devouring
me and all I had; but, at length, when the two old ones I brought with me
were gone, and taller some time eontinnally driving them li-om toe, and
letting them have no provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods,
except two or three favorites, whieh I kept tattle, and whose young. When
they had any, I always drowned: atnl these were pan ol'my liunily. Besides
these, [always kept two or three. household kids about me, whom I taught to
li-ed out of my hand; atld I had two tnore parrots, whit-h talked pretty well,
and would all 'all "Robin Crusoe," but none like my first: nor, indeed, did
I take the pains with any of them that I had done with him. I had also
several tatne sea-fowls, whose names lknew not, thatl eaught upon the
shore, and ettt their wings; and the little stakes which I had planted before
my 'astle-wall being now grown up to a good thiek grove, these tbwls all
lived among these low trees, aml bred there, which was very agreeable to
me: so that, as I said above, I began to be very \vell eontented with the life I
led. il' I could have been secured from the dread of the savages. But it was
otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet
with my story, to make this just observation from it, viz., how li'equently,
iii the. course of our lives, the evil Which in itself We seek most to shun, and
Which, when we are tallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is ottentimes the
very means or door of our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised
again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could give many examples of
this in the course of my unaccountable life ; but in nothing was It more par-156 'rnr. LII-'1'>>: AND Aavsx'rutttts

tienlarly remarkable than in the eirettmstanees of toy last years of solitary
residenee in this island.

It was now the month of Deeember. as I said abow. in my twenty-third
year: and this. being the southern solstiee. (for winter I eannot eall it.) was
the partieulat' time ol'my hart'est. atul required tny being pretty mueh abroad
in the fields: when. going ottt pretty early in tire morning, evett beliire it was
thorough daylight. l was surprised with seeing a light of some tire upon the
shore. at a distant-e l'ront toe of about two miles, towards the. island where I
had observed some savages had been, as before, atul not on tile other side;
but. to my great alllietion, it was on tiny side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight. and stopped short within my
grove. not daring to go out. lest I might be surprised; atul yet I had no more
peaee within, li'om the apprehensions I had that ifthese savages. in marbling
over the island, should lind my eorn standing or eat, or any of my works and
improvements they WultItI itutnediately eoueltlde that there were people in
the plaee, and would then never give over till they had found tne ottt. In
this extremity. I went bat-k direetly to my eastle, pulled up the ladder allct'
me. aml tnade all things without look as wihl and natural as I eottld.

Then I prepared myself within. putting myself in a posttue. of defence: I
loaded all my eannon. as Iealled Ila-m, that is to say, my mttskets, which
were mounted upon my new iiirtitieation, and all my pistols, atul resolved to
defend myself to the last gasp: not forgetting seriously to eomtuend myself
to the divine proteetion. antl earnestly to pray to God to deliver tne out of
the bamls of the barbarians. I eontiuued in this posture about two hours ;
atal began to be mighty impatient iiir intelligent-e abroad. tiir I had no spies
to semi ottt. .-\tler sitting awhile longer, and nmsing what I should do in
this ease. I was not tthle to bear sitting itt iguoranee any longer; so, setting
up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I
observed before. and then pulling the ladder aller me. I set it up again. and
mounted the top of the hill: atul pulling ottt my perspeetive-glasag wbieh I
had taken on purpose. I laid me down llat on my belly on the ground, and
began to look the the place. I presently found there were. no less than nine
naked savages. sitting rotuul a small lire they had made, not to warm them,
ibr they had no need of that. the. weather being extremely hot, but, as I sup-
posed. to dress some of their barbarous diet of hutnan llesh, whieh they had
brought with them. whether alive. or dead. I eottld not tell.

They had two -anoes with them, whieh they had bottled up ttpou the
shore: and as it was then tide of ebb. they seemed to me to wait for the
return of the tlood to go away again. It is not easy to intagiae what confu-
sion this sight put me into, espeeially seeing thetn eome on my side. of the
island. and so near me too: but when I eonsidered their eoming must be
always with the eurrent of the ebb. I began allerwards to be tnore sedate in
my mind. being satistied that I might go abroad with satiny all the titne of
the tide of tlood. it' they were not on shore before; atul having tuade this
obsen'atiou. I went abroad about my harvest work with the tnore composure.

.-\s l expeeted. so it proved: iiir, as soon as the tide. tnade to the westward,
I mw them all take boat. aml row (or paddle, as we eall it) away. I should
have observed that. tiir an hottr or more before they went oil; they went a
daneing: atul I eould easily diseern their postures and gestures by my glass.
I could not pert-ewe. by my nit-est observation. but that they were stark naked,
and had not the least eoreriag upon them; but whether they were men or
women, I could not distinguish.
   

-' .3
. "55

e.'

 

As soon as I saw tlaau shimwd and gone, I took twu guns upon my sltottl'
dots, and two pistols in my girdh', and my gri-at sword by my sidv. without a
su'ahltard, and. with all thcslu-t-d l was ahlt- to mala'. m-nt away to tla- hill
\\'lll't't' I had tlisrot't-t't-d tln- tirst apla'aram't- ol'all: and. as smut as I got
thitla-r. "'llit'll was not in lass than t\\o hoursuin' I t'lllllll nut gunman-v. lu-iag
so luadt-d with arms as I Was) I pvt't't'in-d tIa-rt- had th'H (lll't't' ranm-s mun:

ul'tlu- savagvs at that lllflt't'; and, looking out l'artln'rJ saw tla-_\ \n-n- all at
su'a togt-tla'r. making on-r ti>>r "to main. This was a dt'vadlitl sight tn mu.
"Stu-viatly as. going! down to tlw show, I could st-t- tho marks ot'lmrruruhia'h
tlu- dismal Work tIn-y had ht't'll about had It-I't lM'lllllll it. vim, lla- ltluud, the
hours. and part of lllt' flash or human bodies. l'flll'll and dt-Vuurvd It} thus-
"'I'l'lt'llt'." with na-rrinu'nt aml sport. I was so tillt-d with indignation at da-
sight. that I "th lit-gall to prt'tm-ditatc tlu- th-strta-tion ot' tlu- ta~.\t that I saw
thorn. lt'l tla'm lw whom or how many SIM'\'I'I'. It sm-na-d midi-at to ltlt' that
tla' risks which they made thus to this island wrn- nut wry ti'mpa-nl. titr it
was above lllit'l'll months lit-titre any Imm- ot' tla-m Pull") on Sllttl'l' tlu'rc
again : that is to say, I neitla-r saw tla-m, nor any timtstt-ps or signals ol'tla-m.
in all that lina-z titr, as to the rainy svasons, tla-n Ila-y an- surc not to t'ulllc
ahrnad. at Must not so titr: yet all this whilt' l lin-d uncomfortably, hy rt-ason
of tho mastaat apprehensions ot' thvir coming upon "W by sttrprisv; l'l'nln
"'la-Ia-t- l ohst-rvv. that the exportation: of t-vil is more hittt-r than the stall-r-
ing. i-spm-ially it' Illt'l'c is no room to shake off that cxtwctatioa or those
appr -ln-nsions.

During all this time, I was in tho mnrdc'ring humor, and tank up must of
my hours, which should have "00" lx-ttcr vmploycd, in coatriviag how to
circumvent and hill upon them, the very next time I should see them; espe-
cially it'lltey should be divided, as they were the last time, into two parties.
Nor did I consider at all that. if I killed one party, --suppose ten or a dozen,
-- I was still, the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and so another,
even ml iii/inflow, till I should be, at length, no less a murderer tltan they
"ere in being titan-eaters, atnl perhaps much tttore so. I spettt ttty days now
in great perplexity and anxiety ot'mind, expecting that I should, one day or
other, tall into the hands of these merciless creatures; and if] did, at any
time, venture abroad, it was ttot without looking rottttd toe with the greatest
care attd catttion imaginable. .\nd now I tbttnd, to tny great comfort, how
happy it was that I had provided a tuna: llock or lterd of goats; for l dltrst
not, upon any account, tire my gun. especially near that side of the islattd
where they usually eame, lest I should alarm the savages; and, if they had
fled from me now, I was sure to have them eonte again, with perhaps
two or three httmlred canoes with them, itt a few days; and then I knew
what to expect. However, I wore out a year and three tnontbs more before
I cum saw any more of the savages, and then I found tltettt again, as I shall
Stunt observe. It is true, they might have been there once or twice; bttt
either they made no stay, or, at least, I did ttot see them: bttt, in the tnotttlt
ot'.\lay, as: near as lcould calculate, am] in my four attd twentieth year, I had
a very strange encounter With them--of which itt its place.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sincen montlts' inter-
val, was very great: 1 slept umptict, dreamed always frightful dreams, and
often started out of my sleep in the night. In the day, great troubles over-
whelmed my mind; and, in the night, I dreamed often of killing the savages,
aml of the reasons why I tnigltt justify the doing of it. But to waive all this
fora while.--lt was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as
well as my poor. \vooden calendar would reckon,--for I marked all upon the
pOst still,--- I say, it was on the sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm
of what all day. with a great deal of lightning and thunder; attd a very foul
night it was after it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of it: but,
as l was reading: in the Bible, and taken up with very serious thoughts about
my present condition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought,
tired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise quite ofa ditl'erent nature from
any I had met with before: tor the notions this put into my thoughts Were
quite ofauother kiml. I started up in the greatest haste imaginable,and, in a.
trice, clapped tny Iadderto the middle place ot'lhe rock, and pttlled it alter me,
and. lllOUJllIth' it the second time, got to the top ofthe hill the very moment that
a flash ol'tirc bid me listen lbr a scrotal gun, which, accordingly, itt about half
a mintue, I heard. and, by the sound, knew that it was from that part of the
sea where l was driven down the current in my boat. I immediately consid-
ered that this must be some ship in dism-ss, and that they had some comrade
or sotne other ship it: company, aml tired these tor signals of distress, and to
obtain help. I had the presence of mind, at that tttinute, to think that,
though I could not help them. it might be they might help me: so 1 brought
together all the dry wood I could get at hand, and, making a good, handsome
pile,l set it on lire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely;
and, though the wind blew very hard, yet it burned fairly out,--s0 that I was
certain, it'there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it: and no
doubt they did; for, as soon as ever my tire blazed up, I heard another gun,
and after that several others, all front the same quarter. I plied my fire all
 

night long till daybreak; and, when it was broad day, and the air cleared up,
I saw something at a great distance at sea, full cast of the island, whether a
sail or a lmll I could not distinguish--no, not with my glass, the distance
was so great, and the weather still something hazy also; at least, it was so
out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it did not
move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor; and. being,r
eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took tny gun in tny hand, aml nut
towards the south side of the island, to the racks where I had tiirmcrly been
carried away with the current; and, getting up there, the weather by this
time being perfectly clear, 1 could plainly see, tu my great sorrow. the wreck
of a ship cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks which I found
when l was out in my boat: and which rocks, as they checked the violence
of the stream, and made a kind ot'counter-strt-am, or eddy, were the occasion
of my recovering from the most desperate, lmpeless condition that ever I had
been in, in all tny life. Tints, what is one man's safety is another man's
destruction; for it seems these men, whoever they were, being out of their
knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water, had been driven upon
them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. N. E. Had they seen the
island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I thought,
have endeavored to save themselves on shore by the help of their boat:
but their firing of guns for help, especially when they saw, as I imagined,ltitl 'rm: Lit-t: .\.\'l) AIH'IIN'I'I'IIIZS

my tirv. rlIIl'tI nn- "IIII many tlmnghts. First, I itnagita'tl that. upon st-cing
my light. Ila-y might hau- put tIa-tnsvlrrs inlu Ila-ir hunt, and t'lltIl':I\'"I't'tI In
malu- tla- sltut'v: hat that. tho sva guing wry high. Ila-y might han- ht-t'tt t'ast
auay. UtIn-t' titlu's. I imttgita'tl that tIu-y tnight Imt't- Inst tIu-ir Imat Ia-tim-,
as might lu- Ilu- t-ast- many ways: as, partit'ulat'ly. hy tlu- ltt't-ttkittg nl' IIIt' st'a
ttpun thvir ship. "hirh many tina-s nltligt-tl ttu'u tn stan- ur tukv in pin-vs
tIu-ir lm:tt.aml s-mn-tinws In IIII'U" it uu-rlmartl "ilh tht-iruwn halt-Is. chvr
linws. I itnagitn-tl tht-y haul suna- uthrr ship nr ships in t'umpany, \yhn, upun
llu- signals ut' tlistt't-ss IIIt'_\ luttl IIIIIIII" hatI laIu-n IIIt'IIl up. and c'arrit-tl tIa-ut
utl'. (ttIu-r titnt-s.I tittn'irtl tIa-y \u-rr aII g'nnt' ntl' tu spa in tIu-ir lmat. :tml.
III'III: Illtt'l'It'tI away It) tlu- t-nrrt-nt that I had lm-n tin'aa-rly in. "t'I't' rat'rit-tl
uttt intu tltt- gt't'at ut't-att. "la-w IItt'I'I' was nuthing hut tnist-ry :IINI pt't'islting;
and that. pvrhaps. Ila-y alight I>>) this IIIIII' IIIiltI\ ut'starting. amI ut' Iu-iug in
a t'ttlttIIlIIIII In rat unt- anntlu-r.

 

t\s all tln-su- \n-rv I-ut l'HIIJl't'IIII't'S at III-st. sit. in IIlt' I't'IIIIII In I "as in. I
t'tllIItI tlu an tnurt- than quk <<In npun tla- tnist-ry ut' tlu- pmvt' tta-It. antl pity
tIn-tu: \\I|It'It had still this gnml ('IIi't'I utt my side. that it gau- tnt' lllt'l't' atttI
mun- t-anst- tn giu- thanks to (-'ml, \\'IuI hail sn happily :ltItI t'umtitrtal-ly pru-
\ItIt'tI litt' nn- in my tit-sulntt- t'untlitiuu: and that, at tun ships' t-umpanit-s.
"Im "t'l'l' nmr t-ast au'ay upun this part ut' tla- "HI'ItI, nut ma- liti- sltuultl In:
span-d IlItI minv. I lt-arIIt-tl Itt'l't' again In uhst'rrt', that it is \'t'ry rat't- that
"W lll'tnItIt'llt't' ut' (n'ml casts tts into any t'untlitiun nt' litiv su lmr. ur any mis-
c-ry sun grt-at. but \u- may sm' sunwtlting ur other tu he thankful titr. and may
sm- utlu-rs itt \rursv t'in-ntttstatu't-s tltau unr mm. Such t't-rtainly was Ila:
vast- uI' tint-so nu'n. ut'nhntn I t'ullItI not so IlllIt'Il us st-t- rtmnt tn snppusv any
ut' IItt'tIt \rvn' NH't'tI: nothing t'UllItI tuakt' it rational so nun-h as In \\islt nr
t-\pt't't that tht'y tlitl not a" parish IIII'I't', ram-pt tht- possibility unly ul' IIIt'II'
Iu-ing taIu-u up by :ttttIIItt'l' ship in company; and this "as hut Illt'rt' pussi-
lvility IIItIt'l'II. far I saw nut tlu- lt-ast sign ur app -araurv of any such thing.
I c'annut t-xplain. hy any pussihlt- t-m'rgy ut'trurtls. what a >II':IIt;_'t' longing nr
hankvring nt'tlt'sirt-s I fall in my squ npnn this sight. hrvaking nut smut-tina's
thus: "(I that IItt'I't' IltttI Iwu-n IIltI unv ur hm. uay. nI' Iutl uut' snul. sari-(I
uttt ut'this ship. tn haw t-st-apt-tl tn na'. that I might but han' hail unt- t'nlll-
paniun. unt' li-Ilu\\.t'

 

attu'r. tn hatt' spukt'tt tn nn'. :IIItI In hau- t-unrt-rst-tl
uith!" In all tlu- tinu- ut' my sulitary IiIi-. I lIt'\I'I' ti-It sn varnt-st. su strung a
<<It-sin- at'tc-r tlu- sm'ivty <<if my ti-ll-n\'-t'rt-atttrt-s, or su tIl't'll a rt-grrt at the
"Ht" "1' it.

'I'ln-rt- :n't- snna- sm'ru-t taming: springs ill "[0 atli-t-tinns. \\I|It'Il. \\ Ia'u Ila-y
art- svt a going In suuu- uhjm-t in \It'". or. thungh nut in \It'". yt-t l'l'IItII'I't'lI
uatinn. that nmtiun 1'.'II'I'II'.\' unt tIa'
tgt-r t'IIlIll'flt'Il

 
  

prc-st-nt tn tla- tniml hy tla- punt-r ut' itn:

 

suttl. hy its intpt-tnnsity. In sin-II \inh'tlt rs ut' tltt' uhjm't, that
must \rishiugs that
Ian um- tnalt hail Ina-n sau'tl. I I)t'IIl'\'t' I t't-pt-att-tl thz' "urtls. "U that it had

IM'I'II hut mu- 5" a tltnasantl tina-s: and my <<Iv 'irvs \\'t'l't' su ltltl\t'tI by it. that.

   

IIIt' altst'ta't- ut' it is insttppm'tahlv. Sta-It \n-rt- tlu-st- 1

ultra I spulu- tlu- nuruls. tny II:ItItIs \\'t|ltItI t'IIIIt'II tugvtIu-r and my tingt-rs
\muhl pn-ss tla- paltns at my hamls. sn that. it' I had had any sut't thing itt
my "find. it \\IIIIItI hart- t-rttslml it itn'uluttlarily': atttl IIlt' tt't-th in my hand
"IIIIItI stt'iLt- Ingt-tla-r. and sat against uut- anutltt-r su strong, that. livr smnc
IIIIIt'. l t'ltIIItI nnt part Ila-tn again. In the naturalists t~.\plain tltt-st- things.
and IIlt' ru-asnu anti ntantwr ul'tla-ut: all I can say In tla-m is. In tlt-st-riht- Ihu
tia't. which was t'\t'l| surprising tn uu', \\I|I't| I tintntl it. thuugh I knew not0|" llI'IIlNSIIN ('RI'SIHZ. '6'

I'rnm \\'ll|'|l|'|' it prnrm-i'u-cl. II "as. ulnnlxllrss. Iln- vIl'c-I-I nI' :mlu-nI \\i.~'ln'~'.
:uul nl'.~Irnn;{ hh-us liu'mml ill In) miml. I'u-uIi/ing Ilu- c'nmliu'I "Inc-h Ilu- I'ull-
\t'rSllllUll ul' nun nl' my li'lln"-l'lu'i.\li:ul.~ \u-uhl hun- lwi-u In mr. , "I" it
was nnI In hr: rillu'r Ilu-ir IEIII- nr minv. ur lmlll. li-rlnuh- il: Iin'. Iill Ilu- lnsI
yI-m'nl' my brill; mu lhis isluml. I m-u'r Inn-u "In-Ihvr any \u-n- sun-<<l nut
nl' IlIuI shill nI' nn: :uul luul nnly Ihu- :Illliu'linn. snmn <<lays :Illvr. In sm- Ihv
""1"" "l. " 'l""""""l "'2" ""III" "In slnnrv :1! "w I'llll HI' Ilu' islmnl "hirh was

nr\I Ilu' slnipwrrrl'. lln' hml Im i'lullu-s nu hm :l scumun's \\:|i>'li'n;|l. a pair

#:SS

'3\

  

L -- ' .----- "EIMIS

-..._ -..; .- _ x"-.. _/

nl'nlu-II-km-I-ul lim'n <<Irmwrs. and n hlm- lim'u shirt: but nothing In din-v!
IIII' sn mm-li as In gm-ss wlml ImIinn lu- was nI'; he had unllning in his
[In-"laws hm Iwn pin-I-I-s-nllvighl um! :I Inln:u-c'n-pipn;-- Ihc lnsl was In nu- nl'
Ic-n limrs mnrv mllu- Ihnn "In first.

II was nnu' vulm. :Iml l hml u gn'm miml In \'I'llllll'(' nut in my lmnl In lliis
\vrvvk, IInI. <<InIIhIiIIg but I mighl Iiml snmc-Ihing nu hnxml llmI might lu- nsr-
I'ul In mv: hIII IhIII dill IInI :iIIn_-_vi-Ilu'r pr-ss nu- sn much as Iln- pnssihilin
Ilml lllI'l'l' mighl ln- _\'I'l snnw living u-rvullm- nn Imm'il. ulmsq' Iili- I might nnt
nnly saw. hm mighi. by saving IlmI Iil'v. a-mnl'nrl my mm In Iln! hm <<lo-grim;
:unl Ihis Ilmnghl rhmg sn In my lu-an Ilml l I'Illllll nnI lu- quivl nighl or clay,
lmI l qusI \'('I|llll'(' mil in my lmziI nu lmm'Il Ihis "rm-k: null, u-nmmiuin: Ilm
rz'sI In (hul's prm'iIh-m'n, l Illnughl Ihi- imprt-ssinn "as an slrnng Iqmn my
mind that it I-nuhl not he l't'SlSN'Il,ll|:ll iI must cunu- I'rnm snnu- imisihln
Ilirm'linn. :nnl Ilmt I shnuhl lN' W'mIing In myst-ll' il' I did nnI gn.

l'mh-r Ilu- pnm-r nI'Ihis imprrssinn. l lizlsu-m-<<l luu'k In my vusllv. pi't-purml
I-n-ry Illing lhr my \'ny:I_I.rv. tank .'I qnnnlily nl' Inn-ml. a gn-m [ml nI' fro-sh
\valm'. :I rumpus In sle-r hy, :I ImIlln of rum. (1hr I hml Mill u gr ~ut Ih-ul ul'

'1]16:2 TIN-2 urn AND am'nx'rrttrzs

that lt-fl,) attd a basket of raisins: and thus, loading myself with every thing
necessary, I went down to my boat, got the water out of her, got her afloat,
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again tor more. My second
cargo was a great bag of rice, the umbrella to set up at cr my head tbr a shade,
another large pot of li'eslt water, aml about two dozen of small loaves, or
barley-cakes, more than betin'e, with a bottle ol'goat's milk, atnl a cheese : all
which, with great labor and sweat, I carried to ttty boat ; and, praying to God
to direct tny voyage, I put out; and, rowing or paddling the canoe along the
shore. canto at last to the utmost point of the island on the north-east side.
And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and either to venture or not to
venture. I looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides
of the island at a distance, atnl which \vere very terrible to me, limit the
remembrance of the hazard I had been in betbrc, and my heart began to tail
me; for l foresaw that, it'l wasdriven into either of those currents, I should
be carried a great way out to sea, and perhaps ottt or my reach, or sight of
the island again; and that then. as my boat was but small, if any little gale
of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts s'o oppressed my mind, that I began to give over my enter--
prise; and, having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and set me down upon a rising bit ol'ground, very pensive atul anxious,
lietwecn fear and desire, about my voyage; when, as l was musing. I could
perceive that the tide was turned. and the tlood come on: upon which my
going was impmcticahlc for so many hours. l7pon this, presently it occurred
to me that 1 should go up to the highest piece ol'ground I could find, and
observe, il' I could, how the sets of the title, or cttrr 'uts, lay \\ hen the flood
came in, that] might judge whether, if I was driven one way out,l might
not expect to be driven another way home, with the same rapidncss ol' the
currents. This thought was no sooner in my head than I cast my eye upon
a little ltill, which sutliciently overlooked the sea both ways, attd from
whence I had a clear view ot'the currents, or sets ot'thc lltlt', and which way
I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that, as the current of
ebb set out close by the south point of the island, so the current of the flood
set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing to do httt
to keep to the north side of the island, in my return, and I should do well
enough.

I'Inconraged with this observation, I resolved, the next morning, to set ottt
with the first of the tide; and, rcposing myself for the night in my name,
under the great watch-emu I mentioned, I launched ottt. l fitst made a little
ottt to sea, t'ull north, till I began to feel the benefit of the current, which set
eastward, and which carried me. at a great rate, and yet did not so hurry ttte
as the current on the south side had done betbrc, so as to take from tnc all
government ofthe boat ; httt, having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went
at a great rate directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours i came ttp
to it. It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which, by its building, was
Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in betWeen two rocks: all the stern and quarter
ot'her were beaten to pieces by the sea; and, as her l'orccastle, which stuck
in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her mainmast and thretnast
were brought by the board, that is to say, broken short ofl'; but her bowsprit
was sound, and the head and bow appeared firm. "'hcn l cattle close to
her, a dog appeared upon her, who, seeingr me coming. yelped and cried,
and, as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me. I took him163 - 164
Missing
From
Original
into the boat, but found him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him
a cake of my bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving a fortnight in the snow: Ithen gave the poor creature some fresh
water, with which, if Iwould have. let him, he would have burst himseltl
After this I wettt on board; but the first sight I met with was two men
drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about
otte another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that when the ship struck,
it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that
the men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rush-
ing in ofthe water, as much as if they lunl been under water. Besides the
dog, there was nothing lelt iIt tlte ship that had liliz; ttor any goods, that I
could see, but what were spoiled by the water. There were some casks of
liquor, whether wine or bramly I knew not, which lay lower in tlte hold,
and which, the water being chbed out, I could see; bttt they were too big to
meddle with. I saw several chests which I believed belonged to some of
the seamen; and I got two of them into the boat, without examining what
was in them. Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken
oil; I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage; for, by what I found
in these two chests, I had rootu to suppose the ship had a great deal of
wealth on board; atul, if I may guess from the course she steered, she must
have been bound from Bucnos Ayn-es, or the Rio de la Pluto, in the south
part of America, beyond the Brasils, to the Ilavana, itt the Gulf of Mexico,
and so, perhaps, to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure itt her, bttt
of no use, at that time, to any body; and what became of the crew I then
knew not.

I fmmd, besides these chests, a little cask fttll of liquor, of about twenty
gallons, which I got into my boat with much dillieulty. There were several
mnskets ill the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about timr pounds of
powder in it: as for the muskets, I had no occasion for them; so I left
them, but took the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I
wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this cargo, and the dog, I came away,
the tide beginning to make home again; and, the same evening, about
an hour within night, I reached the island again, weary and fatigturd to the
last degree. I reposed that night in the boat; and, in the morning, I re-
solved to harbor what I had got in my new cave, and not carry it home to
my castle. Alter refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and began
to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found to be a kind of mm,
but not such as we had at the Brasils; and, in a word, not at all good; but
when I cattle to open the chests, I tbund several things of great use to me:
for example,I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind,
and filled with cordial waters, fine and very good; the bottles held about
three pints each, and were tipped with silver. I found two pots of very good
succades, or sweatmeats, so fastened also on the top that the salt water had
not hurt them; and two more of the same. which the water had spoiled. I
found some very good shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a
dozen and a half of white linen lumdkerchiefs and colored neckcloths; the
former were also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face
in a hot day. Besides this, when I catne to the till in the chest, I found
there three great bags of pieces--of-eight, which held about eleven hundred
pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of
 

gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they might. all
"vigil near a pound. In the other t'la-st were some clothes, hat of little
\':tl|t|". Ian. I>>) Iil!' eireumstmu-a-s. it must lt:l\'t! belonged to the gunner":
man- 1 tIu-ugh there was no powder in it, t-xeept two pounds of tine glazed
powder, in three small flasks, Ia-pt. I snplmse, for charging their I'owling-
pit-res on occasion. I'pun the "hole, I got very little by this voyage that
was nl'any use In aw: tirr. as to the money, I had no manner of m- 'asinn for
it: it was to me as the dirt under lay the z and I would have given it all Iixr
IIII'I'I' or Iimr pair of English shoes and stockings, "'IIII'II \n-t't- things I
gn-azly \'HIIII'II. lutt had none on my Ii-t't lin- many years. I had. indeed, got
two pair of shoes now, "Lit-h I look oll' the "TI. ol' the. two drowned melt
"I10"! I saw in the "rm-It, and I linmd two pair more in one of the chests,
"hit-h were \'t-ry "'I'It'flltlt' to me: Ina Ila-y were. not like our English shoes.
('llilt'l' lin' ease or s't'n'h't'. Iva-in;r rather what we t'all pumps than shoes. I
Iinmd in this svamaa's vhrst almut liliy pit-m-s-olleight in rials, but no gold:
Isnppost- this lit-longed to a poorer man than the other, whieh seemed to
Iu-lung tn snnu- ullit't'l'. We". however, I lagged this money home to my
raw, and laid it up. as I had done that before, which I brought from our
own ship: lmt it "as a great pity. as I said, that the. other part of this ship
had ltol t'tlllll' to my: share: Hm I am satisfied I might have loaded my
t'attm' sen-ml tinu-s uu-r with money: and, thought I, if I ever escape to
I'lngland, it might lie Ia-re safe enough till I may come again and fetch it.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them, I went
Imt'k to my boat. and rowed or paddled her along the shore to her old
harbor, where I laid her up. and made the best of my way to tny old habita-
tiuu, where I found every thing sal'r aml quiet. I began now to repose
mysell; live alier my old lashiou, and take care ot'my tiuuily atlairs; and, for
a while. I lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than I used to be,
looked out ol'teue ', atul did not go abroad so much; and ill at any time. I did
stir with any t'reedom, it was always to the cast part of the island. where I
was pretty well satisfied the sa'ages never 'ame, atul where I could go
without so many precautions, aml such a load of arms and anuuttuitiou as I
always -arried with me if] went the other way. I lived in this comlition
u an two years more; httt my unlucky ltead, that was always to let ttte know
it was born to make tny body miserable, was all these two yeats tilled with
projects and designs, hmv, if it were possible, I might get away ti'om this
island: liir sometimes I was for making another voyage to the wreck,
though my reason told me thal there was nothing left there worth the hamrd
of my voyage: sometimes for a ratnble one way, sometimes another: and I
believe, verily, it'l had had the boat that I went l'rotu Sallee in, I should have
ventured to sea, bound any where, I knew not whither. I haVe been, ill all
my circumstances, a memento to those who are touched with the general
plague of mankind, whence, l'or aught I kuow,oue halt'ot'their miseries flow;
I mean that of not being satislied with the station wherein God and Nature
hath placed them; for, not to look back upon my primitive condition, and
the excellent advice ot'my lather, the opposition to which "as. as I may call
it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the same kiml had been the
tneaus ot'nty coming into this miserable condition: liu' had that I'rovideuz'e,
which so happily seated tne at the "nails as a planter. blessed me with
coutiued desires, aml I could have been contented to have gone on gmdually,
I might have been. by this titue,--I mean in the time of my being in this
islaud,--one ol' the most considerable. planters in the Ilrasils: nay, I am
[wrsuadeiL that by the improvements I had ntade in that little time I lived
there, and the. increase I should probably have made it'I had remaim.-d. I
tuight have been worth a hundred thousand moidores: atul what business-
had I to leave a settled fortune, in Well-stocked plantation, improving and
increasing. to turn supercargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience and
time would have so increased our stock at hotue, that we could have lmught
them at our own door from those whose business it t 'as to fetch them? and.
though it had cost us something more, yet the ditl'erence of that price was
by no means worth saving at so great a hazard. But, as this is usually the
line of young heads, so reflection upon the folly of it is as eonunouly the
exercise of more years, or of the dear-bought experience of time: so it was
with me now; and yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper,
that I couhl not satisly myselt'iu my station, but was continually poring upon
the. means aml possibility of my escape from this place: and, that I may,
With the greater pleasure to the reader. bring on the n-maiuiug part of my
story. it may not be improper to give some account of my first conceptions
on the subject of this lbolish scheme tinr my emape. and how, and ttpou
what foundation I acted.

I atn now to be supposed retired into my castle, atler my late voyage to
the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under water, as usual, and my
condition restored to what it was betiu'e: I had more wealth, indeed, than I
had before, but was not at all the richer: tor I had no more use for it than
the Italians of Peru had before the Spaniards 'ame there.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four-and-
twentieth year of my first setting (not in this islattd of solitude, I was lying in
ttty bed or hatntnoek, awake, very well itt healtlt, had no pain, tto distetttper,
no uneasiness ot'body, nor any uneasiness ol' tttitul more tltatt ordittary, hut
eould by no tneans elose tny eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no, ttot a wink all
night Iottg, otherwise tltatt as titllowsz-- It is impossible to set down tlte itto
ttttme'ahle erowd of thoughts that whirled through tltat great thoroughfiu'o
ot'the brain --tlte memory, itt this night's time: I not over the whole. history
of toy lite. itt miniature, or by abridgtnent, as I may 'all it, to tny eotning
to tltis islaml, aml also of that part ot'nty liti- sinee l eattte to this island. In
tny retleetiotts ttpott tlte state ot'tny ease sinee l eatne on shore on this island,
I was eotnparing tlte ltappy posture of toy ullitit's itt the first years of my
Itabitatiott ltere, compared to the litie of anxiety, fear, and rare, whielt I had
lived itt ever sittee I had seen the print of a film in tlte sand; ttot tltat I did
not believe tlte savages had fi'eqnented tlte island even all tlte while, attd
migltt have been sevetal luntdreds of them, at times, on shore litt'l"; but!
had new-r known it, attd was ineapable ot' atty apprehensions about it; my
s-ttislitetion was perti-et, though tny danger was tlte same, and l was as
happy itt not knowing my dattger as if] had never really been exposed to
it. This litrnished my thoughts with many very profitable retleetions, and
[mt-tieularly this one: Ilow infinitely good that I'rovidettee is, which has
provided, itt its government of mankind, sneh narrow bounds to his sight
and knowledge ol'things: attd though he walks itt the midst ol'so tnatty
thousand dangers. the "ht ot'whieh, it'diseot'ered to him. wonhl distraet his
mind atnl sink his spirtts. he is kept serene attd ealtu, by having the events
ot' things hid from his eyes and knowing nothing of the dangers \\'I|Il'Il sur-
rottml hint!

.-\tier these thoughts had for sotne time entertained too, I eante to reflect
seriously upon tlte r -:d danger I lual been itt for so many years itt this very
island. atnl how I had walked about in tlte greatest seenrity, and with all
possible tranquillity, even when, perhaps, nothing but the brow ofa hill, :1
great tree, or the easual approaeh of night, had been between ttte and the
worst kind ot'destruetion, \'l7.., that of falling into the hands of eannibals and
savages, who would have seim-d on me with the saute view as I would on a
goat or a turtle: and have thought it no tnor- erintc to kill and devour tue,
than I did of a pigeon or a ettrlew. I would unjustly slander myself, if I
should say I was not sineerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose
singular proteetiott Iaeknowledged, with gr -at humility, all these unknown
deliveranees \vere. dtte, attd without whieh I tnttst inevitably have fallen into
their tnereih-ss hands.

When these. thoughts were over, my ltead was for some titne taken up in
Considering the nature ot'tltese wretehed ereatures,--I mean the savages,--
attd how it eatne to pass itt tlte world, that the wise Governor of all things
should give up any ot'his ereatttres to suelt inhumanity, nay, to something so
ntneh below even hrtttality itselfi as to devour its own kind: bttt as this
ended ill some (at that time) tinitless speculations, it occurred to me. to in-
quire what part of the world these wretehes lived in; how far 011' tlte eoast
Was l'ront whenee they 'ante; what they ventured over so for from home
for; what kitnl of boats they had; attd why I might ttot order myself and
my business so, that I tttight be as able to go over thither, as they were to
come to me.

I never so tttueh as troubled myself to consider what I should do with
myself when I went thither; what would becotnc of me if I fell into the
hands ofthe savages; or how I should escape them if they attacked me ; no,
nor so unteh us how it was possible lbr me to reach the coast, and not be
attacked by some or other of them. without any possibility of delivering
myself; and, if! should not an ittto their hands, what I shotlld do for pro-
vision, or whither I should bend tny course: none of these thoughts, I say,
so much as eatue in my Way : but tny tnittd was wholly bent ttpon the notion
of uty passing over itt my boat to the tnain land. I looked upon my present
condition as the most miserable that could possibly be; that I was not able
to throw tnysell'into any thing but death, that could be called worse; and if ~
I reached the shore of the tuuin, I might, perhaps, meet with relief, or I
might roast along, as 1 did on the African shore, till I catue to some inhabited
country, and where I might tind some relief; and, alter all, perhaps, I might
fall in with some Christian ship that might take tne in; and if the worst
mum to tlte worst, I could but die, which would put an end to all these
miseries at once. Pray note, all this was the tittit of a disturbed mind, an
imluuicnt temper, made desperate, as it were, by the long continuance of
my troubles, aml the disappointments I had met in the wreck I had been on
board ol; and where I had been so near obtaining what I so earnestly longed
for, \'i'/.., sonn-bmly to speak to, and to learn some knowledge from them of
the place where l was, and of the probable means ofmy deliverance. l was
agitated wholly by these thoughts; all my calm of mind, in tny resigna-
tion to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven,
scented to be suspended; and I had, as it were, no power to tttrn my
thoughts to any thing but to the project ofa voyage to the main, which
came upon me with such force and such an itnpctuosity of desire, that it
was not to be resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours, or more, with such
violence that it set tny very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as if I
had been in a lcver, merely with the extraordinary fervor of my mind about
it, Nature, as if] had been littigued and exhausted with the very thoughts
of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should have
dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of any thing relating to it; but I dreamed
that as l was going out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw, upon
the shore, two canoes and eleven Savages, coming to land, and that they
brought with them another savage, whom they were going to kill, in order to
-at him; when, on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill jumped
away, aml ran lbr his life; and-I thought, in my sleep, that he came running
into my little thick grove before my fortification, to hide himself; and that I,
seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the others sought him that way,
showed myself to hitn, and, smiling upon hitn, encouraged him; that he
knceled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon which I
showed him my ladder, made him go up, and carried hitn into my cave, and
he became my servant; and that, as soon as I had got this man, I said to my-
self, "Now I may certainly venture to the main land, for this fellow will
serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go for
provisions, and whither not to go, for tear of being devoured; what places to
venture into, and what to shun." I waked with this thought, and was under
such inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my
dream, that the disappointments which I felt upon coming to myselfi and

22170 TI": Lin: AND aovnnrunes

 

finding that it was no more. than a dream, Were equally extravagant the
other way. and threw me into a very great dejeetion of spirits.

l'pon this, however, I made this eonelusion; that my only way to go about
to attempt an est-ape was, if possible, to get a savage into my possession;
and. it' possible. it shouhl he one of their prisoners, whom they had con-
demned to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill. But these thoughts still
new attended with this diliieulty, that it was impossible to ell'eet this with-
out att:n-kin;..r a whole ea 1mm of them, and killing them all: and this was
Not only a very desperate attempt. and might misearry, but, on the other
hand, I had greatly serupled the lau'litlness of it to mysell; and my heart
trembled at the thoughts of shedding so quell bloud, though it was for
my delin-nnu-e. I need not repeat the arguments which oeeurred to me
against this. they being the same mentioned lit-litre; but though I had other
reasons to otl'er now, \'i7.., that those men wr-re enemies to my life, and would
devour me if they eould : that it Was seltlpreserration, in the highest degree,
to deliwr ntysell'ti-om this death ol'a lite, and was acting in my own defence,
as mueh as it' they we , aetnally assaulting me. and the like; I say. though
these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my
deliremnee were very terrible to me, aml sneh as l eould by no means rerou-
eile mysell'to for a great while. llowever, at last, alter many secret disputes
\tith myselt; and after great perplexities about it, (for all these arguments,
one way aml another, struggled in my head a long time,) the eager, prevail-
ing desire ot'delivemnce at length mastered all the rest; and I resolved, it'
possible, to get one ol'those savages into my hands, cost what it would. My
next thing was to contrive how to do it, and this, indeed, was very ditlienlt to
resolve on; bttt as I could pitch ttpon no probable means for it, so lresolved
to pttt mysell' upon the watch, to see them when they 'ame on shore, and
l-ave the rest to the event, taking sttch m 'asures as the opportttnity should
present, let what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set tnyselt'npon the scottt as often
as possible, aml, indeed, so olicu, that I was heartily tired of it; thr it was
above a year and a hall' that l \vaitcd: and. liur great part of that time, went
out to the West etul, aml to the south-West corner of the islatul almost every
day, to look tor canoes, bttt ttone appeared. This was very discouraging,
aml began to trouble tne much, though I wanna say that it did in this case
(as it had dotte some titue betbre) \v 'ar otl'the edge ot'my desire to the thing;
but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager l was for it: in a
word, I was not, at first, so caretid to sluttt the sight ol' these savages. aml
avoid being seen by them, as l was now eager to be upon them. Besides, I
limcicd myscll' able to manage one, nay, two or three savages. it'l had them,
so as to make them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct
them. and to prevent their being able at any time to do me any hurt. lt vas
a great while that I pleased myself with this atlitir; but nothing still pre-
sented: all my timeies and schemes came to nothing, tor no savages came
near Inc for a great while.

About a year and a half after I entertained these notions, (and, by long
musing, had, us it \verc, resolved them all into nothing, tiIr want of an occa-
sion to pttt them into exceutiou,) l was surprised, one morning, with seeing
no less than live catnms all on shore together on my side the island. aml the
people who belonged to them all lamled, and ottt of my sight. The mnnber
ol'thetn broke all tny measures; tbr, seeing so many, and knowing that they
always catue tbnr or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what
to think of it, or how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty tnen
single-handed; so lay still in my castle, perplexed atnl discomtiirted. How-
ever, I put myscll'into all the same postures tin' an attack that I had tin'un-rly
provided, aml was just ready tbr action, if any thing had presented. llaving
waited a good while, listening to hear it' they made any noise, at lengtln
being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot ot' my ladder, aml clambered
up to the top of the bill, by my two stages, as usual: standing so, however,
that my head did not appear above the bill, so that they could not perceive
me, by any means. Here I observed, by the help of my perspective glass,
that they were no less than thirty in number; that they had a tire kindled,
and that they had meat dressed. How they had cooked it I knew not, or
what it was; but they were all dancing in I know not how many barbarous
gestures attd figures, their own way, round the tire.

\Vltile I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my perspective, two
miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid
by, and were now brought out tor the slaughter. l perceived one of them
immediately fall; being knocked down, I moment, with a club, or wooden
sword, for that was their way; and two or three others were at Work, imme-
diately, cutting him open for their cookery, while the other victim was left
standing by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that very moment,
 

this poor \wetch seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbound, Nature
inspired him with hopes ol'lil'c, and he started away ti'om them, and ran,
with incredible swit'tuess, along the sands, directly towards me; i mean
towards that part ol'the coast Where my habitation was. lwas dreadlitlly
frightened, I must acknowledge, when I perceived him rtm my way; attd
especially when, as I thought, [saw him pursued by the whole hotly; and
now I expected that part of my dream was coming to pass, and tltat he
would certainly take shelter in my grove; but 1 cottld not depend, by any
means, upon tny dream, for the rest of it, viz, that the other savages would
not pursue hint thither, atul find him there. However, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover When 1 found that there was not above three
men that lbllnwed him; and still more was I encouraged, when I found that
he outstripped them exceedingly in running, atul gained ground ol'them; so
that, if he could but hold it for half an hour, 1 saw easily he would titirly get
away from them all.

There was, between them and my castle, the creek, which I mentioned
often in the first part of my story, where I landed my cargoes out ot'the ship;
atul this I saw plainly he must necessarily switu over, or the poor wrctch
would be taken there; but when the savage, escaping, canie thither, he made
nothing of it, though the title was then up; httt, plunging in, swam through
in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, altd ran on with exceeding
strength and swit'tnexs. When the three persons came to the creek, 1 found
that two of them could swim, butthe third could not, and that, standing
on the other side, he looked at the othem, but went no farther, and soon
after went softly back again; which, as it happened, was very well for him
in the end. I observed that the two who swam Were yet more than twice as
or noathos cavson. 173

long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It
cattle now Very warmly upon my thoughts, and, indeed, irresistibly, that now
was the time to get tne a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant ; and
that l was plainly called by Providence to save this poor creature's lite. I
immediately ran down the ladders with all possible expedition, fetched my
two guns--for they were both at the foot of the ladders, as I observed be-
l'nre,--and, getting up again, with the same haste, to the top of the hill, I
crossed towards the sea; and, having a very short ettt, and all down hill,
placed myself in the way between the pursners and the pursued, hallooing
aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps, as much
li'ightencd at me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come
back; and, in the mean time, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed; then, rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked hint down with
the stock of my piece. I was loath to fire, because I would not have the
rest hear; though, at that distance, it would not have been easily heard,
and being out of sight of the smoke, too, they would not have easily
known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the other,
who pursued him, stopped, as if he had been ti-ightened, and I advanced
apat-e towards him; but, as I came nearer,I perceived presently he had a
how and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me; so I was then necessi-
tated to shoot at him first, which Idid, and killed him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he saw both his
enemies lhllen, and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened with
the tire aml noise of my piece, that he stood stock still, and neither came
fiirward, nor went backward, though he seemed rather inclined still to
fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him, and made signs to come
lbru':u'd, which he easily understood, and came a little way; then stepped
again, and then a little farther, and stopped again; attd I cottld then perceive
that he stood trembling, us if he had been taken prisoner, and had just been
to be killed as his two enemies were. I beckoned to him again to come to
me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could think of; and
he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in
token of acknowledgment for saving his life. [smiled at him, and looked
pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer: at length, he came
close to me; and then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid
his head upon the ground, and, taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his
head: this, it scents, was in token of swearing to be my slave forever. I
took him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all I could. But
there was more work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom I had
knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come
to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the savage, that he was not
dead: upon this, he spoke some words to me, and, though I could not under.
stand them, yet I thought they, were pleasant to hear; for they were the first
sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-
fwe years. But there was no time for such reflectioas now: the savage who
was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the ground,
and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid; but when I saw that, I
presented my other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him: upon this, my
savage --- for so I call him now -- made a motion to me to lead him my sword,
which hung naked in a belt by my side, which I did. He no sooner had it,
but he runs to his enemy, and, at one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no
exeeutioner in Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I thought
very strange tor one who, I had reason to believe, ttever saw a sword in his
liti- lit-litre. exeept their own woodett swords: hoWever, it seems, as I learned
afterwards, they make their Wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the
wood is so hard, that tltey will even cut 011' heads with them, ay, atul arms,
and that at one blow, too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to
toe in sign ot'triumph, atnl hrottgltt me the sword again, atul, with abundant-e
ot' gestures whieh I did ttot understand, laid it down, with the ltead ol' the
savage that he had killed, just before me. But that whieh astonished him
most. was to know how 1 killed tlte other Indian so far oil': so, pointing to
hint. he made signs to toe to let him go to him; so I bade hint go, as well as
I eonhl. When he -ame to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him,
turning hint first. on one side, then on the other: looked at the wotuul the
lntllet had made, which, it seems, \vasjust in his breast, where it had tttade a
hole, and no gr -at quantity ot'hlood had titllowed: but he ltad ltled inwardly,
1hr he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows, atul came back: so
I turned to go away. and heekoned him to ll)lltl\\' ttte, making signs to him
that more migltt eonte alter them. l'pon this, he tnade signs to me that he.
should httry them with sand. that they might ttot be seen by the rest, it' they
titllowed: atul so I made signs to him again to do so. He ti-ll to work; and,
iii an instant. he had seraped a ltole itt tlte satnl, with his hands, big enough
to bury the tit-st in, attd then dragged him ittto it. and covered hint; and did
so by the other also: I lu-lieve he had buried them both ill a quarter of an
hour. 'l'hen. 'alling hitn away,l earried him, ttot to tny 'astle, but (mile
away to my eave, on the timber part ot'the island: so I did not let tny dream
eome to pass in that part. viz., that he came into my grove for shelter. Here
I gave hint hread aml a lntneh ot'raisins to eat, and a drauglu ol'water, \\'ltll'll
I ti-utnl he was indeed in great distress- tor, by his running; atul, having
reti'eshed him. I made signs litr hint to go attd lie down to sleep, showing
him a plaee where I had laid some rice straw, atnl a blanket ttpon it, whieh
I used to sleep upon tnyselt' sometimes; so the, poor creature lay down and
\vent to sleep.

He was a eomely, handsome fellow, perleetly well made, with straight,
strong limbs. not too large, tall, and Well-shaped; and, as I reckon, about
twenty-six years ol'age. He had a very good countenance, ttot a tieree attd
surly aspeet, but seemed to have something very manly itt his titre: and yet
he had all the sweetness and soliness ot' a European in his countenanee, too,
espeeially when he smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled, like
wool; his tort-head very high attd large; and a great vivaeity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes. The color of his skin was not quite black, httt very
tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians, and
Virginians, and other natives of Anteriea, are, but of a bright kind of a that
olive eolor, that had in it something very agreeable, though not very easy to
describe. llis t'aee \vas round attd plump; his nose small, not flat, like the
Negroes; a very good tnotttlt, thin lips, and his fine teetlt well set, and as
white as ivory.

Atier he had slumbered. rather thatt slept. about half an hour, he awoke
again, atnl 'ame out of the -ave tome: litr I had been milking my goats,
whit-h I had in the enelosur-jast by: when lte espietl me, he came running
to me, laying himselt' down again upon the ground, with all the possible
signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making a great many antic gestures175 - 176
Missing
From
Original
to show it. At last, he lays his ltead flat ttpon the ground, close to my foot,
and sets my other that upon his head, as he had done before; and, atter this,
made all the signs to me of subjection. servitude, and sulmiission, imaginable,
to let tne know how he would serve me so long as he lived. I understood
hint in many things, and let him know l was very \vell pleased with him. In
a little time, I began to speak to him, aml teat-h him to speak to me; aml
first l let him know his name should be l-'attuv, which was the day I saved
his lite: I called hitu so Mr the memory ot'the time. I likewise taught hitn to
say Master; aml then let him know that was to he my name: 1 likewise
taught hint to say Yes and .\'o, and to know the meaning of them. lgave
him some milk in an earthen pot. and let him see me drink it belbre hint,
aml sop my bread in it; aml gave hitn a cake ol' hreutl to do the likt', which
he quickly eomplied with, and made signs that it was very good for hint. I
kept there with hint all tllnt night; lutt as soon as it Was day. l beckoned to
him to come with me, and let him know 1 would give him some elothes; at
\vhielt he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As We went by the
place where he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the place. and
showed me the marks that he had made to tind them again, tanking signs to

 

me that we should dig them up again and eat them. At this, I appeared
very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made as it' I would vomit at the
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to conte away; which he
did immediately, with great submission. I then led ltim up to the top of the
hill, to see if his enemies were gone; and, pulling out my glass, 1 looked,and
saw plainly the place where they had been, but no appearance of theta or
their canoes; so that it was plain they were gone, aml had left their two
comrades behind them, without any search after them.
23
Bttt l was ttot content with this discovery; but, having now more courage,
and consequently more curiosity, I took tny ntatt Friday with tne, giving him
tlte sword in his hand, with tlte bow and arrows at his back, which I found
he could use very dexterously, making him caITy one gun for me, and 1 two
for myself; and away we marched to the place where these creatures had
been; for] bad a mind now to get sonte fuller intelligence of them. When
I came to the plttce, my very blood ran chill in tny veins, and my heart sunk
within me, at the horror of the spectacle; indeed, it was a dreadful sight; at
least it was so to tne, though Friday made nothing of it. The place was
covered with human bones, the ground dyed with their blood, and great.
picees of flesh left lterc and there, half eaten, mangled, and scorched; and,
iii short, all the tokens of thc tritunphant toast they had been making there,
after a victory over their enemies. I stw three skulls five hands, and tltc
bones of three or (bar legs atttl foot, and abundance of other parts of the
bodies; and Friday, by his signs, ntatle ttte understand that they brought
over fiatr prisoners to feast ttpott; that three of them were eaten up, attd that
he, pointing to himsclt; was the fourth; that there had been a great battle
between theta and their next king, of whose subjects, it seems, he. had been
one, attd that they ltad taken a great ttutnber of prisoners; all which were
carried to several places by those who had taken them in the tight, itt order
to feast upon theta, as was done here by these wretehes upon those they
brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever
remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make a great tire upon it,
and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh, trial was still a cannibal in his nature; but I discov-
ered so tnuch abltorrettce at the very thoughts of it, and at the least
appearance of it, that he durst not discover it; for I had, by some means,
let him know that I would kill him, if he oflercd it.

When he had done this, we came back to ottr castle; and there I fell to
work litr my man Friday; attd first of all, I gave him a pair oflitten drawers,
which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, which I found itt
tlte wreck; and which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well; and
then I uiade him a jerkin of goat's skin, as Well as my skill would allow, (for
I was now grown a tolerable good tailor ;) and I gave him a cap which I
made of ltare's skin, very convenient, and fashionable enough : and thus he
was clothed, for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased to
see himself almost as well cl0thed as his master. It is true, he went awk-
wardly in these clothes at first: Wearing tlte drawers was very awkward to
him, aml the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders and the inside of
his arms; httt a little easittg them where he complained they hurt him, and
using himself to them, he took to them, at length, very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I began to consider
where Ishould lodge hint; and that I might do well for him, and yet be
perfectly easy ntysell; I made a little tettt for him in the vacant place between
my two fortifications in the inside of the last, attd itt the outside of the first.
As there was a door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed
door case, and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little
within the entrance: and causing the door to open in the inside, I barred it
up in the night, taking itt my ladders too; so that Friday could no way come
at me in the inside of my innermost. wall, witltout making so tnuch noise itt
getting over that it must needs waken me; for my first wall had now a com-
plete roof over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the
side of the hill; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice straw, which
was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or place which was left to go in or
out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap<<door, which, if it had been
attempted on the outside, would not have opened at all, but would have
fallen down and tnade a great noise: as to weapons, I took them all into my
side every night. But! needed none of all this precaution; for never man
had a more litithl'ul, loving, sincere serviult than Friday was to me; without
passions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly obliged and engaged; his very
atl'ections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and I dare say
he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine, upon any occasion
whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt,
and soon convinced me that I needed to use no precautions as to my safety
on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder, that
however it had pleased God, in His providence, and in the govemment ol'
the works of His hands, to take from so great a part of the world of His
creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the powers of their souls
are adapted, yet that He has bestowed upon them the same powors, the same
reason, the same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and obligation,
the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude,
sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good and receiving good,
that He has given to us; and that when He pleases to offer them occasions
of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the
right uses for which they were bestowed, than we are. This made me very
melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions presented, how
mean a use we make of all these, even though we have these powers enlight-
cned by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the
knowledge of His word added to our understanding; and why it has pleased
God to hide the like saving knowledge front so many millions of souls, who,
il'I might judge by this poor savage, would make a much better use of it
than we did. From hence, I sometimes was led too liar, to invade the sever-
cignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of so arbitrary a
disposition of things, that should hide that sight from some, and reveal it to
others, and yet expect a. like duty from both; but I shut it up, and checked
my thoughts with this conclusion: first, that we did not know by what light
and law these should be condemned; but that as God was necessarily, and,
by the nature of His being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not be, but if
these creatures were all sentenced to absence from Hitnselt; it was on
account of sinning against that light, which, as the Scripture says, was a law
to themselves, and by such rules as their consciences would acknowledge to
be just, though the foundation was not discovered to us; and, secondly, that
still, as we all are the clay in thethand of the potter, no vessel could say to
him, " \Vhy hast thou formed me thus ?"

But to return to my new companion :--l was greatly delighted with him,
and made it my business to teach him every thing that was proper to make
him useful, handy,and helpful; but especially to make him speak, and under-
stand me when I spoke: and he was the aptest scholar that ever was; and
particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he
ennld lint understand me. nr make me understand him. that it Was very
pleasanI In me In Ialk In him. an my lili' began In he sn easy, that I began
In say In myselll IhaI ennld l but have. been safe from more savages, I cared
nnt if I was never In I'emnI'I- li'nm the Illill'l'. where I lived.

.'\lil'l' I had Inn-n Inn -n' three days returned In my I-asIle. l thnnght that. in
nrder In hrin;r l-'riday nIl' than his hnrrid way <<if Ila-ding. aml than the relish
III' a vannilud's slnmaeh. I might In let him taste nIheth-sh: so I Innk him
mII \\iIh me nne mnrning In Ihe wnnds. I went. indeed. inII-nding In kill :1
kid nnI <<if my nwn Ilni'k. aml luring: iI hnnte and dress it: hIII, as l was going,
I saw a she-gum lying Ilnwn in the shade, and two young kids silling by her.
I ran-ln-d hnld nI' I-'riday: "llnhl." said I. "stand still ;" and made signs
In him nnI In stir: iInmvdiaII-ly. I mesa-med my pin-e, shoI, aml killed nne
nl' the kids. The nunr I'I'eatnre. whn had, at a disIaIn-v. indeed, seen me kill
the savage. his enemy. lntt did IInI klinw, nnrenuld iltlagine, how it was dune,
was si-nsihly surprised, Iremhled aml shnnk, and lnnked so amaZI-d that l
Ihnnghl ln' wnnhl haw sunk dnwn. He did not see the kid I shot at, or
perm-lye I had killed it, lint ripped up his waisII-nat, to feel whether he was
nnI wnnnded: and. as l Iinnnl presenlly, thought I was resolved In kill him;
lin' he came aml kIn-I-led dnwn In me. and. embracing my knees, said a great
many things I did nnt understand; but I ennld easily see Ihe meaning Was,
In pray nn- nnl In kill him.

I sunn Iinnnd a way In ennyinee him Ihat l wmtld dn him nn harm: and,
Iakin;r him up by me hand. laughed at him. and. pninting In the kid which I
had killed. lu-eknned In him In rIIn aml li'lt'll it. "'lllt'll he did: and while he
was wnmh-ring. and Innkiin.r In see how the I'reaIIn'e was killed, I loaded my
gun again. By and In. l saw a great fowl. like a hawk.sitting lllmtl a tree
within shut; sn. In lvl I'l'ialay understand a liIIle. whaI I wnnhl dn. i called
him In me again. [mink-d at thu- Iinl. whiI-h was. indeed. a parrnI. though I
Ihnnght it had lN'I'll a hawk. -- I say. running; In the parrnI. and In my gun.
and In the grnnnd under me parrnl. In In him see I wnnhl umku iI Iidl. [
made him understand that I wnnhl shnnI aml kill that bird: :II'I'nrdingly. I
Iir-Il. and hade him lnuk. and iInnn-diately he saw the parrnI liill. Ile sInnIl
like nm- Ii .rlIII-In-d again. naniIhsIaInling all I had said In him: :nnl I Iinmd
he was the IIIIII'I' amazed. lu-I'anse he did not see me pnI any thing inIn the
gun. hnI Ihnnght that there must he snmv wnnderlill fund of death and
desII'In-Iinn in that Ihing. alilv In kill man. heast. hird. nr any IhiIn.r near or
lI-II' nll': and lllt' asInnislnm-nt this ereated in him was sIn-h as I'nnld not
wear nll' till" a lung lime: and. I believe. il' l wnnhl have let him, he wnnhl
hau- nnrshimN-d me aml my gum. .-\s Iilr Iln- _-_rIm itselI: ln~ wnnld nnt so
Inln-h as InnI-h iI Iin' several days aI'Ivr: hIII he wnnhl speak In iI. aml Ialk In
it. as it' it had answered him. when he was hy himself: whiI'h. as l aller-
\\'.'II'Il.~' II'at'IlI-Il ul' him. was In desire it III-t In kill him. "'I-ll, :Illvr his
astnnishnn-nl was a linle nu- - aI Ihis. l pninted In him In rlm aml Iirteh Ila:
hird I had shut. "lain-h he did. hnI slaid snme time: linr Ihc- parrnt. nnt being
quite dead. had IlnIa-red away a gnnd disIam-e than the place where she Ii-ll;
hnweyer. he I'nund lu-r. Innk hrr up. and ln'nnght her In me: and as I had
perceived his l_'_'ll"l':llll't' ahnaI the gun lu-Iin'u l Innk this advantage. to
charge Ihe gun again. and an! In h'l him see me dn it. that I might be ready
fnr any nIIn-r mark IhaI might In-I-sI-III: hnt nnthing more nlli'rod III that
time; sn 1 lirnnght hnnu- Ilu- kid. and Ihe same eveninj.r l tnnk the skin off
and ('Ill it out as well as l maid; and, having a pnI lit for that. purpose, I
    

gbflw .77
r'f/gt'l'nrwzd
lmilcd or slowvd some of the flush, and made some wry good hmth. After
I had Iwguu to out sumo, I game sunu- tn my man. whn swim-d wry glad at
it. and Iikvd it wry wall; hut that \VIIIt'II Was stramgvst tn him was tn 590 me
rat salt with it. III' madr a sign tn uu- that tlu- s-dt was not guml tn rat: and,
putting a litth' intu his own mnnth. lu- seamed t0 uausI-atu- it. and would
spit and sputtvr at it, washing: his mnuth with fresh watrr at'tu-r it; on the
utlu-r hand, I tank sumo tut-at intu my munth witlmut salt. and I Prl'It'lHIt'tI
to spit and sputter tiur want <<if silt. as last as Inc had dum- at the salt; hut
it mulld not do: In- would Iu-wr t'.'ll't' liu' salt with his nn-ator in his brnth;
at h-ast, unt II)!' a great whilv; and than hat a wry litth-.

Having thus ti'd him with lmilml nn-at and hrnth. I was rn-solw-d [u ti-ast
him tlu' ut'xt day with roasting a pin-m- ul' thv kid: this I did by hanging it
Iu-t'nre tlu- tin! on a string, as I had sm-n many ln-nph- dn in I'hlglaud. sx-tting
two poles up, one on each side of thv lil't'. :md um- :u-russ nu tIu- tap. and
tying the string to the cross SIIt'k, lvttiug tla- uu-at turn (-uutinually. This
Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste the llcsh, he took so182 Tm: urn AND onsn'rvnns

'7'. "x

    

many ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I eould not hut understand
him: and :u last he told me, as Wt'll as he eould, he would never eat man's
th-sh any more, \vhieh I was very glad to II 'ar.

The next day. I set him to work to heating some corn out, and sifting it in
the manner I used to do. as I nhserved before: and he soon understood how
to do it as well as l. espeeially after he had seen what the Illt'flllillg of it was,
and that it "as to make hread ul': 1hr. after that, I let him see me make my
hread. and lulkt' it too: aml in a little time, Friday "as ahle to do all the
Work tin' me. as Well as I euuld do it myself.

I began now to euusider. that, havin:_r two months to feed instead of one, I
must provide more ground lin- uly harvest, and plant a larger quantity ot'eorn
than I used to do: so I marked out a larger piece of land. and began the
three in the same manner as IN'IIII'I'. in \rhieh Friday Worked llnl only very
willingly and \'t'l'_\' hard. hut did it Very eheerlillly: and I told him what it
was liar: that it was liu' enru to make more bread. heeattse he was now with
me. and that I might have enough tin' hitu and mysell'too. lle appeared very
sensihle ut'that part. and let tllt' know that he thought I had umeh more lahor
upon me on his aeenuut. than I had the myselt'; and that he would work the
harder tivr me, if] would tell him what to do.

This was the pleas-unrest year ol'all the life I led in this plaee. Friday he
gran to talk pretty Well, and understatul the names of almost everything
I had oeeasiou tn eall tin; and of every [three I had to send him to, and talked
a great deal to me: so that, in short, I lit-win now to have some use for my
tongue again, whieh. indeed, I had very little oeeasion for before; that is to
say, about spew-h. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular
satistitetinn in the ti-llnw himself: his simple, nuteigucd honesty appeared to
me more and more every day, and I began really to love the creature; and,
on his side. I believe he loved me more than it was possible for him ever to
love any thing betbre.
I had a mind once to try it' he had any hankering inclination to his own
country again; and, having taught him English so Well that he eouhl answer
tne almost any question, I asked him whether the nation that he belonged to
never Conquered in battle. At which he smiled, turd said, " Yes, yes, we al-
ways light the better:" that is, he meant, always get tlte better in tight; :uid
so we began the following discourse: --

Master. You always fight the better; how came you to be taken prisoner
then, Friday?

Friday. My nation beat much for all that.

.ilaslrr. flow heat? It' your nation beat them, how come you to be taken?

[Ht/11y. 'I'hey more tnauy than my nation, in the place where me was;
they take one, t\vo, three, aml me: my nation over-beat them in the yonder
place, where me no was; there my nation take one, two, great thousand.

.iIaslcr. But why did not your side recover you from the hands of your
enemies, then ?

l'i-idrrq. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in the 'anoe;
my muion have no canoe that time.

.ilasltr. Well, Friday. and what does your nation do with the men they
take. Do they carry them away and eat them, as these did?

l'h'day. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.

.ifaslcr. \Vhere do they carry thetn ?

Dido". Go to other plaee, where they think.

filaalcr. Do they come hither?

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.

.ilaslcr. Have you been here with them?

Friday. Yes, I have been here, (points to the N. W. side of the ishutd,

which, it seems, was their side.)

By this, I understood that my man Friday had liirmerly been among the
savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the island. on the
same man-eating occasions he was now brought for; and, some time alter,
when I took the courage to carry him to that side, being the some l lbrmerly
mentiottcd, he presently knew the place, :nnl told me he was there once,
when they eat up twenty men, two women, and one child: he could not tell
twenty in English, but he numbered theta, by laying so many stones in a

row, and pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this pas-tag -, because it introduces what follows: that, alter this

discourse I had with him, I asked him how litr it was from our island to the
shore, and whether the canoes were not olien lost. He told me there was no
danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after a little way out to sea, there was a
current and wind, always one way in the morning, the other in the alternoon.
This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going out or
coming in; but [afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great dralt
and reflux ol'the mighty River Oroonoko, in the month or gull'ol' which river,
as I found alterwards, our ishutd lay; and that this land which I per-
ceived to the \V. and N. W. was the great isltutd Trinidad, on the north point
of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about the
country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he
told me all he knew, with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him
the names of the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no other154 Tue LIFE AND Anvus'runes

.. =5" .-
'\\_:'--i>tsmn

 

nznno llmn l'urihs: l'rom whonoo. I onsily nndorsttmd that those were the
t'm'iblu-rs. whirl: our maps phn-o on tho purl ol'AIm-rion "hioh rt'nt'llt'S li'ont
tho month ol'tl-o liitor Uroonoko lo (ininnzmnid onwards to SI. Murillo. llo
told mo. that up :I grout \\:n_\ ln-_\nnd lho moon. that was. boymd tho soiling
ol'lho Iumm. "hioh must ho \vost limit: their oonnlry. lhoro dwolt whito.
bozn'dod mon. IIIu' mo. and pninh-d to my grout whiskors. whioh I montionod
botin'o: and that Ihoy bud ltillod mnoh mans. (that was his word;) bynll
whioh. I lllltlt't'slutltl ho nu-zml tho Spaniards. whoso oruollios in :'llll'l'Il'll bud
boon sproml mor tho wlmlo country, and wore romondwr-d by all the nu-
tions, ti'om liuhor to sun.

linquirod il' ho oonld toll mo how I might go from this island and got
among lhoso \thilo Inon: ho lnld mo. "Yrs. yes. you may go in two canoe."
I oould not nml:-r.-l:nnl "hut ho nu-nnt, or muko him <<It-M Iibo lo mo what In!
mount by um ounoo; till at last, with grout dillionlty, l Iinmd he mount it
must bo in :I largo boat, as big as two ozmoos. This part of l"ridn.\"s dis-
onln'so hogan to relish with mo vol-y woll: and limit this time I onlortninod
sumo liopos that. ono timo or otlu-r. I might find :m opportunity to make
my osonpo from this pl:u-o.:md that this poor mmgo might be :t moons to
boil) mo.

During tho long limo that l-'ridny had now boon with me, and that he be-
gnn to spook to mo. and nndorstnnd mo, l was not wanting to lay it founda-
lion "(religions knowh-dgo in his mind: particularly I asked him, one time,
who mudo him. 'l'ho poor o unnro did not understand mom nll. but thought
I lmd :iskod him who was his liuhor; but I took it up by another handle, and
nskod him who inudo tho son, tho ground we walked on, and the bills and
woodsl llo told mo. " It was one old lionumuckoe, that lived beyond all ;"
ho. oonld dosoriiw nothingol' this grout person, but that he was very old,
"mm-h oldor." ho said, "that! tho son or the hind, than the moon or the
stars." I :iskod him. thou. il'this ohl lu-rson lmd inudo all things, why did not
all things worship him. llo lonkod wry gmvo. and, with a perfect look of
innuoonoo, said, " .\ll things my 0 to him." I asked him, il'thc people who
die in his country went away any where. Ile said, "Yes; thoy all wont to
Bouamuekoe." Then I asked him whether those they out up went thither
too. He said, "Yes."

From these things I began to instruot hint iii the knowledge of tlte true
God: I told hitu that the great Maker of all things lived up there, pointing
up towards heaven; thttt Ilo governed tho world by tlto saute pom-r ttutl
prm'idottt'e by wltit'lt lte made it; tltat He was omnipotont, atnl could do
orory thing titr us. give every thing to us, take- overy thing li'om Its; and thus,
by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with grout attention, and rot'oivt-d
with ploasuro the ttotiott of Jesus Christ being sottt to rodoom us, nttd el'tlto
manner of makiug our prayers to God. and His being able to hour us, even itt
hoaron. llo told line one day, that it' our God could hear us up boyond the
still, he must needs be a greater (Ind than lhoir lh-tumnn-koo, who lived hltt a
little way olli atttl yot ootthl ttot hoar till they "'0"! up to the great mountains
where he dwelt to speak to him. I askod hint if over he wont thither to
speak to him. He said, "No: thoy non-r "out that \t'oro young molt; none
wont thither but the old men," whom he 'alh-d lIu-ir ()owokakoo: that is. as
I made him t-\pl:tin it to mo, their religious, or olorgy: and that they went to
say 0. (so he -allotl saying pntyors.) and thou 'ann- bark, and told llu-tu "bat
lionantuokoo said. lIy this I obsortod, that thoro is priostt-ratl even among
the ntost blinded, ignorant pagans ill the world: and tlto polioy of making a
Secret ol' religion, in order to preserve the \'t'ttet'atiutt ol' the ponplo. totlm
clergy, is ttot only to be found in tho Iloman. but, perhaps. among all ro-
Iigious iii the World, t'\'t'll among the most brutislt atnl lutrbarons savages

I endeavored to olear up this li'and to my man Friday; atul told him. that
tlte pretout'e of their old men going up to the mountains to say 0 to their
god Iheuattutokoe \ 'as a cheat: and their bringing Word li-om tltotu-o what he
said was mnoh tnore so: that it'tlu-y mot with any auswor, or spake with any
one tltoro, it must he with an evil spirit; atul then I entered ittto a long dis-
oonrse with him about the Devil, the original of him, his rebellion against
God, his omnity to man, the reason of it, his setting himsoll' up in the dark
parts of the world to be worshipped instead of (ind, and as (ind, and tlm
many stratagoms he made use of to dt-ludo. mankind to their ruin; how he
had a sooret across to our passions and to our alli-otious, atnl to adapt his
snares to our int-Iiuations, so as to oanse Its own to be ottr own totuptent, and
run ttpou ottr destruction by ottr own t'ltuioo.

I found it was ttot so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about the
Ihwil us it was about tlte being of a God: naturo assistod all my arguments
to evident-e to him oven the neoossity ol'a grout I-'irst (,'auso --an overruling,
governing I'oWer--n sorrel, directing l'rtwidt-noe; and of the equity atul
justioe of paying homage to lliut that made us, ttttd the like; httt thero up-
poarcd nothing ul'this kind iii the notiott ol'au evil spirit; of his original, his
being, his nature; and, above all, ot'ltis itu-lination to do evil, and to draw Its
into do so too: and the poor oreature puzzled me ottoe itt snob a manner,
by a question merely natttral attd innocent, that I soaroe know what tosay to
him. I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of God, His ont-
nipoteuce, His aversion to sin, "is being a oonsumiug tire to the workers of
iniquity; how," He had made us all, He could destroy us and all the world in
a moment; and he listened with great seriousness to moall the while. Allcr
this, I had been telling him how the Doril was God's enemy in the hearts of
men, and used all his malice and skill to deli-at the good designs of Provi-

24
tleut'e, attd to rttitt the kingdom of Christ in tlte world, attd the like. "\Vell,'
says l"riday, " httt yott say God is so strong, so great; is he not much strong,
nuteh might as the Devil?" "Yes, yezg" says I, " Friday; God is stronger
than the Ilevil : (lot! is above the. Ilevil. atal therelitre we. pray to God to tread
hitn down tunler our tent, atul enable tts to resist his temptations and quenelt
his liery darts." " lint," says he again, "il'GotI lttllt'll stronger, tttttelt might
as tlte Ilevil, why God tto kill the. Ilevil, so make. ltittt tto more do wieked?"
I was strangely surprised at this question; atul, aller all, though I was now
an old man. yet I was Ian at young dot-tor, atul ill qualified lbr a easuist, or a
solver ol'dillienlties: atal at first I eould not tell what to say: so I pretended
not to II 'ar hitn, atnl asketl him what he said; bttt he was too earnest titr all
answer, to tin'get his question, so that he repeated it in the very same brokett
\vords as above. Ily this time I had reeovered mysell'a little, atttl I said,
"God will at last punish him severely; he is reserved tor the. judgment, atnl
is to be east into the lmttontless pit. to dwell with everlasting tire." This did
not satisfy I"riday; but he retttrnsttpon me, repeating tny words. " ' Rm'rrr at
Ina-I." me tto understand: but why Itot kill the Devil now: ttot kill great
ago 1"" " You may as well ask me." said I, " why God does ttot kill you and
me, when we do wieked things here that olIi-ntl hint: we are preserved to
repent and be pardoned." lle mused sotne time on this: " Well, well," says
he, mightily atli-etiouately, "that well: so you, I, llevil. all wieked. all pre-
serve, repent, (:ud pardon all." Here I was rttn down agaitt by him to the
last degree: and it was a testimony to me, how the tttere notions ol'natttre,
though they will guide. reasonable ereatnres to the. knowledge of a God, and
ot' a \torship or homage. dtte to the supr-me being of God, as the conse-
qnenee of our nature, yet nothing httt divine revelation 'au term the knowl-
edge ot'Jesus l'hrist, atnl ol'redemptiou pun-based lbr us: of a Mediator of
the ttew eovenaut, and of :tu Intereesso' at the I'notstool ol' (Iud's throne; I
my. nothing but a revelation ti'otn heaven eau form these itt the soul; and
that. lltt-t'elitt't', the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ--l mean the
Word of (ind. atnl the Spirit of God, promised tltr the guide and sanetitier
ot'llis people --are the absolutely neeessary instruetors of the souls of men
in the satin: knon ledge ot' (loll. and the III guts of salvation.

I then titre diverted the present dist-muse. hetween tn ' and my man, rising
up hastily. as upon some sudden oeeasiott of going ottt; then, sending ltittt
tor something a good way olIZ I seriously prayed to God that he would ena-
ble me to instt'uet stt'ingly this poor savage; assisting, by Ilis Spirit. the.
heart of the poor, ignorant ereatttre to reeen'e the light of the knowledge.
ol'tiod in t'hrist. reroneiling him to Himself. and would guide me to speak
so to him from the Word of God, as his eonseiettee might be. eonviueed,
his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he eame again to tne, l eu-
tered into a long dist-nurse with him upon the subjeet ot' the redemption of
man by the Savior of tlte world, and ot' the dnrtriae ot' the gospel preaehed
li'ottt heaven, Viv... ol' repentattee towards God, attd litith iu ottr blessed Lord
Jesus. Ithenexplaiued to him, as well as I eould, why ottr blessed Redeemer
took ttot on him the natur- ot' angels, httt the seed of Ahmhatn: attd how,
litr that reason, the titllen angels had no share. itt the redemption; that he
~atue only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, utnl the like.

lhad, God knows, more sineerity than knowledge itt all the methods I
took litr this poor er -ature's instruetion, and mttst arknowledge, what I
believe all that art upon the same principle will tiud, that, in laying things
open to him, I really informed and instntcted myself itt many things that
either [did not know, or had not fully considered before, but which Occurred
naturally to my mind upon searching into theta, tor the intbrmation of this
poor savage; and I had tnore uflia'tion in my inquiry alter things ttpon this
occasion than ever I telt betbre; so that, whether this poor, wild wreteh was
the better for the or no, I had great reason to be thankful that ever he came
to me; my grief sat lighter upon tne; my habitation grew comtbrtable to me
beyond measure ; and when l retleeted that, in this solitary life which I had
been contined to, I had not only been moved to look up to Heaven tnyselt;
and to seek to the hand that had brought tne here, but was now to be mado
an instrument, under Providence, to save the lite, and, for aught I knew, the
soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and
ot' the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus. in whom is
life eternal; I say, when I relleeted upon all these things, a secret joy nut
through every part of tiny soul, am! I li'equently rejoiced that ever I was
brought to this place, which I lanl so oticn thought the most dreadtitl of all
atllictions that could possibly have helitlleu me.

I continued in this thankful t'rame all the retnaimler of my time : aml the
conversation Which employed the hours between Friday and me was such as
made the three years which we lived there together perli-ctly uttd completely
happy, it' any such thing as complete happiness can be lbrmed in a sublunat'y
state. This savage was now a good Christian, a much better than I; though
I have also" to hope, attd bless God for it, that we \vere equally penitent,
aml comtbrted, restored penitents. We had here the ward of God to read,
and no titrtlter oil from His Spirit to instruct, than it. we had been in ling-
land. I always applied mysell; in reading the Scriptures. to let him know,
as well as I could, the meaning of what I read; and he again, by his serious
inquiries attd questionings, tnade me, as I said bclbre, a much better scholar
in the Scripttn'e knowledge than I should ever lmve been by my own mere
private reading. Another thing I cannot retrain ti'otn observing here also,
limit experience in this retired part of tny Iit'e, vi7.., how intinite and inex-
pressible a blessing it is that the knowledge of God, aml ot' the doctrine of
silvation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the Word of God, so
easy to be received and understood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture
made me capable of understanding enough of lay duty to carry me directly
on to the great work of sincere. repentance tiir my sins, aml laying hold of a
Savior for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and obedi-
ence to all God's eomnuulds. and this without any teacher or instructor,-- I
mean human, --80 the same plain instruction sntiieieutly served to the
enlightening this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian
as I have known i'cw equal to him in my lite.

As to all the disputes, wnmgling, strife, and contention which have hap-
pened in the world about religion, whether nieeties in doctrines, or schemes
of church government, they were all perfectly uselest to us, and, [or ought I
can yet see, they have been so to the rest of the world. We had the sure
guide, to heaven, viz, the word of God; and we had, blessed be God, com-
fortable views of the Spirit of God teaching and instructing us by His word,
leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and obedient to the
instruction of His word. And I cannot see the least use that the greatest
knowledge of the disputed points of religion, which have made such confu-
sions in the world, would have been to as, it' we could have obtained it ;---
but I must go on with the historical part of things, and take every part in its
order.

Afler Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he could
understand almost all I said to him, and speak pretty fluently, though in
broken English, to me, I acquainted him with my own history, or, at least, so
much of it as related to my coming to this place; how I had lived here, and
how long; I let him into the mystery--for such it was to him--ofgnnpowder
attd bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was
wonderfully delighted with; and Imade him a belt, with a frog hanging to
it, such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon in some
cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.

 

Idcscrihed to him the country of Europe, particularly England, which I
came from ; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one
another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him
an account of the wreck which I had been on board of; and showed him, as
near as I could, the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces
before, and gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when
we escaped, and which 1 could not stir with my whole strength then; but
was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood
musing a. great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was he studied
upon. At last, says he, " Me see such boat like come to place at my nation."
I did not understand him a good while; but, at last, when I had examined
further into it, I understood by him, that a boat, such as that had been, came
on shore upon the country where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was
driven thither by stress of weather. I presently imagined that some Euro-
pean ship must have been castaway upon their coast, and the boat might
get loose and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once thought of men
making their escape li-om a wreck thither, much less whence they might
come ; so I only inquired after a description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me better to
understand him when he added with some warmth, "\Ve save the white
mans from drown." Then I presently asked him, if there were any white
mans, as he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he said; "the boat full of
white mans." I asked him how many ? He told upon his fingers seventeen.
I asked him, then, what became of them. He told me, "They live, they
dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined that these
might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast away in the sight of
my island, as I now called it; and who, after the ship was stuck on the
rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat,
and were landed upon that wild shore among the savages Upon this, I
inquired of him more critically what was become of them; he assured me
they lived still there; that they had been there about four years; that the
savages left them alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I asked him how
it came to pass they did not kill them and eat them. He said, "No, they
make brother with them ;" that is, as I understood him, a truce; and then he
added, "They no eat mans but when make the war fight;" that is to say,
they never eat any men but such as come to fight with them, and are taken
in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that, being upon the top of the
hill at the east side of the island, from whence, as I have said, I had in
a clear day discovered the main or continent of America, Friday, the
weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the main land,
and, in a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping and dancing, and calls 'out to me,
thr I was at some distance from him. I asked him what was the matter.
"0 joy! " says he; " O glad! there see my country, there my nation!" I
observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his
eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he
had a mind to be in his own country again. This observation of mine put a
great many thoughts into me, which made me at first not so easy about my
new man Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt but that if Friday
could get back to his own nation again, he would not only forget all his
religion, but all his obligation to me, and would be forward enough to give
his countrymen an account of me, and come back perhaps with a hundred
or two of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry
as he used to be with those of his enemies, when they were taken in war.
But Iwronged the poor, honest creature very much, for which I was very
sorry afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, and held me some
Weeks, 1 was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind to him
as before; in which I was certainly in the wrong too; the honest, grateful
creature having no thought about ll, but what consisted with the best prin-
ciples, both as a religious Christian, and as a grateful friend; as appeared
afterwards to my full satisfaction.

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every day pump-
ing him, to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts which 1
. ' .u; . -- . ~ '-
., t; . "Manners
f szqufi"'~ '7
. . .--- -

 

suspected were in him; but I lound every thing he mid was so hottest and
so innocent, that l muld find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite
of :dl my uneasiness. he made in \ at last entirely his own again: nor did he
iu the least [lt'l't't'lVL' that l was uneasy, and then-Ibr- Icould not suspect
him of den-it.

One day, walking up the same hill. hut the w 'ather lu-iug hazy at sea, So
that We eouhl not see Ilu' ('flllllllt'lli. I railed to hint, and said, " Friday, do
not you wish youm-ll' in your own country, your own uatiou F" " Yes," he
said. "I In- mm-h () glad to he at my own nation." .. What would you do
ther - 2-" said I : " would you turn wild again, 'at men's llesh again. aml he
a savage, as you were Iu-tiire?" lie loolu-tl full of eouceru, and, shaking his
head. said. " No, no: Friday tell them to live good; tell them to pray God;
tell them to eat vorn hrezul, cattle tlesh, milk; no out man agmiu." " Why,
tin-n." said I to him, "they will kill you." He looked grave. at that, am! then
said, " No. Ito: they no kill me, they willing love learn." "0 meant by this,
they would he williugto learn. He added, they learned much of the bearded
tnaus that 'anu- in the boat. Then i asked him if he would go back to
them. He smiled at that, atul told tue that he could not swim so litr. I told
him. i would make a canoe for him. He told me. he would go, it' I would go
with him. " i go!" says I: " why, they will eat me it' I come there." "No,
no." says he: "me make they no eat you; me make they much love you."
lie meant, he would tell them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his
life, and so he would make them love me. Then he told me, as well as he
could, how kind they Were to seventeen white lnell, or bearded lllell, as he
called them, who came on shore there it: distress.

From this time, I contess I had a mind to vellture over, ulld see it' I collld
possibly join with those bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards
and Portuguese; not doubting bill, it" I could, we might tilul some method to
('St'n'tln' from thence, being upon the continent, and a good company together,
better than I could II'OIII an island forty miles oll' the shore, and alone. with-
out help. So, after some. days, I took Friday to work again. by way of
discourse, and told lliln I would give hilll a boat to go hack to his own llatiou;
alul, accordingly, I carried him to my Ii'igale, which lay on the other side of
the island, and having cleared it of water. (lilr I always kept it sunk ill Water.)
I brought it out, shouted it to him, and we. both Went illto it. I found he was
a most dexterons fellow at managing it, ulld would make it go almost as
swil't again as I could. So, when he was ill, Islid to him. "Well, now,
Friday, shall we go to yollr nation ?" He looked very dllll at my saying so;
which it seems was becallse he thought the boat too small to go so far; I
then told himI had a bigger; so the next day I went to the place where the
tirsl boat lay which I had made, but which I could llot get into the water.
He said that was big enough; bllt then, as I had taken no care of it, atul it
had luill two or three ulul twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it,
that it was ill a manner rottell. Friday told me such a boat wollld do very
well, alul would carry " much enough vittle, drillk, bread ;" that was his way
of talking.

l'pou the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of going over
with llitll to tile continent, that I told him We. would go alld make one as big
as that, alld he should go home ill it. He answered not one word, lult looked
very grave utld sad. I asked hilll what was the matter with hilll. He
asked me again, " Why you angry mad with Friday? What lne done?" I
asked hilll what he meant; I told hilll I was not angry with him at all. "No
angry!" slys he, repeating the words several times; "why send Friday home
away to my nation ?" " Why," says I, "Friday, did not yoll say yott wished
you were there?" "Yes, yes," says he, "Wish be both there; no wish
Friday there, no master there." Ill a word, he would not think of going
there without me. "I go there, Friday!" says I; " what shall I do there ?"
He returned very quick upon me at this. " You do great deal much good,"
says he; "you teach wild mans be good, sober, talue mans; you tell them
know God, pray God, alld live new life." "Alas, Friday," says I, "thou
kuowest not what then sayest; I alll but an ignorant tlulll myselll" " Yes,
yes," says he, "you tenehee me good, yoll teachee tlleln good." " No, no,
Friday," says I, "you shall go without me; leave lne here to live by nlyselt;
as I did before." He looked confused again at that word; and running to
one of the hatehets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives
it to lne. " Vhat must I do with this?" says I to him. "You take kill
Friday," says he. "What must I kill yell tor?" said Iagain. IIe returns
very quick, "\Vllat you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send
Friday away." This he spoke so earnestly that I saw teats stand in his eyes;
in a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in him to me, and a.
firm resolution in him, that I told him then, and alien alter, that I would
never send him away from me, if he was willing to stay with me.

I'pon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse a settled atl'ection to me,19'}. 'rm: l.ll>>'I-'. .\xn .\nnzx'rrlucs

:nuI Ihal nnlhing shnIIhI pun him Ii'nm Inn. an I l'nulul :III Ihn limquIinII of
his <<Ivsirn In gn In his n\\n I'nImIr)' mas IIIIII in his III'III'III ulIi'I'IinII In Ihn
pu'nplv. and his hnpvs <<if m_\' <<Iniug Ihvm gnnII--n lhing "IIII'II. us I quI nn
nnIinu nl' Imsn-Il; sn I Inul unl Ilw l-usI lhnIIghl, nr inlI'IIIinu. nr III-sirc- nl'
\nuln-rinking iI. IIuI Hill I Iimml u sh'nng iIu'IiImIinn In my :IIInInleing nu
I'sc'uluuns :uhnu-. Inmuh-II nu Ilu- snppnsilinn gullu'rnl Ii'nm Ilu- <<lisi-nursn
\I'I... IImI Ihvrn "urn sI-n-IIII-vu In-unh-il llll'll IIn-rn: :unI. IIu-rI-Iiwn. \\ilhnm
.-m_\' IIIIII'I' III-lay. I \u-m In \I'nrk will: Friday, In Iind nul u gn-nl Irm' prnln-r
In Ii-ll. mu! "1qu a lui'gu' PI'I'IHgIlzl'UI'I'IIIHM'. In umh-rmko Ilu- \'tQflgt'. 'I'Iwn-
m-n- Iru-c-s I-nnugh in Ilu- islnml In Imu- ImiII u Iiulr III'I'I. nnI nl'lu-riuguns nr
mum-'5. I'III I'Wll 0'. t--"WI I:I|'f--"' \"'--'I'l.~:: lml IIII' main Ihil ;: I InnIu-d "I was.
In 34.1 nm- sn lll':lI' Iln- "'HII'I' lIml m- mighl lumu-h iI "In-n il "as mmlr. In
:nnicI Ilu- mislqu- I vnnnnillml :II Iir.~l. .\I lnsl. Friday piIu-lu-Il upnn II Irvv;
livr I Iimml hv kin-w mm-h III'III'I' Iliun I "hm kiml nI' nnml "as IiIII-sl l'nr il:
IIIII' run I In". In [his Ila}. "lull "anal In c'nll Ilu- mm \H' I'III IIII\\II. run-pt
IhnI il was wry IiIu' llw Irm- \w I':III IIIHII'. nr In-Inm-n Ilml nml lln- Nit-urn-
gun \\nmI. IiIr il nus murln nl' lIu' smm' c'nln' :umI Min-II. Friday "as Ihr
lmrniu;r Ilu' hnllnw nr rmiI) nI' Ihis m-n "III. In mulu' iI Inr u luml: but
I shnuml him hnw In c'uI il "ill! InnIs: "hirh. :IIII'I' I hmI shnn'c-II him
hnu' In "w. lu- did \'|'I'.\ ImInIiI); and. in :Illnul :I mnulh's hunI lnhnr. "u
linishml il. :uul mmh- il n-r} Immlsnuw: c-spm-iully "In-n. uiIh ull' "M's.
\I'h'u'h I shnnml him huu' In humIIr. \vv rm and Iu-uml llu- nulaith' iIIIn Ilu'.
Il'llI' .\IHI'H' nl'n Imnl. .\I'Ivr Ihis. Iumvu'r. iI I'nsl us m-nru Iin'lnighl's Iimv
In gI'I hu-r :|II'|I}_1.:\S iI \wrv. inn-h Ivy im-h, npnn gr-ul rnlh'rs. imn IIII'
\uuvr: lml "Ill'll shc- was in. >hc- \mnhl ham- I-m'ric-II Im-nly lIIl'll u'iIh
yIW'HI VHS".

\I'Iu-u slu- "as in Ihn mm-r. :Iml Ihnugh slu' "as sn hig. il :nnuzml nw In
sm- \\iIh \\h:u ihwlt-rin :nuI hnw swili my man I"I'I|I:l_\' "nuhl Innnugv Iwr,
Iurn hrr. :nul [uuhlh- Iu-rnlnug. Sn I :iski-II him il'lu' \\nnhl.:lml il'm- might
wuum- nu-r in hvr. "Yrs." In- said. "\u- wmurn' nwr in her wry \wll,
though great hlow wind." However, I had a titrther design, that he knew
nothing at: and that was to make a mast and a sail, and to tit her with an
anchor aml cahlc. As to a mast. that was easy enough to get; so I pitched
upon a straight. young cedar-tree, which I Iimml near the place. and which
there were great plctlty of in the island: and I set Friday to work to cut it
down, aml gave him directions how to shape and order it. lint as to the
sail. that was tny particular care. I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of
old sails, enough: but as I lunl had tin-m now six--attd-t\\'cttt_\' years by me.
and had not been very careful to preserve them. not imagining that [should
ever have this kind ot'nse for them. I did not donht but they were all rotten;
and. indeed. most of them were so. However. I litund two pieces, which
appeared pretty good. and with these I went to Work; and, with a great deal
ot'pains. and awkward stitching. you may he sure. for want of ncedles I at
length made a three-cornered. ugly thing. like what we call, in England. a
shotdulcr-otlnmltnn sail. to go With a Imom at bottom. and a little, short
sprit at the top. such as usually our ships' Iong-lmats sail with. atnl such
as I ltcsl knew how to manage. as it was such a one as I had to the
hunt in which I tuade my escape from IIarlIary. as related ill the lirst part.
of my story.

I was ncar two months performing this last work. rim. rigging aml tilting
my mast and sails: Iitr I tinished them very complete. making.' a small stay.
and a sail, or I'orcsail. to it, to assist it' we should turn to windward: and,
which was more. than all. I Iixed a rudder to the stern ol'her to steer with. I
was hat a bungling shipwright; yet, as I knew the nsetillucss. aml even
necessity, of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it, that
at last I hronght it to pass: though. considering the. many dull contrivanccs I
had litr it that Iiiiled, I think it cost the. almost as much labor as making
the boat.

Allcr all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to "hat Iii-longed
to the navigation of my boat; litr, though he knew very well how to paddle
a canoe, he knew nothing of what belonged to a sail aml a rudder: attd was
the most amazed when he saw me Work the boat to and again in the sea by
the ruddcr. aml how the sail gibhcd, aml Iillcd this way or that way, as the
course we sailed changed; I say, whcn he saw this, he stood like one. astou-
ishcd aml amazed. Ilowever, with a little. use. I made. all these things
liuuiliar to him, aml he. became an expert sailor, except that, as to tho
compass, I could make him understand very little. of that. (In tho other
hand, as there. was very little cloudy woathcr. and seldom or never any fogs
in those parts, there was the. less occasion fora commas, seeing the stars
were always to he seen by night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy
Seasons, and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.

I was now entered on the seven-ntnl~twonticth year of toy captivity in this
place; though the three last years that I had this creature with me ought
rather to he left out oI'tlto account, my habitation being quite of another kind
than in all the rest of the tiute. I kept the anniversary of my landing here.
with the same thankfulneos to God for his menties as at first; and, if I had
such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now, having
such additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me, and the great
hopes I had of being efl'ectttally and speedily delivered; for I had an invinci-
hle impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at hand, and that
I should not be another year in this place. I went on, however, with my

2519-1 'rm: |.II'I2 AND auvnxrl'ulzs

 
 

husbandry: dig .ving. planting. and li'ni-ing, as usual. I gthcrcd and cured
my gram-s. aml did u-u'ry Ina-vswry Ibing as IM'IIDI'I'.

'l'ln- rainy sv-snn was. in Iln- nn-an Iiun-. upnu mo. when I kva mom
wilhin dnnrs Iban aI nIln-r Iilm's. "'0 had sInm-d nur nvw \'c-ssI-l as .- ~ -urc
as wv <<'uuhl. bringing lu'r up inIn IIn- arm-k, "hm-v. as I said in tho Iii-gin-
ning.l landvd my mI'Is liann lln- ship: and. hauling Iwr up In Ilu- thrc.aI
high-walvr mark. I madc- my man I"riday dig a IilIIv dm-k. jnsI big I'unugh In
hnld hvr. and jusl dm-p c-nnugb In giw la-r wan-r I-nnugh In llnal in: and
Ilwu. "In-u Iln- IIIII' was nnl. \u- madu- a slrnng dam acrnss IIn' I'IIlI nI' iI. In
law-p Iln' nah-r nut: and sn sln- lay dry as In Ila- Iidv Ii'um Ilw sva: and. I0
III-:1! Ilu- rain uII'. "'0 laid a gram many Imughs ul'lrm's, sn IIIII'k Ihal sln- was
as well IhaII-ln-d as a lu-usv; aml Ihus \u- "aiIc-d Iiu' lhv munlhs nl' NUYI'IIP.
liq-r and Ih-m-mIn-r. in "hivh I du-sigm-d In malu- my :III\I'|IIIII'I'.

\I'In'n lIa' vaIh'd N'HSHII lN-gan In I'IIIIII' in. as Iln- Ihmlghl (If my drsigu
I'I'IIII'IH'II "ilh Iln- I'air wvalhvr. I was pin-paring daily I'ur Ilu' \uyagc: and
"in lirsl Ihing I did "as In lay by a n-rlain mlaulin nI' prmisinns, living [In-
slurrs I'ur nur \uyagi- -. and iqu-ndu-d. in a \\I'|'k nr :\ I'urInighI's Iinn'. In nln-n
Ilu- dun-k. aml IaIun-h nuI <<air land. I was busy. nm- murning. upnn snmv-
lhing HI' Ibis kind. \\ In-n I I-alh-d In Friday. and bid him gn In Iln- .' 'a-shnrv,
and sm' il'lw would Iind a Iurlh- nr Im'Inisv. a Ihing "hivh \u- grin-rally gnI
nnm- a Ina-k. livr Iln- salw nI' Iln- vggs as well as "In Ih'sh. Friday had nut
Ina-n lung gum' "In-n hv I'ann- rmmiug bark. and Iva nu-r my IIIIIQ'I' wall,
nr flan-v. lilu- unc- Ihal li-II unI Ihv grmmd. nr Iln- slaps ln- sI-I his II'I'I nn;
aIul leiu'u- I had Iiun- In spvak In him. hv i'rirs nuI In mu. "(I mash-r! I)
maslvr! I) snrrnn ! I) had!" " "'hal's Iln- maIIvr. Friday?" says I. "(I
ynmh-r. IIn-rv." says ho. " nnv. Inn. IIII'I'I' ('aum-s; nnv. Inn. [Ina-v!" Ily Ihis
way nl'slu-aking. I ('UIII'IIIIII'II Ilu-r- wc-rv si\; bul. an inquiry. I I'uuud Ihvrc
wvr - buI Iln'w. " Wall, Friday." says I. "dn "III In- Ii'ighlvm-d." Sn l Inn-urt-
('III'II him up as m-Il as I rnuld: hnwvwr. I saw Ilnr linnr li-lluw was most
II-rribly s 'arvd: IiIr Imlhing ran in his h tad but Ihat Ila-y wvrv ('IIIIII' In lnnk
lbr him. and would I'III him in PII'I'I'S and -al him; and Ihv pour Ii-lluw
In'mbb'd su IhaI Is-arm- Inn-w uhaI In do will: him. Icnmlbrlvd him as
wall as l rnnld. and Inld him I "as in as murh dangI-r as ha. aml Ihal Ila'y
wnuhl val In . as well as him. "Hm." says I. "Friday, we must r'snlw- In
IighI IIII'III. ('an ynu liglu. I-'riday?" "M0 shunI," says hI'. "IIIII IIn-rc
rumr many gr 'al numbvr." " Nu IIIaIII'r I'nr Ihal." said I again: "our guns
\\il| I'righl Ila-m Ihal wi- dn nul kill." Sn I askI-d him wlu-Ilu-r. if I rvsnlwd
In III'II'IIII him. In- \umld drIi'lnI Inn. and sIaml by mu. and dn jusI as I hid
him. Ih- said. " .\h- div. "In-u you bid div. mash-r." Sn I wvuI and Ivaln'd
a gnnd dram nl'ruln aud gaw him: Iiu' I had Inn-n so gnnd a husband nl' my
rum Ihal I had a gr-al d 'al h-I'I. \Vlu-n he had drank iI. I made- hiln lake
Ilw'I" n Iim-Iing-ph-rvs. which "0 always 'arriI-d. and loaded Ilwm wiIh large
swan-slim. as big as small pisInI-bth-Is; Iln-n I Innk Ibur quski-Is, and
Inadml Iln-m will; I\\'u slugs. and Iiw small bth-Is vac-h: and my Iwn pistols
l Inaih-d will: a brat-v nI' bulh-Is -:n-h: I hang my g: -aI swnrd, as usual,
nakml by my sidr. and gan- Friday his haIchI-l. When I had Ihus prepared
mysI-II'. l Iunk my lwispm'liw glass. and wvnI up In IhI- side <<If Iln' hill, Io
sm- nbal l ('UIIIII disc-<<war: and I Ii-und quickly, by my glass, Ihat IIII'rc Ware.
nu --and-Im-nIy smagu-s. Ihn-I- prismn-rs. and Ihrm' raunvs; and that their
nhnh- busim-ss st-I'un-d In bv Ihv Iriumphaul hamluvI upnu Ila'sv Ihrw:
human hml'n-s--a barbarous Ii'asI, indeed, but nothing more Ihan, as] had195 - 196
Missing
From
Original
observed, was usual with them. I observed also, that they were landed, not
where they had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek,
where the shore was low, and where a thick' wood came almost close down
to the sea. This, with the abhorrenee ot'thc inhuman errand these wretches
came about, tilled line with such indignation that I came down again to
Friday. and told him I was resolved to go down to them, and kill them all;
and asked him it'hc would staml by me. He had now got over his fright,
and his spirits being a little raised with the drum I had given him, he was
very cheerful, aml tohl me, as belbre, he would die when I bid die.

III this lit ol' titry, I took and divided the arms which I had charged, as
belbre, lwtween us: I gave. Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three
guns upon his shoulder; aml I took one pistol, and the other three guns,
myself; aml in this posture we tnarched out. I took a small bottle of rtun
in my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets;
and, as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, aml not to stir, or
shoot, or do any thing, till I bid him; aml, in the mean time, not to speak a
word. In this posmrc, l littehed a comlutss to my right hand of near a mile,
as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that I could come
within shot of thetn before I should be discovered, which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.

While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning, I began to
abate. my resolution: I do not mean that I entertained any fear of their
number; for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I was
superior to thcm,---nny, though I had been alone. But it occurred to my
thoughts, what call, what occasion, much less what necessity, I was in, to go
and dip my hands in blood, to attack peolde who had neither done or in-
tended tne any wrong; who, as to me, were innm-ent, and whose barbarous
customs were their own disaster; being, in them, a token, indeed, of (.'od's
having let! them, with the other nations of that part of the world, to such
stupidity, aml to such inhuman courses; but did not call me to take upon me
to be ajudge of their actions, much less an executioner of "is justice ; that,
whenever He thought tit, He would take the cause into His own hands, and
by national vcngeancc, punish them, as a people, for national crimes; but
that, in the mean time, it was none of my business; that, it was true, Friday
might justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a state of war with
those very particular people, and it was lawful for him to attack them; btlt I
could not say the saute with regard to mysclfi These things were so warmly
pressed upon my thoughts all the way asI went, that I resolved I would
only go and place myself near them, that I might observe their barbarous
l'east, atnl that I would act then as God should direct; but that, ltnleN some-
thing otli-rcd that was more a call to me than yetl knew of, I would not
meddle with them.

With this resolution,l entered the wood: and, with all possible warinem
and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I came to the
skirt ot'the wood, on the side which was next to them, only that one corner
ofthc wood lay between me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and,
showing him a great tree which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly what
they were doing. He did so, and came immediately back to me, and told
me they might be plainly viewed there; that they were all about their tire,

eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon
the sand, a little from them, which, he said, they would kill nan, and which
fired the Very soul within me. He told Inc it was not one of their nation,
but one ot'the lmarded men he had told me of, that came to their country in
the boat. I was tilled with horror at the very naming the white bearded
man ; and, guilt}.' to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass a white man, who lay
upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with llags, or
things like rushes, and that he was a European, and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
nearer to them than the place where l was, which, by going a little way
about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I should be within
hall'a shot ol'them; so I withheld tny passion, though I was indeed enraged
to the highest degree; and, foing back about twenty paces, I got behind
some bushes which held all the way till [came to the other tree; and then
'ame to a little rising ground, which gave me a full View of them, at the
distance of about eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen ol' the dreadful wretches sat
upon the ground, all close huddled together, and had just sent the other two
to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by limb, to
their tire; and they were steeping down to untie the bands at his feet. I
turned to Friday. " N ow, Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee." Friday said
he would. "Then, Friday," says I, " do exactly as you see me do; fail in
nothing." So I set down one of the muskets and the lbwling-piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the like by his; and with the other musket I took my
aim at the savages, bidding him to do the like; then asking him if he was
ready, he said, " Yes." " 'I'hcn fire at them," said I; and the same moment
I fired also.

Friday took his. aim so much better than I, that, on the side that he shot,
he killed two at" them, and wounded three more; and, on my side, Ikilled
one, and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful cou-
sternation: aml all of them that wure not hurt jumped upon their feet, but
did not imna-diately know which Way to run, or which way to look, for they
knew not from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close
upon me, that, as I had bid hitn, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as
the first shot was made, I threw down the piece and took up the fowliug-
piece, and Friday did the like: he saw me cock and present; he did the
satne again. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I. " Yes," says he. " Let lly,
then," says I, " in the name ol'God E " And with that I fired again among the
atnach wretches, and so did Friday; and, as our pieces were now loaded
with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we linutd only two drop;
but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling aml screaming like
mad creatures, all bloody, and most of thctn miserably wounded, whereof
three more 11-" quickly alier, though not quite dead.

"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking up
the musket which was yet loaded, "follow me;" which he did with a great
deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and showed myself,
and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived they saw tne, I shouted
as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too; and, runningr as fast as I
could,---whicb, by the way, was not very fast, being loaded with arms as I
was,--l made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying
upon the beach or shore, between the place where they sat and the sea-
The two butchers, who were just going to work with him, had let! him at199 - 200
Missing
From
Original
the surprise of our first tire, and fled. in a terrible fright, to the sea-side, and
had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way. I
turned to Friday, and hade him step forwards and fire at them: he understood
me immediately. and, running about linrty yards, to be nearer them, he shot
at them, aml I thought he had killed them all, tbr I saw them all litll ot' a.
heap into the boat, though I saw two ot'thent up again quickly; however, he
killed two of them, and wounded the third so that he lay down in the bottom
ot'the boat, as il'he had been dead.

"'hile my tuan Friday tired at tlu-m. I pulled out my knife, and cut the
thugs that bound the poor victim; and, loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him

  

  

    

i!

3: 1" it's.

3".

up, and asked him, in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He answered,
in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand
or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him, making signs
that he should drink, which he did; nml I gave him a piece of bread, which
he ate. Then I asked him what countryman he was: and he said, Es-
pagniole; and, being a little recovered, let me know, by all the signs he
could possibly make, how much he was in my debt for his deliverance.
"Seignior," said I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, "we will
talk alierwards, but we must fight now. lt' you have any strength left, take
this pistol and sword, and lay about you." He took them very thankfully;
and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new
vigor into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had out two of
them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was a surprise
to them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise of
our pieces, that they fell down for more amazement and fear, and had no
more power to attempt their own escape, titan their flesh had to resist our
shot; and that was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the boat; for
as three of them fell with the hurt they received, so the other two fell with
the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing, being willing to keep
my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword ;--

2620:3 'rne LIFE AND Anvsx'ruaas

so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from whence we first
fired, and fetch the arms whit-h lay there that had been discharged; which he
did with great switiness; and then, giving,' him my tnusket,l sat down myself
to load all the rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted-
\\'hilc I was loading these pieees, there happened a fierce engagement be-
tween the Standard, and one ol' the savages, who made at him with one of
their great Wooden swords,--the same-like weapon that was to have killed
him belin'e, il'l hatl not prevented it. The Spaniard-- who was as bold and
brave as eonld be imagined, though weak--had lought the Indian 8 good
while, and had ent him two great wounds on his hrad: but the savage, being
a stout, lusty fellow, closing: in with him, had thrown hiIn down, being taint,
and was wringing my sword out of his hand; when the Spaniard, though
undermost, wisely quitting: the sword, drew the pistol limit his girdle, shot
the savage through the hotly, and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was
running.r to help him, eonld eome near him.

Friday. being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches, with no
weapon in his hand but his hatchet: and with that he despatehed those
three, who, as I said before, were. wounded at lirst, and fallen, and all the
rest he could come up with; and, the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, l
gave him one of the lbwling-pieees, with which he pursued two of the sav--
ages. and wounded them both; but, as he was not able to rttn, they both got
li'om him into the wood, where Friday pursued thetn,and killed ottc ol'them;
but the other was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himselt' into the sea, and swam with all his might oil to those two
who were left in the -anoe; which three in the canoe-- with one wounded,
that we knew not whether he died or no-- were all that escaped otlr hands
of one aml twenty. The account of the whole is as follows: three killed at
our tirst shot ti'om the tree; two killed at the next shot; two killed by Fri-
day in the boat: two killed by Friday, of those at first wounded; one killed
by Friday in the wood; three killed by the Spaniard; lbttr killed, being
found dropped here aml there, of the wounds, or killed by Friday in his
chase of them; four escaped in the boat, whereot' one wounded, if not
dead. ---'l'wenty-one in all.

Those that Were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot; and
though Friday made two or three shots at them,l (lid not find that he hit
any of them. Friday would fail: have had tne take one of their canoes, attd
pursue them: and, indeed, I was very anxious about their escape, lest, ear-
rying the news home, to their people, they should come back, perhaps, with
two or three hundred of the canoes, and devour us by mere multitude; so I
consented to pursue them by sea; and running to one of their canoes, I
jumped in, and bade Friday follow me; but when l was in the canoe, I was
surprised to find another poor creature lie there, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with than--not knowing
what was the matter, for he had not been able to look up over the side of the
boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels; and had been tied so long, that
he had really but little life in him.

1 immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had bound him
with, and would have helped him up; but he could not stand or speak, but
groaned most piteously, --- believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound
in order to be killed. When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; and, pulling out my bottle, made him give
the poor wretch a dram; which, with the news of his being delivered, re-
vived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him
speak, and look in his time, it would have moved any one to tears to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
halloocd, jumped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his own face and head; and then sung and jumped about again, like a
distracted creature. It was a good while before I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came a little to himselt;
he told tne that it was his titther.

It is not easy for me to expres how it moved me to see what cestasy and
filial ufi'ection had Worked in this poor savage at the sight of his father, and
of his being delivered li'om death; nor, indeed, can I describe half the ex-
travagances of his affection after this; tor he wcnt into the boat, and out of
the boat, a great many times; when he went in to hitu, he would sit down
by him, open his breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom, lbr
many minutes together, to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles,
which were numbed and still' with the binding, and chafed and rubbed thetn
with his hands; and I, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rttm
out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of good.

This atihir put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other savages,
who were now got almost out ot'sight,--and it was happy tbr us that we did
not, tor it blew so hard within two hours atler, and before they could be got
a quarter of their way, and continued blowing so hard all night, and that front
the north-west, which was against them, that I could not suppose their boat
could live, or that they ever reached their own coast.

But to return to Friday: he was so busy about his father, that I could notflll-l 'rm: urn: .\.\'n .\m'i-:s'rt'ut-:s

Iind in m_\' ln'art In talu- him nll' Iiu' snmv Iinw: lull. ntlm' I Ihnltght lu' ('ntlld
h-an- him a littlr. lt'alh-tl him In aw. and la- t'fllllt' jumping and laughing,
and l-h-asml In tln- high-wt I'\ll't!ltlt'1 Ila-n I aslu-d him if lu' had guru his
tiulwr an) lu'rail. llt- slnmk his hrad. and said. '- Stair: ugly dng cat all up
N'lli" I tlu-n
ptu'lmsi-z lalst

   
 

\u- him a I'alu' nt' Iu'vad. nut nt' a lllllt' punch I t'urrit-d nn
_.uv him a dram Iiu' himst-II; hat hv nuuld ttnt Iastt- it. Iutt
a'at'riu-d it In his tiillu-r. I had in lll_\ pen-lu-t tun nr tln'u-u- Inna-hrs nt' raisins

 

sun I gain him a handtitl nt' Ihu'm tiu' his liIIln-r. lh- had an Nmm'r gin-n his
Iiitlu-r Ilu'N' raisins. hat I saw him i'ntln' nm ul' tln- haul. and run away as it'
hr had hm-n Iu-u llc'llt'tl. ln- ran at sm'h a ratr. Iiu- lu- was Ilu' swit'trst Ii-llnw
am his Ii-c-t IhaI o-tu-r I saw : I sat. lu- ran at slit-h a rati- that Inn was nut nl'

 

sight. as it "I'll'. in an instant: and. Ihnugh I I'HIII'II. and hallnm-d nut Inn,
:IIII'Y him. it "as all nut-1 :n\a_\ ln- "rm: and in a qnartq-t' nI' an hntlr I saw
him u-nuu- Inn-h again. Ihnugh nut so last as In- wvnt '. and. as ln' cann- m'an'r.
I tivnnd his pan- slau'lu't'. hm'ausv lu- had .'I'llll'llllllg in his hand. \\'lu'tt lu'
rann- up In nw. I Iiunnl ln- had lu't'll qnitc' linnu- Ii-r an I'III'llIt'tl jug. "1' put.
tn bring his IEiIhvr snnu- Ii't-sh "atm'. and that lu- had gnt twn lIlHl't' t'alu's nr
luah's ut'hrt-ad: Ilu- hr and III' gau' nw. hm Ilu' uan-rln' t'arrii-d In his t'thi-r:
hnumm'. as I "as \'t'l'_\ thirst} Inn. I InnlI a litth- sup nt' it. 'l'ht' watt-r
rmin-d his litthu-r mun-v Ihan all Iln- rmn nr spirits I had giu'tl hint. liu'ln:
"as just linintin: with thirst.

"lira his linht-r had drunk. I u-alh-tl In him In knnu' it' tlu-rv wasany
"alvr lvti : Ill' said. -- Yrs : " and l hath- him gin- it In tlu- pmu'Smmiard. "hn
"as in as nun-h "am <<of it as his Iiuln-r: and I su-m nnv nt' tlu' t'altvxtliat
I"rid:n hrnaghl. In Iln- Spaniard. tun. "hn "as lllllt't'tl wry wvuk. and "as
rt-pnsiug himst-II' ulmu a grt-vu plan- Illltlt'l' tlu- sliadt- nl' a Il't'l': and \t'hnst'.
limhs m-rv alsn wry slill: and \l't'_\ nun-h snvlh-d "ith Ilu- I'IIIII' haudagv he
had hm-n Ill'tl \\ lllt. \\'lu'n I saw that npnu Fridays running In him \\iIh thv
\Iati'r. lu- sat up and drank. and tank Ihc' Inn-ad. and Iii-gall In vat. l \u'ttl to
him. and gm t' him a handful nl' raisins: hr lnnkrd up in m_\' tin't- with all thv
tnlwus ut' gralilndv and Ihauklitluvss that t'tllllll xippt-ar in any t'nunIi-uanrt':
lull "as sn wt-ak. nnmilhstalnliug Iu- had sn I'\I'I'I1'Il himst-lt' in thv light. that
III' t'IIIIlII unt stand up upnn his ti-t-t : la- ll'lt'tl In du it mu m' IIH'I'I' Iimvs. hut
"as rt-ally nut ahlv. his ankh-s \\'t'l'0' sn swq-llml and so paintitl tn him: sn l
hadu- him sit inII. and must-d Friday In ruh his ankh's, and hatlw-tla'm "ith
mm. as luv had ann- his IiitIu-r's.

I uhsvn'vd tlu- pour. :llli't'lltllltllt' t'l' 'aturu. awry twn minute-s. nr lk'rhaps
Ii-ss. all Ilu' \\llllt' ln- \\ as hvrr. turn his ll an! about. In sm' it' his litthvr was
in tlu- sanw place and linsturv as lu- II'II him sitting: and at last Ia' timnd In-
"as nut to IN' sn-t-n: at which lu- sIarIc'd up. and. withnut slu'aking u word,
tIt-w "ith that swil'tni-ss In him. tltut nuv t'nttld scarci- lwrm-iw his Ii'l'l In
tum-h Iln- grntmd as he wvnt : hut. wlwn lw -am\-. lu- nnly Iiumd ln' had laid
himst-lt' II"\\'I| tn i-asv his limhs: sn l-'riday vaun- hark tn mo [In'si-ntly: and
Ila-u I spnkv tn tlw Spaniard In lI'l l-'riday Iu-lp him up. it' Ilt' mum. and
load him In tlu- hunt. and than Ill' should carry him In our dwvlliug. whom I
"nttld takr ran- nt' him; hut Friday. a lusty. sIrnng ti-llnw. Innk Ila' Spaniard
quitv up upnu his hack. and t'arrivd him away In Illt' heat. and set him
down snlily upnu thv sidt' nr gmuu'l nt' Ila' I'lllltM'. with his that in the inside
of it: and than lilliug him mum in. lw sot him close to his titthcr: and
prvsvntly. stt-pping nut again. latuu'la-d Ilu' hnaI ntll and paddle-d it along the
short: tiistrr than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too; so he
brought them both safe into our creek. and. leaving them in the bout. run
away to ti-teh the other t'uuuv. As he passed law, I spoke to him. and asked
him wbitlu'r be Wt'lll. He told me. " (In ti-tvb IIIUI'I' boat :" so nutty lu- \u-nt
like the wind. tiir sure m-n-r umu or horse ran like him: and be luul the
other mum in the. or. ck almost as soon as I got to it by land: so be nul'tt-d
uu- nm'. and then went to help our new guests out ut' the boat. which bu
did: but they new neither of then: able to walk. so that poor l"rid:ly know
not What to do.

To remedy this. I Went to work in my thought, and calling to l-'riduy to
bid tlwut sit down on the bunk while he i'unu' tn Iltt'. I soon made a kind of
buud-lmrrmv to lay them on. and Friday and i mrricd them both up tugetlu'r
upon it. lu'th't'll us.

lint when we got them In "no outside- of our wall. or livrtilivutinn, we "TFO
:H n Worse loss than lu'lim'. tiir it was impossible to get illt'lIt nwr. und I was
n'sant'tl not to break it down: so I set to Work again: uml Friday and l. in
about two Imurs' lime. llltull' u very buudsunu- ti-ut. vuwred nith old sails,
and abun- tlmt with lmugbs ut' trons being in the span- witlumt our nutwurd
ti-uvr. and lu-tn'ei-u that <<ml the gruwot' young wood which I had planted;
and here we uuuh- them two beds of sm'b things as I had, \'l'l... ut' gnud rim--
straw. with blankets laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on
vm'lt bed.

 

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very rich in subjects;
and it was a merry reflection, which I frequently made, bow like a king I
looked. First of all, the whole country was my own more property, so that
I bud an undoubted right of dominion. Sevnmlly, my people were [nrrt'm'tly
subjected; l was absolutely lord and Ian-giver; they all owed their lives to
me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion for it.
for me. It was remarkahle, too, I ltad but three. subjects, and they were of
three ditl'erent religious: my tuatt Friday was a Protestant, his lather was a
'agan and a -.-mnih:d. and the Spaniard was a l'apist; llt)\\'t'.\'0l', I allowed
liberty of eonseieuee throughout my dmniuions. But this is by the way.

As soon as I had seemed tny two weak, reseued prisonets. and given them
shelter. and a plaee to rest tltem upon, I began to think of making some.
provision titr them; atul the first thin;' I did, I ordered Friday to take a year-
ling goat. hetwixt a kid and a goat, out of my partienlar flock, to he. killed:
when I eat otl' the hinder quarter. and. chopping it into small pieees. I set
Friday to work to hoiling and slewing, atul tuade them a very good dish, I
:lss'tl't' you. ol'tlesh attd broth: and. as I eooked it without doors,---- tor I made
no tire within my inner wall. --so I earried it all into the new tent. and, having,r
set a tahle there for them. I sat down, and ate myown diuueralso with them,
and, as well as l eouhl. eheered them :nnl eta-outraged them. Friday was my
interpreter. espeeially to his lather. and. indeed. to the Spaniard too; for the
Spaniard spoke the language ot' the savages pretty well.

.-\lier we had dined, or rather sttpped. I ordered Friday to take one of the
canoes. and go and t'eteh our muskets and other tirwarms, whit-h, for want of
time, we had left upon the place of hattle: and. the next day. I ordered him
to go and bury the dead hodies ot' the savages, whieh lay open to the sun,
and would presently he otli-nsive. I also ordered ltitn to bury the horrid
remains of their harharuns t'east. whieh l kttew were pretty lllllt'll, and
whieh I eonld not think of doing myselt': nay, l eould not hear to see them,
it' I went that way; all whieh he ptttn'tttally performed, and eflaced the very
nppearauee ot' the savages being there: so that, when I went again, I ('onid
searee know "here it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood
pointing to the plaee.

I then began In enter into a little conversation with my two new suhjeets;
and, lirst, 1 set Friday to inquire of his father what he thought of the escape

-\ . o??;;"
of the savages in that canoe, atul whether we might expect a return of them,
witlt a power too great tor us to resist. His first opinion was, that the sav-
ages in the boat never could live out the storm which blew that night they
went oti: but must, of necessity, he drowned, or driven south to those other
shores, Where they Were as sure to be devoured, as they were to he drowned,
if they Were east away; but, as to what they would, if they catue safe on
shore, he said he knew not: but it was his opinion, that they were so dread-
titlly li'ighteuetl with the manner of their being attacked, the noise, and the
tire, that he believed they would tell the people they were all killed by
tluunler atnl lightning, not by the [total of man; and that the two which
appeared. viz., l"riday and l, were two heavenly spirits, or litries, come down
to destroy them, atul not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew;
he-ause he heard them all cry oil! so, in their language, one to another; for
it was impossible for them to conceive that a man could dart tire, and speak
thunder, atul kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now;
and this old savage was in the. right; tor, as l tttulerstood since, by other
bands, the savages never attempted to go over to the island alierwards,
they were so terrified with the aeeottnts given by those four men, (for, it
seems, they did escape the sea.) that they believed whoever went to that
enchanted island, would be destroyed with lire from the gods. This, how-
ever, I knew not; and, then-lore, was muler eontinnal apprehensions for
a good while, and kept always upon my guard, with all my army; for, as
there were new four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of
them, titirly iii the open tield, at any time.

In a little titnc, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of their
coming ware off; and I began to take my lbrmer thoughts of a voyage
to the main into consideration; being likewise assured, by Friday's father,
that I might depend upon good usage from their nation, on his account, it' I
would go. But my thoughts were a little suspended when [had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, aml when l nudemtood that there were sixteen
tuore of his countrymen atnl Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and
made their est-ape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but new very sore put to it for necessaries, and, indeed, for me. I asked
him all the particulars ot'thcir voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship,
bomul than the Rio de la Plata to the llavanna, being directed to leave their
loading there, which was chiefly hides aml silver, and to bring back what
European goods they could meet with there; that they had five Portuguese
seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreek; that five of their
own men were drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these escaped
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the
cannibal coast, where they expected to have been devoured every moment.
He told me they had some arms with theta, but they were perfectly useless,
for that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of the sea. having
spoiled all their powder, but a little, which they used, at their first landing, to
provide themselves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and if they
had formed any design of making their cmape. He said they had many
consultations about it; but that, having neither vessel, nor tools to build one,
nor provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in tears and despair.
I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from me, which
might tend towards an escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might
not be done. I told hitn with li'eedom, [ t'eared mostly their treachery and
ill usage of me, if] pttt tny life in their hands; for thttt gratitude was no
inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did tnen always square their deal-
ing: by the obligations they had received, so much as they did by the
adve" ~r they expected. I told hittt it Would be very hard that I should he
the instrument of tlteir deliverance, attd tltat tltey should uliet'wards make
me :3. -ir prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certaitt to be
mad.- :: .-- n-z'i'iee. what necessity or what aeeideut soever brought him thith-
er: and that I had rather be delivered up to tile savages, and he devoured
ali'.' '. that litll into the merciless flaws of the priests, and he carried into
the i:|t:l:i.'liinll. I added, tltat, otherwise, I was persttatled, it' they were all
here. might. with so tnatty hands, bttihl a hark large enough to carry us
all away. either to the limzils, southward, or to tltc islands, or Spanish coast,
north-sad: but that, if, in requital, tltey sltottltl, when 1 had put weapons
into their hands, carry me by three among their own people, I might be ill
ttsed liir my kindness to them, atttl make my case worse than it was before.

He answered, with a great deal of 'audoraud ingetntousness, tltat their
condition was so miserable, and that they were so sensible of it, that he
believed they would abhor the thought of using any titan unkindly that
should eontribute to their deliverance; and that, il' l pleased, he would go to
them, with the old man. and discourse with them about it, attd return again,
aml brim.r me their answer; that ltc would make conditions with them, upon
their solemn oath. that they shottld be absolutely ttnder my leading, as their
t'mttlttztlltlt't' and t'aptain; attd they should swear upon the holy sacraments
attd gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as that I
should agree to, and no other: and to he directed wholly attd absolutely
by my orders. till they were landed sali-Iy itt such country as I intended; and
that he would bring a eontraet li'om them, umler their hands, for that pur-
pose. 'l'hett he told me lie would first swear to me himself, that he would
never stir l'rom tne as long as he lived, till I gave hint orders; and that he
wuuld take my side to the last drop of his blood. if there should happen the
least breach of titith among his countrymen. He told me they were all of
Hunt very civil. honest men, and they were under the greatest distress imagi-
nable, having neither weapons or clothes, ttor any food, bttt at the mercy
and diseretiou ot' the savages; out of all hopes of ever returning to their
own country; antl that he was sure. if! would undertake their relief, they
\vould live attd die by me.

l'pon these assunotees, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if possible,
and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them to treat. But
when we. had got all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started
an tilljt't'liolt, which had so tnnch prudence itt it on one hand, and so much
sincerity on the other hand, that I could not bttt be very well satisfied in it;
and, by his advice, pttt off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a
year. The case was thus: He. had been with us now abouts. month, during
which time I had let him see itt what mmtner I had provided, With the assist-
ance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently what stock of
corn and tire I had laid up; which, though it was more than sufficient for
myselt; yet it was not sufiicient, without good husbandry, for my fitmily, now
it was increased to four; bttt muclt less would it be sufficient, if his country-
men, who were, as he said, sixteen, still alive, should come over; and, least
of all, would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for
a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of Amerien; so he told me he
thought it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig and culti-
vate some more laml, as much as I could spare seed to sow, and that we should
wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn tbr his country-
men, when they should come; tbr want might be a tetnptation to thetn to
<<limgree, or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one
ditlieulty into another. " You know," says he, " the children ot'lsrael, though
they rejoiced at first tbr their being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even
against God hints-ell; that delivered them, when they came to want bread in
the \I'ihlet'ness."

llis eaution was so seasonable, and his adriee so good, that I could not but
he very well pleased with his proposd. as Well as l was satisfied with his
tidelity; so we tell to digging. all tour of us. as Well as the wooden tools we
were tiu'nished with la-rmitted; and, in about a month's time, by the end ol'
nhieh it was seed time, We had got as mueb laml eured and trimmed up, as
we sowed IWo-and-tweuty bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice,
which Was, in short, all the seed we had to spare ; nor, indeed, did we leave
ourselves barley suflieient tbr our own timd, tbr the six months that we had
to expeet our crop; that is to say, reek-uniug from the time we set our seed
aside for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground
in that eountry.

Having new society enough, and our number being sufficient to put us out
of War of the savages, it' they had come, unless their umnher had been very
great, we went freely all over the island, whenever we found oe tasion; and
as here we had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impos-2H) 'rm>>: LIFE AND .\lH'tIN'I'l'ltl-ES

sihlr. at lt-ast litr un-, tn haw tlu- Inc-ans <<if it nut nl' mind. I"nrthis put-paw,
I tnavkml nut sm'vral II'I'I'S, whivh I thnnght lit I'urnnr wurk. and l srt I"riday
and his liuIn-r tn ruuing tlu-m dawn: and Ila-u I 'aust'd tln- Spaniard, tn
wlauu l impartc-d my thunghts an that atlitir, tnm'v'st-t- and dirt-rt IIII'II'
wurk. I sham-d tln-nt with what imh-Iittigahlr pains Ihad luwwd a hug.-
trm- intu siugh- planks, and l must-d tht-tn ta dn tln,' Iikt'. till tIn-y had madc-
ahnnt a dam-n largt- planks ut' _'_'INNI nak. m-ar twn ti't't broad. thirty-lira II't'I
lung, and than twu im'ln-s In tiun' im'ln-s IIIIt'k: what prodigious Iahur it tank
up. any nm- may inmgim'.

.\t tlw sanu- tiun', I t'nntriw-d to im-n-asv my little thwk nl' tanw goats as
mm'h as l rnuld: and, NW this pnr'msc. I made Friday and tlu- Spaniard go
nttI nm- day. and mysvlt' with I"riday thv nv.\t day, (titr wc- tnnk nur turns.)
and hy this m was we got ahnnt twenty young kids tn hru-ml up with thv rvst ;
thr wIn-m-n-r wv shut tho dam. we savvd tlu- kids, aml added than: to nnr
tlm'k. Ihu, almw- all, IItt' srasnu litr raring tln.- grapt-s coming on, I caused
stu'lt a prndigimts quantity to ho hung up in tln- sun. that. I lit-lime, had we
IN't'll at .\IIt'ttllI. wln-rv tlu- 'aisius nt' tlu- sun art- c-nrrd, Wt' rnuld hart- tilh-d
si\ty ur vighty ham-Is: and thc-su, with nnr hrI-ad, was a gn-at part at anr
I'm-d. and was wry gnarl living! tun. Iassnrv yun, far it is cxrm'diug nnur-
ishing.

It was nnw harm-st. and nnr rrnp in gnu-I UI'III'I': it was not tht- must
ph-uzilitl inrru-asn- I had sm-n in tln- island. hut. lmwu-vvr. it Was t-nnugh tn
:tnsm-r nur t'IUIZ ti-r. ti'um I\\I'Itt_\-l\\u hnslu-ls ut' harh-y. \u- hrnught in
and tIn'i-slu'd nttI :dmw lwn lnnnlrt-d and twi-nty hushvls: aml tln- Iikt' in
|II'H|mt'IIHt| ut' tlu- rivv. whirl: was stnn- I-nnngh tior unr timd tn thv tn-xt har-
u-st. thnngh all tIn' slum-n Spaniards had Ina-u nn shnrt- with ttn': til". il' "'1-
had hm-n rvady thr a \'n_\'ag_fl-' it \muld \'t-ry plvutit'ully haw \irtuth-d uur
ship tn han- rarriu-d ns tn any part 01' tlu- wnrld. that is In my, any part ul'
Anwric-a. \\'ln-u wv had thus Imnst-d and st-t-urvd nur tn:I:--':w.im- ul' rum,
wv ti'll tn work In makt' mun- wicks-r war -. vim, gn-at hasla-ts. in whirh wu-
ku-pt it: and tln- Spaniard was wry handy and <<It-\'tt-ruus at this part. and
nth-u lulamvd nw that I did nut Inakt- sunn- thiugs fur drti'm'u nt' this kind nt'
"ark: hnt I saw no m'vd 01' it.

.\nd nuw. having a titll supply of thud liu' all thv guvsts I t-xpm-u-d. Igart-
tlu- Spaniard lu'au- tn gutn't'l' tn tlu' main, tn St't' what In- t-unId dn with
thusi- lu- had h-ti ln-hind hint tln'n'. I gan- him a shirt t-hargt- unt tn Itt'Illf.'
any man with him who would nnt lirst swrar. in tlu- prvst-In-t- nt' hitnsrlt'
and tIu- uhl satagt'. that In- \inuld nn way injurv. light with. ut'attau'k tlu'
pt-rsun lw shunld find in Iln- island. whn "as so kiml as In st'nd lhr than: in
urdvr tnthrirch-Iirv'am'v: hut that Iln-y would stand by him. and drti-nd
him against all sln'h :Ittt'tnpts. and \t'lwrm't-rtlu-y wont. would Iu't'ntirt-Iy
utnh- - aml SIIIDjI't'It'tI In his rnnunand: atul that this should IM' put in writing,
and sigm-d in tln-ir hands. Ihm' thry wt-rc tn haw that>> this, qu-u I knvw
tIn-y had In-itlwr pun or ink. was a qnvstinu which we urn-r asked. I'mh-r
tIn-sv instrln'tinns. tlu- Spaniard and "tr uld savage. tln' IEItIn-r of Friday, wont
away in ntu- ut' tlu- 'atuws "'IIII'II tIn-y might IM' said to onuu- in, or rather
\w-n- hrnnght in. what: tlu-y vann- as prisnm-tstu ho devoured by tlu~ savages.
I gaw I'Ilt'Il ut' "WIN a muskvt, with a tin-lurk on it, and ahnnt right rhargcs
ul' puwdc-r aml hall. c-harging "IN" to he wry gmul husbands of bath, and
nut ta use ritln'r ut' IItt'llt hut npnn urgent (u-rasinns.

This was a cheerful work, being the first moasnrcs used by 1m, in View of
 

my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days. I gave them
provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves for many
days, and snfiicient for all the Spaniards for about eight days' time; and
wishing them a good voyage, I. saw them go; agreeing with them about a
signal they should hang out at their return, by which I should know them
again, when they came back, at a distance, before they came on shore. They
went away, with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by my
account in the month of October; but as for an exact reckoning of days, alter
1 had once lost it,I could never recover it again; nor had I kept even the
number of years so punctually as to be sure I was right; though, as it proved,
when I afterwards examined my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning
of years.

It was no less than eight days] had waited for them, when a strange and
unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not, perhaps, been
heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my lmtch one morning, when my
man Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, " Master, master, they
are come, they are come ! " I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went
out as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the
way, was by this time grown to be a very thick wood; I say, regn'dless of
danger, I went without my arms, which was not my custom to do: but I was
surprised, when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a
league and a half distance, standing in for the shore, with a shonlder-of-mut--
ton sail, as they call it, and the wiml blowing pretty fair to bring them in;
also I observed, presently, that they did not come from that side which the
shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island. Upon this,I called
Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looked
for, and that we might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, 1 went in to fetch my perspective glass to see what I could
make of them; and, having taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of
the hill, as I used to do when I Was apprehensive of any thing, and to take
my view the plainer, without being discovered. I had scarce set my foot
upon the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at
about two leagues and a hall'disumce from the, S. S. B, but not above a league
and a half from the shore. By my observation, it appem-cd plainly to be an
English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-bout.

[cannot express the confusion I Was in, though the joy of seeing a ship,
and one that I had reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen,
and consequently friends, was such as l cmmot describe; but yet I had some
secret doubts hung about Inc--l cannot tell from whence they came--bid-
ding me keep upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consid-
er what business an English ship could have in that pint of the world, since
it was not the way to or from any part of the world where the English had
any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in there, as
in distress; and that, if they Were really English, it was most probable that
they were here upon no good design; and that I had better continue as I
was, than fall into the hands ot'thieves and murderers.

Let no nmu despise the secret hints and notices of danger which some-
times are given him when he may think there is no possibility of its being
real. That such hints and notices are given tag I believe few that have made
any obs-en'ations of things can deny ; that they are certain discoveries of an
invisible world, and a emiverse of spirits, We cannot doubt; and if the ten-
deney of them scents to be to warn us of danger, why should we not sup-
pose they are than some friendly agent,(whether supreme, or inferior and
subordinate, is not the question,) aml that they are given tbr our good.

The pmseut question abundantly coutirius me in the justice ot'this reason-
ing; for had I not been made ~antious by this secret admonition, come it
from whence it will, i had been umloue ineviaibly, and in a liar worse condi-
tion than belore, as you will see presently. 1 had not kept myself long in
this posture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a
creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however, as they did
not come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where l formerly
landed my rafts lnu run their boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a
mile from me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise they would have
landed just at my door, as 1 may say, and would soon have beaten me out of
my castle, and perhaps have plundered me ofall I bad. When they were on
shore, l was fully satisfied they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one
or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all eleven
men, whereof three of them, 1 foam], were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound;
and when the first four or five of them were jumped on shore, they took those
three out of the boat,as prisoners: one of the three I could perceive using
the most passionate gestures of entreaty, afiliction, and despair, even to a
kind of extravagance; the other two,l could perceive, lined up their hands
sometimes, and appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the
first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the mean-
ing of it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as well as he could,
" 0 master! you see English mans eat prisoneras well as savage mans."
" Why, Friday," says I, " do you think they are going to eat them, than?"
" Yes," says Friday, " they will eat them." "No, no," says 1, "Friday; I
am afraid they will murder them, indeed, but you may be sure they will not
eat them."213 - 214
Missing
From
Original
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, bttt stood
trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every moutent when the
three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift up
his arm with a great eutlass, as the scanner: call it, or sword, to strike one of
the poor men; and I expected to see him litll every tnomcnt; at which all
the blood in my body seemed to run chill in tny veins. I wished heartily
now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him, or that I had
any way to have come, undiscovered, within shot of them, that I might have
secured the three men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among them; but it
fell out to my mind another way. Afterl had observed the outrageous usage
of the three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run scatter-
ing about the island, as if they wanted to see the Country. I obsen'ed that
the three. other men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat
down, all three, upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like men in
despair. 'l'his put me in tuind of the first time when Icatnc on shore, and
began to look about me; how I gave myself over for lost, how wildly I
looked round me; What dr -adful apprehensions I had; and how I lodged in
the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As I knew
nothing, that night, of the supply 1 was to receive by the providentiul driving
of the ship nearer the land by the storms and tide, by which 1 have since
been so long nourished and supported, so theSe three poor, desolate men
knew nothing how certain of delivemnce and supply they Were, how near it
was to them, and how effectually and really they were in a condition of
satiety, at the same time that they thought themselves lost, and their case
deswmtc. So little do we see before us in the world, and so much reason
have we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that he
does not leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst
circumstances, they have always something to be thankful for, and some-
times are nearer their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even brought
to their deliverance by the means by which they seem to be brought to their
destruction. .

it was just at the top of high water when these people came on shore;
and partly while they rambled about to see what kind of a place they were
in, they had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed
considerably away, leaving their boat aground. They had left two men in the
boat, who, as I found afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, fell
asleep; however, one of them, waking a little sooner than the other, and,
finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest,
who were straggling about; upon which they all soon came to the boat; but
it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and
the shore, on that side, being a soft, oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind
given to forethought, they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
country again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another, calling thetn
off from the boat, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you? she'll float next
tide;" by which I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what country-
men they were. All this while, I kept myself very close, not once daring to
stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of observation, near the
top of the hill; and very glad Iwas to think how well it was fortified. I
knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could float again; and by
that time it would be dark, and I might be at more liberty to see their
motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had any. In the mean time, I fitted
mysell'ap for a battle, as before, though with more caution, knowing I had
to do with another kind ol'enetny than 1 had at first. I ordered Friday, also.
whom I had made an exeelleut marksman with his gun, to load himself with
arms 1 took mysell' two lint'lillgvpict'es, and I gave him three muskets.
My ligure, imleed, was very tieree; I had my formidable goat--skin coat on,
with the great eap l have mentioned, a linked sword by my side, two pistols
in my belt, and a gun upon eaeh shoulder.

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt till it was
dark; but, about two o'eloek, being the heat of the day, l lbund that, in short,
they were. all gone straggling into the woods, and, us I thought, laid down to
sleep. The three poor, distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get
any sleep. wer-. however, sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at
about a quarter of a mile li-om me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of
the rest. l-'pon this, I resolved to diseover myself to them, and learn some-
thing: ot'their rendition: iunnediately l marched in the figure as abov', my
man Friday at a good distanee behind me, as formidable for his arms as I,
but not making.r quite. so staring a spectre-like tigure as 1 did. I route as
near them nmlisem'ered as I eouhl, and then, beliire any of them saw me, I
'alled aloud Io them in Spanish, " What are ye, gentlemen?" They started
up at the noise, but were ten times more eontbnnded when they ww me, and
the uneouth ligure that I made. They made. no answer at all, but I thought
I pereeived them just going to fly from me, when 1 spoke to them in English:
"(ientlena-n," said I, "do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have a
friend near, when you did not expect it." "lie nmst be sem directly li'om
lleaven then," said one ol'them very gmvely to me, am] pulling otl'his hat at
the same time to me; "for our eondition is past the help of man." "All
help is than lleaven, sir," said I; "but can you put a stranger ill the way
how to help you? tor you seem to be in some great distress. Isaw you
when you landed; and, when you seemed to make application to the brutes
that came with you, I saw one ot'them lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with 'ars running down his face, and trembling, looked
like one astonished, returned, "Am I talking: to God or man? Is it a real
luau, or an angel 3"" "Be in no fear about that, sir," said I ; " it'God had sent
an aug 'l to relieve you, he would have eoule. better elothed, atnl armed aller
another manner than you see. me: pray lay aside your li-ars; 1 am a man, an
l'lnglishman, aml disguised to assist you: yott see I have one servant only;
we have. arms and ammunition: tell us ti'eely, run we serve you? \Vhat is
your ease?" "Our ease, sir," said he, "is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near us; but, in short, sir, I was eommander of that ship;
my men have mutinied against me; they have been hardly prevailed on not
to murder me: and, at last, have set me on shore in this desolate place, with
these two men with me, one my mate, the other a [mm-tiger, where we
expeeted to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and know not y it
what to think ol' it." "Where are. these brutes, your enemies?" said I: "do
you know where. they are gone?" "There they lie, sir," said be, pointing
to a thieket of trees: "my heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and
heard' you speak; it' they have, they will certainly murder us all." "Have
they any tire-anus? " said 1. He answered, " They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat." "Well, then," said l, "leave the rest to me;
lsee they are all asleep: it is an easy thing to kill them all: but shall we217 - 218
Missing
From
Original
rather take them prisoners?" He told me there were two desperate villains

among:' them, that It was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but it'they were
secured, he believed all the rest would return to their duty. I asked hint
which they were? He told me he could not, at that distance, distinguish
theta, but he would obey my ordets in any thing I would direct. " \Vell," says
I. -' let us retreat ottt of their view or hearing, lest they aWake, attd We Will
resolve tin-titer." So they willingly went back with me, till the woods
covered us from them.

" Look you, sir," said I, "il'l venture upon your deliverance, are you
willing to make two conditions with me?" He anticipated my proposals,
by telling me, that both he and the ship, it' recovered, should be wholly
directed atnl commanded by me in every thing; and, it' the ship was not
recovered, he would live and die with tne ilt what part of the world soever I
would send hint; aml the two other men said the same. "\Vell." says I,
" my conditions are but two: first, that, while you stay in this island with
me, you will not pretend to any authority here; attd, il' 1 put arms in your
hands, yeti will, upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island; and, in the mean time, he governed by my
ttrtlt't's: secondly, that, it' the ship is or may be recovered, you will carry me
and my man to England, passage. tree."

He gave me all the assnnmces that the invention or faith of man could
devise, that he would comply with these most reasonable demands; aml,
besides, would owe his liti- to me, and acknowledge it upon all occa-
sions, as long as he lived. "\Vell, then," said I, "here are three nmskets for
you, with powder and hall: tell tne next what you think is proper to be
done." He showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that he was able,
but oll'ered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard
venturing any thing; but the best method I could think of was to tire
upon them at once, as they lay, aml il'any were not killed at the tirst volley:
and olliu'ed to snbtnit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's
providence to direct the shot. lle said, very modestly, that he was loath to
kill thetn, if he could help it; but that those two were incorrigible villains,
and had been the anthem of all the nmtiny in the ship, and, if they escaped,
We should be undone still; for they would go on board, and bring the whole
ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well, then," says I, "necessity legiti-
mates my advice, for it is the only way to save our lives." However, seeing
him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should go themselves,
and manage as they titund convenient.

In the middle of this discourse, we heard some of theta aWake, and, soon
after, we saw two of them on their teet. I asked him it' either of them were
the heads of the mutiny. lie said, "No." " \Vell, then," said I, " you may
let thetn escape; and Providence seems to have awakened them on purpose
to save themselves Now," says I, "if the rest escape you, it is your fault."
Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in his hand, and a
pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece in his
hand; the two men who were with him, going fitst, made some noise,
at which one ol'thc seamen, who was awake, tumed about, and, seeing them
coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the moment he
cried out, they fired; I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his
own piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that
one ofthem was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but,
 

not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to the
other; but the captain, stepping to him, told him it was too late to cry lhr
help: he should call upon God to forgive his villauy; and, with that Word,
knocked him down with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke
more. There were three more in the company, and one of them was also
slightly wounded. By this time, I was come; and when they saw their
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain
told them he would spare their lives, if they Would give him an assurance of
their ahhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear
to be liiithlitl to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her
back to Jamaica, li'om whence they came. They gave him all the protesta-
tions of their sincerity that could he desired, and he was willing to believe
them, and spare their lives, which I was not against, only that I obliged him
to keep them bound hand and foot while they were on the island.

"'hile this was doing, I sent Friday, with the captain's mate, to the boat,
with orders to secure her, and bring away the ears and sails, which they did;
and by and by, three straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted
from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired; and, seeing the cap-
tain, who was before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to
be bound also: and so our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one another's
circumstances: I begin first, and told him my whole history which he heard
with an attention even to amazement; and particularly at the wonderful
manner of my beiny.r furnished with pmvisions and ammunition; and, indeed,
as mystery is a whole collection of wonders, it afi'ected him deeply. But
when be reflected ti'om thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been
preserved there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and
he could not speak a word more. After this communication was at an end,
I carried him atul his two men into my apartment, leading them in just
where I came out, viz., at the top of the house, where I refreshed them with
such provision as l Imd, and showed them all the contrivances Ihad made,
during tny long, long inhabiting that place.

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; but, above
all, the captain admired my fortification, antl how perfectly I had concealed
my retreat with a grove ot'trces, which, having been new plattted near twenty
years, and the trees growing tnuch titster than in England, Was become a
little wood, and so thick, that it Was impassable in any part of it but at that
one side where I had reserved my little winding passage into it. I told him
this was my castle and my residence, but that I had a seat in the country, as
tnost princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would shew
him that, too, another time; but at present our business was to consider how
to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told me, he was per-
fectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there Were still six and twenty
hands on board, who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they
had all forleited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by des-
peration, aml would carry it on, knowing that, if they were subdued, they
would be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any
of the English colonies; and that, therefore, there Would be no attacking
them with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a very ra-
tional conclusion, and that, therefore, something was to be resolved on speed-
ily, as well to draw the men on board into some snare for their surprise, as
to prevent their landing upon Its, attd destroying tts. Upon this, it presently
occurred to tne, that, in a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what was
become oftheir comrades and ot'the boat, would certainly come on shore in
their other boat, to look for them; attd that then, perhaps, they might come
armed, attd be too strong tor us: this he allowed to be rational. Upon this,
I told him the first thing we had to do was to state the boat, which lay upon
the beach, so that they might not carry her off; and, taking every thing out of
her, leave her so titr useless as not to be fit to swim; accordingly we went on
board, took the arms which were leti on board out of her, and whatever else
we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rtun, a few bis-
cuit cakes, a horn ot'powder, and a great lump ofsugar in a piece of canvass,
(the sugar was five or six ponnds;) all which was very welcome to me,
especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had none left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore, (the oars, tnast, sail, and
rudder of the boat were carried away before, as above,) we knocked a great
hole itt her bottom, that, if they had come strong enough to master us, yet
they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts
that we could be able to recover the ship ; but my view was, that if they went
away without the boat, I did not much question to make her fit again to carry
us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends, the Spaniards, in my
way, for I had them still in my thoughts.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main strength,
heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that the title would not float her off
at high water mark, and, besides, had broke a hole in her bottom too big to
he quickly stopped, and were set down nntsiug what we should do, we heard2:32 'l'lll'. Lll'li AND AIWEN'I'tille'o

the ship tire a gun, and make a watt with her ensign as a signal [hr the boat
to eome on board: lntt no boat stirred; atul they tired several titties, making
other signals tor the boat. At last. when all their signals atul tiring proved
ti'uitless, and they linutd the boat did not stir, We saw tltetn, by the help of
my glasses. hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore ; atul we found,
as they approaehed, that there were no less than ten ttten itt llt'l', and tltat.
they had tire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we luul a litll view of
them as they value, and a plain sight even of their tin-es; beeunse, the tide
hating set them a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed up ntuler
shore, to eome to the same place where the other lnul landed, and where the
boat lay: by this means, I say, we had a tit" view of them, atul the captain
hue" the persons and elmmetersot'all the teen in the boat, ot'whom, he said,
there were three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, Were led into this
eonspinu'y by the rest, being m'erlmwered and frightened; bit! that as tbr the
lmatswaiu, who, it. seems, was the chief otlieer amongr them, and all the rest,
they were as outrageous as any of the. ship's erew, and were no doubt made
desgwrate in their new enterprise ; and terribly apprehensive. he was that they
Would be too powerful for us I stuiled at hint, and told hitu that men in our
eiretunstatu-es were past the operation ot't'-a ': that, seeing altuost every eondi-
tion that eould he "as better than that whieh we were supposed to he in, we
ought to evpeet that the eonsmptenee. whether death or me, would be sure to
be a delivemm-e. I asked him what he thought of the eit't'ttttlstttnces of my
lite. and u hether a deliveratu-e were not worth venturing litr. " And where,
sir.' . tltl l, h is your beliel'ol' my being preserved here on purpose to save
your Iili'. uhieh elevated you a little while ago? For my part." said l,"there
seems to me bttt one thing amiss in all the prospeet ol'it." " \l'ltat is that?"
says he. " Why." said I. " it is. that. as you say there are three or time honest
ii-llnus among them. wbieh should be spared. had they been all ol'the wirked
part ot' the erew. I should have thought (iod's provideuee had singled them
ottt to deliver tlu-m into your hands; lin'. depend upon it, every tnau that
eomes ashore is our own, and shall die or live as they behave to us." .-\s I
spoke this with a raised voiee and eheertitl eouutenam'e,l li-uud it greatly
eta-enraged him: so we set vigorously to ottr business.

\Ye had. upon the tirst :tplwaranee ot' the boat's eoming from the ship.
rousidered of separating our prisoners: and we had, ituleed, seenred thetn
etli-etnally. Two of them. of whom the eaptaiu was less assured than ordi-
nm'y, I sent with Friday, and one of the three delivered men. to my rave,
where they were remote enough, and ottt ot'dauger ot'lwing heard or diseov-
ered, or ot' lindiug their way ottt ot' the woods il' tltey eould have delivered
themselves: here they left lltt'ttt bound, but gave them provisions; and pront-
ised them. it' they eontinued there quietly, to give them their liberty itt a
day or tuo, but that. it' they attempted their esrape, they should he put to
death without merry. They promised tititlditlly to bear their eoutittetuent
with patieuee. and were very thanktitl that they had sueh good usage as to
have provisiousand light letl them: tbr Friday gave them eatulles (such as
we made outselves) for their eomtbrt: and they did not know but that he
stood sentinel over them at the entt'attee.

'l'he ulltet' prisoners had better usage: two of them were. kept pinioned,
indeed. beeanse the eaptaiu was not li'ee to trust them: but the other two
were taken into my service, upon the captain's reeotutnetulation, and upon
 

their solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so with them, and the three
honest men, We were seven men, well armed; and I made no doubt we
should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were coming, consider-
ing that the captain had said there were three or four honest men among
them, also. As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay,
they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on shore, hauling the boat
up after them,--which I was glad to see, for l was afraid they would rather
have left the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore, with some
hands in her to guard her, and so we should not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they (lid, they ran all to their other boat; and
it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her stripped, as
above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom. After they had
mused awhile upon this, they set up two or three great shouts, hallooing
with all their might, to try if they could make their companions hear; but
all was to no purpose; then they came all, close in a ring, and fired a volley
of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made the woods
ring; but it was all one; those in the cave, we were sure, could not hear;
and those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst give
no answer to them. They were so astonishcd at the surprise of this, that, as
they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again to their ship,
and let them know that the men were all murdered, and the long-boat staved-
Accordingly, they immediately launched their boat again, and got all of them
on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at this, believing
they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades
over for lost; and so he should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes
we should have recovered; but he was quickly as much frightened the
other way.

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived them all
coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their conduct, which,
it seems, they consulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat,
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to look for their tel-
lows. This was a great disappointment to us; for now we were at a less
what to do; as our seizing these seven men on shore would he no advantage
to us if we let the boat escape; because they would then row aWay to the
ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail: and so
our recovering the ship would he lost. Howchr, we had no remedy but to
wait, and see what the issue of things might present. The seven men came
on shore, and the three, who remained in the boat, put her off to a good dis-
tance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it was
impossible for us to come at them in the boat. Those that came on shore
kept close together, marching towards the top of the little hill under which
my habitation lay; and we could see them plainly, though they could not
perceive us. We could have been very glad they would have come nearer
to us, so that we might have fired at them; or that they would have gone
farther ofi', that we might come abroad. But when they were come to the
brow of the hill, where they could see a great way into the valleys and woods,
which lay towards the north-east part, and where the island lay lowest,
they shouted and hallooed till they Were weary; and not caring, it seems, to
venture far from the shore, nor litr from one another, they sat down together
under a tree to consider of it. Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep
there, as the other part of them had done, they had done the job for us; but
they were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep,--
thongh they could not tell what the danger was they had to tL-ar, neither.

The captain made a Very just pmlmsal to me upon this consultation of
theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all tire. a volley again, to endeavor to
make their ti'llows hear, and that We should all sally upon theta, just at the
juncture when their pieces were all discharged, aml they Would certainly
yield, am! we should have. them without hlmulshed. I liked this proposal,
provided it was done while we were near enough to come up to them hetoro
they could lead their pieces again. llut this event did not happen; and we
lay still a long time, very im-soluto what worse to take. At leugth,l told
them there would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; aml then, if
they did not return to the boat, perhaps We might liml a way to get lmtween
them and the shon',aml so might use some stratagem with them ill the boat,
to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though very itnpatient for
their removing; and were very uneasy, when, aller long consultations, we
saw them all start up, and march dow" towards the sea; it seems they had
such drendl'ul apprehensions upon them ot'the danger of the place, that they
resolved to go on board the ship again, give their companions over for lost,
and so go on with their intended voyage with the ship.

As soon as l perceived them to go towards the share, I imagined it to be
as it really was, that they had given over their search, attd were for going
back again; and the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready
to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I presently thought of a stratagem to
fetch them back again, and which attswered my end to a tittle. lordered
I-'riday atnl the captain's mate to go over the little, creek, westward, towards
the place where the savages cattle on shore when Friday was rescued; and,
so soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile distance, I
bade them lntlloo out as loud as they could, and wait till they found the sea-
mcn heard them: tlmt, as soon as ever they heard the seamen ansWer theta,
they should return it again; aml then, keeping out of sight, take a round,
always ansWering, when the others hallooed, to draw them as litr into the
island, atal among the woods, as possible, and then wheel about again to me
by such ways as l directed them.

They Were just going into the heat, when Friday and the mate hallooed;
and they presently heard them, and, answering, nut along the shore west-
ward, towards the voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by
the creek, where, the water being up, they could not get over, and called for
the boat to come up aml set them over; as, indeed, I expected. 'Vhen they
had set themselves over, I observed, that the boat being gone a good way
into the creek, and, as it were, in a harhor within the land, they took one of
the three men out of her, to go along with them, aml letl only mm in the
boat, having fastened her to the stump ot'a little tree on the shore. This was
what I wished for; and, immediately, leaving Friday and the captain's mate
to their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their
sight, we surprised the two men before they were aware; one of them lying
on the shore, and the other being in the boat. The fellow on shore was be-
tween ekeeping and waking, and going to start up; the captain, who was
foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down; and then called out to
him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few
arguments to persuade a single man to yield, when he saw five men upon
him, and his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one of the

292'36 'rnt: Lire AND Atn'ex'rrt:t-:s

three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the erew; and,
theretin'e, was -asily petsnaded, not only to yield, lntt,ath-r\\'ards, to join very
sineerely with Its. lo the mean time, l"riday atal the -aptaiu's mate so well
managed their business with the rest, that they drew tla-m, by hallooing and
attswerittg, from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tir-d them, but letl thetn where they were very sure they
eotthl not reaeh baek to the boat Ito-litre it was dark; and, indeed, they were
heartily tired themselves, also, by the tittte they etttne hark to us.

"'e had nothing now to do but to wateh for them iii the dark; and to litll
upon them, so as to make sttre work with tltem. It was several hours after
Friday eame baek to me, het'ore they came bark to their boat; aml we eould
ltear the foremost ol' them. long betin'e they eume quite up, ealling to those
behind to eome along: and eonhl also hear them answer, aml eotuplaiu how
latne aml tired they were, aml not able to eonte any taster; whieh was very
\veleotne. news to us. At length they eaute. up to the boat; but it is impossi-
ble to express their eont'usion when they found the boat last aground in the
ereek, the tide ehhed ont,and their two men gene. We eottld hear them
'all to one. another in a most lamentable manner, telling one another they
were got into an enehattted island: that either there Were inhabitants in it,
and they should all be murdered: or else there were devils aml spirits in it,
and they should be all earried away aml devoured. 'l'hey hallooed agaitt,
aml ealled their two eomt'ades by their natues a great many times, lntt no
answer. .\l'ter some time, we eouhl see them, by the little light there was,
rtm about, wringing their hands like men in despair; and that, sotnetitoes,
they would go aml sit dowtt in the boat to rest themselves: then eotue ashore
again, and walk about again, and so the same thing over again. My men
would t'ain have had the give them leave to l'all upon them at onee, in the
dark: but I was willing to take them at some advantage, so as to spare them,
tmd kill as ti-w ol'them as I eonld; and, espeeially. l was unwilling to lltl7.tll'tl
the killing any of our men, knowing the others were very well artned. I re-
solved to trail, to see it" they did not separate; and, therethre, to make sure
of them, I drew my ambnseade nearer, atnl ordered Friday uttd the 'aptaiu
to ereep upon their hands and ti-et, as rinse to the ground as they eould,
that they tnight not he diseovered, aml get as near tltettt as they eould, possi-
bly, betbre they olli-t'ed to tire.

They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain, who was
the prineipal ringleader ot'the mutiny, aml had now shown himself the most
dejeeted and dispirited ot'all the rest, -ame walking towards them, with two
mor - ot'the new: the autumn was so eager at having this principal rogue so
nmeh in his power, that he eottld hardly have patienee to let hitn eome so
near as to be sttre of him, for they only heard his tongue bet'ore; but, when
they eame near -r, the 'aptaiu and Friday, starting up on their feet, let tly at
them. The boatswain was killed ttpon the spot; the next man was shot into
the body, attd ti-ll just by him, though he did not die till an hour or two
atier; atul the third ran the it. At the noise of the tire, I immediately
advaneed with my whole army, which was now eight men, vim, myself,
genemlissimo; Friday. my lientemmt-geuera|; the captain attd his two men,
and the three prisoners ot'war, wltom we had trusted with arms. \Ve came
upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they eould not see our number: and
l tnade the man they had let! in the boat, "ho was now one of us. to call
them by name, to try it' I could bring them to a parley, and so might,
 

perhaps, reduce them to terms, which fell out just as we desired; for,
indeed, it was easy to think, as their condition then was, they would be very
willing to capitulate. So he calls out, as loud as he could, to one of them,
"Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Is that
Robinson?" for it seems he knew the voice. The other answered, " Ay, a ';
for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are all
dead men this moment." "Who must we yield to? Where are they?" says
Smith, again. "Here they are," says he; "here's our captain and fifty men
with him, have been hunting you these two hours; the boatswaiu is killed,
\Vill Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are
all lost." " \Vill they give us quarter, then?" says Tom Smith, "and we will
yielt." "I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield," said Robinson: so he
asked the captain; and the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith,
you know my voice; if you lay down your arms inunediatcly, and submit,
you shall have your lives all but Will Atkins."

Upon this, 'Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain, give me
quarter; what have I done? They have all been as bad as I;" which, by
the way, was not true neither; for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the first
man that laid hold of the captain, when they first mutiuied, and used him
barbarously in tying his hands, and giving him injurious language. How-
ever, the captain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust
to the governor's mercy; by which he meant me, for they all called me
governor. In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their lives;
and I sent the man that had parleycd with them, and two more, who bound
them all; and then my great army of filty men, which, particularly with those
three, were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them, and upon their
boat; only that I kept myself and one more out of sight for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the ship; and,
as for the captain, now he had leisure to pnrlcy with them, he expostulated
with them ttpott the villany ol' tlteir pmetiees with hittt, and at length
upon tlte litt'ther wickedness of their design, and how certainly it must.
bring thetn tn misery atnl distress itt tlte ettd, attd twrhaps to the gal-
lows. The; all appeared very pettiteut, attd lx-gged hard for their lives.
As litr that, he told them they were. ttntte of his prisoners bttt tlte ('nm-
mattder's ot' the islatnl; tltat they thought they had set llllll on shore ill a
barren, tntittltabited island; httt it had pleased God so to direct tlteta, that it
was inhabited, and tltat tlte governor was an littglislnnan; that he might
hang tltettt all there, it'he pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, be
supposed he would send them to Ellglttlltl, to be dealt with there as justice
required, except Atkins whom he was commanded by the. governor to advise
to prepare for deatlt, for that he would be hanged ill the tttnrtting.

'l'hough this was all but a fiction of his nwtt, yet it had its desired effect:
Atkins tell upon his knees, to beg the captain to intereede with the governor
lin' ltis lllit; and all the rest lM-gged of him, tbr God's sake, that they might
not he sent to I'Inglattd.

It now occurred to ttte, that the time of ottr delive'attce was come, attd
that it would be a tttnst easy thing to bring: these ti-llows itt to he hearty itt
getting possession nt'the ship: so I retired itt the dark ti'ottt tltent, that they
might ttot see what kittd ot' a governor they had, atnl -alh-d the captain to
me: when I called, as at a good distance, one ot'the men was ordered to
speak again. and say to the ~aptain. "('aptaitt, the eomtttamler ads for you ;"
and presently the 'aptaia replied, "'l'ell Ids l'iv't'lll'ttt'y l atnjust a-enming."
This tnore perti-etly amused them. aml the} all believed that the commander
wasjust by, with his tit'ty lllt'll. I'pon the eaptaitt coming: to me. I told hittt
my project tin' seizing the ship, which he liked wntnlertitlly well, aml
resolved to put it in exvention the next morning. llut. in order to e.\'eeltte it
with more art, atul to be secure of success, I told him we tttttst divide the
prisoners, aml that he should go attd take .-\tkins, and two more of the worst
of tltent, and settd theta pinionetl to the t':|Vt' where the others lay. This
was committed to Friday aml the two "tell who cattle on shore with the
captain. 'l'hey conveyed them to the -ave as to a prison; attd it was, indeed,
a dismal place, especially to tttett in tlteireomliliott. The others [ordered
to my bower, as l 'alled it, of which I have given a full description: attd, as
it was ti-tteed itt. aml they pinioned, the place was secure enough, eonsider~
in: they were ttpott their behavior.

To these, itt the morning, I sent the captain, who was to enter itttoa parley
with theta; in a word, to try them, aml tell ttte whether he thought they
might be trttsted or no to go on board and surprise the sltip. He. talked to
tlteta ofthe injury dotte hint, of the condition they were brought to, and that
though the governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the present
action, yet that it' they \vere. sent to England, they would all be hanged in
chains, to be sure: httt that, it'tltey would join itt sojust alt attetttpt to recover
the ship, he would have the governor's engagement for their pardott.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted by
men itt their condition: they fell dowtt on their knees to the captain, and
promised, with the deepest ituprecations, that they would be faithful to hint
to the last drop, attd that they should owe their lives to him, attd would go
with ltittt all over the world: that they would own ltittt as a father to them
as long as they lived. "Well," says the 'aptain, "I must go and tell the
 

governor what you say. and see what I can do to bring him to consent to it."
So he brought me an aeeouut ol' the temper he found them in, and that he
\'erily believed they would be iiitht'ul. However, that Wt: might be very
secure, I told him he should go back again aml choose out those five, and tell
them, that they might see he did not want men, that he would take out those
five to be his assistants, aml that the governor would keep the other two, and
the three that were sent prisoners to the eastle (my eave) as hostages for the
fidelity ot'those five: and that, it' they proved unt'aitht'ul in the e.\'eeution. the
five hostages should be hanged in chains alive, on the shore. 'l'his looked
severe, uml eonviueed them that the governor was in earnest; however, they
had no way left them but to accept it; and it was now the business of the
prisoners, as much as ol'the euptaiu, to persuade the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first, the captain,
his mate, and passenger: second. then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their character from the 'aptain, I had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms: third, the other twu that I had kept till now in my
bower pinioued, but, on the eaptain's motion, had now released: l'ourth, these
five released at last; so that they wore twolve in all, besides five We kept
prisoners in the cure for hostages.

[asked the captain il'hc was willing to venture with these hands on board
the ship; but, as for me and my man Friday, I did not think it was proper for
Us to stir, having seven men let! behind ; and it was employment enough for
us to keep them asunder, and supply them with victuals. As to the five in
the care, I resolved to keep them first, but Friday went in twice a day to
them, to supply them with necessaries; and I made the other two carry
provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to take it.230 'rm: Lirr. .\.\'t) .uivnx'runtas

When 1 showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the captain, who
tohl them I was the person the governor had ordered to look after theta;
and that it was the governor's pleasure they sltould not stir any where but by
tny direction; that, it'they did, they would he fetched into the castle, and be
laid in irons; so that, as we never sutlercd them to see me as a governor, I
now appeared as another person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the
castle, and the like, upon all occasions.

The captain now had no ditiieulty before him, httt to furnish ltis two heats,
stop tlte breach of one, attd man them. He made his passenger captain of
one, with tour ofthe men; and hitnsell; his tnate, and tire ntore, went in the
othe '; and they contrived their business very well, tor tltey came up to the
ship about midnight. As soon as they came within call of the ship, lie made
Robinson hail them, and tell them they had brought ofi' the men atul the
boat. but that it was a long time hetbre they ltad touud them, and the like;
holding theta in a chat till they came to tlte ship's side; when, the captain
atul the tnatc entering first, with their arms, immediately knocked down the
second mate and carpenter, with the butt-end of their muskets, being very
tEtithfully seconded by their men; they secured all the rest that were upon
the main atul tptartcr--decks, attd began to titstcu the hatches, to keep them
down that were below: when the other boat and their men, entering at the
litre-chains, secured the ton-castle of the ship, and the scuttle which went
down into the cmik-routn, making: three men they found there prisoners.
"'lten this was done, and all sati: upon deck, the captain ordered the mate,
with three men. to hreak into the round-house, where the new rebel captain
lay, who, hating taken the alarm, had got up, and, with two men and a boy,
had got tire-arms in their hands: and. when the tnate, with a crow, split
open the door, the new -aptain and his men tired boldly among them, and
wounded the mate with a musket hall, which broke his arm, aml wounded
two more ofthe men. lint killed nolmdy. 'l'he tttate, calling tiir help, rushed,
however. into the round-house, wounded as he was, and, with his pistol, shot
the new captain through the head. the bullet entering at his mouth, and came
out again lwhind one of his cars, so that he never spoke a word more: upon
which the rest yielded. tutd the ship was taken etl'eetually, without any more
lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to he
fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to giv- tne notice of his
Success. which, you may he sure, I was very glad to hear, having sat watch-
ing upon the Siltn" tiir it till near two o'clock in the moraine. Having thus
heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having been a day of great
tiaigne tome, I slept very sound, till lwas something surprised with the
noise of a gun; and presently, starting up, Iheard a tnatt call me by the
name of n Governor! Governor!" and presently I knew the 'aptain's voice;
when, climbing up to the top of the hill. there he stood, and, pointing to the
ship, he embraced tne itt his arias. "My dear friend and delivercr," says he,
"there's your ship; tor she is all yours, and so are we and all that belong to
her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode, within little more than
half a mile of the shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they
were masters of her, and, the weather being fair, had brought her to an
anchor just against the mouth of tltc little creek; and, the tide being up, the
captain had hroagln the pinaace in near the place where lat first landed my
rafts, and so landed just at my door. I was, at first, ready to sink down with
 

the surprise; for I saw my dclchmuvc, iudm-d, Visibly put into my hands, all
things easy, and a large ship just ready lo carry lm' away whither I plcasrd
to go. A: first, for sum:- time, I Was not able to answer him one Word; but
as he had taken me in his arms, I hold 12.5: by him, or I should have lEdh-u m
the ground. He pvrcuircd the surprise, and iuum-dian-Iy pulls a. bottle out
of his pocket, and gun: me a dram of cordial, which he had brought on pur-
pose for me. After I had drank it, I sat down upon the ground; and, though23:3 -rur. urr. as" ADVENTURES

it brought nw to mysi-lt; ya! it was a good while holbro I rouldslwak a word
to him. All this linu: tlu- poor man was in as gn-at an ecstasy as I, only not
Illltlt'l' any surprisl', as I was; and Inc said a thousand kind and tender linings
to mo, to t'ultlpust' and bring too to Inysvll': hut such was the llood of joy in
my hrvast that it put all tny spirits into confusion: at last it hrokc out into
tu-ars: and, in a little whihr al'n-r, ll't't't)\'t'l't'll my spm-t'h. I then took my
turn, aml i-ndu'ai-i-d hitn as my th-liwrtrr, and wo rt-joit-vd togi-tlntr. I told
him I luola-d upon him as a man soul from Ilt-awn to di-Iit'cr mt'. atnl that

tln- "hoh- transarlion sm-mml to ho a t'hain ol' wondt-rs: that surh thing as

 

IIII'M' \ww llu- ti-stimoniI-s wt- had of a sw'rt-t hand of I'roridi-m-t: :Iovvt'nin's!
thv world, and :m i-ridt-m-c- that tho i-yc- of an intinin- l'owrr vould scarrh
into tlu- ru-motvst c-orm-r ot' tln- worhl, aml st-nd llt'IlI to tho mi.' -rahlo wln-n-
ru-r IIt' ph- . l thrgot Not to lift up my Iu-art in thanklitlnvss to Ill-awn;
and what lit-art vonld Ihrh ' to hh-ss Him, who had not only, in a miracu-
lous mama-r. llt'u\llll'll liu' nu in snt'h a \\'ildi-rm-ss, and in snt'h u th-soIato
t'utnlitiotl. hut li'om whom vu-ry dvliwram-o must always be acknowlctlgt-d
to prom-ml i'

\l'ln-n "1- had talked a whilv, the captain told nn- ln' ltad hrought nn- some
Iitlh'
had lu-ru so long his mash-rs had not plnmh-rt-d him <<all lipon this. lu-t-allod
aloud to tho hoat. and hadv his lllt'll hring tho Ihings ashort- that \wr ' [hr the
gowrnur: and. lllllt'l'tl, it was a pwsvnt as il' I had IM't'II out: that was not to
In- c-arric-d away with Iltt'm, hut as if I had hm-n to dwvll upon the island
still. First, ho had lu'oltgltl lltt' a rast- ol' hottlos litII ol't-xrt-Ih'tlt cordial
wutrrs, si\ lat-gt- hotth-s ol' )ladt-ira wim-, (tlu- hotth-s hold two quarts t-at'h,)
two pounds of t'_\t't'IIl'Ill good loliat't'u, l\\t'l\'t' good pit-H's ol' lhc ship's had;
and six pin-vs of pork. with a hag of peas, and about a handrail wright ol'
hist-uit: lu- also hronght me a box of sugar, a hox of flour, a hag full of lotu-
ons. and l\\u Imlllt's' ot' haw-juii-v, aml ahnmlam-t- ol' otln-r things. But
stuh-s tln-st', and what was a thousand Iinu-s mort- ltN'lllI to ma, lu- brought

     

 

 

"Il'l'slllltt'lll, such as IIlt' ship atliu'dt-d, and such as tlu- "'l't'lt'IN'S that

 

na- six m-w. t'Il'flIl shirts. six wry good nt-rkt-loths, two pair of glows, om:
pair of shun-s, a hat, and otn- pair of storkings, with a wry good suit of
t-lotlu-s of his own. \'Illt'll had lu-t-n worn hut wry little; in a word, he
t-lolhvd lllt' ti'om ln-ad to limt. It was a wry kind aml agrt't-ahlo prt-sI-nt, as
any ont- may inmgitn', to our in my rirrnmstaim-s; luu nvwr was any thing
in tho world of that kind so nnplvasant, awkward, aml mn-asy as it was to
lllt' to wear sltt'h t'lulIn-s :tt lil'sl.

.'lil'l' llu'st' x-c-ri-Inonit-s wow passvd, and allt-r all his good things wrro
hruught into my little: aparnm-nt, wn hogan to consult what was to ho dom:
with tho prisqu-rs wu had ; for it was worth considt-ring whothur we might
wnnu'c- to who tlu-m away with us or no, t-spcvially two of them, whom he
know to ho im-orrigihlo and n-li'arlory to the last degree; and the t'aplailt
said In- kin-w tln-y were snrh rogues that thorn was no ohliging them, and il'
ln- did rarry lhvm away, it nutst In: in irons, as ntalvlimtors. to he delivered
owr tojustim- at Ila: lirst English rolony he rould route at; atnl I found that
tho 'aptain himst-lt' was wry anxious ahout it. Upon this, I told him that, if
h:- dt-sirt-d it, I would umh-rtaki- to bring the two lllt'll he spoke of to make
it tln-ir own rmpa-st that In- shottld loarc them upon the island. "I should
lw wry glad of that," says the raptaiu, " with all my h 'art." " \Vull," says I,
"I will sun! for Ila-m up. and talk with lllt'nl l'or yon." So I t'ausvd Friday
and tlu- two lmslagc-s. tor Ila-y "we now disrhat'gvd, tln-ir comrades having233 - 234
Missing
From
Original
pcrfornted their promise; I say, I caused thctn to go to the cave, and bring
up the live men, piuioned as they were, to the lxiwer, and keep them there
till lcamc. Alter some time, I came thither, dressed ill my new habit; and
now I was called governor again. lh-iug all met, aml the captain with me, I
caused the tueu to he brought heliu-e Inc, uml I told them I had got a full
account! of their villauous behavior to the captain, and how they had run
away with the ship, and were preparing to commit further robberies, but that
l'mvidt-nce had lllslltll'l'll them in their own ways, and that they were fallen
into the pit which they lutd dug lbr others. I let them know that by my
direction the ship had been seized; that she lay now in the road; and they
might see, by and by, that their new captain had received the rteWard of his
villany, and that they would see him hanging at the yard-arm; that, as to
them, I wanted to know what they had to say why 1 should not execute them
as pirates, taken in the fact, as by my commission they could not doubt but
I had authority so to do.

One of them answered, in the name of the rest, that they had nothing to
say but this, that, when they were taken, the captain promised them their
lives and they lulmbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew not
what mercy to show them ; l'or,as for myselt; I had resolved to quit the island
with all my men, and had taken passage with the captain to go for England;
and as for the captain, he could not carry them to England, other than as
prisoners, in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship;
the consequence of which, they umsl needs know, would be the gallows; so
that I could not tell what was best tbr them, unless they had a mind to take
their fate in the island; it' they desired that, as I had liberty to leave the
island, I had some inclination to give them their lives, if they thought they
could shift on shore. They seemed very thankful for it, and said they would
nmch rather venture to stay there than be carried to England to be hanged;
so I let! it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if he durst
not leave them there. Upon this, I seemed a little angry with the captain,
and told him that they were my prisoners, not his; and that, seeing I had
ofl'ercd them so much favor, I would be as good as my word; and that, if he
did not think tit to consent to it, I Would set them at liberty as I found them;
and, if he did not like it, he might take them again if he could catch them.
Upon this, they appeared very thankful, and Iaccordingly set them at liberty,
and bade them retire into the woods, to the place whence they came, and I
would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and some directions
how they should live very well, if they thought fit. Upon this, I prepared to
go on board the ship; but told the captain I would stay that night to prepare
my things, and desired him to go on board in the mean time, and keep all
right in the ship, and send the boat on shore next day for me; ordering him,
at all events, to cause the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the
yard-arm, that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my apartment,
and entered seriously into discourse with them on their circumstances. I
told them I thought they had made a right choice; that, if the captain had
carried them away, they would certainly be hanged. [showed them the new
captain hanging at the yard-amt of the ship, and told them they had nothing
less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told them 1236 TI": Live. AND anvex'rumzs

would let them into the story of toy living there, and put them into the way
of nmking it easy to tin-m; aeeordingly, I gave them the whole history ol'the
plnt'e, and of my eoming to it; showed them tny liirtilieations, the way I
made my bread, planted my eorn, eured my gram-s; and, in a word, all that
was neeessary to make them easy. I told them the story, also, of the seven-
teen Standards that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter, and made
them pmmise to treat them in common with themselves. Ilere it may he
noted, that the -.aptaiu had ink on board, who was greatly surprised that I
never hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal and water, or of something
else, as I had done things mneh tnore difficult.

I left them my lire-arms, viz., five muskets, three linvling-pieceg and three
swords I had above a barrel and a half of powder lcli; lor, after the first
year or two, I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of
the way I managed tlte goats, nttd directions to milk tutd littten thetn, am] to
make both butter and eheese: in a word, I gave thetn every part of my own
story, and told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder tnore, and Some garden seeds, which I told them I
would have been very glad of; also,I gave them the bag of peas which the eup-
tain had brought me to eat, and bade tlu-tn be sure to sow and increase them.

Having done. all this, I left them tlte next day, aml \vent on board the ship,
We prepared imnu-diately to sail, bttt did not weigh that night. The next
morning early, two of the live men came swimming to the ship's side, and,
making the most lamentable complaint of the other three, begged to be
taken into the ship for God's sake, lhr they should be murdered, and begged
the captain to take them on lmard, though he hanged them immediately.
l'pon this, the captain pretended to have no power without me; but, alter
some. ditiieulty, and after their solemn promises of amendment, they were
taken on hoard, and were, some time alter, soundly whipped and piekledi
aller whieh they proved Very honest and quiet fellmvs.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide being up,
with the things promised to the men; to which the captain, at my interces-
sion, eaused their chests atul elothes to he added, whieh they took, and were
very thanklitl tor. I also encouraged them, by telling them, that, il'it lay in my
power to send any vessel to take them in. I would not lbrget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on hoard, for relies the great
goat-skill um I had tnade, my utnhrella, atul one of my parrots ; also I forgot
not to take the money I formerly mentioned, whieh had laitt by tne so long
useless that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver
till it had been a little rubbed atul handled; as also the money I tonnd in the
\vreek ofthe Spanish ship. And thus I lelt the island, the 19th of December,
as I found by the ship's aeeouut, ill the year 1686, alter I had been upon it
eight and twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being delivered li'om
this seeond eaptivity the. same day of the tnonth that I first made my eseape,
in the loug-lmat, from among the Moors ofSallee. In this vessel, alter a long
voyage, I arrived in I-Ingland the 11th of June, iii the year 1687, having been
thirty-five years absent.

When l came to l'anland, I was as perfect a stranger to all the world as
il'l had never been known there. My benclitetor and litithful steward, whom
I had lell my money in trust with, was alive, but had had great misfortunes
in the world; was heeome a widow the seeond time, atul very low in the
World. I made her very easy as to what she owed tne, assuring her I would
"77'!" ml".-

~ , .:-~.-. .~

 

give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude for her former care and
litithtitlness to me,l relieved her as my little stoek would atl'ord; which at
that titne Would, indeed, allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her I
wonld never forget her timner kindness to me; nor did I lbrget her when I
had sullieieut to help her, as shall be observed in its proper place. I Went
down alierwnrds into Yorkshire: but my titther Was dead, and my motlu-r,
and all the tinnily extinct, except that l timnd two sisters, and two of the
children ot'one ot'my brothers ; and as [had been long ago given over tor deud,
there had been no provision made lbr me: so that, in a word, I t'ouml nothing
to reliev- or assist um: and that the little money I had would not do much
lbr one as to settling-in the world.

I met with one pieee ol'grntittnle, indeed. which I did not expect; and this
was. that the master ot'tln: ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and by the
same nit-ants :mved the ship and cargo, having given u very handsome account
to the ownem ol' the manner how I had saved the lives of the men, and the
ship, they invited me to meet them utul some other Inert'hants concerned,
and all together made me a very handsome compliment upotl the subject,
and a present ot'uhuost PS200 sterling.

But, alter making several retleetions upon the eireumsmnees ot'my lite, and
how little way this would go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to
go to Lisbon, and see if I might not eome by some. inthrmntion ot' the state
ol'my phuttution in the Brusils, and of what was become ol'nty winner, who,238 Tue use .\.\'0 waves-runes
\

I had reasott to suppose, had some years past given me over for dead. With
this view, I took shipping lbr Lisbon, where I arrived in April lbllowing; my
tnan Friday aeconttmnying tne very honestly in all these ramblings, and prov-
inga most taithl'ul servant ttpott all occasions. When Ieatne to Lisbon,I
found out, by inquiry, and to nty particular satistitction, tny old friend, the
captain ot'the ship, who first took me up at sea otl' the shore of Ali'ica. He.
was now grown old, and had left oll' going to sea, having pttt his son, who
was far than a young tttatt, ittto his sltip, and who still used the Ilrasil trade.
The old tnan did not know me; attd, indeed, I hardly knew him: but I soon
brought him to my remembrance, and as soon brought myself to his remene
brain-c, when I told him who I was.

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between us, I
inquired, you maybe sure, after tny plantation and my partner. The old
man told me he had not been in the Brasils for about nine years; but that he
cottld assure me, that, when he came uyvay, tny partner was living; httt the
trustees, whom I had joined with hitn to take cognizance of my part, were
both dead; that, however, he believed I would have a Very good account of
the improvenu-nt of the plantation; for that, upon the general belief of my
being cast away and drowned, my trustees ltad given in the amount of the
produce of my part ot'the plantation to the proettrator-tiscal, who ltad appro-
priated it, in case I never catne to claint it, one third to the king, and two
thirds to the monastery 01' St. Augustine, to be expended tin- the benefit of
the poor, and for the conversion ot'the Indians to the Catholic litith ; bttt that,
if! appeared, or any one lbr me, to claim the inheritance, it would be re-
stored: only that the itnpmvement, or annual production, being distributed to
charitable uses, eottld not be restored ; bttt lie assured me that the steward of
the king's revenue li'ont lands, and the provedore, or steward of the monas-
tery, ltad taken great care all along that the incumbent, that is to say, my
partner, gttve every year a fitithful account of the produce, of which they had
duly received my moiety. I asked him if he knew to what height of im-
provement lte had brought the plantation, and whether he thought it tnight
be worth looking after; or whether, on my going thither, I should meet with
any obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety. He told me
he could not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved; but
this he knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying
his part of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, be had heard that
the king's third of tny part, which \ 'as, it seems, granted away to some other
monastery or religious house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a
year; that, as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no
question: to be made of that, my partner being alive to "itness my title, and
my name being also ettrolled in the register of the country; also lte told tne
that the survivors of my two trustees were very lair, honest people, and very
wealthy; and he believed I would ttot only have their assistance for putting
me in possession, but would find a very considerable sum of money in their
hands tor my account, being the produce of the farm while their litthots held
the trust, and betbre it was given up, as above; whiclnas he remembered.
was for about twelve years.

I showed tnysclt'a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and inquired
of the old captain how it catne to pass that the trustees should thus dispose
of my ell'ccts, when lte knew that I had made my will, and had made him,
the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that, as there was no proof of my being dead,
he could not act as executor, until some certain account should come of my
death; and, besides, he was not willing.' to intermeddle with a thing so re-
mote; that it was true he had registered my will, and put in his claim; and
could he have given any account of my being dead or alive, he would have
acted by procuration, and taken possession: of the ingeino, (so they called the
sugar-house,) and have given his son, who was now at the Bmsilsg orders to
do it. " But," says the old man, " l have one piece of news to tell you, which,
perhaps, may not be so acceptable to you as the res: and that is, believing
you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees
did oflirr to account with me, in your name, "if the first six or eight years'
profits which I received. There being at that time great disbursements for in-
creasing the works, building an ingcino, and buying slaves, it did not amount
to near so much as allcrwards it produced: howover," says the old man, " I
shall give you a true account of what 1 have received in all, and how 1 have
disposed of it."

 

Aflera few days' farther conference with this ancient friend, he brought
me an account of the first six years' income of my plantation, signed by my
partner and the merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods, viz.: to-
bacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses, 5m, which is the
consequence of a. sugar-work; and I found by this account, that every year
the income considerably increased; but, as above, the disbursements being
large, the sum at first was small: however, the old man let me see that he
was debtor to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his240 'l'llt-I urn axn ADVIiN't't'RIIS

ship; he. having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about (elet'en
years alter my leaving the. place. The good man then began to complain of
his mistortqu-s, and how he had been obliged to make use of my money to
recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new ship. " However, my old
friend," says he, " you shall not want a supply in your m-t't'ssity : and as soon
as my son returns, you shall he tiilly satislit'd." Upon this, he pulls out an
old pom-h. and gives lllt' one hundred and sixty Portugal moidores ill gold;
and giting the writings of his tith- to the ship, whit-h his son was gone to the
Brasils in, of which he was iptartt-r-part owner, and his son another, la.- puts
them both into my hands for st-t'urity ot'tlu- rest.

I was loo lullt'll moved with the hum-sly aml kindtu-ss ol' the poor tuatt to
be able. to hour this: aml I'l'lllt'lllIN'l'lll'.' what he had done liir me, how he had
taken lllt' up at sea, and how generously he had used one on all occasions,
and particulm'ly how sincere a trivial he was now to me, I t'ould hardly re-
li'ain weeping at what he had said to me: tln-retiu'e Iaskt-d him it'ltis circum-
stances admitted hint to spare so nun-h money at that time, and it' it would
not strain-u him. IIt' told on.- he could not say but it might strain-u him
a little; but, however, it Was my money, and I might want it more than he.

I'i\'t'l'_\' thin-,5 the good man said was litll ot'atli-rtiou. and I could hardly re-
frain t'rom teats while he spoke: in short.l took lllll' hundred ot'tlu- moidurm,
and called for a pen and ink, to gin- him a receipt tor them: then I returned
him the rest, atul told him, il'm't't' I had pusst'sslnlt ol'tht- plantation, I would
n-tnrn the other to him also, (as indeed, I alh-rwards did :) aml that, as to the
hill ot'sale ol'his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by any means: but
that. if] wanted the money, I totmd he was honest enough to pay me; aml it'
ldid not, htlt came to rem-in- what he gave me. reason to expect, I would
never have a penny more from him.

"'Iu-u this "as passed, the old matt asked lltt' if he should pttt me into a
method to make my claim to my plantation. I told him I thought to go over
to it myselll He said I might do so il' l pleased; but. that, it'l did not, there
Were ways enough to secure tny right, aml immediately to appropriate the.
profits to my use; aml as there. were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready
to go away to Brasil, he made lllt' enter my name in a public register, with
his atlidavit, atlirmiug, upon oath, that l was alive, aml that l was the same
person who took up the land for the planting the said plantation at first.
This living regularly attested by a notary, and a prot'uration atlixed, he
directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of his ac-
quaintance at the place; and thou proposed my staying with him till an
account came ol'the retttnt.

Never was any thing more honorable. titan the. proceedings upon this
prot'uration; tor, in less than sen-u tnonths, I received a large packet from
the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, lbr whose account I went to sea,
in which were the following particular letters aml papers enclosed.

First, there was the account-current of the produce ol'my firm or planta-
tion, from the year when their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal
captain, being for six years; the balance appeared to be one thousand one
hundred am! seventy-four moidores in my tin-or.

Secondly, there was the account of four years more, while they kept the
effects in their hands, lit-tore the. govcnnuent claimed the administration, as
being the eflects of a person not to be found, which they called civil death;
and the balance of this, the value of the plantation increasing, amounted to
nineteen thousmtd four hundred and forty-six crusadoee, being about three
thousand two lmndred and forty moidores.

'l'hirdly, there was the prior of St. Augustine's account, who had received
the profits tor above fourteen years; httt not being to account for wltat was
dismmtd of by the hospital, very honestly declared he had eight ltuudred
and seventy-two moidores ttot distributed, which he acknowledged to my
account: as to the king's part, that retimded nothing.

There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me very affectionately
upon my being alive, giving me. an account how the estate was improved,
and what it produced a year; with a particular of the number of'squarcs or
acres that it eontained, bow planted, how many slaves there were upon it; and,
making tWo-and-tWenty emsses titr blessings, told me he had said so litany
.Ilve .Ilfun'as, to thank the Blessed Virgin that l was alive; inviting me very
latssionatcly to eonte over and take possession of my own; and, in the mean
time, to give him orders to whom he. should deliver my effects, if! did not
come myself; concluding with a hearty tender ol' his li-iendship, aml that of
his titmily; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards" skins, which he had,
it seems, received from Ati-iea, by some other ship that he had sent thither,
and which, it seems had made a better voyage than I. He sent me also live
chests of excellent sweetnteats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not
quite so large as moidores. By the Sallie tleet, my two merchant trustees
shipped me one thousand two hundred chests of sugar, eight htmdred rolls
of tobacco, and the rest ot'the whole account in gold.

1 might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was better than
the beginning. It is impossible to express the tlutterings of my very heart
when I found all my wealth about me; for as the Bntsil ships come all inf.

fleets, the same ships which brought my letters brought my goods; and the
etli-ets were sale in the river betin'e the letters mum: to my hand. In a word,
I turned pale, and grew sick; and, had not the old man run and l'etehed me
a eordial, l lwlieve the sudden surprise ot'joy had "\'t'rSCI nature, and I had
died upon the spot: nay, atier that, I continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till, a physician being sent tin', and soon-thing ot' the real cause of my
illness being known, In: ordered me to be let blood; after which I had reliet;
and grew well: but I verily believe. il'I had not been eased by a vent given
in that manner to the spirits, I should lmve died.

I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five thousand pounds sterling,
in tnoney, atnl had an estate, as I might well call it, in the Brasils, of above a
thousand pounds a year. as sure as an estate. of lamls in England; and, in a
word, I was in a comlition which I scarce know how to understand, or how to
compose Inyselt' tor the enjoynn-nt of it. The tirst thing I did was to recom-
pensc my original benelitctor, my good old captain, who had been first chari-
table to me in my distress, kind to me. in my beginning, and honest to me at
the end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I told him that, next to the
providence of Heaven, which disposed all linings, it was owing to him; and
that it now lay on me to reward him, which I would do a hundred lbld: so I
tirst returned to him the hundred moidorcs I had received of him; then I sent
for a notary, and caused him to draw up a general release or discharge from
the timr hundred and seventy moidorcs, which he had acknowledged he owed
me, in the titlh-st and lirnn-st manner luvssible; alier which,I caused a procu-
ratiou to be drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the annual profits
ot'my plantation; and appointing my partner to account with him, and make
the returns, by the usual tleets, to him in my name; and a clause in the end,
being a g 'ant ol'one hundred moidores a year to him during his life, out of
the elli'cts. atul liliy lnoidorcs a year to his son ulict' hitn, for his Iil'et and
thus I reqllitcd my ohl nntn.

I was now to consider which way to steer my course next, and what to do
with the estate that I'rtwidenec had thus put into my hands; and, indeed, I
had more care upon my head now than I had in my silent state of me in the
island, whore I wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing bttt what I
wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon me, and my business was
how to seeure it. I had never a cave now to hide my money in, or a place
where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew mouldy and tamishcd
betbre any body would meddle. with it; on the. contrary, I knew not where to
put it, or whom to trust with it. My old patron, the captain, indeed, was
honest, and that was the only retirge I had. In the next place, my interest in
the Ilrasils seemed to summon me thither; but now I could not tell how to
think ot'going thither till I had settled my aflitirs, and Ictt my eflircts in some
sate hands behind me. At tirst I thought ol'my old li'iend, the widow, who, I
knew, was honest, and Would be just to me; but then she was in years, and
but poor, and, tor aught I knew, might be in debt; so that, in a word, I had
no way but to go wk to England myselt; and take my efl'eets with me.

It was some months, however, betore I resolved upon this; and, therefore,
as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been
my former benclitctor, so I began to think ol'my poor widow, whose husband
had been my first benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful
steward and instructor. So, the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon
to write to his correspondent in London; not only to pay a bill, but to go find
her out, and carry her, in money, a hundred pounds ti-om me, and to talk
with her and comfort her in her lmverty, by telling her she should, ifI lived,
have a further supply: at the saine time, I sent my tw0 sisters, in the country,
a hundred pounds each, they being, though not in man, yet not in very good
circumstances; one having been married and let! a widow; and the other
havinga husband not so kind to her as he should be. But, among all my
relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch ttpon one to whom I durst
cmmnit the gross ofmy stock, that I might go away to the Brasils, and leave
things safe behind me; and this greatly perplexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the Ilrasils, and have settled myself
there, for I was, as it were, naturali'I.cd to tlte place; bttt I had some little
scrapie in my mind about religion, which insensihly drew me back. How-
ever, it was not rcliglon that kept me from going there for the present; tutd,
as l luul made no scruple of being openly of the religion of the country all
the while I was among them, so neither did I yet; only that, now and then,
having of late thought more of it than tbrnu-rly, when I began to think of
living and dying among them, I began to regret my having profit.de myself
a Papist, and thought it might not be the best religion to die with.

But, asI have said, this was not the main thing that kept me li-om going
to the Brasils, but that really I did not know with whom to leave tny etl'ects
behind me; so I resolved at last to go to England with it, where if I arrived,
Iconcluded I should make some acquaintance, or find some relations, that
would be litithful to me; and, accordingly, I prelutred to go to England, with
all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first (the Brasil fleet being
just going away) resolved to give answers suitable to the just am! titithtitl
account ofthiugs I had from thence; and, first, to the prior of St. Augustine,
I wrote a letter full of thanks tiir his just dealings, and the otlier of the eight
hundred and seventy-two moidores which were undisposed of, which I
desired might be given, live hundred to the monastery, aml three hundred
and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior should direct; desiring the good
padre's prayers lbr me, and the like. I wrote next a letter of thanks to
my two trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so tuuch justice and
honesty called for; as for sending them any present, they were tar above
having any occasion tor it. Lustly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging
his industry in the improving the plantation, and his integrity in increasing
the stock of the works; giving him iustntctions for his future government
.of my part, according to the powers I had left with my old patron, to whom
[desired him to send whatever became due to me, till he should hear liom
me more particularly; assuring him that it was my intention not only to
come to him, but to settle myself there for the remainder of my life. To this
I added a very handsome present of some Italian silks, for his wife. and two
daughters,---tbr such the captain's son intin-med me he had,---with two
pieces offine English broadcloth, the best I could get in Lisbon; five pieces
of black baize, and some Flanders lace, of a good value.

Having thus settled my aflhim sold my cargo, and tumed all my effects
into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was, which way to go to Eng-
land: I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange
aversion to go to, England by sea at that time; and though I could give no
reason for it, yet tho tlitlit-nlty increased upon me so much, that, though I had
once shippt-d my hm It!" in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not
once, but two or IIII'I'I' times.

It is true, I had but-n vvry untimunan: by son, and this might be one ol'thc
reasons; but In no man slight the strum.r impulses of his own thoughts, in
cases ol'sm'h tnonn-ut : two ot' the ships which I hatl singled ottt to go ill, I
Int-an lttlll't' particularly singlod out tlmn any other, having put my things on
board ono ot'tln-In, and in the other to have agrood with tho -aptain; I my,
two of Ila-so ships tuis ':tl'|'I('(I, \'iv.., out- was taken by the Algerines, and the
otln-r was 'ast away on the Start, nt-ar 'I'orbny, and all the people drowned,
I'Xt't'lll Illl't'"; so that in either ol'thoso vt-sst-ls I had been made misorablv.

llat'inglmon thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom I cum-
IIIIIltIt'HIt'tI t'\'t't'_\' thing, pr '.~.\'('tl nu- earnestly not to go by son, but either to
go by latnl to tho. (t'roytw, and cross owv the Bay of Bist'ay to Rot-hello, from
"'Ill'llt'l' it was bttt an easy and sali- journey, by land, to Paris. antl so to
Calais and lion-r; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land, through
Pram-v. In a Word, I was so prt-posst-sst-d against my going by sea at all,
t-xm-pt from ('alais to Dover, that l I't'Stlth'tl to travel all the way by land;
whit-h, as I was not in haste. and did not value the charge, was by much the
plt-asantrr way; and to mala- it mov - so. my old t'aptain brought an English
gt-ntlt-nmn. IIIt' son ol'a nu-rvhant in Lislmn, who was willing to travel with
Illt'; atit-r whit-b "'t' pit-kt-d up two more English merchants also, and two
young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that, in all,
tln-rt- were six of us, and II\'I' servants; the two merchants and the two
I'ortngncst- t-onn-nting tla-mst-lvt-s with "HP servant lu-twct'tt two, to save the
charge; aml, as tbr me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant,
besides. my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of sup-
plying the place ot'a servant on the road.

 
 
 

'3

  

 

In this manner] so! out front Lisbon; and, our company being very well
mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they did me the honor
to call me captain, as well be -ansc I \'as the oldest man, as because I had
two scrvmtts, and, indeed, was the original of the whole journey.
As I have. troubled you with none of tny sea jountals, so I shall trouble.
you now with none of my land journal; but some adventures that happened
to us in this tedious aml ditlieult journey I must not omit.

When We came to Madrid, \ve, being all of us strangers to Spain, were
willing to stay some time to see the. court of Spain, atnl to see what was
worth observing; but, it being the latter part of the summer, we hastened
away, and set ottt li'om Madrid about the middle of October; but when we
came to the. edge of Navarre, We were alarmed, at several towns on the way:
with alt account that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the
mountains, that several travellers were. obliged to come back to Panda-Inna,
alier having attempted. at an extreme hazard, to pass on.

When we eatue to Patnpeluna itself, we found it so indeed; and to me,
that had been always used to a hot cliumte, and to countries where I could
s-arec bear any elotbes on, the cold was insntli'mble: nor, indeed, was it
more painful than surprising, to come but ten days before out of Old Castile,
where the weather was not only warm, lntt very hot, atnl immediately to feel
a wind from the l'yrenean Mountains so very keen, so severely cold, as to
be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing and perishiug of our fingers
and toes.

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all covered
with snow, and felt cold weather, whieb be had never seen or felt before in
his life. To mend the matter, when we came to l'atupcluna, it continued
snowing with so much violence and so long that the people said winter was
come before its time; and the roads, which were ditlienlt betbre, were now
quite impassable; for, in a word, the snow lay in some places too thick for
us to travel, and being not hard ti'ozen, as is the ease ill the northern coun-
tries, there was no going without being in danger of being buried alive every
step. "/0 staid no less than twenty days at l'ampeluna; when. (seeing
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the
severest winter all over Europe that had been known in the memory ofman,)
I proposed that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping
for Bourdeaux, which was a very little voyage. But while I was considering
this, there came in four French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found outa guide,
who, traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought them
over the mountains by such ways that they were not much inconnnoded with
the snow; for where they met with snow in any quantity, they said it was
frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses. We sent for this guide,
who told us lte would undertake to carry us the same way, with no hazard
from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves
from wild beasts; for, he said, upon these great snows, it was ti'equcnt for
some wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made
ravenous for want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told
him we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were, if he
would insure us ti-om a kind of two-legged wolves, which, we were told, we
were ill most danger from, especially on the French side of the mountains.
He satisfied us that there was no danger of that kind in the way that we
were to go; so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other
gentlemen, with their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said,
had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back again.
'-' . .~_

 

Accordingly, we set out from Panmelnna, with our guide, on the 15th of
Non-tuber: and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of going lhnvard, he
canw directly hark with us on the same road that We came from Madrid,
about twenty miles; when, having passed two rivers, and route into the plain
country, We thuud ourselves in a warm climate again, where the rountry
was pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but, on a sudden, turning to his left,
he approm-lwd the mountains another way; and though it is true the hills
and pn-ripiet-s looked dreadtid, yet he made so many tours, stu'h meanders,
and h-d us Ivy sueh winding ways, that We inst-nsihly passed the height of
the mountains without being much inenudmred with the snow; and, all on
a sudden. he showed us the pleasant and fruitful provinces 6f Ialllguednc
and (last-oily, all green and flourishing, though, indeed, at a great distance,
and we had some rough way to pass still.

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one whole
day and a night so fast that we could not tnn'el: hut he hade us he easy, we
shouhl soon he past it all: We found, indeed, that we lwgan to desecnd every
day, and to eome more north than before ; and so, depending upon our guide
We went on.

It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being something
before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and nfier
then) a hear, out ot'a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood; two of the
woh'es made at the guide, and, had he been tin- bet'orc us, he would have
been devoured before We could have helped him; one of them litstcued
upon his horse, atul the other attaeked the tuna with that violence, that he
had not time or presence of mind enough to draw his pistol, but hallooed
aml cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday being next me, I bade him
ride up, atul see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of
the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, "0 nutstcr! 0 master 2" but,
like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor tuna, and with his pistol shot
the wolf that attacked him in the head.

It was happy "If the poor man that it Was my man Friday; litr, be having
been used to such creatures in his country, he had no tear upon him, but
went close up to llim,and shot him, as above; whereas any other ofus would
have lived at a litrther distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolt, or
endangered shooting the man.

llut it was enough to have terrified a bolder tnan than I; and, indeed, it
alarmed all our eompany, when, with the noise of Friday's pistol, we lteard
on both sides the most dismal howling of wolves; and the noise, redoubled
by the echo of the mountains, appeared to us as if there had been a prodi-
gious number ofthem; and, perhaps, there was not such a Ii-w as that we had
no cause of apprehensions; however, as Friday had killed this wolf, the
other, that had litstened upon the horse, leli him immediately. and tied, with-
out doiug him any damage, having happily lastencd upon his head, where
the lmsses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth. But the tnan was most hurt ;
for the. raging creature had hit him twiec, once in the arm, and the other
time a little above his knee; and though lte had made sonte defence, he was
just, as it Were, tumbling down by the disorder of his horse, when Friday
came up and shot the well:

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all mended our
pace, and rode up as iitst as the way, whieh was very ditiieult, would give us
leave, to see what was the neuter. As soon as we -a|ue clear of the trees,
which blinded us before, we saw clearly what had been the ease, and how
Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though we did not presently discern
what kind of ereature it was he ltad killed.

But never was a light managed so hardily, and in such a surprising matt-
ner, as that which tiillowed between Friday and the bear, which gave us all,
though at first we were surprised and ali'aid liir him, the greatest diversion
imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop as
the wolf does who is swift and light, so he has two particular qualities,
whit-h generally are the rule of his actions: first, as to men, who are ttot his
proper prey, (he does not usually attempt them, except they first attack him,
unless he be excessive hungry, which it is probable might now be the ease,
the ground being covered withsnow,) if yott do not meddle with him, he will
not tneddle with you; but then you must take care to be very civil to him,
and give him the road, tor he is a very nice gentleman; he will not go a step
out of his way for a prince; nay, if you are really ali'uid, your best way is to
look another way, and keep going on ; for sometimes, if you stop, and stand
still, and look steadfastly at him, he takes it for an ati'ront; but it' you throw
or toss any thing at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as
big as your finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other business aside
to pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point of honor;--thi3 is
his first quality: the next is, if he be once afl'ronted, he will never leave you,i248 'rm: Lu". .txo .un' :x'ruatzs

night or day, till he has his revenge, hut follows at a good round rate till he
overtakes you.

My tttan Friday ltad delivered our guide, and, whett we came up to ltim,
he was helping him otl' from his horse, for the man was both hurt and
ti'ighteued, when, on a sudden, \ve espied the bear eotne out of tlte wood, and
a vast, namstrous one it was, the biggest, by thr, that ever I saw. We were
all a little surprised when "'4: saw him; but when Friday saw him, it was
easy to see joy and eourage in the li-llow's countenance: "U, U, (l E " says
Friday, three times, pointing to hint; " 0 master! you give tne te leave, tue
shaker te halal with him; tne makee you good laugh."

I was surprised to see tlte tellow so Well pleased. " You timl," says I, " he
will eat you up." "l-latee me up! eatee me up!" says Friday, twiee over
again; "me eattre hitn up: me ntakee yott good laugh; yott all stay here, me
show you good laugh." So down he sits, attd gets till his boots ill a moment,
and puts on a pair of ptttups, (as we en" the tint shoes they Wear, atal which
he ltad in his poeket,) gives tny other servant his horse, and with his gun
away he flew, swil't like the wind.

The hear was walking sotlly on, and otli-red to meddle with nobody, till
Friday, coming pretty near, calls to him, as it'tlte bear could understand him.
" llark ye, hark ye," says Friday ; " nu: speakee with you." We liillowed at
a distant-e, litr ttow, being come down on the (:'aseony side ol'the mountains,
we were t'lllt'l't'tl a vast tort-st, where the eountry was plain ttnd pretty open,
though it had many trees in it scattered here and there. Friday, who had,
as \u: my, the heels of the bear, eatue up with hint quiekly, and takes up a
great stone and throws it at hint, atnl hit him just on the. head, but did him
no more harm than it' he had thrown it against a wall; bttt it answered Fri-
day's end, tor the rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the
bear tiillow him, and show us some laugh, as he called it. As soon as the
bear felt the blow, and saw ltim, he. turns about, atnl comes utter him, taking
devilish long strides, and shutlliug on at a strange rate, so as would have put
a horse to a middling.r gallop: away runs Friday, atul takes his course as it'
he ran towards us tiir help; so We all resolved to tire at once upon the bear,
and deliver my man; though I was angry at ltitn heartily for bringing the
hear back upon us, when he was going about his own business another Way;
atal esiarrially l was angry that he had turned the bear upon us, and then run
away; and l ralh-d out, " You dog, is this your making us laugh? Come
away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the e rature." He heard me,
and eriml ottt, .. .\'o shoot, no shoot; stand still, and you get Illltt'lt laugh ;"
and as the nimble ereature tan two feet for the hear'soue, he turned on a
sudden on one side of us, and, seeing a great oak-tree tit tbr his purlmse, hc
beekotu-d to us to tiillow : aml, doubling his pare, lie gets ttimbly up the tree,
laying his gun down upon the gmuud, at about live or six yards from the
bottont ot'lhe tree. The bear soon came to the tree, atul we liillowed at a
distanee: the first thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelled to it, bttt let it
lie, atul up he serambles into the tree, climbing like :1 eat, though so mott-
strous heavy. I was amazed at the tblly, us I thought it, of my man, and
would not tinr my lite see any thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up
the tree, we all rode near to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small end of a
large branch, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon as the bear249 - 250
Missing
From
Original
got out to that part Where. the hum of the tree was weaker," lla'. " says he
to as, " now Iou see me teaI-lII-I- the hear IlaIII-e:" so he liIlls il-jlllllplllg
and :Ihaltntg the hongh, at which the hear began to tone r, hat stood still, and
began to look behind him, to see how he should get hark ; then, indeed, we
did laugh heartily. lint II who had not done with him by II gr rIIat IlIII -;I| IIIII-n,
seeing him stand still, IIII calls out to hint again, as it' he had supposed the
bear could speak English, " \VIIIII, you I-ome no farther? pray you con"!
tiIrtlIer;" so he let! jmnping and shaking the tree; and the hear, just as it' he
understoml what he said, did come a little tin-ther; then he fell a-jtnnping
again, and the bear stopped again. \Ve thought now was a good time to
knock him in the head, aItd called to Friday to stand still, and we would
shoot the hear; but he cried out earnestly, " (I pray! 0 pray! no shoot; me
shoot by and then:" he Would have said by and by. However, to shorten the
story, Friday danced so much, and the be Ir stood so tieklish, that IIII had
laughiuII enough, hut still could not imagiue what the fellow would do: for,
first, we thought he depended upon shaking the hear oil; and We found the
III Iear was too cunning tor that too; tor he would not go out tiIr enough to ho
thrown down, but clings last. with his great, hroad claws and feet, so that we
could not imagine what would he the end of it, run! what the jest would he
at last. But Friday pttt us out of douht Iptirkly: for, seeing the hear cling
fast to the hough, and that he would not he persuaded to route any titrther,
" ""Irll, well," says Friday, " yott no conII- litrther, me go; you no come to
me, me come to you I " and upon this he goes out to the smaller end of the
lmugh, where it would head with his Weight, and gently lets lIiuIsI-lt' Ilowu
hy it, sliding down the hough till he came Instr enough to jump down on Ins
tiII-t, and away he runs to his gun, takes it up, and stands still. " Well," said
I to him, I' l-'riduy, what will you do now? Why don't you shoot him?"
" No shoot," says Friday, " no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give
you one more laugh;" and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presently: for,
when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back from the hoagh where
he stood, but did it mighty cautiously, looking behind him every step, and
coming backward till he got into the holly ot' the tree; then, with the saute
hinder (Ind "matter", he came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and
moving one font at II time, very leisurely. At this juncture, and just hetitre
he could set his hind hot on the "round, II'ridIII' stepped up dose to hint,
clapped the muzzle ot his piece into his III Ir. and shot him dead. Then the
rogue turned about to see it we did not laugh: and II hen he saw we were
pleased, by ottr looks, he lidls a-lttughing hiaIsIIlt' very loud. II So we kill
hear itt tny eonntrv," says Friday. 'I So you kill them. 'I" says I; II why. you
have no guns." "No," saIs he, II no "llll, hut shoot are: It InItIIh louI.I arrow".
This was It good divrse rs ion to us; hat "(3 we re still III a wild More. and our
guide very much hurt. and what to do we hardly knew: the howlinf.I of
wolves ran IIIIIIIII in my head: and. indeed, I-xeept the noise. I onee heard on
the shore of Ali'ica, of which I have said something already,l never heard
any thing that tilled Inc with so much hon-or.

These things, and the approaI-h ot' niyht, railed us of], or else, as Friday
would have had us, We should ccrtainlv have taken the skin of this monstrous
creature ott', which was worth saving. . but we had near three lea-rues to go,
and our guide hastened Its; so We Ietl him, and went thrward on our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and dangerous
as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as We heard afterwards,
were come down into the tort-st and plain country, pressed by hunger, to
seek for loud, nml had done a great deal of misehiet' in the villages, where
they surprised the country people, killed a great many of their sheep and
horses, aml some people too. \Vc had one dangerous place to pass, which, our
guide told us, il'there were more wolves in the country, We should titnl them
there ; aml this was a small plaitt, surrounded with woods on every side, utld
a long, narrow detile, or lane, which we were to pass to get through the wood,
nml then we should come to the. village where we were to lodge. It was
within half an hour of sunset when we entered the wood, and a little alter
sunset when we canie into the plain: we met with nothing in the first wood,
exeept that in a little plain within the wood, which was not above two l'ur-
longs over, we saw live great wolves cross the road, full speed, one alter utt-
otber, as if they had been in chase of some prey, atul had it in View; they
took no notice ot'us, atnl were gone out ol'sight ill a liew moments. Upon this
our guide, who, by the. way, was but a taint-hearted t'ellow, hid us keep in a
ready posture, for he believed there were more Wolves u-coming. \Ve kept
our arms ready, atul our eyes about us: but we saw no tttore wolves till we
catue througlt that wood, which was near halt'a league, and entered the plain.
As soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough to look about
Its: the lirst object we met with was a dead horsc,tlutt is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, aml at least a dozen of thctn at work, we eottld
not my eating ot'him, bnt picking of his bones, rather: tor they had eaten up
all the flesh betore. We did not think lit to disturb them at their li-ast, nei-
ther did they take much notice ol'us. Friday thllltl have let fly at them, but
I would not sutli-r hitn by any means; lin- I found We were like to have
more business upon our hands than we wer - aware olI \Ve were not gone
halt'over the plain, when we began to hear the wolves bowl in the. wood on
our left in a t'rightl'ul manne ': and presently utter We saw about a hundred
coming on dir -ct|_v towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as
regularly as an army drawn up by experienced olliecrs. I scarce knew ilt
what manner to receive them. but found to draw ourselves ill a elose line was
the only way: so we liu'tned in a moment; but that we might not have too
llltlt'll interval. I ordered that only every other tnan should tire, atnl that the
othets, who had not tired, should stand r -ady to give tltettt a second volley
iInnn-diately, it' they continued to advance. upon us; and then that those. who
had tired at tirst,shonld not pretend to load their t'usees again, but stand
ready. every one with a pistol, tor we \t'ertmdl armed with a t'nsec atnl a pair
ot'pislols each man: so We were, by this method, able to tire si.\' volleys, half
of us at a time: however, at present, Wt' bad no necessity; tiir, upon tiring
the lirst volley, the enemy made a full stop, being territied as well with the
noise as with the tire: tour ot'them, being shot in the head, dropped ; several
others were wounded, and went bleeding otl; as We cottld see by the snow.
I tound they stopped, but did not itnnn-diately retreat; whereupon, remem-
bering that I had been told that the :ierccst creatures were terrified at the
voice ot'a man, I caused all the company to Italloo as loud as we could; and]
tiunal the notion not altogether mistaken: tbr upon our shout they began to
retire, and turn about. I then ordered a second volley to be fired in their
rear, which put theta to the gallop, and tt\ 'ay they went to the woods. This
gave as leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we might lose no time,
 

We kept going; but We had but little more than loaded our fusees, and put
ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the some wood on
our left, only that it was further onward, the same way we "'ch to go.

The night wns coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which made it
worse on our side; but, the noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it
Was the howling and yelling ol'those hellish creatures; and, on a sudden, we
perceived two or three troops of woh'es, one on our let}, one behind uzg and
out: in our ti'ont, so that we seemed to be surrounded with them: howm'er,
as they did not titll upon us, we kept our way tin-ward, as fast as we could
tuuke our homes go, which, the way being very rough. was only a good hard
trot. In this mnnuer, we eume in View of the entmnee ot' a wood, through
which We were to puss, at the timber side of the plain; but we were gn-atly
surprised, when, coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a contitsed number
of wolves standing just at the entrance. 0n n sudden, at another opening ol'
the wood, we heard the noise of a gun, aml, looking that way, out rushed a.
horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the wind, and six--
teen or sm'euteen wolves nlier him full speed: indeed, the horse had the heels
ot'thcm; but, as we supposed that he could not hohl it at that rate, we doubted
not but they would get up with him at last; no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight; tbr, riding up to the entrance
where the horse came. out, we tbuud the ctu'casses of another horse and of
two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the men was no
doubt the same whom we heurd fire the gun, for there lay a gun just by him
fired off; but as to the man, his bend and the upper part of his body were
eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course to take;
but the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in
hopes of prey; and 1 verily believe there were three hundred of them. It
happened very much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the wood,
but a little way from it, there lay some large timber-trees, which had been
cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. Idrew
my little troop in among those trees, and, placing ourselves in a line behind
one long tree, I advised them all to alight, and, keeping that tree before us for
a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing our horses in
the centre. \Vc did so, and it was well we did; for never was a more furious
charge than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on with
a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I said,
was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their prey; and this
fury oftheirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses
behind us. I ordered our men to fire as before, every other man; and they
took their aim so sure, that they killed several of the wolves at the first vol-
ley; but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on
like devils, those behind pushing on those before.

When we had fired a second volley of our fusees we thought they stopped
a little, and I hoped they would have gone off; but it was but a moment, for
others came forward again; so we fired two volleys of our pistols; and I
believe in these four firings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and
lamed twice as many; yet they came on again. 1 was loath to spend our shot
too hastily; so 1 called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better
employed; for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had charged my
fusee and his own while we were engaged; but, as I said, 1 called my other
man, and, giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all along the
piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He did so; and bad but just time
to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and some got upon it, when I,
snapping an uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on fire: those that
were upon the timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell,
or rather jumped in among us, with the force and flight of the fire; we de-
spatchcd these in an instant, and the rest were so frightened with the light,
which the night--for it was now very near dark-- made more terrible, that
they drew back a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired ofl'in
one volley, and aller that we gave a shout: upon this, the wolves turned tail,
and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones that we found
struggling on the ground, and fell a-cutting them with our swords, which
answered our expectation; for the crying and howling they made was better
understood by their fellows; so that they all fled and left us.

\Vc had, first and last, killed about threescore of them; and had it been
daylight, we had killed many more. The field of battle being thus cleared,
we made forward again, for we had still near a league to go. \Ve heard the
ravenous creatures bowl and yell in the woods as we went, several times,
and sometimes We fancied we saw some of them, but, the snow dazzling our
eyes, we were not certain: in about an hour more, We' came to the town
where we were to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, and all in amis;
for, it seems, the night before, the wolves and some bears had broke into the
village, and put them in such terror that they were obliged to keep guard
night and day, but especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and, indeed,
their people.

The next morning, our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so much
with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no further; so we255 - 256
Missing
From
Originalor "0|than Cltl'an. 237

"'crc nbligcil In tnkc a In-w gnitlc hct'c.uln| go In 'I'llnulousc, wht'rc wc linmtl
a warm clinmtc, a ti'uitt'ul. ph-asanl country. and no snow, no wnln-s, nor <<my
thing Iikc tIn-m; Imt "III'II \u- lohl our story at 'I'linIiloIIsi-,tln-y tohl us it was
nothing but what "as ordinary in lhc grout Ibrcst at tln- limt of thc moun-
tains, c-spccinlly "III'II tln- snow lay on thc ground; but "my itnptirctl mllch
"hat kiml of a guiilc \w hail gut. who would wntnrc. to bring us that way in
such it scn-rc scasnn ; atul tohl us it "as surprising wv wort! tint ulI ilt-Vourcil.
\\'hcn wc tnltl thctu hnw "c placcil ottt'si-In-s ntul tlu- horscs in tho tniihllc,
tltcy hlatncil us cwcculingly'. aml tnhl us it was tilly to onc but \vc. Inul hccn
all <<lcstroyi-il; tiu' it "as thc sight of thc burst-s which nunlc tltc wulvcs so
lin'ions. sccing: tltcir prcy ; aml that, at ulllt'l' timcs. tbcy arc rcally afraid of
a gun: but hcing cxccssiu- hungry. atnl raging on that account. tltccagcrncs-t
tn cntnc at tln- hnrscs hail tnatlc tlu-tn scttsrlcss nl' tlntlgt r: mnl tlttll ll' "1'
lunl not. hy thc continua-d lit'c. anal. at last. by tlu- slratagctn of thc train of
pooch-r. Inaslcrcil tin-tn, it hail hcctt gt'cat nilils hut that \\c hail hccn torn tn
pin-cs; "In-rcas. hail \\c lwcu contcnt to limo sat still on lmrsclun'knnnl
lit'cil as hnrscnn-n. thcy would not han- takcu thc hnrscs sn much liir thcir
onu. uhcn ttlt'lt m-rc nu thcir hacks. as nthcrnisc: :unl withul thcy told us,
that, at last. il' \\c hail sloonl all tngcthcr. and lcll our linrscs. thcy wnuhl
Inuc hccu so cagcr to haw- II1'\IIIII'l'tI lln'ln. that "c might lta\'c coluc nll'
Ntli', cspccially having our lirc-arms in nttr hands. ttlttl hcing so many in
tnunlu-r. For my part. I "as ncycr so scnsihlc nl' ilnngcr in my Inc: for,
sci-in: ahmc thrcc lmtnlrcil tlcyils cnmc roaring :uul olwn-tnntttIu-tl tn tlcrnnr
us. ainl hm in: nothing to sln-ltcr us or rctrcat tn. I gmc ntysclt' nycr t'nr lust;
and. as it "as. I hclicyc I shall ncycr can- to cross thosc mountains again: I
think I would much rathcr go a thousand lcagucs by sca, though I was sun:

In lllt't'l with a storm nncc a \wck.

l hnvc nothing nncnunnnn tn Iakc nuticc nt' in my passagc through France;
nothing but n hut nthcr tmn-Ih-rs han- giycu an account nt'. With much tunrc.
_:c than I 'an. I II'HVI'III'II t'rotu 'I'honlonsc to Paris: and, without

allyant
any cnnsiilcrublc stay. caua- to ('al: s. and latulctl sali' at Ilm'cr, the "HI of
January. atlcr having: a scycrc colil scasnn to trim-I in.

I was no" conic In tbc ccntrc of my tram-ls, :unl bail. in a little Illltl', all
my iii-\v-iliscm-crcil cstatc sali- about tttc: tltc hills nt'cxclttntgc which I
brought with Inc haying hccn \'cry currcntly paitl.

My principal gniilc aml privy cntmscllnr was my good. ancicnt wiilow,
Who. in gratitnilc tbr tlu- mom-y I had scnt hcr. thought Itn pains too much,
ttor carc ton grcat. In ctnploy t'nr Inc: and l trttstcil ln-r so cntircly with
cycry lbing. that I was pcrti-clly casy as to thc sccnrity of my ctIi-cts; ntnl,
imlcccl. I was wry happy t'rom tln- hcginningunul now to the end, in the
unspnttctl intcgrity of this good gcntlmyoinan.

:'tltl now. having' rcsolycil to dispose of my plantation in tho llmsils, l
wrotc to my old t'riclnl at Lisbon; who. having otli-rcil it to the two lucr-
chants. thc survivors of my trustccs. who lived in tho llmsils, thcy ncccptcil
tlu- otIi-r. mnl rcmittcil thirty-tln-ct- thousand picccs-nllcight to 1: correspond-
cnt nl' thciis at Lisbon. to pay for it.

In rcluru. I s .zucil thc instrumcnt ot' salc in the "DH" which thcyscnt t'rom
Lisbon. and scnt it to my ohl man. who scnt Inc thc bills (if cxchungc for
thirty-two Ihnusatnl cight lnmulrcil picccs-nllcight tbr tltc cstatc: rcscrving
Illt' paymcnt nt' onc Inunlt'ctl Illllltltll't'S a ycar tu ltittt (tla- old man) (luringltis

33
lite. and lilly moidores al'tcrn'ards to his son for his Iil'e, which I had pront-
ised them: and which the plantation Was to make good use rent-charge.
And thus I Il.'t\'t' gin-n the titst part of a liti- ol' throw: and adventure; a life
or I'rot'idence's cln-cltctuwork, and ot' a variety which tlte world will seldom
he ahle to show the likcot'; lwgitming tintlishly, but closing much more
happily than any part of it ever gave me It':t\'t' so much as to hope for.

Any one would think, that in this state of cotnplicatcd good fortune, I was
past running: any more Ita'lards, and so. indeed, I quI In'cn, if other t'irt'tnn-
stances had concurred: lntt I "as innred to a wandcriugr lili-, had no liuuily.
nor many relations: uor, I|n\\'r\'t'l' rich, had I contracted much acquaintance;
and tlmngh I had sold tny estate in the IIrasiIs, yet I could not keep thut
country out of my head. and had a great mind to be upon the wing again;
especially I could not resist the strong inclination I had to sec. nty island,
and to know it' the lmul' Spaniards were in being then". My true friend,
the widow, earnestly dissuaded Inc from it. and so far pret' IIed with me,
that, the almost sen-n ycats. she prerentml my running abroad: during which
time. I took my tno nephews. the chihlrcu of one of my brothers, into my
-are: the eldest. haying something of his own, I hrcd up as a gentleman, and
gate him :t settlement of some addition to his estate. after my (It-cease. The
other I put out to a captain of a ship: and, after tire years, finding him a

 

sensihlc, hold. enterprising young ti-Ilow, I pttt him into a good ship, and
sent him to sc't: and this you": ti-llow afterwards drew me in, as old as l
was. to litrther adtenlures mysclli

In the nu-an time. I. in part. settled mysell' here: tor, first oI'aIl, I married,
and that not either to my d'. advantage or tIISfiIIISIilt'IItIII, attd had three chil-
dren. two sons and one daughter: but my wiliv dying, and my nephew
coming' home with good success from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to
go abroad. and his imporumity. prevailed, and engaged tnc to go ill his ship
as a private trader to the I'iast Indies: this Was in the y at!' I694.

III this to l.'-'"- I visited tny new colony ill the island; saw my successors,
the Spaniards: had the whole story of their lives. and of tlte villains I left
there: how at tirst they insulted the poor Spaniards; how they afterwards
agreed. disagreed. united. sclmratctl, aml how, at last, the Spaniards were
obliged to use \'iulc'tn't' with them: how they were sultiected to the Span-
iards: how honestly the Spaniards used them--a history, if it were entered
into. as full ot't'ariety and wonderlitl accidents as tny own part; particularly,
also. as to their battles with the ('arthn-ans. who landed several times upon
the island: and as to the improvement they made upon the island itSeII';
and how Ii\'t' ol'them made an attempt upon the main land, and brought
away eleven tnen. and live women. prisoners: Ity Which, at my coming, I
Iinnnl alnnu twenty young I'IIIItII' 'n on the island.

Here I staid alnntt twenty days: left them supplies of all necessary things,
atnl particularly ot'arnts. powder. shot. clothes. tools, and two workmen,
which I brought from Iingland with me, \'i'l... a carpenter and a smith.

Besides this. I shared the lands into parts with them: reserved to myself
the prnpt'l'ly ol' the whole. hm gave them such parts. restn'ctivcly, as they
agreed on: and. having settled all things with them, and engaged them not
to leave the place. I left them there.

From thence I touched at the Brasils; from whence. I sent a hark, which
I bought there, with more people, to the island; and in it, besides other
supplies, I sent seven women,-- being such as 1 found proper for service, or
for wives to such as Would take them. As to the I'Inglishnlen, I promised
them to send tltetn some women from England, with a good cargo of neces-
saries, if they Would apply themselu-s to planting; which I utterwnrds could
not perform. The telloWs proved very honest and diligent, tiller the ' were
mastered, and but! their pmperties set apart tbr them. I sent them. also,
from the Brasils, five cows, three of them being: big with -all', some
sheep, and some hogs; which, when 1 came again, were considerably
increased.

But all these things, with an account how three hundred C'aribbees cmuc
mul invaded them, atnl ruined their plantations; aml how they fought with
that whole number twice, and Were at first defeated. and one of them killed;
but, at last, a storm dcstmying their enemies' canoes, they linuished or de-
stroycd almost all the rest, and renewed atul rccm'ered the poseexsion of
their plantation, and still l'wed upon the island.

All these things. with some very surprising incidents in some. new adven-
tures of my own, for ten yeam more, 1 shall give a further account of in tlto
second part of my history." ASS\ " 3"
Key

tuna" 8. .

    

THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

nu homely proverb, used on so
many occasions in England, viz.,
"That what is bred in the bone
will not go out of the flesh," was
never more verified than in the
story of my life. Any one would
think, that after thirty-five years'
aflliction, and a variety of unhappy
circumstances, which few men, if
any, ever went through before;
and afler near seven years of peace
and enjoyment, in the {illness of
all things, grown old, and when,
if ever, it might be allowed me
to have had experience of every
state of middle life, and to know
which was most adapted to make
a man completely happy; I say, after all this, any one. would have thought
that the nature propensity to ratinbling, which I gave an account at; in my
first setting out in the world, to have been so predominant in my thoughts,--
should be worn out, the volatile part be litlly e 'au-uatad, or, at least, cott-
deused, atul I might, at sixty-one years of age, have been a little inclined to
stay at hunw, and have done venturing lil'e auul tin-tune any more.

Nay, tiu'ther, the eommon motive of lbreign adventures was taken away
in me, tin' I had no lbrtune to make; I haul nothing to seek; it' I had gained
ten thousand putnuls,| had been no rirlu-r: for l haul already sullicient for
me, and for those I haul to loan- it to; anal that I haul was visibly increasing;
Ibr, having no great liunily. I could not spend the income of what I haul,
unless I would set up liir an expensive way of living, such as, a great Iinnily,
servants, mptipage, gaya-ty, and the like, whivh were things I had no notion of;
or inclination to: so that I had nothing, indeed, to do, but to sit still, am!
Iially enjoy what I had got, :uul sm- it increase daily upon my hands. Yet all
these things had no elli-ct upon me, or, at least, not a-uongh to resist the
strong inclination I had to go abroad again, which hung aboltt me like a
chronic-ad distemper. In particular. the desire of seeing my new plantation
in tha- islaml, and the t'nhmy I left there, ran in my head continually. I
drt'anu-d of it all night, and my itnaginatiuu ran upon it all day; it was up--
permost in all my thoughts; aml my tiuu'y worked so steadily and strongly
npam it, that I talked of it in my sleep; in short, nothing could remove it out.
of my mind: it even bruke so violently into all my discourses, that it made
my mun-matiun tin-some; li-r I could talk of nuthing else; all my disruurse
ran into it, even to inuu-rtim-m'u; and I saw it in mysell'.

I have olieu heard persons of good judgment say, that all the stir people
make in the world about ghosts atul apparitious, is owing to the strength of
imagination. and the puwertitl llllt'l'fllltlll ul' l'anu-y in their minds: that there
is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking, and the like; that
people's poring alli'a'tiouatu-Iy upam the past conversation at" their deceased
Ii'ieluls, so realizes it to them, that they are eapabh- of tinu'ying, upon some
extraordinary a'irctnnstatu-a-s, that they see. tln-m, talk to tIu-m, and are all-
swa-rc-d by them, wln-n, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapor in
the thing, atul they really know uuthiug ol' the matter.

For my part,| know not to this hour wlu-tha-r there are any such things
as real appariliuns, stun-trans, or walking of people after they are dead; or
whether there is any thing in the stories they tell us of that kind, more than
the produet ol' vapors, sit-k miluls, and wandering fancies; but this I know,
that my imagination worked up to sltt'll a height, and brought me into such
excess of vapors, or what else I may 'all it, that I actually supposed myself
(than upon the spot, at my old castle, behind the trees; saw my old Spun-
iard, I~'riday's lather, atml the reprohate milors I left upon the island; any,
I I'aut'it-d I talked with them, and looked at them steadily,---thongh I was
broad awake,--as at persons just below me; and this I did, till I often
frightened: myself with the images my laney represented to me. One time,
in my sleep, I had the. villany ut' the. three pirate sailors so lively related to
me by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was surprising; they
told me how they barbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and
that they set fire to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose to distress
and starve them--things that I had never heard of, and that, indeed, were
never all of theta true in fact; but it was so warm in my imagination, and
so realized to me, that. to the hour I saw thcm,l could not be persuaded
but tltat it was, or would be, true; also, how I resented it, when the Spaniard
complained to me; attd how I brought them to jttstice, tried them before
me, uttd ordered tltent all three to be hanged. "that there Was really itt this
shall be smut in its place: lin' however I came to tbrtn such things '11 my
dreattt, nttd what secret converse of spirits injected it, yet there Was, I say,
much of it true. I own tltat this dream had nothing in it literally and spe-
eitieally true: but the general part was so trne,--the base, villanous belat-
\ior ol' tltese three hardened rogues was such, and had been so tnuclt Worse
than all I can descrilw. that the dream had too much similitude ot' the titer;
aml as I would alterwards have punished them severely. so, il' I had hanged
them all, I had been much itt the right, attd even shouhl have been justified
both by the laws of God and man. lhtt to return to my story: In this kind
of temper I lived some years: I had no enjoyment of toy life, no pleasant
hours, no agreeable. diversion. but what ltad something or other of this in
it; so that my with, who saw my tniml wholly bent upon it, tohl tne very
seriously one night, that she believed there was some secret powerful int-
pulse of Providence upon me, which ltad determined me to go thither
again: aml that she lbnnd nothing hindered my going, but my being en-
gaged to a wile atul children. She told me that it was true she could not
think of parting with me; but. as she was assured that it' she was dead it
would be the first thing I wonhl do, so, as it seemed to her that the thing
was determined above, sbe \vould ttot be the only obstruction; for, if!
thought tit, and resolved to 540-- [Here she found ttte very intent upon her
words, atnl that I looked very earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered
her, attd she stopped. I asked her why she did ttot go on, and say out what
she tvas going to say. But I perceived that her heart Was too full, and some26-1 'I'Illi LII'I: AND AIH'IEN'I'I'RIIS

tears stood itt Iu-r <<yr-3.] "Speak out, my dear," said I; "are. you willing
I should go?" "No," says sltv, wry atlist-tionatt-ly, "I am litr from willing;
bill if you are rt-solvod to go," says she, "and rather than I would be the
only llllttlt'l'tlllt't',I will go with you; titr though I think it a ntost preposterous
thing, Iiu' our of your years, and in your condition, yet, it' it must be," said
shr, again \\'t't'|tlll;_', "I would not It':l\'t' you; litr, it' it ho oI' Ilravc-n, yott
most do it; IIlt'rt' is no resisting it; and il' IIt-awn make it your duty to go,
I". "-5" "[5" "mkp it mint: to go with yott, or otln-t'wiso dispose of llll', that
I may not obslrllt'l it."

This alli-rtionan- behavior of toy wit'v's brmtgbt me a little out ol' tho
vapors: aml I Iu-gan to consider what I was doing. I t-orrrt-trd my wan-
dering lam-y; aml lwgan to argon with myst-Il; sa-datt-ly, what busim-ss I
had, Itllt'l' thrm-st-ort- years, and after such a lili- ot' tt-dious sutli'rings and
disaslrrs, and closed in so happy aml easy a matmt-r,---I say, what business
had I to rush into now hazards. and put myst-lt' upon advontttrt-s lit only for
youth aml port-rty to run into?

"'ith Illust' thoughts I rousidvn-d my llt'\\' t-ng-tgt-uu-nt: that I had a wili-,
one rhild born. and my \viti- tin-n great with rhild of another: that I had
all the world t'tIIlltI givt- mo, aml bad Ito llt't'tI to sot-It ha'Iard lbr gain: that
I was dot-lining in years. and ought to think ratIu-r of having what I had
gttitn'd, than of st'vltittg to lllt't't'IlN'. it t that as to what my with had said of
its In-ing an impolst- Ii-om Ilt-avt-u. and that it should be my duty to go,I
had no notion of that: so. at'trr many of those t-ogitatious, I strltgglt-d with
the pom-r ot'tny imagination, rt-asom-d myst-lt'out ol'it,--as I believe Pt'fllllt!
may always do in Iila- cast-s. it' tboy will.---aud, in a word, I rompu-rvd it;
compost-d myself with sttrh argtnnrnts as orrnrred to my thoughts, atul
whit-b my present rondition tiu'nisbt-d mo plt-utilitlly with; and, partirularly,
as tbt' most t-lli-t-tual lttt'llltltl. I resolved to diva-rt mysvll' with other things,
and to engagi- in snow lutsint-ss that might t-tlia-tttnlly tir me. up from any
more t'vrursious of this kind; lbr I Iilltlltl that thing return upon me rhit-Ily
wlu-u I was idlv, aml had nothing to do, nor any thing of moment immo-
diatt-ly IN'IIN'I' tttt'. To this pttrposv. I bought a little. titrtn ill the. county of
Ih-dlinrd, and resolved to remove tuyst-It' thither. I had a little, rouvoniont
house upon it; aml tlu- land about it, I found, was capable of great improve-
uu-nt; and it was many ways suited to my inclination,--wbich delighted in
cultivating, tmtu:t_:_mg, planting, aml improving ol' lunch--and, partirnlarly,
bring an inland country, I was I't'lllt)\'t'tl from rouvcrsiug among sailors, and
things relating to tho l't'llltllt' parts ol' the world.

In a word, I "'t'lll down to my titrm, st-ttlrd my family, bought me plougbs
barrows, a cart, wagon, horses, rows, and sharp, and, setting seriously to
work. humour, in our ltalt'yoar, a more country gentlrtuau. My thoughts
were entirely talu-n up in managing my sa-rvants, rttltivating the ground,
eta-losing, planting, &r.; atnl I livt'd, tts I thought, the most agreeable Iili:
that Iltlllll't' was capable of dirt-Ming, or that a man, always bred to misfor-
tunes, was rapabln ot' rotrrating to.

I titrmrd upon my own land; I had no rent to pay; was limited by no
articles; I could pull up or out down as I pleased; what I planted was for
myst-It', and what I itaprowd was for my family; and, having thus loll of?
tho thoughts of \ 'andt-riug, I had not the least discomfort in any part of life
as to this world. Now I thought, indeed, that I enjoyed the middle state of
life, which my father so earnestly recommended to me; and lived a kind
of heavenly me, something like what is described by the poet, upon the
subject of a country life : ---

--- " Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare."

llut, in the middle of all this l'elieity, one blow from unseen Providence
nnbinged me at ont'e; mnl not only made a bread: upon me, inevitable
and ineurable, bllt drove me, by its eonsequenees, into a deep relapse of the
wandering disposition, whit-h, as I may say, being born ill my very blood,
soon n-eovered ils hold of me; and, like tile returns of a violent distemper,
'alne on with an irresistible t'uree upon me. This blow was the loss of my
with. It is not lay business here to write all elegy upon my wile, give a
eharaeler of her lun'tieular virtues, alul make tny eourt to the sex by the
llattery of a funeral sermon. She was, ill a few Words, the stay of all my
allilil's, the eentre of all my enterprises, the engine that, by her prudent-e,
redueed me to that happy eompass l was ill, than the most extravagant and
ruinous projeet that llutlered ill my head, as above, atul did more to guide
my tumbling genius than a mother's tears, a lilther's instrlu'tious, a friend's
eouusel. or all my own reasoning powem could do. I Was happy in listening
to her tears. and ill being moved by her entreaties; and, to the last degree,
desolate and tlislln'ated ill the world by tlle loss of her.

\Vhell she was gone. the world looked awkwardly rolllul lne. [was
as nun-h a stranger in it. in my thoughts, as l was in the lirasils, when
l lirsl Weill on shore there; and as much alone, except as to the assistance
of servants, as I Was in my island. I knew neither what to think uor what
to do. I saw the world busy around me; olle part laboring for bread,
another part sqnaudering in vile t-xel-ss-es or empty pleasures, equally mis-
erable. berallse the end they prolmsed still lled li'oul thrill; titr the men
of pleasure every day sllrti-ited of their viee, alul heaped up work tilr sorrow
and repentance; and the men of labor spent their strength in daily strug-
gling tbr bread to maintain the vital strength they labored with; so living
in a daily eireulatiou of sorrow, living but to work. and working but to live
as if daily bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a wearisome life
the only oeellsion of daily bread.

'l'bis put me ill mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island;
where l slithered no more com to grow, because I did not want it; and
bred no more goats because I had no more use tbr them ; where llle money
lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy, and had source the favor to be looked
upon in twenty years.

All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have done, and as
reason and religion had dictated to lne, would have taught me to seareh
lin'lher than human enjoylnents for a full lblieity: aml that there was some-
thing wllieh certainly was the reason and end of life, superior to all these
things. and whieh was either to be poweseed, or at least hoped for, on this

side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without a pilot,

that could only run more the wind: my thoughts ran all away again into the
old affair; my head was quite turned with the whimseys of foreign ad-
ventures; aad all the pleasant, innocent amusements of my than, my garden,
my rattle, and my linuily, wllirh belbre entirely powmsed lne, were nothing
to me, had no relish, and were like music to one that has no ear, or food

34
to one that has no taste: in a word,l resolved to leave ofl' housekeeping,
let my limo, and return to London; and, in a tiny mouths alter, I did so.

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was helitre; I had no
relish for the ltlnt't', no etttploytltt-ttt in it, nothing to do but to manter about
like an idle lu-rson, of whom it may he said, he is perfectly useless in God's
ereation, and it is not one tarlhing's matter to the rest of his kind whether
he he dead or alive. This, also, was the thing whirh, of all eircumstunces
ol' Iit'e, was the most my "Version, who had been all my days ttsed to an
aetite lili' ; and I would often say to mysell; " A state. of idleness is the Very
dregs ot' lili::" and. indeed, I thought I was mueh more suitably etnployed
when I was twenty-six days making me. a deal hoard.

It was now the lit-ginning ot' the year Hm, when my nephew, whom, an I
have ohseryed hetivre, I had brought up to the sea, and had made him rom-
matuler ot' a ship, was eonte home from a short voyage to IIiIhoa, being the
first he had made. lle eatne to me, and told me that some merchants of
his aequaintam-e had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the
East Indies. and to (illitttt, as private traders. "And now, uncle," says he,
"it'yon will go to sea with me, I will engage to Iattd you upon your old
hahitation ill the island: lin' we are to lunch at the' llrusils."

Nothing can he a greater demonstration of a future state, and of the
existent-e of an invisihle world, than the eom-urreure oI' seeond causes
with the ideas of things whirh we linrm in our minds, pert'ertly reserved,
atnl not eommnnieated to any in the world.

My nephew knew nothing how titr my distemper of wandering was
returned upon me. and I knew nothing of what he had in his thought to say,
when, that wry morning, heti-re he. eame to me, I had, in a great deal
of eont'usion ut' thought, and rewlying every part of my ein'umstances in
my tniml. eona- to this resolution, VIL, that I would go to Lisbon, and consult
with my old sea eaplain; and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would
go and see the island again, and see what was become of my people there.

waw w" '-
ti'Jur-H l' "l

'?
lltatl pleased myself with the thoughts of peopliug the place, and carrying
inhabitants from hence, getting a patent tor the yunssesmiou, trial I knew not
what; when, in the middle of all this, in comes my nephew, an I have said,
with his project of carrying me thither in his way to the East ladies.

I paused a while at his words, and, looking steadily at him, " What devil,"
said I, "sent you on this unlucky errand?" My nephew stared, as if he
had been frightened, at first : hut perceiving that l was not much displeased
with the proposal, he recon-red himsclll "I hope it may not be an unlucky
proposal, sir," mys he; "I dare say you would he pleased to see your new
colony there, where you once reigned with more li-licity their most of your
brother monarchs in the world."

In a word, the. scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say, the
prepostessiou I Was under, uml of which I have said so much, that I told
him, in a few words, it' he agreed with the merchants, I would go with him;
but I told him I Would not promise to go any titrther than my own island.
"Why, sir," says he, "you don't want to he let! there again, I hope."
" Why," said I, "can you not take me up again on your return?" He told me
it would not be lutssihle to do so; that the merchants would never allow him
to come that way with a laden ship of such value, it being a month's sail
out ot'his way, uml might he three or timr. "Besides, sir, it' I should
miscurry," said he, " and not return at all, then you would be just reduced to
the condition you were. in lM'lllft'."

This was very rational; but we both [hand out a remedy for it; which
was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which, being taken in pieces,
and shipped on board the ship, might, hy the help ot'some carpenters, whom
We agreed to can-y with us, he set up again in the island, and finished fit
to go to sea in a flaw days.

I was not long resolving; tiir, imleed, the importunities of my nepltew
joined so efl'ectuully with my im-linution, that nothing eouhl oppose me; on
the other hand, lily wilic living dead, I had nobody concerned themselves so
much for me as to persuade me to one way or the other, except my ancient.
good li'iend the widow, who earnestly struggled with me to consider my
years, my easy circumstances, and the uecdhw hazards of a long voyage;
and, above all, my young cliihh-en. But it was all to no purpose; I had
an irresistible desire to the voyage; and I told her I thought there was
sonwthiug so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind tor the
voyage, that it would he a kind of resisting Providence it'l should attempt
to stay at home; alter which she ceased her exlmulatious, and joined with
me, not only in making provision for my voyage, but also in settling my
family afl'airs for my absence, and providing for the education of my
children.

In order to do this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in such a
manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I was perfectly easy
and satisfied they would have justice done them, whatever might befitll me;
and for their education, I left it wholly to the widow, with a sufficient
maintenance to herself; for her care; all which she richly deserved; for
no mother could have taken more care in their education, or understood it
better; and an the lived till I came home, I also lived to thank her for it.

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January, 1694-5'
and I. with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs, the 8th; having,
besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo of all
kinds of necessary things for my colony, which, if I did not find in good
condition, I resolved to leave so.

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to place there as
inhabitants, or at least to set on work there, upon my account, while I staid,
and either to leave them there or carry them forward, as they would
appear willing; particularly, I carried two carpenters, a smith, and a very
handy, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by trade, and was also a general
mechanic; for he was dexterous at making wheels, and hand-mills to grind
corn, was a good turner, and a good pot-maker; he also made any thing that
was proper to make of earth or of wood; in a word, we called him our Jack-
of-all-trades. With these, I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go a
passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards consented to
stay on our new plantation, and proved a most necessary, handy fellow, as
could be desired, in many other businesses besides that ot'his trade; for, as I
observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employments.

My cargo, as near as I can recollect,--for I have not kept account of
the particulars,-- consisted of a suflicient quantity of linen, and some English
thin stuffs, for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to find there; and
enough of them, as, by my calculation, might comfortably supply them for
seven years: if I remember right, the materials I carried for clothing them,
with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things as they could want
for wearing, amounted to above two hundred pounds, including some beds

a. "r

 

bedding, and household stufl; particularly kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles,
pewter, brass, &c., and near a hundred pounds more in iron work, nails,
tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I could
think of: l

I carried, also, a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees; besides some
pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four tons of lead,
and two pieces of brass cannon; and, because I knew not what time and
what extremities I was providing for, I carried a hundred barrels of powder,
besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and halbcrts; so
that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores; and I made my
nephew 'arry two small quarter-deck guns more than he Wanted hit his
ship, to leave behind, if there was occasion: that, when we came there, we
might bttild a fort, and man it against all sorts of eta-mics: and. indeed, I at
lit-st thought there would he need enough tbr all, ntnl much more, it' we
hoped to maintain ottr miss-ession ot'the island; as shall be seen in the course
of lltttl story.

I had not sttch bad luck in tltis voyage as I htul [teen used to meet with;
and, theretitre, shall hate the less oeeasion to interrupt the reader, who, per-
haps, tnay be. impatient to hear how matters \vent with tny colony; yet some
mltl accidents, cross winds, atnl bad weather, happened on this first setting
out. which made. the voyage longer than [expected it at Iirst: and I, who had
never made but one voyage. Vi'l... my lirst voyage to Guinea, in which I might
be said to eome. back again, as the voyage was at lirst designed, began to
think the saute ill title attended me: and that l was born to he never contented
with being on shore. am! yet to be always unl'ortunate at sea.

('ontmry winds first put us to the northward, and we were obliged to put
in at (ialway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound two and twenty days; but
we had this satislitetion with the disaster, that provisions were here exceed-
ing cheap, atnl in the utmost plenty; so that, while We lay here, w- never
touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them. llere,also,l took in
several live hogs, aml two cows, with their calves; which I resolved, it' l had
a good passage. to put on shore in my island; but we found occasion to dis-
pose otherwise ot'them.

We. set out on the 5th of l-'ebruary li'om Ireland, and had a Very titir gale
of wind for some days. As I l't'tttt'tttltt'r, it might be almut the L'ttth of Feb.
rnary. in the evening late. when the mate. having the Watch. came into the
round-house, and told Its lte saw a llash of tire, and heard a gun tired: and
while he Was telling us of it, a boy came. itt, atnl told us the Inmtswain heard
another. This made Its all run out upon the quarter-deck, where, liu' a while,
we heard nothing; but in a tew minutes We saw a very great light, and tiamd
that there. was some Very terrible tire at a distance: immediately We had
reeonrse to our reekonings, in which we all agreed, that there could be no
land that way in which the tire showed itself, no, not tivr live hundred leagues,
tor it appeared at \V. N. "1. Upon this, we concluded it must be some ship
on tire at sea; and as, by ottr hearing the noise of guns just betbre, we con-
cluded that it could not be. far oti', we stood directly towards it, and were pres-
ently satisfied we should discover it, because the farther We sailed, the greater
the light appear-ml: though, the weather being hazy, we could not perceive
anything bttt the light for a while. In about half an hour's sailing, the wind
being litir for us, though not nun-h of it, atnl the weather clearing up a little,
we could plainly discern that it was a great ship on tire, in the middle of the
sea.

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all acquainted
with the persons engaged in it: I presently recollected my former circum-
stances, and in what condition I was in, when taken up by the Portuguese
captain; and how much more deplorable the circumstances ot'the poor crea-
tures belonging to that ship must be, if they had no other ship in company
with theta. Upon this, I innncdiutcly ordered that five guns should be fired,
one soon aficr another: that, it' possible, we might give notice to tltctn that
there was help for them at hand, and that they might endeavor to save them-
 

Kt .. - ' '
selves in their boat; for though we could see the flames of the ship, yet they,
it being night, could see nothing of us.

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship drove,
waiting for daylight; when, on a sudden, to our great terror, though we had
reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air; and immediately, that is to
say, in a few minutes, all the fire was out, that is to say, the rest of the ship
sunk. This was a terrible, and, indeed, an afflicting sight, for the sake of the
poor men; who, I concluded, must be either all destroyed in the ship, or be
in the utmost distress in their boat, in the middle of the ocean ; which, at
present, by reason it was dark, I could not see. However, to direct them as
Well as I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship
where we could, and which we had lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the
night long; letting them know, by this, that there was a ship not far of}:

About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered the ship's boats by the
help of our perspective glasses; found there were two of them, both thronged
with people, and deep in the water. We perceived they rowed, the wind
being against them; that they saw our ship, and did their utmost to make us
see them.

We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw them, and
hung a wait out, as a signal for them to come on board; and then made more
sail, standing directly to them. In little more than half an hour, we came up
with them; and, in a word, took them all in, being no less than sixty-four
men, women, and children; for there were a great many passengers.

Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant ship of three hundred
tons, home-bound from Quebec, in the River of Canada. The master gave us
a long account of the distress of his ship; how the fire began in the steerage,
by the negligence of the steersman; but, on his crying out for help, was, as
every body thought, entirely put out; but they soon found that some sparks of
the Iirst tire had gotten into some part of the sltip so ditiicttlt to come at that
they could not etleetually quench it; and afterwards, getting in between the
timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the skill and all the application they were able to exert.

They had tto tttore to do then but to get into their boats, which, to their
great comtbrt, were pretty large; being their long-born, and a great shallop,
besides a small skill, which was of no great service to them, other than to get
some tieslt water and provisions into her, atier they had secured their lives
than the tire. They had, indeed, small hope of their lives by getting into
these boats, at that distance ti'om any land; only, as they said Well, that they
were escaped from the tire, and a possibility that some ship might happen to
be at. sea, and might take them in. They had sails, oats, and a compass;
and were preparing to ntake the best of their way back to Newfoundland,
the wind blowing pretty flair; for it blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They
had as much provision and water, as, with sparing it so as to be next door to
starving, might support them about twelve days; in which, if they had no bad
weather and Ito contrary winds, the captain said he hoped he might get to the
llanks ot' Newtbundlaml, and might perhaps take some fish. to sustain them
till they might go on shore. But there were so many chances against them
in all these cases, such as storms, to overset aml founder them; rains and
cold, to benumb and perish their limbs; contrary winds, to keep them out
and starve them; that it must have been next to miraculous if they had
escaped.

In the midst ol' their consternation, every one being hopeless attd ready to
despair, the 'aptain, with tears in his eyes, told tne they were on a sudden
surprised with the joy of hearing a gun tire, am! after that four more; these
were the live guns which I caused to be tired at first seeing the light. This
revived their hearts, and gave them the notice, which, as above, I desired it
should, viz., that there \vas a ship at haml for their help. It Was upon the
hearing ot'tltese guns that they took down their masts atnl sails; the sound
coming from the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some time
after this, hearing an more guns, they tired three muskets, otte a considerable
while after another; but these, the wind being contrary, we never heard.

Some time alier that, again, they were still tnore agreeably surprised with
seeing our lights, and hearing the guns, which, as I have said, I caused to be
tired all the rest ol'tlte night: this set them to work with their ours, to keep
their boats ahead, at least, that we might the sooner come up with thent; and,
at last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw them.

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange ecstasies,
the variety of postures, which these poor delivered people run into, to express
the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are
easily described; sighs, tears, groans, and a very few motions ot'the head and
hands, make up the-stun of its variety; but an excess ofjoy, a surprise of joy,
has a thousand extravagances in it: there were some in tears; some raging
attd tearing themselves as it' they had been in the greatest agonies of somw;
some stark raving and downright lunatic; some run about the ship stamping
with their feet, others wringing their hands; some were dancing, some sing-
ing, some laughing, more crying; tnauy quite dumb, not able to speak a
word: others sick and vomiting; several swooningaud ready to faint; and
a ti:\v were crossing themselves, and giving God thanks.
I would not wrong them neither; there might be many that were thankful
ulterwards; but the passion Was too strong for them at. first, and they were
not able to master it; they were thrown into eestasics and a kind of frenzy;
atnl it was but a very few that Were composed and serious in their joy.

Perhaps, also, the case may hav- some addition to it from the particular
circumstance of that nation they belonged to; I mean the French, whose
temper is allowed to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
and their spirits more fluid, than in other nations. 1 am not philosopher
enough to determine the cause; bttt nothing I had ever seen before eame up
to it. The eestasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, Was in, when he lbund
his titther in the heat, came the nearest to it; and the surprise of the master
and his two companions, whotn I delivered from the villains that set them on
shore in the island, eame a little way towards it; bttt nothing was to compare
to this, either that I saw itt Friday, or any where else in any lilie.

It is further observable, that these extravagant-es did ttot shew themselves,
in that ditlirrent manner I have mentioned, in dillerent persons only; but all
the variety would appear, in a short succession of moments, in one and the
same person. A man that We saw this minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid
and eontbnnded, would the next minute be dancing and hallooing like all an~
tie ; and the next moment he tearing his hair, or pulling: his clothes to pieees,
and stamping them under his leet, like a madman; in a l'eu' moments ulier
that, we would have him all in tears, then sick, swwniug, and, had not itn-
mediate help been had, he would in a lbw moments have been dead; and
thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the greatest
part of them: and, if! remember right, our surgeon was obliged to let blood
ol'about thirty of them.

There Were two priests among them --onc, an old man; and the other, 0.
young man ; and that which was strangest was, the oldest man was the
worst. As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself sal'e,
he dropped down stone dead. to all appcuranee; not the least sign of life
could be perceived in him: our sturgeon immediately applied proper rente-
dies to recover him, and was the only tnnn in the ship that believed he was
not dead. At length, he. oln-ncd a vein in his arm, having first eltal'ed and
rubbed the part, so as to warm it as much as possible; upon this, the blood,
which only dropped at lirst, tlouing li'eely, in three minutes alter the man
opened his eyes: and a quarter ol' an hour alter that he spoke, grew better,
and in a little time quite well. Alter the blood was stomped, he walked
about; told us he \ 'as' [N'I'li-ctly "'t'll ; look a dram ot' cordial which the sur-
geon gave him, and was what We call come to himsellI About a quarter ot'
an hour after this they calm- running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was
bleeding a French wotmtn that bad l'ainted, and told him the priest was gone
stark mmL .lt scents he had lwgnn to revolve the change ot'his circum-
stances in his mind, and again this put him into an ecstasy of joy; his spirits
whirled about litster than the Vessels eould convey them, the blood grew hot
and t'chrish, and the. man was as lit for Bedlam as any Prt'atttre that ever
Was in it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that condition, bttt gave
him something to doze and put him to sleep; which, alter some time, oper-
ated upon him, and he awoke next morning perlitctly composed and well.

The younger priest behaved with great command of his passions. and was271 Tue. Lit-t: AND Anvtzs'reatzs

really an example of a serious, well-gm'erned mind: at his first coming on
hoard the ship, he threw himself flat on his tin-e, prostrating himself in
thankliduess for his deliveranee, in whieh l nnhappily aml nnseasonahly
distnrhed him, really thinking he. laid heen in a swoon; hut he spoke eahnly,
thanked me, tohl me he. was giving (ind thanks for his deliveranee; begged
me to leave him a fen- moments, aml that, next to his Maker, he would give
tne thanks also.

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, aml not only lell him, hut kept
others than interrupting him also. lle eontinued in that lmsture. about three.
minutes, or little more, aller l leli him; then eame to me, as he had said he
would, and, with a great deal of Seriousness aml alli-etion, hot with tears in
his eyes, thanked me, that had, ttmler God, given him aml so many miserable.
ereatnres their lives. I told him I Iutd no rootu to move hitn to thank God
liir it, rather than me, for I had seen that he had done that already; hut l
added, that it was nothing hut what reason and humanity dietated toall men,
and that we had as tnneh reason as he to give thanks to (lod, who had
hlessed us so liu' as to make us the instruments of his merey to so many of
his erealnn's.

After this, the young priest applied himself to his eonntry lhlks: lahored
to eompose them: persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and
did his utmost to keep them Within the ewreise of their reason; and with
some he had sneeess, though others nerc for a time out of all government
of themselves.

leannot help eonnnitting this to writing, as, twrhaps, it may he useful to
those into whose hands it may lidl, fill' the guiding tlu-mselves in all the
extravagant-es of their passions; libr if an exeess of joy ean rarry men out to
sneh a length heyond the reach of their reason, what will not the extrava-
gant-es of anger, rage, and a provoked mind, earry us to ? And, indeed, here
I saw reason tiir keeping an exeeeding wateh over ottr passions of every
kind, as Well those of joy and satislitetion, as those of sorrow and anger.

We were somewhat disordered by these extravaganees among our new
guests, for the lirst day; hot when they had been retired, lodgings provided
lhr them as well as our ship would allow, and they had slept heartily, --as
most of them did, heing liltigued and li'ightened,-- they were quite another
Sul'l of people the next day.

Nothing of good manners, or civil aeknowledgments for the kindness
shown them, was matting: the l"reneh. it is known, are naturallyapt enough
to e.\eeed that way. The eaptain and one of the priests came to me the
ne\t da_\, aml desired to speak with me and my nephew: the- eomtnauder
Iwgan to eonsnll with us what should he done with them: aml, first, they
told us We had saved their lives, so all they had was little enough tor a return
to us tiir that kindness reeeived. The captain said they had saved some
money aml some things of value in their boats, eatt'hed hastily ottt of the
flames, aml if we would aeeept it, they were ordered to make an other of it.
all to us; they only desired to he set on shore somewhere in our way,
where, if possihle, they might get a passage to France. My nephew was for
aeeepting their money at first word, and to consider what to do with them
allerWards: hut loverrnled him in that part, for I knew what it was to he
N'l. on shore. in a strange eountry; and if the Portuguese captain that took
me up at sea had served me so, and took all I had for my deliverance, 1 must
have starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brasile as 1 had been at
Barbary, the more being sold to a Mahotnetau excepted; atul perhaps a l'or--
tuguese is not a much better master than a Turk,--it' not, in some cases,
tnueh worse.

ltheretbre told the French captain that we had taken thetn up in their
distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do so, as we were t'ellow-
creatures; and we would desire to be so delivered, it' we Were in the like,
or any other extremity; that We. had done nothing tiir them but what we
believed they would have done tbr us, it" We had been in their case, and
they in ours; but that We took them up to save them. not to plunder them;
aml it would he a most barbarous thing to take that little ti'om them which
they had saw-d out of the tire, and then set them on shore and leave
them ; that this would he first to save them from death, atul then kill then
<<mm-Ives; save them ti-om drowning, and abandon them to starving; and,
tltet'elilt'e, I would not let the least thing he taken than them. As to setting
them on shore, I told them, indeed. that was an exceeding ditlieulty to us, [Or
that the ship was bound to the lrlast Indies; and though We were drit'ett out
of our course to the westward a very great way, and perhaps Were directed
by Heaven on purpose tbr their deliverata'e, yet it was impossible tiir us
wilfully to change our voyage on their particular account; nor could my
nephew, the captain, answer it to the tieighlers, with whom he was under
elmrter-tmrty to pursue his voyage by the way of Brasil; and all I knew we
could do for them was to put ourselves in the way of meeting with other
ships homeward Imuud trout the \Vest Italics, and get them a passage, it'
possible, to England or France.

The first part of the. prolmsal wasso generous and kind, they could not
but he very thankl'ul tiir it; but they Were in a very great consternation,
esimcially the lama-tigers, at the notion of being carried away to the East
Indies; they then entreated me, that seeing I was driven so [in to the west-
ward hcthre I met with them, I would, at least, keep on the same course to
the Banks of Newlimndhnal, where it was probable I might meet with some
ship or sloop that they might hire to carrytltent back to Canada, ti'oni whence
they came.

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and, therefore, I
inelined to agree to it; tor, indeed, I considered that to carry this whole
company to the East Italics. would not only he an intolerable severity upon
the poor people, but would he ruining our whole voyage, by devouring all
our provisions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party, but what an
uutbreseen accident made absolutely uecesmry to us, and in which no one
could say we were to blame; for the laws of God and nature would have
tbrbid that we should refuse to take up two boats full of people in such a
distressed condition; and the nature of the thing,as Well respecting our-
selves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or
other tbr their deliverance; so I consented that we would carry them to
Newfoundland. il' Wind and Weather would permit; and, if not, that I would
carry them to Martinieo, in the West Indies.

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good; and as
the winds had continued in the points between N. E. and S. E. a long time,
we missed several opportunities of sending them to France, for we met
several ships bound to Europe, whereof two were French, from St. Chris-
topher'a; but they had been so long beating up against the wind that they
durst take in no passengers, for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage1 as276 Tar. LIFE AND Imrrzx'rtrans

wall lbr themselves as for those they should take in; so we ware obliged to
go on. It uas almut a week atler this that we made the Banks of Newfound-
land ; where, to shorten my story, We put all our l"reneh people. on board a
hark, whieh they hired at sea there, to put theta on shore, and alierWurtls to
earry them to France, if they eould get provisions to virtual thetasels'es with.
\Vhen I say all the I"reneh went on shore, I should remember, that the
young priest I spoke. oi; hearing we were bound tn the I'Zast Indies. desired
to go the voyage with us, and to he set on share on the eoast nl' ('ormnandel ;
whieh I readily agreed to, tor I \t'onderlitlly liked the tnataand had very
good reason, as will appear :tl'ternards: also tour of the seamen entered
themselves on our ship, and pron-d very Ilselitl li-llnws.

From henee we direeted our eonrse Ihr the \Vest Indies, steering away 5.
and S. by I'I. lhr about twenty days together, stunt-limes little or no wind at
all; when we met with atmtla-rsulrieel thruur humanity to work npon,ahnost
as deplu 'ahle as lhat belin' '.

It was in the. latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north. on the ltlth day of
Mart-h, ltifl-I-s'i, when we spied a sail, nnr ennrse S. I'I. and by 5.: we soon
pereeired it was a large Vessel, and that she bore up tn us. but ennld not at
first know what to make of her, till, atier eoming a little nearer, we Iinmd
she had lost her maintopmast, lin'emast, and howsprit: aml presently she
fired a gun, as a signal of distress: the weather was pretty goml, wind at
N. N. \\'., a li'esh gale, aml we sonlt eante to speak with her.

"'e linlnd her a ship of Ilristol, hound home from Iiarhadoes, but had
been blown out of the road at Iiarhadoes a few days before she was ready to
sail. by a terrible lnn'rieane, while the enptaia aml ehiet' mate were both
gone. on shore: so that, lwsides the. terror of the storm, they were in an
indilli-rent ease liir good artists to bring the ship home. They had been
already nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible storm, aiier the
hurrieane was over. whieh had blown them quite nut of their knowledge to
the. \t'eslward. alal in "'IlIt'Il they lost their masts. as above. They told us
they expeeted to have seen the Balmnm Islands, but were then driven away
again to the sonth- -ast, by a strong gale ol' wiml at N. N. "I, the same that
blew now: and.ha\'in;_' no sails tn work the ship with but a tnaia-eonrse, and
a kind of square-sail upon a jury flirt-mast, whieh they had set up, they eould
not lie near the wind, but \Vt't't' endearnriug to stand aWay 1hr the Canaries.

But that whieh was worst of all was, that they u'ere almost starved thr
want nt'prorisions, besides the littigttes they had undergone: their hread and
flesh were quite gone: they had not one nttnee left in the ship, atnl had italic
for elereu days The only reliel'they had was, their water was not all spent,
and they had about hall'a barrel of flour leti; they had sugar enough: some
stteendes, or sweelmeats, they had at first, but they Were all devoured; and
they had seven easks ol'rum.

There were a youth, and his mother, aml a maid-servant on hoard, who
were going passeageis. aml, thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily
route on board the evening betin-e the hurricane began; and,haring no pro-
visions of their own let}, they were in a more deplorable condition than the
res1: for the seamen, being n-dneed to sneh an extreme necessity themselves,
had no eotnpassion. we may he. sure, tbr the poor passengem : and they were,
indeed, in a condition that their misery is very hard to describe.

I had, perhaps. not known this part, if my enriosity had not led me (the
w'ather being lair, and the wind abated) to go on board the ship. The
second mate, who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had been on board
our ship, and he tohl tue, imh-ed,they had three latswngersiu the great cabin,
that were in a deplorable condition. " Nay," says he, "I believe they are
dead, tor l have heard nothing of them tbr above two days; and l was aliaid
to inquire alter theta," said he, " Ibr I had nothing to relieve them with."

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief We could
spare; and, indeed, I had so litr overruled things with my nephew, that I
would have victuallcd them, though we had gone away to Virginia, or any
other part ofthe coast of America, to have supplied ottrselves; but there Was
no necessity lbr that.

llut now they Were in a new danger; tor they were afraid of eating too
much, even of that little We gave them. The mate, or commander, brought
six men with him in his boat; but these poor wrt-tehes looked like skeletons,
and were so weak that they could hardly sit to their ears. The mate himself
was very ill, and hulfslarved ; for he declared he had reserved nothing from
the men, and want share and share alike with them in every bit they ate.

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat lu-lin'c him immediately;
and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be sick, and out of
order; so he stopped a while, and our surgeon miXed him up something with
some broth, which he said would be to him both food and physio; and alter
he had taken it he grew better. In the mean time, I forgot not the men; I
ordered victuals to be given them; and the poor creatures rather devoured
than ate it: they were so exceeding hungry that they were in a kind ravenous,
and had no conumunl of themselves; and two of them ate with so much
gn-ediness, that they were in danger oftheir lives the next morning.

The sight oftllese people's distress was very moving to me, and brought to
mind what Ihad a terrible prospect of at my first coming on shore in my
island, where I had never the least mouthful of food, or any prospect of pro-
curing any; besides the hourly apprehensions I had of being made the fond
of other creatures. But all the while the mate was tints relating to me the
miserable condition: ofthe ship's eomlmny, I could not put out ofmy thought
the story he had told me of the three poor creatures in the great cabin, viz,
the mother, her son, and the maid-servant, whom he had heard nothing of for
two or three days, and whom, he seemed to confess, they had wholly neglected,
their own extremities being so great; by which I understood, that they had
really given them no food at all, and that therefore they must be perished,
and be all lying dead, perhaps, on the floor or deck of the cabin.

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board, with
his men. to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew that were let!
on board; but ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, and, with my
mate and twelve men, to carry them a sack of bread, and four or five pieces
of becfto boil. Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled
while they staid, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the men
taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well bOiled, and
then to give every man but a very little at a time; and by this caution be pre-
served the men. who would otherwise have killed themselves with that very
food that was given them on purpose to save their lives.

At the same time,l ordered the mate to go into the great cabin, and see
what condition the poor passengers Were in; and, if they Were alive, to comfort
them. and give them what relicshment was proper; and the sturgeon gave
him a large pitcher, with some of the prepared broth which he had given the278 THE Lil-l: AND Aln'lzs'runm

 

lnzlll- that was on Inmrll. and which ln- dill nut qlli-slinn "'uuhl n-stun' lilt'lll
gradually.
I "as In"! snlisl'u'tl "ill: lhis': lml. :ls I said :ilmw. having :I grvul mind to

we Ilu- s c-m- ul' misery "llit'll I kin-w llw ship llN'". "'tlllltl prvsI-Ilt ltll' with,
ill in lnnl'v |iwl_\* nuunn-r than I l'Illlill lun'l- it |l_\' rl-purt. I quk "In 'ztplnin ul'
tln- ship. as m- Inl\\' l-ullu-ll him. \\'illI llll', :Iml m-nt misc-ll; a "HIP :lllc-r, ill

lln'it' llnul.

 

l linnul llu- pnur llll'll un lnmrll :lhnnst ill :I tumult. In gl-t tln- \'il'tlmls out
ul'llw I-nilvr In-ti-rn- il was l'l':l(l_\': lllll lu_\' "Illll' nhsvru-ll his mull-rs. :nul kl-pt
:I gum! _'_'|l:|l'|i :ll tIn-a-nuk-rmlln lllmr: :llnl llu- man In- plm'ml tln-w, :Il'lvr using
all lmssillll' pa-rsnusiun In lml'a- path-mm. lu-pt lllt'lll utl'hy furl-v: lnm'l-u-r. he
l'nnsml snlm- Ilisl-nit mlu-s In In- llippml ill tlu- put.:lln| sul'll-llml with "In liquor
ut'lln- Iln'ul. "hit-h the-y l'nlh-ll Ill'vnis. and gun- lllt'lll I-u-ry mn' snllw, to slay
lln-ir slmnm-hs. :nul lnhl thvln it was tiir tln-ir own snli-Iy that Inn was uhligi-ll
In giu- lllt'lll hul lilth- m :l linw. lllll il was all ill \'fl and Inn! I not ('Ullll)
nli lullll't'. :nnl Iln-ir uwn runnnnndc-r :llnl ullim-rs with llll',tlll(l with good
wards. and sunn- Ihrc-als also ut' giving them nu lunrr, l lu-lim'r tIn-_\' would
hm'l- hrukq-n inlu Ilu- mink-mum by furl-0, and turn tln- mom on! ol' the litr-
llllt't': lilr "nrlls <<'ll'l' inch-ml of very small furl-u to :l hungry ln-Ily: huwm'l-r,
\w pm-iIic-il tlwln. :nul li-ll llu-ln gradually and l-untiunsly lilr tln' lirst, tnld thll
ln'xt tinn- gnu: lln-ln llmrr, llllti at last lilh'll their Mullins, and the men did
wvll l-nnllgll.

llul lln' mist-ry ol' the poor pnssvllgors in the Quill" was of another nature,
and fur lu-yoml tln- ri-sl; for us, first, the ship's company had so little for279 - 280
Missing
From
Original
themselves. it was lull too true that they had at lirst kept them very low, atnl
at last totally negleetetl tlu-m: so that. for six or seven day s. it might be said
they had really no thud at all, and for sewral days lit-lore \ery little. The
poor mother, who, as the men reported. was a woman of sense and good
breeding, lunl spared all she euuld so atli-etiouately liu' her son that at last.
she entirely sunk under it; and when the mate of our ship went in. she Stl
npmt the tloor, or deek, with her haek up against the sides. lit-tween two
ehairs. "hieh were laslted litst. atttl her head sunk hetWeen her shoulders.
like a eorpse, though not quite dead. My mate said all he eouhl to revive
and eta-ourage her. atnl with a spoott pttt some hroth into her mouth. She
opened her lips, and lilied up one hand. but eonld not speak: yet slte under-
stood what In- said. aml made signs to him, itttimating that it was too late for
her. hut pointed to her ehild. as if she would have said they should take am:
ol'him. However. the mate. who was t-xeeetlingly mow-l "ith the sight. ett-
deavored to get some of tlte ltrotlt into her mouth. and. as he sud. amt two
or three spoonlitls down: though I question whether he eouhl he sure of it
or not : lnu it was too late. and site died the same night.

The youth, who was preserved at the priee ot'his tnost allia'tionate mother's
lite. was not so tin- gone: yet he lay in a 'ahin bed, as one stretehed out,
with hardly any lili: left in him. lle had a piece of alt old glove itt his
mouth, havingeuteu up the rest of it: ltm\'e\'er, being young. and having
more strength thatt his mother, the mate got smut-thing down his throat. aml
he began seasihly to revive; though, by giving him. some titn - atier, lutt two
or three slumnlitls extraordinary, he "as very siek. and hrottght it up again.

llut the next eare. was the poor maid: she lay all along upon the <<leek. hard
by her mistn-ss, and just like one that laid titllen down with an apoplevy. attd
struggled for lite. ller limhs were distorted: one of her hands \vas elasped
round the flame of a ehair, and she griped it so hard that we eonld not
easily make her let it go: her other arm lay over her head. and her feet lay
both together, set litst against the li'ame ot' the 'ahin table: in short, she lay
just like one ill the agonies ol'deatlt, atnl yet she was alive too.

The poor ereutur - was not only starred with hunger, and territied with the
thoughts ot'death, httt, as the tnett told tts allerwards, was broken-hearted for
her mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three days before, atnl whom
she loved tnost tenderly.

We knew not what to do with this poor girl: for when our surgeon. who
was a man of very great knowledge atnl exln-rienee. had. with great appliea-
tion, reeoVered her as to lilir. he had her upon his hands as to her sense : for
she was little less than tlistrueted for a. eousiderahle tim' after, as shall
appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memomndnms must he desired to consider, that
visits at sea me not like a journey into the eonntry. where sontetitnes people
stay a week or a timnight at a plaee: our husiness was to relieve this dis-
tressed ship's erew, but not lie hy tiir them: and though they were willing to
steer the same eourm with Its l'or sotne days, yet we eonhl enrry no sail. to
keep paee with a ship that had no masts: huweve ', as their eaptain lwgged
ot'tts to help hitn to set up a maintopmast. and a kind ol'atopmast to hisjury
liu'emast, we did, as it were, lie by him lilr three or limr days: and then. hav-
ing given him live barrels of heel; a harrel ot'pork. two hogsheads ot' biscuit,
and a proportion of peas, llour. and what other things We could spare: and
taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and some pieces~ofoeight li'onl them

36

   

S'3 'rnr: LIN-2 no ADVENTURES

for satislitetion, we leti them; taking on board witlt us, at their own earnest
retptest, tlte youth and the. maid, and all their goods.

The young lad was about seventeen years of age; a pretty, well-bred,
modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with tlte loss ot'his mother, and,
as it seems, ltad lost ltis tittlter bttt a lbw months het'ure, at Bat'hadoett; he
hegjetl ot'the surgeon to speak to ttte to take him ottt ot' the ship; for he said
tlte t'rnel t'ellows had murdered his mother; and, indeed, so they had, that is
to say, passively: titr they might have spared a small sustenance to the poor,
helpless widow, that might have preserved her liiit, though it hatl been but
just enough to keep her alive: but hunger knows no friend, tto relation, no
jttstiee, no right : attd, therethre, is retttorseless, and enpaltle ol'tto compassion.

The surgeon told him how titr we were going, atttl tltat it would carry hint
away from all his friends, and pttt him, perhaps, itt as had eircutttstances,
almost, as those we tintnd him itt, tltat is to say, starring ill the world. He
said it mattered ttot whither he wettt, il' be was lull delivered from the terri-
ble erew that he was among: that tlte eaptaitt (by wltit'lt he meant me, for lto
eottld know nothing of nty nephew) ltad swed ltis life, and lie was sure
would not hurt hint: and as for the maid, he was sure, il'she ".atne to hersell;
she would he rery thattklnl tor it, let as entry tltettt n here we would. 'l'hc sur-
geon represented tlte ease so alli-elionately to toe that l yielded, uttd we took
them both on board, with all their goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar,
wltieh eottld ttot be removed or come at; and tts the youth had a bill of
ladine titr them, I tnade his eotntnantler sign a writing, obligittg himself to
go,as soott as he eante to llristol, tootte Mr. Rogers,a mer'htntt there, to
"hunt the youth said he was related. and to deliver a letter Whitth I wrote to
hint. atnl all the goods he had belonginpr lo the deceased widow; which I
suppose was not done, for I eottld never learn that the ship eattte to Bristol,
lntt was, as is tnost probable, lost at sea; being itt so disabled a condition,
and so far ti'ont any land, that l attt of opinion the first storm she met with
afterwards, she might thunder itt the sea; tor she was leaky, and ltad datttnge
itt her hold. when we met with her.

I was now in the latitude of It! degrees. 39. minutes, and ltud hitherto a
tolerable \'n_\':tgt' as to weather, though, at first, the winds ltad been contrary.
I shall trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind, Weather, currents,
t\"e., on the rest ot'our m -- ; but, to shorten my story, for the sake of what
is to titllow. shall observe that I came. to my old habitation, the island, on
the tttth of April. [695. It was with no small diflicnlty that I found the
place: titr. as I t'attte to it aml went from it, belitre, on the south and east
side ot' the island. as t'tttltltlg Ii'ultl the lirasils, so now, coming in between
the tnain atul the island. am! having no ehttrt titr the coast, nor any landmark,
I did ttot know it when I saw it, or know whether] saw it or not.

We heat about a great while, and \rent on shore on several islands ill the
month of the great Itirt-r ()rontmqne, bttt none for my purpose; only this I
learned by Itl_\' eoastin;_r the shore, that l was nttder one great tttistake
before, \'l7.., that tlte eontinent which I thought I saw from the island I lived
in, was really no continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands,
reaching than one. to the other side of the extended month of that great
river: and that the mrnges who came to my island were not properly those
"'lllt'll we eall ('arihbees, lntt islanders, and other barbarians of the same
kind, who inhabited something nearer to our side than the rest.

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose; some I found
were inhabited, and some Were not: on one of them I found some Spaniards,
and thought they had lived there: but, speaking with them, found they had
a sloop lay in a stun" ereek hard by, and eame thither to make salt, and to
catch some pearl muscles if they eould: but that they belonged to the Isle
de Trinidad, which lay litrther north, in the latitude of") and II degrees.

Thus eoasting li'om one island to another, sometimes with the ship, some-
times with the Frenelunen's shallop, whieh we had lound a convenient
boat, and therefore kept her, with their very good will, at length I came
fair on the south side of my island, and presently knew the very eotmtenanee
of the place: so I brought the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the
little creek where my old habitation was.

As soon as I saw the place, I ealled for Friday, and asked ltitn ifhe knew
where he was. He, looked about a little, and presently, elapping his hands,
cried, " 0 yes, 0 there, 0 yes, 0 there!" pointing to our old habitation, and
fell dancing and eaperiag like a mad fellow; aml I had mueh ado to keep
him than jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the plaee.

" Well, Friday," says I, "do yott think we shall lind any body here. or no?
and do you think We shall see your litther?" 'l'he li-llow stood mate as a
stock It good while; but when I named his father, the poor. alli-etionate
creature looked dejeeted, and I eould see the tears rundown his litre very
plentifully. " What is the matter, Friday?" says I; "are you troubled
because you may see your lather?" "No. no," says he, shaking: his head,
"no see him more; no, never tnore see him again." "\Vhy so," said I,
" Friday? How do you know that?" n() no. (i no," says Friday: " he long
ago dt'e, long ago; he. mneh old man." " \Vell. well," says I. "Friday, you
don't know; but shall We see any one else, then P" The li-llow, it seems,
ltad better eyes than I, atul he points to the hill just above my old house;
and, though we lay hall'a league oll, he eries out, " we see, we see. yes, yes,
we see mueh man there, and there, and there." I looked, but I saw nobody,
no, not with a petslm-tive glass, whieh was, 1 suplmse. lu-eause l eould
not hit the place; for the fellow was right, as l lound, upon inquiry, the next

  
 
  
 
 

 
 

l

"""'*"ll3}'lllll"l11. a25-1 'rur. met: AND ADVBA'TURHS

day: attd there new live or six llll'll all together, who stood to look at the
ship, not knowing what to think of us.

As soon as I-'riday told the he saw people, I eaused the English ancient
to be spread, and tired three guns, to give them notiee we were li'iends; tntd
in almnt halt' a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a smoke arise from
the side of the ereek: so I immediately ordered tlte boat out, taking Friday
with me: and, hanging out a white flag, or a tlag ol' truce, I went directly
on shore. taking with me the young t'riur I mentioned, to whom I lnul told the
stor_\ ot'nw living there, and the. manner of it, and every panicular, both of
nn'selt' and those I left there, and who was, on tltat ueeouut, extremely
desirous to go with me. We ltad, besides, abottt sixteen tnett, well armed,
it' we had Iintnd any new guests there which we did not know of; but we
had tto need of weapons.

.'\s we wettt on shore upon the tide of llood, near ltiglt water, we rowed
dirt-etly into the creek; and the tit-st tnan I fixed my eye upon was the
Spaniard whose liti: I had saved, and whom I knew, by his litee, perl'eetly well:
as to ltis habit, I sltall describe it afterwards. I ordered nobody to go on
shore at first but myself; httt there was no keeping Friday ill the boat, tor
the atli-etionale ereature. Iutd spied his father at a distance, a good way oil
the Spaniards. when", indeed, I saw nothing of him; and, if they had ttot
let hitn go ashore. he Would have jumped into the sea. He no: no sooner
on shore but he tlew away to his father, like an arrow ottt ot' a bow. lt
would hate ntade any man shed tears, itt spite of the tirtnest resolution, to
have seen the tirst transports of this poor li'llow's joy when he eatne to his
father: how he cmbraeed him. kissed him, stroked his litee, took ltitn'ttp itt
his arms. set hint down ttpott a tree, atnl lay down by him; then stood and
looked at him. as any one would look at a strange pietttre, lbr a quarter of
an hour together; then lay down on the ground, and stroked his legs, atttl
kissed them, and then got up again, and stared at him; one would have
thought the li-llow bewitehed. lint it Wottltl have tttade a dog laugh the
next day to see how his passion ran out another way: ill the morning, he
walked along the slmre, to and again, with his littlter, several hours, always
leading him by the hand, as if he had been a lady; atal every now and then
he would come to tlte boat to ti-teh something or other lbr hitn, either It ltttttp
of sugar, a dram. a biscuit cake, or something or other that. was good. In
the afternoon, his li'olies ran another way: tor then he would set the old
man down upott the ground atnl danee about him, and make a thousand
:ttttie postures and gestures; atnl all the while he did this, he would be.
talking to him, and telling him one story or other of his travels, attd of what
had happened to him abroad, to divert him. ltt short, il'the stone lilial
all'eetion was to he tittntd in Christians to their parents, in ottr part of the
world, one would be tempted to say, there would hardly have been any need
ol' the lilih eomntandntent.

But this is a digression; l retnrtt to my landing. It would be. needless to
take notice of all the eer-utonies and eivilities that the Standards received
me with. The first Spaniard, who, as I said, I knew very Well, was he
whose me I had saved: he eatne towards the boat, attended by Otto more,
wtrrying a flag ot'truee also: and he not only did ttot know the at first, but
he had no thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to
him. " Seignior," said I, itt Portuguese, " do you ttot know me ?" At wltiCh
he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to the man that was with him,
 

threw his arms abroad, saying something in Spanish that I did not perfectly
hear, came lbrward and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not to
know that face again that he had once seen as if an angel from Heaven, sent
to save his life: he said abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred
Spaniard always knows how; and then, beckoning to the person that.
attended him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He then asked me if
I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me possession) of my
own house again, and where I should see they had made but mean improve-
ments: so I walked along with him; but, alas! I could no more find the
place than if I had never been there; for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one another, and,
in ten years' time, they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was in-
aCCessible, except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only,
who made them, could find.

Iasked them what put them upon all these fortifications: he told me I
would say there was need enough of it, when they had given me an account
how they had passed their time since their arriving in the island, especially
after they had the misfortune to find that l was gone. lie told me he could
not but have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard that I was
gone in a good ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes a
strong persuasion that, one time or other, he should see me again; but
nothing that ever bet'ell him in his life, he said, was so surprising and
afllicting to him at first, as the disappointment he was under when he came
back to the island and found I was not there.

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left behind, and
of whom, he said, he had a long story to tell me, the Spaniards all thought
themselves much better among the savages, only that their number was so
small; "and," says he, " had 'they been strong enough, we had been all long
ago in purgatory ;" and with that he crossed himself on the breast. " But, sir,"256 Tm: LIFE AND Ain't-:xrl'luts

says In', "I holw you will not In! <<lisph-nsml Whoa I shall tell you hOW, forced
by non-rssity, m: \u-rv ohligi-<<l, tinr our own preservation, to disarm them,
ainl maki- tin-m our snhju-i-ts, who Would not In: content with being motl-
i-ratvly our mash-rs, hut "mild [in our murth'rors." I answered, I was
ln-artily afraid of it n'ln-n i Mi tlwm thorn, and nothing tronhlcil meat my
parting li'om tln- island, hot that Ila-y worn not i-onn: hat-k, that I might have
Inn tln-m in Immersion ot' awry thing tirst, and loft the others in a state of
sllltju'c-limt, as tla-y (lost-ryml: but it' tln-y lnnl rmlncml thvm to it, I was very
glad. and slmnhl ln- w-ry tiir l'roni timling any fault with it; for I know they
now a lama-l ol' n-li'aa'lory, ungowrnctl villains, and were tit [or any Inulnn-r
ul' |||l5|'llll'l:

"'hih- l was thus saying this. tln- man mums whom he had sent back. and
"ith him rh-wn nun-r. In tho ilri-s~' tlwy worn in, it was imlnnisihln to gut-so
"hat nation tln-y \u-n- ol': Inn ln- nnnlo all t'lt'ul', both to them and to me.
First la- ltll'tzt-tl to luv. and pointing to tln-m, said, "'l'ln-w, sir, an- sonn: of
tln- go-ntIu-nn-n "In: our tln-ir liu-s to you :" ninl tin-n, turning to thmn, and
pointing In mo, in" h-t tln'm know \\ ho l was: upon which they all came up,
mn- by mw. nut as it'tlu-y luul In-on sailorsmml ordinary li'llows, and the like,
but ri-ally as it' "try haul lN't'll amlnas<mlors ol' nohlc-na-n, and I a monart-h or
grin-it t'ulullti'l'nl': lln-ir ln-lm\lul' "1mm tln- last llt'gl't'l', uhliging ntnl cour-
trolls, alnl yu-I llll.\t'(l \\'ill| a manly. Inaji-stii- gravity, which wry \u-ll ln-t'nnn:
Ila-m; and. in short. tln-y had so nnn'h lllnl't' tannin-rs than I, thatl scarce
ham lmw In rm-c-iw tln-ir l'l\'lllllt':', nnn-h has how to return tln-m in kiml.

'l'lw history of tln-ir coming to, and condttct in, the island, after my going

         

 

mutt "nu '/[33-:5-fd
.\ :zvzr' ~ g: _.--l
away, is so very retnarkable, and has so tnany incidents, which the former
part of my relation will help to understand, atnl whit-It will, in ntost ol' the
particulars, refer to the account I have already given, that I cannot but com-
mit thetn, with great delight, to the reading of those that come alter me.

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first person, which
will put me to the expense of ten thousatnl "said l's," and "said he's," and
"he told me's," and "I told ltim's," and the like; but I slatll collect the lat-ts
historically, as near as I ran gather them ottt of my memory, li'otn what they
related to me, and li'om what I met with in tny conversing with them, antl
with the plaee.

In order to do this snt'einetly, and as intelligibly as I ran, I must go baek
to the eirt'tunstnnt'es in whieh I Iell the island. and in whit-h the persons
were of whom I am to speak. And first, it is neeessary to repeat that I had
sent away Friday's littherand the Spaniard (the two \\ hose lives I had res-
elled from the savages) ill a large Home, to the main, as I then thought it, to
leteh over the Spanittrd's eonuutttions that he lell behiml him. in order to
save them from the like t'alamity that he had been in, and in order to sneeor
them for the present; and that, if possible, we might together find some way
for our deliVeranee allerwnrtls.

"'hen I sent them away, I had no visible appearnnee ol: or the least room
to hope liir, my own deliverance, any more than I had twenty years before;
much less had I any lbreknowledge of what alien 'ards Itappened,--I mean,
of an English ship routing on shore there to fetch me all; atnl it could not
bttt be a very great surprise to them, when they 'ante bat-k, not only to find
that I was gone, but to lintl three strangers lel't on the spot, possessed of all
that I ltad lelt behind me, which wouhl otherwise have been their own.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin where
I leli oil', was of their own part; and I desired he would give me u partie-
ttlar account of his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, when I
sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little variety in that part,
lbr nothing remarkable happened to them on the way, having had very calm
weather, and a smooth sea. As for his countrymen, it could not be doubted,
lte said, but that they were overjoyed to see him, (it seems he was the prin-
cipal man among them, the captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked
in having been dead some time ;) they were, he said, the tnore surprised to
see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the hands of the sav-
ages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as they did all the rest of
their prisoners; that when he told them the story of his deliverance, and in
what manner he was furnished for carrying them away, it was like a dream
to them, and their astonishment, he said, was somewhat like that of Jo-
seph's brethren, when he told them who he was, and told them the story of
his exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed them the arms, the
powder, the ball, and provisions, that be brought them for their journey or
voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a just share of the joy of
their deliverance, and immediately prepared to come away with him.

Theirfirnt business was to get canoes: and in this they were obliged not
to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly
savages, and to borrow two large canoes. or periaguas, on pretence of going
out a-fishing, or for pleasure. In these they came away the next morning.
It seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready; for they had no
baggage, neither clothes. nor provisions, nor any thing iii the world but what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to make
their bread.

'l'hey \\'crc,in all, three weeks absent; and in that time, unluekily for them,
I had tlte occasion otlitred litr my escape, as l IIIentioIIed in my other part,
and to get oll' than the island, leaving three ol'the most impudent, hardened,
ungovcrned, disagreeahle villains hehind me, that any ntan could desire to
meet with; to the poor Spattiards' great grief and disappointtuent, yott may
he sure.

The only just thing the rogues did was, that, when the Slutniards came
ashore, they gave my letter to thent, atul gave thent provisions, atul other
rclicl; as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them the long paper of
directions which I had leli with them.containing the particular methods
which I took litr managing every part of my lili: there; tlte way how | baked
my Itrcad, hred up tattle goals, aIId planted my corn ; how I cured my
gntpes, made my pots, atul, ill a word, every thing I did: all this being writ-
ten down, they gave to the Spaniards, (two of thcnt understood English well
enough ;) Nor did they refuse. to accommodate the Spaniards with any thing
else, litr they agreed very well for some time. They gaIe thcnt all equal
admission into the house, or care, aml they he-- an to liIe Iery socialtlv; aIId
the head Spaniard. who had seen pretty mac ll ol m_\ methods, and Friday' 5
litther together, managed all their allaits: hut as litr tltc Englishmen, they
did nothing hut ramhle about the island, shoot parrots, atul catch tortoises;
and when they catne ltome at night, tlte Spaniards provided their suppers
litr them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the others but let
them alone; which, however, the I' could not find in their hearts to do long;
hut, like the dog m the manger, they would not c: It themsehcsneitlter would
they let the others eat. The ditlitrences, nevertheless, were at first htIt
trivial, and such as are ttot worth relatin"; hut at last it broke ottt into opett
w-ar , aml it he- an with all the rudeness uItd insolettee that can he imagined,
---without reason, without pIoIoeation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to
common sense; and though, it is true, the first relation 01 it cattle from the
Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet, when I came to
examine the titllow's, they could ttot deny a word of it.

But hefore I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a defect in
my litrmer relation; atul this was, I forgot to set down, among the rest, that,
just as We were Weighing the anchor to set sail, there happencda little quarrel
on hoard ot'onr ship, which I was once ati'aid would have turned to a second
mutiny; nor Was it appeascd till the captain, rousing up his courage, and
taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force, and, tanking two 01 the
most refractorv fellows prisoners, he laid theta itt irons; and as they had
been active in the thrntcr disotders, and let liIll some ugly, dangerous IIOIds,
the second time he threatened to carry them at irons to England, and have
them hanged there tor tnutiny,aud running away with the ship. This, it
seems, though the captain did not intend to do it, frightened some other then
in the ship; and some of thcut had put it into the heads of the rest, that the
captain only, "ave them good words for the present,till they should come to
some Luglish port, and that then they should be all put into gaol, and tried
1hr their lives. The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it;
upon which it was desired that I, who still passed lbr a great man among
them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy the men, and tell them that
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of the voyage, all they
had done for the time past should be pardoned. So I went, and, after
passing tny honor's word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so
when I caused tlte two men that Were in irons to be released and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the wiml also
falling calm next morning, we found that our two men, who had been laid in
irons, had stole eat-h ol' thetn a musket, mnl some other weapons, (what
powder or shot they had we knew not,) and had taken the ship's pinnat'e,
whieh was not yet lmled up, and run away with her to their eompanions in
roguery on shore. As soon as we found this,l ordered the long-boat on
shore, with twelve men aml the mate, and away they went to seek the
rogues; lntt they eoultl neither find them or any of the rest, lbr they all fled
into the woods when they saw the boat eoming on shore. The mate was
onee resolved, in justice to their rognery, to have destroyed their plantations,
burned all their houseltold stutl' aml titrnitnre, atnl lell them to sltil't without
it; but, having no orders, he let it all alone, It'll every thing as he limnd it,
and, bringing the pinnaec away, mute on board without them. These two
tnen made their number live; but the other three villains were so much
more wieked than they, that, utter they had been tWo or three days together,
they turned the two new eomers out of doors to shill for themselves, and
would have nothing to do with them; nor could they, for a good while, be
persuaded to give them any food: as her the Spaniards, they Were not
yet eome.

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to go for-
ward; the Spaniards would have persuaded the three English brutes to have
taken in their countrymen again, that, as they said, they might be all one fami-
ly; but they would not hear ol'it: sothe two poor fellows lived by themselves;
am] finding nothing but industry aml applieation would make them live
eomtiirtably, they pitehed their tents on the north shore of the island, but a.
little more to the west, to be out ot'danger of the savages, who always landed
on the east parts of the island.

Here they built them mo huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay up
their magazines aml stores in; and the Spaniards having given them some
eorn for seed, and espeeially some of tlte peas wltieh 1 had let! them, they
dug, planted, and enelosetl, alter the pattern I had set for thetn all, and
began to live pretty Well. Their first erop of corn was on the ground; and
though it was but a little bit of land whieh they had dug up at first, having
had but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find them with
bread and other eatables; and one of the fellows, being the cook's mate of
the ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings, attd such other prepara-
tions as the rice, and the milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished
him to do.

They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three unnat-
ural rogues, their own countrymen too. in mere humor, and to insult them,
came and bullied them, and told them the island was theirs; that the
governor, meaning me, had given them the possession of it, and nobody
else had any right to it; and that they should build no houses upon their
ground, unletu they would pay rent for them.

The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, asked them to come in
and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that they had built, and to
tell them what rent they demanded; and one of them merrily said, if they

37
Were the ground landlords, he hoped, il'they built tenements upon their
land, and made impmw-nu-nts, they would, aeeordint.r to the custom of land-
ltlt'tls, grant a lung lease: aml desired they would get a serivoner todrttw the
writings. Hue ot' the three, musing aml raging, tohl them they should see
they were not in jest: and, going: to a little plan: at a distance, where the
hum-st men had madn- :t lire to dress their t'ietuals, he takes a tirchrand, and
t'lups it tn the outside of their hot, aml wry thirly set it on fire; and it would
hau- lu-u-n all lmrnt down in a the: minutes, it' one of the two had not run
to tltt' ti-Ilow, thrust him away, uml trod the tire out with his that, and that
nut without some dillit'ulty too.

 

The. follow "as in stu'h a rage at the honest man's thrusting him away,
that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in his hand; and had not the
man avoided the blow wry nimlnly, and run into the hut, he had ended his
da_\s at <<men. "is t'nlnl'mh', seeing the. danger they Were both in, ran in
nth-r him. and iunuediatel) they eatue both ottt with their nmskels, and the
man that was tirst strm-k at with the pole, knoekcd the tiellow down, that
begun the quarrel. with the stark of his musket, and that hell)": the other
twu eouhl route to help him: and then, seeing the rest come at tltem, they
stand together. and, presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade
them stand oil:

The others had tire-arms with them, too; but one of the two hottest men,
lmldu-r than his comrade, and made tlt'spe ate by his danger, told them, if
they nth-red to move lanai ur limt, they wurc dead men, and boldly com-
manded tlu-m to lay down their arms. They did not, indeed, lay down their
arms, but, seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a parley, and they
consented to take their wounded man with them, and be gone; and, indeed,
it seems the fellow was wounded sutlieiently with the blow. However,
they were much itt the wrong, sinee they had the advantage, that they did
not disarm them effectually, as they tuight have done, atnl have gone im-
mediately to the Spaniards, mnl given them an aeeount how the rogues had
treated them; tor the three villains studied nothing but revenge, and every
day gave them some intimation that they did so.

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of the ro-
gltcrieS, such as treading down their eorn: shooting three young kids and
a she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed up tame for their store;
and, ill a word, plaguing them night atnl day in this manner,---it liireed the
two men to such a desperation, that they resolved to light lllt'lll all three,
the first time they had a thir opportunity. In order to this, they resolved to
go to the castle, as they called it, (that was, my old dwi-lling,) where the
three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending to
have a flair battle,--and the Spaniards should stand by to see titir play: so
they got up in the morning betbre day, and came to the place, am] called
the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard, that answered, that they
wanted to speak with them.

It happened that, the day before, two of the Spaniards, having been in
the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, tbr distinction, I
called the honest men, and he had made a sad complaint, to the Spaniards,
of the barbarous usage they had met with from their three countrymen, and
how they had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their eorn that they had
labored so hard to bring forward, and killed the mileh-goat and their three
kids, which was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that, it' he
and his friends--meaning the Spaniards--did not assist them again, they
should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and they were
all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove the three English-
men, though in very gentle and manuerly terms, and asked them how they
could be so cntel, they being harmless, ittoll'ensive fellows; that they were
putting themselves in a way to subsist by their labor, and that it had eost
them a great deal of pains to bring things to such pertia'tion as they were
then in.

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, "What had they to do
there? that they eatne on shore without leave; and that they should not
plant or build upon the island; it was none of their ground." " Why," says
the Spaniard, very calmly, "Seignior lnglese, they must not starve." The
Englishman replied, like a rough-hewn tarpauling, "They might starve, attd
be d--d; they should not plant nor build in that place." " But what tnttst
they do, then, seiguior?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes re-
turned, "Do? d-----n them; they should he servants, and work for them."
"But how can you expect that of them?" says the Spaniard; "they are
not bought with your money; you have no right to make them servants."
The Englishman answered, "The island was theirs; the governor had given
it to them; and no man had any thing to do there but themselves;" and
with that, swore by his Maker, that they would go and burtt all their new
huts; they should build none upon their land. "Why, seignior," says the
Spaniard, "by the satne rule, We must be your servants, too." "Ay," says
the bold dog, "and so you shall, too, before we have done with you,"---mix-29:3 'rtn: LII-T. AND Anvaa'rtratzs

ing l\\'n or thrm- "(t--d d-n tnt-'s" in tla- proper intvr'als at" his spam-h.
'l'lw Spaniard nnl)' sniih-d at that. and Inadt- him an ansm-r. llnwvwr,
this litth- tllN'tltllN' had ltt'fllt'tl llu'ttt; and. starting up, nttt- says In "W ntltt't'.
(I think it "'as hv tht~_\ t'allI-tl "'ill Atkins.) "(.'nmt'. Jat'k: lt-t's gn, and lltl\'t'
t'nllu-r hrush with't-m; \w'll tlt-Innlish tla-ir -asth-, I'll warrant )ntl; tln'y
.shall plant nn t'nlnny in nnr Ilnm'

t'pun this, tllt'_\' m-nI all Irnnping away. uith t'\'t'l'_\' man a gun. a pistnl.

'uns."

 

and a swnrd. and lllllllt'l't'tl snnn- lllMIlt'lll things mnnng Ila-ntst-lu-s. at what
tin-y annld dn In "in Spaniards. Inn, "llt'lt nppnrlttnity nlli-rt-d: hItt tln-
Spaniards. it sm-tns. did nnt sn pvrl'm'lly malt-rstand tht-tn as In know all
lln' particulars. nn|_\' that, in grin-ml, tla') llll't'nlt'llt'tl lllt'lll land lin' takingr
lht- tun I'inglishtnt-n's part.

"'hithvr Ila-y \w-nt, nr hnw Ila-y lu-slnu't-tl tltt-it' little that awning. tho.
Spaniards said Ila-y did nnt know:
t-nttntry. part nt' tlnr night, and tin-n. l.\ing dnwn in lln- plat't- "'lllt'll I IIH'II
tn <<all my lmu't-r, Ila-y \\'t't't' \n-ar}. and nn-rsIt-pt Ila-Inst-lws. 'I'ht- cast-
"as this: tltvy had t't-snlvt-d In slay till midnight, and sn tn taki- tln- t\\'n
panr nn-a whrn t|n~_\' \wn- aslm-p: and. as Ila-y arknmrh-dgt'tl al'tc-rn'ards,
inn-nth-d In st-t lirt- In Ila-ir huts, "'llllt' Ila-y \\t'l't' in Ila-In. and t-itlnrr hnrn
lltt'tII Ila-nu nI' tnurtIt-r Iln-tn as tht-y -anae nnt. As Inah t'
\I't'_\ snttntl. it was \'t'l'_\' strangu Ila-y slamld nnt haw ht-t-a la'pl :m'akr.

httt it Sta-Ina Ila-y "'andt-t't-d :thnttt tht'

 

st-ldntn sIt-t-ps

llnm-n-r. as Ilu- lwn lllt'lt had alsn a dt-sign ttpna tho-tn, as I lt:t\'t' said,
thnltgh a lllllt'lt lain-r nm- than that (if hurtling and tnltrtlt'ring.--il hap-
lu'ltt'tl. and wry hn'kily thr Ila-tn all, tltat the-y m-ru up, atnl gnta- ahrnad.
ln'litt't- Iln- hInme-ntindt-d rngIn-s t-aan- tn tln-ir lntts.

\\'hvn Ila-3 mnn- tln-rv. and t'nttnd tht- na-n gnar, Atkins. win>>. it st-t-Ins,
"as tla- Ihrwardt-st man. t'alh-d nnt In his t'ulttl'fltlt', "Ila. Jm-k, hurt".~' thu
lit-st: hut, d--n lllt'lll, tln- hirds art- tlmrn." 'l'ht'y mast-d auhilv. In think
what shnultl la- the art-asiun at their ht-ing gnnt' ahrnad sn snnn; and sug-
~rally. that tlu- Spaniards had gin-n lllt'lll antic-v of it: antl. with
that. the-y shnnk hands, and swnn- tn nllt' annIla-r that Ila-y \rnnld ht- rr-
rvngt-d nt' Illt' Spaniards. .'\s snnn as tlu'y had madu- this hlundy ha' tin,
tlu-y ti-ll tn wnrk with lllt' pnnr nu-n's hahitalinn; Ila-y did ant st-l tirt'.
in-h-vd. In an} thing. hnt tin-y pulh-d dnnn lmlll Ila-ir hunsvs. and path-d
Iln' I sn Iitnh ti'ntn linih. Ihat tln-_\ It-t't nnt tln- lt-ast slit-k standing. nt' N'at't't-
any sign nn lln' gruund "ht-rt- tln~_\- stand: Ila-y IUI'I' all tla-ir litth- t'tlllt't'lt'tl
ltuusvhnld .stntl' in pin-rs, and thn-w t'\'l'l"\' thing ahmtt. in 5nd: a tnannt-r

 

gt-sIt-d. pr:

 

 

that tla- pnnr nn-n atit-I'uards livtttld snnw nl' tht-ir things a Iniln all "air
hahitatinn. \\'|u-n Ila-y had dntn- this Ila-y pItlh-d up all lllt' yntlng Ira-vs
whirl. tla- pnnt' lltt'll had plantvd: pullt-d up an t'ltt'lusltl't' tin-y had Itltttlt'.
tn sm-nrt- tIa-ir 'attlt- and tla-ir corn; and. in a "uni. sat-kt-d and plIIItdt-t't'tl
awry thing as t'ninph'tvl} as a hnrdv nt' 'I'artars "'nnld haw dune.

'l'la- tun na-n merr. at this jam-turn. gnnu tn tind lltt'tll nut. and had re-
nnin-d In light Ila-m "'llt't't'Vt'l' Ila-y had lu't'll. tlantgh Ila-y \rt-rn but two tn
lltl'l't". sn that. had Ila-y lllt'l.lltt'l"t' t-t-rtainly "'nnld haw ht-vn hlmnlsht-d tltltnttg
tht-tn: tin' tht-_\' "'t'l't' all \'t-ry stunt. rvsnhttn li'llnws. tn giu- Ila-m thvir (luv.

lint l'rm'idt-Ia'v tnak lltttt't' car: to la-t-p Ila-tn astnnlt-r than Iht-y lltt'ttl-
sclrt's t'ttllltl dn tn tact-t: thr. as it' tla-y had tlnggt-tl nae nnnthur. when tln:
thrt-t- "'t'l't! gnnt- thitIa-r, the UH) \n-ru ltt'l't': and at'It-rwards, \\'lIt'lt Ila- two
went hat-k In that Ila-tn. tla- Ilm-c \Vt't't! t'Olllt' In lllt' nld habitation again: we
shall see their tlilli'l't'lll conduct presently. When the three came back like
 

furious t'rt'ntures. flushed with the rage \vhit'h the. work they had been about
had pttt them intu, they t'tlltn' up to the Spaniards. :unl tuld them what they
had done, hy way of sentl' and hravadn: and one nl'thent, stepping up tu <<me
of the Spaniards, as if they had lit't'll a maple ot' hots at play. takes huhl of
his hat as it was upon his head. and, giving it a twirl about, the-ring in his
litre, says to hint, " And ~vnu. Seigninr Javk Spaniard, shall have the sauna
Stun-e if you dn not na-ud your manta-ts." 'l'lu- Spaniard, \vhn. tlmngh a
quiet, ('l\'ll man, was as hrave a man as emthl he. and, withal. a strong. Well-
tuade tntut, looked at hint ll)!' a good while. and then. having an wi-apnu in
his hand. stepped gravely up to him, and. with one Now 01' his list. knm-kt-d
hint down, as an ox is li-lh-tl with a pale-axe : at \vhieh one of the rogues, as
iusolent as the first, fired his pistnl at the Spaniard immediately: he missed
his body, indeed, thr the bullets went through his hair, hut one of them
touched the. tip of his ear, and he bled pretty nllfl'll. The. hlood made the
Spaniard believe. he. \vas more lntrt than he really was, and that put him
into some heat, tbr before he noted all in a perfect calm; but now, resolving
to go through with his work, he stooped, and took the fellow's musket
whom he had knoeked down, and was just going to shoot the tnatt who ltad
fired at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, heing itt the cave, came out,
and, 'ttlliltg to them not to shoot, they stepped in, seemed the other two, and
took their arms from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and fottnd they had made all the Span-
iards their enemies, as Well as tlteir own eountrymen, they began to enol,
and, giving the Spaniards better Words, Would have their arms again; but
the Spaniards, eonsidering the fetal that was between them and the other
two I'Inglislnuen, and that it Wotthl he the best method they eould take to keep
them from killing one another, told them they would do them no harm, and,
if they would live peaeeahly, they Wottld he very willing to assist atul asso-
eiate with them as they did before; lntt that they could not think of giving
them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mischief with
them to their own eouutrymeu, and had even threatened them all to make
them their servants.

'l'he rogues were now no tnore capable to hear reason than to act with
reason ; but, being refused their arms, they went raving away, and raging like
madmen, threatening what they \vould do, though they had no lire-anus.
llut the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told thettt they should take
eare how they olIi-red atty injury to their platttatiott or cattle, for if they did,
they would shoot them as they would ravenous lwasts, wherever they found
them; aml, il'they li-ll ittto their hattds alive, they should certainly be hanged.
However, this was tin' frotn eooling them; but away they went, raging and
swearing like litries of hell. As stunt as they Were gone, the two tnett eatne
bat-k, in passion atul rage enough also, though of another kind; for, having
been at their plalttation, and finding it all demolished and destroyed, as
above, it will easily he supposed they had provoeatiou enough. They
eould searee have rootn to tell their tale, the Spaniards Were so eager to tell
them theirs; and it was strange enough to find that three tnett should thtts
bully nineteen, ntnl reeeive no punishment ttt all.

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus disarmed
them, tmtde light of their threatenings; bttt the. tWo Englishmen resolved
to have their remedy against them, what pains soever it eost to ftud them
out. But the Spaniards interposed here too, am] told them, that, as they had
disarmed them. they eottld ttot eonsent that they (the two) should pursue
them with fire-arms, aml perhaps kill them. "But," said the grave Spaniard,
who was their governor, " We will endeavor to make them do you justice, if
you will leave it to us: tor there is no doubt bttt they will eomc to us again,
when their passion is over, being ttot able to subsist without ottr assistance:
we promise you to make no peace with them, withottt having a full satisfac-
tion tinr yott: and, upon this eonditiou, We hope you will promise to use no
violettee with theta, other than in your own defence." The two Englishmen
yielded to this very awkwardly, and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards
protested that they did it only to keep tltetn from bloodshed, and to make all
easy at last. " For," said they, " We are not so tuauy of us; here is room
enough for us all. and it is a great pity we. shottld not be all good friends."
At length, they did eonsent, and waited for the issue of the thing, living for
some days with the Spaniards; for their own habitation was destroyed.

In about five days' time, the three vagmuts, tired with wandering, and al-
most starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on tnrtles' eggs all that while,
 

came back to the grove; and, finding my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was
the governor, and two tnorc with him, walking by the side of the creek, they
came up in a very submissive, lnunble nianncr, and vagged to be receiVed
again into the family. The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they
had acted so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them,
(the Spaniards,) that they could not come to any conclusion without consult-
ing the two Englislnnen and the rest; but, however, they Would go to them
and discourse about it, and they should know in half an hour. It may be
guessed that they were very hard put to it: lbr, it seems, as they were to wait
this half hour for an answer, they begged they wunld send them out some
bread in the mean time, which they did; sending, at the same time, a large
piece of goat's flesh, and a boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for
they were hungry enough.

Alter half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long debate
ensued; their two countrymen charging them with the ruin of all their
labor, and a design to murder them; all which they owned before, and
therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole. the Spaniards acted the
moderators between them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not
to hurt the three while they were naked and unanned, so they now obliged
the three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same, and
the other of larger dimensions than they were before; to fence their ground
again where they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room of those
pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn, where they had spoiled it,
and, in a word, to restore every thing in the same state as they found it, as
near as they could; for entirely it could not be, the season for the corn, and.
the growth of the trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.

Well, they submitted to all this; and, as they had plenty of provisions
given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the whole society
began to live pleasantly and agreeably together again; only that these three
fellows could never be persuaded to work,l mean for themselves, except
now and then a little, just as they pleased: however, the Spaniards told them
plainly, that if they would but live sociably and friendly together, and study
the good of the whole plantation, they would be content to work for them,
and let them walk about and he as idle as they pleased; and thus, having
lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave them arms
again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as before.

' It was not above a week alter they had these arms, and went abroad, but
the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and troublesome as belbre:
but, however, an accident happened presently upon this, which endangered
the safety of them all; and they were obliged to lay by all private resent-
ments, and look to the preservation oftheir lives.

It happened, one night, that the Spanish governor, as I call him, that is to
say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now the captain, or
leader, or governor of the rest, lbund himself very uneasy in the night, and
could by no means get any sleep; he was perfectly well in body, as he told
me the story, only found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men
fighting and killing of one another, but he was broad awake, and could not
by any means get any sleep; in short, he lay.a great while; but, growing
more and more uneasy, be resolved to rise. As they lay, being so many of
them, upon goat-skins laid thick upon such couches and pads as they made
for themselves, and not in hammocks and ship beds, as I did, who was but
one, so they had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but to get up
upon their feet, and, perhaps, put on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps,
and they were ready for going any way that their thoughts guided them.
Being thus got up, he looked out; but, being dark, he could see little or noth-
ing; and, besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former account
is described, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his sight, so that
ne could only look up, and see that it was a clear, starlight night; and, hear-
ing no noise, he returned and laid him down again: but it was all one; he
could not sleep, nor could he compose himself to any thing like rest; but his
thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and he knew not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out and
coming in, another of them waked, and, calling, asked who it was that was
up. The governor told him how it had been with him. "Say you so?"
says the other Spaniard; " such things are not to be slighted, I assure you;
there is certainly some mischief working near us:" and presently he asked
him, " Where are the Englishmen?" " They are all in their huts," says he,
" sale enough." It seems the Spaniards had kept possession of the main
apartment, aml had made a place tbr the three Englishmen, who, since their
last mutiny, were always quartered by themselves, and could not come at
the rest. " Well," says the Spaniard, "there is something in it,I am per-
suaded, front my own experience. I am sitisficd our spirits imbedied have
a converse with, and receive intelligence ti'om, the spirits unimbodied, and
inhabiting the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given for our ad-
vantage, it' we knew how to make use of it. Come," says he, " let us go
atul look abroad; and, if we find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, 1'"
tell you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my
proposing it."

In a word, they went out, to go up to the top of the hill, where 1 used to
go; but they, being strong, and a good company, not alone, as I was, used
none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and, pulling it up after them, to
go up a second stage to the top, but were going round through the grove,
unconcerned and unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a light, as
of fire, a very little way otf from them, and hearing the voices of tneu, not
of one or two, btrt ofa great number.

In all the discoveries I had made of the wtvages landing on the island, it
was my constant care to prevent them making the least discovery of there
being any inhabitant upon the place; and when, by any occasion, they came
to know it, they felt it so effectually that they that got away were scarce able
to give any account of it; for we dimppeared as soon as possible; nor did
over any that had seen me, escape to tell any one else, except it was the
three savages in our last encounter, who jumped into the boat; of whom I
mentioned, I was afraid they should go home and bring more help. Whether
it was the consequence of the escape of those men that so great a number
came now together, or whether they came ignorantly, and by accident, on
their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not, it seems, understand;
but, whatever it was, it had been their business either to have concealed
themselves, or not to have seen them at all, much less to have let the savages
have seen that there were any inhabitants in the place; or to have fallen
upon them so effectually as that not a man of them should have escaped,
which could only have been by getting in between them and their boats;
but this presence of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their
trzuiquillity for a great while.

\Ve need not doubt, but that the governor and the man with hitn, surprised
with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their fellows, giving them
an account of the imminent danger they were all in, and they again as readily
took the alarm; but it was impossible to persuade them to stay close within
where they were, but they must all run out to see how things stood.

889.98 'I'llt'. LIVE AND ADViZN'l'I'IU'ZS

\Vhile it \'as dark, indeed, they Were well ennuglt. and they had oppnr~
tttttity ennugh, liar sntne Imm's, tn View them hy the light nt' three tires they
had made at a distant-e ti'uni nne number; What they were dnitlg they kllt'tV
nut. and what tn dn themseltes they kin-w nnt. l"nr, lirst, the enemy were,
tnn many: and, seenndly, they did nut keep together, but were divided into
pen-ml parties, and were nn slinre in st-t'eral plat-es.

'I'he Spaniards new in an small ennsternatinn at this sight; and, as they
(hand that the t'ellnws ran straggling all twer the. shnre, they made nn dnnht
but, Iirst nr last, snme nl' them wnuld ehnp in npnn their habitation, nr upnn
snme ntIn-r plaee "here they wnnhl see the tnken nt' inhabitants; aml they
were in great perplexity. alsn. tin' ti-ar <<if their tlnek nl' gnats, whieh wunhl
have been little less than starving them, it' they shnnld have, been destrnyed ;
so the tirst thing they rt'NIlH'tl upnn was. In despateh three men away het'nn:
it was light, tn'n Slumiards and one l'Inglishman, In drive all the goats away
tn the p at valley where the ante was, and, it' need wu-re. tn drive. thetn into
the very 'ave itselli ('nnhl they have seen the savages nltngether in one
hndy. and at a distant-e, from their 'annes, they resnlved, il' there had been
a hundred nt' them, In lnu- - attaeked them: but that ennld nnt he obtained;
for they "ere snmn nt'Ihem Iwn miles nll'ti'nm the ether, and, as it appeared
afterwards, "ere. nt' twn tlitl'erent natinns.

After having.' mused a gnu-II while on the enmse they should take, and
heating their brains in ennsidering their present eiremnstatn-es. they resnlved,
at last, while it was still dark, tn send the nhl savage, Friday's lather, nnt us
a spy, tn learn, it' pnssiltle, saint-thing enneerning them: as, what they came
for, what they intended tn dn, and the like. The old man readily undertook
it : and, stripping hitnselt' quite naked, as must of the savages were, away he
went. Alter he had been gnne an hnnr nr two, he. brings word that he. lnnl
been among them undisenvered; that he. thund they Were twn parties and
nl' two several nntinns, whn had war with one another, and had a great battle.
in their nwn enuntry; and that, bnth sides having had set'eral prisoners taken
in the. tight, they were, hy mere ehanee, landed all nn the name island, for
the devouring their prisoners and making.r merry, but their coming so by
ehanee In the same plaee had spniled all their mirth; that they were in a
great rag - at one annther, atnl were sn near that he believed they wnttld fight
again as soon as daylight began tn appear; but he did not port'eive that
they had any nntinn of any bndy being on the island but themselves. He
had hardly made an end of telling his story, when they ennld lwreeive, by
the unusual nnise they made, that the twn little. armies were engaged in n

 

lil'nnly light.

Friday's lather used all the arguments he enuld tn persuade our penpln
In lie elnse, and nut he seen; he tnld them their sati-ty ennsisted in it, and
that they had nnthing In dn hut lie still. and the savages wnlthl kill nne
annther tn their hands. aml then the rest wnnld gn anay: and it "as sn
In a little. But it was impnssible In prevail, espeeially upnn the l'inglislnnen:
their eurinsity was sn impnrtnnate npnn their prndentials, that they must
run nut and see the battle: ll||\\t'\'t'|', they used snme eautinn, Inn, Vl'l... they
did nnt gn npenly. just by their nwn dwelling, but Went timber into the
wnnds, and plaeed themselu-s tn advantage, where they might seenrely see
them namage the light. and. as they Ihnllghl. II"! be seen by them: but it
seems the savages did see them. as we shall find hen-alter.

The battle was very tier 'e: and, ill might believe the l'lnglislnm-n, one299 - 300
Missing
From
Original
of them said he could perceive that some of them were. men of great brnvery,
ot' invineihle spirits, and ot' grent poliey in guiding the, tight. The bottle,
they said, held two hours beliire they eould guess which pnrty would be
beaten; but then that purty \vhieh wus nearest our people's Intbitution
lug-run to appear weakest. and, after some titue more, some of them begun
to fly: and this put our men again into a grent eonsternution, lest nny one
of those that tled slmuld run into the grove belitre their dWelling litr shelter,
utnl thereby iuvulnulurily disemer the plut'e: utnl that, by eousetpletu-e, the
pursners \t'ouhl do the like in senreh of them. l'pou this, they resolved that
they would stuud nruted within the wall, and whoever route into the grove,
they resolved to sully out over the wall and kill them: so that. it' possible,
not one shonhl return to give nu ueeonnt of it: they ordered, also, that it
should be done with their swords, or by knuekiug them down with the
stoeks of their mnskets, but not by shooting them, for fear of raising an
olnrm by the noise.

 

As they expected, it fell out: three of the routed nrmy fled for life, and,
ores-sing the creek, mu direetly into the plan'e, not in the least knowing
whither they \vent. but running as into n thiek wood, for shelter. The seont
they kept to look abroad, gave untiee of this within, with this addition, to
our men's great sntislin-tion, viz" that the emupterors had not pursued them,
or seen which way they were gone: upon this, the Spaniard governor, a
man of luumutity, would not sutl'er them to kill the three fugitives, but,
sending three tnen out by the top ot'tlu- hill, ordered them to go round, come
in behind them, and surprise and take them prisoners, whieh \vas done.
The residue of the conquered people tied to their mum-S. and g0! Ofi'to sea;
the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but, drawing themselves
into a body together. gave two great, sereamiug shouts, whit'b they supposed
\vus by way of triumph, and so the tight ended: atnl the same day, about
three o'eloek in the afternoon. they also marehed to their 'anoes. And thus
the Spaniards had their island again li'ee to themselves, their l'rigbt was over,
and they saw no savages in several years alter.

Alli-r they were all gone, the Spaniards eatne ottt ot'their den, and, viewing
the field ot' battle. they tintnd about ttvo-aInI-thirty tuen dead on the spot:
some nere killed uith _ at, longarrotvs, some ot'u'hielt were titund stieking
in their bodies: but most of them "ere killed with "'-at, \vooden swords.
sixteen or seu'ttlt't'tt ot' "hieh they t'outnl ill the tiehl of battle, and as tnany

 

 

lion's, with a great many arr-ms. 'I'hese swords \vere st 'ange, great, tttt-
\vieldy things. and they must be very stron;r men that used them: must of
those men that were killed "ill! them had their h 'ads mashed to pieees. as
\ye may say, or, as \\ e e::ll it in l':lt;.'li>ll. their brains knoeked ont.atul several
their arms and legs broken : Mt that it is evident they tight \\ilh inexpressible
rage and litr_\. \Ve tittttnl nut one man that was not stone dead. titr either
they stay by their enemy till they have killed him. or they carry all the
Wounded men. that are not quite dead. :nvay nith them.

This deliu-ranee tamed our l'inglishlneu l'ur a g.' at while: the sight had
filled them \tith horror,:ttnl the eonsetpn-nees appeared terrible to the last

  

degree, espeeially npun supposing that some time or other they should I'all
into the hatnls of those ereatures. \vho \vonld not only kill them as enemies,
but kill them tiu' loud, as m- kill our 'attle: :nnl they proli-ssed to me, that
the tlmughts ut' Invite; eaten up like beef or mutton, thougb it "as supposed
it "as not to be till they new dead. had something in it so horrible that it
nauseated their very stomaehs. made them siek when they thought of it. atnl
tilled their minds with sneh ttnusual terror. that they \\ ere not themselves tiu'
some \veeks alier. This. as Isaid. tann-d even the three I'Iuglish brtttes l
have been sin-akin: of: and. tinr a ,-_rr -at while after. they new traetable. and
\vent about the eommon business ol'the \vhule soeiely \vell enough: planted,
NHth. reaped. aml began to be all naturalized to the eonntry. lint. settle
tinte alter this. they tell into sneh simple measures again, as brought them
into a great deal <<It'trottltle.

'I'ln'y lnul taken three prisoners. as I observed: and these tht't't'. lN'lllg
lusty. stout, young: ti-llmvs, they made them servants, atnl taught them to
Work tin- them: and. as slaves, they did "ell enough: but they did not take
their tu-asnres \vith theta as I did by my man Friday, viz, to begin with
them upon the prim-iple of having saved their lives, and then instruet them
in the rational prineiples ol' lite: mtteh less of r -|i_-_rion, eivilizing, atnl
redueing them by kind name and atli-etionate arguings: but as they gave
them their final every day, so they gave them their \vork too. and kept them
fully employed in drudgery enough: bttt they tailed in this by it, that they
never had them to assist them, and tight for them, as l luul my man Friday,
who was as trite to me as the very tlesh upon my bones.

But to emne to the tZ-uuily part. Being all now good friends, for eommou
danger, as I said above, had etlieetnally reeoneiled them. they began to eon-
sider their general eireutustanees: :unl the first thing that came under their
eunsidemtion was, whether, seeing the. savages lmrtieularly haunted that side
ot'the island. atnl that then- were more remote and retired parts of it equally
adapted to their tray of living, aml munitestly to their advantage, they should
not rather move. their habitation, and plant in some more proper place for
their safety, and especially llit' the security ol'thcir cattle and eorn.

l'pon this, after a long debate, it was concluded that they would not
renuwo their habitation; because that, some titnc or other, they thought they
might hear than their got't't'ltor again, meaning me; atnl, il' I should send
any one to seek them. I should be sure to direct them to that side; where,
il'they should liml the place demolished, they would conclude the savages
had killed Its all, and we were gone, and so ottr supply would go too. But,
as to their corn and wide, they agreed to remove them into the Valley where
my cave was, where the land was as proper tin- both, nml whore, indeed,
there was land enough: however, ttpou second thoughts, they altered one
part ol' their resolution too. and resulted only to remote part of their cattle
thither. and plant part of their corn there: and so. it' one part was dostroyed,
the other might be sun-d. And one part of prudence they used, which it
was very well they did, \'i'l... that they never trusted those thre: savages,
which they had prisonets, with knowing any thing of the plantation they
had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had there, much less or the
care there, which they kept, in ease of Necessity, as a sate retreat; attd
thithor they carried also the two barrels of powder which I had sent them
at my coining away. lint, however, they resolved not to change their
habitation; yet they agreed. that, as I had 'arelillly t'tn't'n'tl it lirst with a
wall or Ibrtili-ation, aml then with a grove of trees, so, seeing their satcty
consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which they were now fully
convinced, they set to work to cover aml conceal the. place yet more efl'eetu-
ally than liq-tore. For this purpose. as I phoned trees, or rather thrust in
stakes, which in time ail grow up to he trees, tor some good distance bet'oro
tho entrance into my apartments, they went on in the same manner, and
tilled up the rest of that whole space of ground. than the trees I had set,
quite down to the. side of the creek, where, as I said, I landed tny floats, and
c\'t'lt into the very ooze where the tide tlowed, not so much as l-at'itig any
place to land, or any sign that there had been any landing thereabonts: .these
stakes, also, being of a wood very Ibrward to grow, as l have noted formerly,
they took care to have them generally tnttch larger and taller than those
which I had planted: and, as they grew apaee, so they planted thetn so very
thick and close together, that, when they had been three or four years grown,
there was no piercing with the eye any considerable way into the plantation;
aml, as liir that part which I had planned, the trees were grown as thiek as
a man's thigh, atnl among: thetn they placed so nnniy other short ones,
and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like, a palisado a quarter of a mile
thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it, but with a little army to
out it all down; for a little dog could hardly get between the trees, they
stood so close.

But this was not all; for they did the saute by all the ground to the right
hand and to the lett, and round even to the side of the hill, leaving no way,
not so much as for themselves to route. out, hnt by the ladder placed up to
the side of the hill, and then lifted up. and plead again from the first stage
up to the top; and when the ladder was taken down, nothing but what had
wings or witchcratl'. to asoist it, could come at them. This was excellently
well contrived: nor was it less than what they alien-wards lbnnd occasion
for: which sorted to convince me, that. as human prudence has the authority
of l'rm'idenee to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Providence to
N?! it In \vnrk : and if m- lisn-m-d i-urvlidly In Ilw \'Ult'l! of it, I lllll [mrsnndnd
"'0 might Inn-vent many of (In- dimslurs wh'n'h nnr lives nro now, by our
own Iwgligi-m-v. snliju-vn-d In. Hm this by Iln- \\'u_\'.

l rvnn'n In lhv slnr_\'. 'I'lwy liw-d [\vn yi-nm nlh'r this in [N'rli'l't n'tim-
"Will, and had no mnru visits from llu- savages. 'l'ln-y had, indeed, an nlnrm
giu-n "mm mm morning, whirh put them inln in grant i-nnsli'rnnliun; 1hr
smnv nl' the Spaniards. being nnl vm'ly nnn mnrning nn lln- M's! side, or,
rnlln-r. c-nd, nl' lln- island, (whii-h mus thnl c-nd win-n.- l non-r Went, for li-nr
nl' lu-ing disrm'vrvd.) Hwy "(11- surprised will: wring :dmw lwvnly i-nnmm
nl' lndinnsjnsl ruining nn shnrv. 'I'ln-y lnmh' Ihu limit 01' their \\'n_\' holm',
in hnrr_\' (nnngh: und. giving llw nlnrm In llu-ir rnmrnih-s, they kvpt i'lnsv nll
lhul day and "In m-u. going nul nnly :il nigh! In nmkt- lhi-ir nhN-rvnlinn; hm
lln-y hml lln- gnnd lurk In lu- mislukl'u; lin' whrn-wr tln' savages "cut, tln-y
did nnt hind Ilml linu- nn llu- island. hnl pursue-d snnu- nllwr (Ii-sign.

And nnn' lln-y hud :mnlln-r hrnil with llll' lhrm- I'inglishnu-n; nm- nl'
whom, a Inns! lnrhuh-nl li-llnn'. lu-ing.r in n man at nm- nl' lln- (Inn-v. slum-9,
whirh l lm-nlinm'd lln-_\~ hznl lulu-n. lu-cnnsv llu- li-Ilnn' hud llnl dnm' snmc-
lhing righi. which he? hid hilu dn. :md sm-mvd :I lillhz lullmi'luhh' ill his
shnwing him. drvw n huh-hut unl nl' a Ii'ng-lu-Il. in "'llil'll ln- worn it by his
sidi'. nnd Ii-ll npnn lln- pnnr suvugv, lml In i'nrrq-rl him, hut In kill him. One
nl' the Spaniards, Mm "an: In. wring him ,-_'in- lln' li-llnw u burlmrnus rut
with llu- lmn-hu-l. \"lllt'll ln' ninu-d at his lu-nd, hnl slrm'k into his shnnldvr,
so lhul he lhnnghl hi: hud cm the poor cnsnmrc's urm 011', run to him, and,
entreatiug him not to murder the pom man, plaeed himself between hitn
and the savage, to prevent the misehieti 'I'he lirllow, being enraged the more
at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatehet. atul swore he "'nllltl serve
him as he intended to serve the savage; whielt the Spaniard pereeiviug.
avoided the blow, and with a shm'el whieh he had in his hand, (tiir they
were all working in the tield about their eorn land.) knocked the brute. down.
Another of the l'Ininslmu-n, running at the. same time to help his eomrade,
knoeked the. Spaniard down: and then two Spaniards more eame in to help
their man, and a third Englishman tell in upon them. They had nottc of
them any tire-arms or any other weapons but hatehets atul other tools, exec-pt
this third l'Inglishmau: he. had one of tny rttsty entlasses. with whieh he
made at the two last Standards. and wounded them both. This ti'ay set the
whole. tiuuily in an uproar. and. more help routing in. they took the three
Englislunen prisoners. The next question was, what should he done with
them. They ltad been so otieu mutinous. and Were so very titrious, so
desperate, atul so idle withal, they knew not what eourse to take with them,
tiir they were tnisehievous to the highest degree. atul valued not what hurt
they did to any nuut ; so that. in short, it was not sali- to live. with them.

The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many words. that, it' they
had been of his own country. he would have hanged them: for all laws aml
all goverttont Were to preserve soeiety, atul those who were. dangemns to the
soeiety ought to be expelled out of it: hut as they were Englishmen. atul
that it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed
their preservation aml delivertnn-e, he would use them with all possihle lenity,
and would leave them to the judgment of the other two l-Inglishmen, who
Were their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englislnnctt stood up, and said they desired it
might ttot be letl to them. " For," says he, " l atn sure we ought to senteneo
them to the gallows;" atul with that he gives an :u'eonnt how "'ill Atkins,
one of the three, had proposed to have all the live. Englishmen join together,
and murder all the Spaniards when they were in their sleep.

\Vhen the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins, "How,
Seignior Atkins, would you murder us all ? What have you to say to that?"
The. hardened villain was so far from denying it that he said it was true;
and, "G--d d--n him, they would do it still, before they had done with
theta." "Well, but, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, "what have we
done to you, that you will kill us? And what would you get by killing us?
And what must we do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill you, or
you kill us ? Why will you put us to the neceatity of this, Scignior Atkins?"
guys the Spaniard very calmly, and smiling. Seignior Atkins was in such a
rage at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not been held by
three tuen, and withal had no weapon near him, it was thought he would
have attempted to have killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the company.
This hare brain carriage obliged them to consider seriously what was to be
done: the two Euglislnncn, and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage,
were of the opinion that they should hang ono of the three, for an example
to the rest; and that, particularly. it should be he that had twice attempted to
commit murder with his hatchet; and, indeed, there was some reason to
believe he had done it, for the poor savags was in such a miserable condition
with the wound he had received, that it was thought he could not live. But
the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an Englishman that had saved all

393'36 'I'ut: l.ti"r'. AND .tm-tm'rtrutts

tlteir lives, and he. would never consent to pttt an I'Inglislnnan to death,
though he had murdered hall' of them; nay. he said, if he had been killed
himself by an I'Inglishtnau, and had tiute left to speak, it should be that they
should pardon him.

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that there was
no gaiasaying it; and as mereil'nl eounsels are most apt to prevail. where
they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it was to be
considered what should be done to keep them from doing the. misehiet' they
designed: liir all agreed. governor and all. that means new to be used lor
preserving the society from danger. Atier a long debate, it was agreed. titst,
that tltey should be disarnled, atnl not permitted to have either gun. powder,
shot, sword. or any weapon: and should be turned null (if the, society, and
lel't to live where they \vonhl. and how they would, by themselves; but that
none of the rest, eitlter Spaniards or I'Inglish, should converse with them,
speak with them. or have any thing to do with them; that they should be
tin-bid to route within a eertaitt distant-e. ot' the plat-e where the rest dwelt;
and. it'they olli-red to eouunit :nty disorder. so as to spoil, burn, kill, or
destroy any of the eorn. plantings. buildings. li-nees, or 'attle belonging to
the soeiety, they should die without merry, atul they wotlhl shoot them
nherever they could lind them.

The governor, a man of great htunauity. musing upon the sentence, con-
sidered a little upon it: and, turning to the two honest l'htglislnu'en, said
"llold: you must t't'lll't'l that it will be long ere they can raise corn and
'attle of their own. and they must not starve: we must, then-titre, allow them
provisions." So he eaused to be added, that they should have a proportion
of rum given them to last thetu eight months, and liir seed to sow, by whit'h
time they might be supposed to raise some of their own; that they should
have six tItih'lI-gozlls, timr lie-goats, and six kids given thetn, as Well lin-
present subsistence as lbr a store: and that they should have tools given
them livr their Work in the tields, sueh as six hatehets, an adze, a saw, and
the like: but they should have none of these tools or provisions unless they
would swear solemnly that they woahl not hurt or injure any of the Span-
iards with them, or of their li-lltnv-Englislnuen.

Thus they dismissed them the soeiety, and turned them out to shill for
themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as neither eontent to go
a\ 'ay nor to stay: but. as there \ 'as no remedy, they went, pretending to go
and choose a plaee where they would settle themselves; and some provisions
were given them, httt no weapons.

About lilltr or live days alier, they came again lbr some victunls, and gave
the governor an aceonnt where they had pitched their tents, and marked
themselves out a habitation and plantation; and it was a very convenient
place, indeed, on the remotest part ol'the. island, N. I'L, mueh about the.
plaee where I prtwidentially landed in my first voyage, when I was driven
out to sea, the Lord knows whither, in my foolish attempt to sail round
the island.

Ilen- they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them in a
manner like my tirst habitation, being close under the side. of a hill, having
some trees growing already on three sides of it, so that, by planting others, it
would be very easily covered from the sight. unless narrowly searched for.
They desired some dried goat-skins, for beds and eoveriug, which wem
given them: and, upon giving their words that they would not disturb the
rest, or injure any of their plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what
other tools they could spare; some penis barley, and rice, for sowing; and, in
a word, any thing they wanted, except arms and amnnmition.

They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had got in their
first harvest, though the quantity was but small, the parcel of laml they had
planted being but little; for, indeed, having all their plantation to form, they
had a great deal of work upon their hands; and when they came to make
boards and pots, and such things, they were quite out of their element, and
could make nothing of it; and when the nitty season came on, for want of
a cave in the earth, they could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great
danger of spoiling; and this humbled them much : so they came and begged
the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did; aml in four days
\vorked a great hole in the side of the bill for them, big enough to secure
their corn and other things from the rain; but it was a poor place, at best,
compared to mine, and especially as mine was then, tbr the Spaniards had
greatly enlarged it, and made several new apartments in it.

About three quarters of a year alter this separation. at new trolic took these
rogues, which, together with the former villany they had committed, brought
mischief enough upon them. and had very near been the ruin of the whole
colony. The three new associates began, it seems, to be weary of the labo-
rious life they led, and that without hope of bettering their cinttnnstances;
and a whim took them that they would make a voyage to the continent, from
whence the savages ctune, aml would try if they could seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them home, so as to make them
do the laborious part of their work for them.

The project was not so preposterous, it' they had gone no timber: but
they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief in the
design, or mischief in the event; and. it'l may give my opinion, they scented
to be under a blast ti'om llcaven; tor, it' we will not allow a visible curse to
pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things with the
divine justice? It was certainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of
mutiny and piracy that brought them to the state they were in; and they
showed not the least remorse for the crime, lnlt added new villanies to it.
such as the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave because he
did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he directed, and to
wound hitn in such a manner as made hitn a cripple all his lite, and in a
place where no surgeon or medicine could be had tor his care; and what
was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do justice to the crime, the inten-
tional tnurder,-- for such, to be sure. it Was, -- as was afterwards the formed
design they all laid, to tnurder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their sleep.

But I leave observing, and return to the story :--The three tellows came
down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble terms desired to be
admitted to speak with theta: the Spaniards very readily heard what they
had to say, which was this : -That they were tired of living in the manner
they did; and that they were. not handy enough to make the necessaries they
wanted, and that, having no help, they found they should be starved; but if
the Spaniards would give them leave to take one of the canoes which they
came over in, and give them arms and ammunition proportioned to their de-
fence, they would go over to the main and seek their lbrtunes, and so deliver
them from the trouble of supplying them with any other provisions.

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very honestly308 ' 'l'llI-t urn AND Auvax'rumzs

n-pn-snutod tn thom tlw m'rluilt dq-stna-tiuu thvy m-m runniuginto: told them
tla-y had sntli-rvd such hardships upnn that wry spat. that Ila-y onuld. with-
nut any spirit "1' prupla-ry. tell them thvy Would he starvvd or murdered;
and hadc' Ila-m c-nnsido-r nl'it.

'l'lu- nu-u n-plivd audat-iuusly they shunhl ho sturwd if "my staid lu'rv,
fin' Ila-y I'nllltl nut wnrk, and \uulhl nut work, and Ila-y c-nuld but he stnrvvd
ahruad : and. il'tlu-y \n-rv murdq-md, tlu-rq- was an and ot' Ila-tn ; they had an
win-s ur vhildn-u In vry ulh'r Ila-nu; and. in shnrt, insin'u-d iuqmrtuuatuly
ulmn thvir dmuand, dwlaring thvy would go, whclhu-r thvy gum tlu-tu any
arms m' ttn.

'l'lu- Spaniards tnld Ila-m, with grt-at kindness, that, it' tlwy \rrrc- rvsnlvvd
to go, tlu-y slmuhl nut go like nakc-d Im-n, and Iw in nu ('Ululllillll tn do-li-nd
tIu-um-lws; and that, tlmugh thvy muld ill sparc- tlwir tirv-arnm having not
rnmlgll tiu' tln-tusrln-s. yr! tlu-y would lI'l lIu-m haw twn nulskrts, n pislul,
and a c-Iulass. and vac-h man a hatrlu-t, whirl: Ila-y tlmught was sutlic'ii-nt 1hr
lltl'lll. In a ward. Ila-y arm-turd tlu- ulli'r: and. having.r hakvd lm-ad vunugh
tn si-rn- tlu-m a Innuth. and gin-u tlu-m as nun-h guat's lh'sh as tIu-y c-nuld
l'fll whih- it "as sm-vtumd a gn-at haskvt nl' driml grain-5,1: put of l'rt-sh
"'Hlt'l". and a yawn; kid aliw, Ila-y lmldly svt nut in tla' canm: liu' a voyage
m'vr tlu' spa. "la-rt- il \\'a.~' al h'ast lilrly lnih's lmuul.

'l'lu- hunt. imh-rd. was a large mm. and \muhl wry m-ll haw i'arrivd lillm-n
or twvnty ua-n. and Ila-n-tim- was nulu-r Inn big liu' them to manage: hut,
as Ila-y had a lair lu-m-zv and lluml tich- with thmu. thvy did wvll enough.
'l'ln-y had madv a mast ot'a lung tulle, and a sail of that large gum-skins
dried, which they had sewed or laced together; and aWay they went merrily
enough: the Spaniards called alter them, " Boa acyajo," atul no tnun ever
thought ol'seeing them any more.

The Spaniards Were often saying to one attother, and to the two honest
Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly tutd eomtbrtably they lived,
now these three turbulent litlltm's Were gone: as for their coming again, that.
was the remotest thing from their thoughts that could be imagined; when,
behold, after two-and-tWenty days absence. one of the Englishmen, being
abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange men coming towards him
at a distance, with guns upon their shoulders.

Away rttns the l'lnglislnnau, as if he was bewitched, comes frightened and
amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they Were all undone, for
there Were stnutg rrs upon the islatul, bttt could not tell who. The Spaniard,
pausing a While, says to him, " Iluw do you mean, yott cannot tell Who?
They are the savages, to he sure." " No, no," says the Englishman; " they
are men in clothes, with arms." " Nay, then," says the Spaniard, " why are
you concerned? If they are not savages, they must be friends; for there is
no Christnin nation upon earth but will do us good rather thatt harm."

\Vhile they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and, standing
without the Wood, which was new planted, hallooed to them: they presently
knew their voices, and so all the Wonder of that kind ceased. lint new the
admiration was turned upon another question, fit, what could be the mat-
ter, and what made them come back again.

It was. not long lwtiu'e they brought the men in, anal, inquiring where they
had been, atnl what they had been doing, they gave them a full account of
their voyage in a ti:w Words, viz., that they reached the land in two days,
or something less; lntt, linding the people alarmed at their coming. and pre-
paring With bows attd arrows to light them, they dttrst not go on shore, but
sailed on to the northward six or seven hours. till they came to a great open-
ing, by which they lwt'eeived that the land they saw from our island was not
the main, bttt an island; upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw
another island on the right hand, north, aml several more west; and, being
resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which lay
West, and Went boldly on shore; that they found the people very courteous
and friendly to them; aml that they gave several roots and some dried fish,
and umu-ared very sociable; and the women, as well as the men, were very
forward to supply them with any thing they eottld get for them to eat, and
brought it to them a great way upon their heads.

They continued here four days; and inquired, as well as they could of
them, by signs, what nations were this way, and that way; and were told of
several fierce and terrible people that lived almost every way, who, as they
made known by signs to them, used to eat men; but, as for themselves, they
said, they never ate men or women, except only such as they took in the
wars; and then, they owned, they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of that kind; and
they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon and to two
fingers; and that their great king had two hundred prisoners now, which he
had taken in his war, and they were feeding them to make them fat for the
next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous of seeing those prison-
ers; bttt the others, mistaking them, thought they were desirous to have some
of them to carry away for their own eating: so they beckoned to them,
pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising; which was to sig-
nify that the next morning at sunrising they would bring some for them;
and, accordingly, the next morning they brought down five women and
eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on their

voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down to a sea port
town to victual a ship. a

 

As bmtish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their stomachs
turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do. To refuse the prison-
ers would have been the highest affront to the savage gentry that could be
offered them, and what to do with them they knew not. However, after
some debate, they resolved to accept of them; and, in return, they gave the
savages that brought them one of their hatehets, an old key, a knife, and six
or seven of their bullets; which, though they did not understand their use,
they seemed particularly pleased with; and then, tying the poor creatures'
hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had them, or
else they that gave them this noble present would certainly have expected
that they should have gone to work with them, have killed two or three of
them the next morning, and, perhaps, have invited the donors to dinner.
But, having taken their leave, with all the respect and thanks that could well
pass between people where, on either side, they understood not one word
they could say, they put off with their boat, and came back towards the first
island; where, when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty,
there being too many of them for their occasion.

In their voyage, they endeavored to have some communication with
their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them understand any thing:
nothing they could say to them, or give them, or do for them, but was looked
upon as going to murder them. They first of all unbound them; but the
poor creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as if they had just felt
the knife at their throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound
on purpose to be killed. If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the same
thing; they then concluded it was for fear they should sink in flesh, and so
not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of them more particularly,(Il-' Itutuxsnx rm'smc. :lll

tlu- party pn-svntly t'nllt'llllll'tl, it Was to sup wln-tlu-r he or slu- "HS litttu-st,
:nul lint-st tn kill lit-st: u:t_\'.:tlh-r tlu-_\' hml hrmtght llll'lll quite im-r. utnl
lit-gun to "$0 tlwm kindly. and trmt tlu-m \wll, still tlu-y t-xlit-t'tml t-wry <<lay
in umlu- :l climwr m' sumwr l'ur tln-ir tu-w mush-rs.

Wlu-n tlu- tlm-c- wmuln-n-rs hml gin-n this umm'uuntahlv histnry ur junrnul
nl'tht-ir \'u_\':tgt'. llu' Spaniard nskml tln-m "'lu-n- tln-it' m-w linmily was: and,
Iu-ingtultl that Ilu-y haul hrmlght tlu-m nu sltut'1-.:|tttl put tin-m itttu nm- of
their huts. mul m-rc- t'ntlu' up In In-;_' smm- \'ic-ttmls liir tlu-m, thu-y (thv Spun-
i;tt'ul.~'):|ml llu- utlu-r twu I'ittglislum-II. that is tn say. tlw wholu- t-nluny, r0-
suh'ml tn go all tl|)\\'ll tu tlu- plums and sum lllt'lll; uml (lltl so, and Friday's
litlln'r "ith llu'm.

\\'lu-u llu'_\' vmuv intn tlu- hut. llll'l't' tIu-y sat. a" lmuml: liir \\'lll'll tlu'y
Inul hrnnuhl tlu-m nu shurv, thc-_\' lmuml thu-ir humls. that tln-y might tint talu-
llu- hunt and tunku- lIu-ir c-smpv; thu-rv. I my. tlu-y sat. :III of tht-m stark
Ilakml. First. llu-t'c- \n-rc- llll'l'l' nn-tl, lusty. t'nnwly li'llmt's. \u-lI-shulwd,
straight and litir limhs. :tlullll thirty In thirty-tiu- yc-urs nl' :LL'": and live
\t'uuu-n. "'Iu-rq-ul' two might IM' Ii'um thirt) In flirty: tun mum- nut uluwu
I'um'ur liw :uul tm-nty: :unl llu- lil'th.:t tall. mum-[3* lllflltlt'll, uhuut sium-tt
or St'Vt'lIlt't'll. 'l'hn- \VuIm-n \n-ru- \wll tin'nrml. :Igru-o-uhlv IN'I'NHIS' lmth in
shulw :unl li-ntltrc-s, mII_\' tawny; ntul twn ul'tIu-m. hml llu-y Iu-c-n lu-rli-c-t
\\'llllt'. \\'t|llltl haw pnssml liu' wry hamlsnnn- \mmvn. vu-u in lmmlun ilso'll;
having.f ph-nsunt, :tgu-i-nhlc- i-ntlntvuulu'vs. and <<II' a wry Iumlvst lwhminr:
rslwriully wlu-n "my cum: illlt'rH'Hl'llS to lu- t'ltllllt'll mul cln-ssnl, us they
called it, though that dress was very inditl'ereut, it must he confessed; of
which hercalier.

The sight, you may he sure, was something uncouth to our Spaniards,
who \vere, to give lllclll a just character, men of the best larhavior, ol' the
most calm, sedate tempers, and pcrlcct good humor, that ever I met with;
alul, in particular, of the most modesty, as will presently appear; I say, the
sight was Very uncouth, to see three naked men and live. naked women,
all together hound, and in the most miserable cin-Iunstances that human
nature could be supposed to he, vi7.., to he expecting et'ery moment to be
dragged out, aml have their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up
like a call' that is killed tiir a dainty.

The first thing." they did, was to cause the. old lndian, Friday's liither, to
go in, and see, first, it' he knew any of tla-m, and then if he understood any
ol' their speech. As soon as the old lean more in, he looked seriously at
them, hut knew none. of them; neither could any of them understand a
word he said, or a sign he could make, except one of the women. How-
ever, this was enough to answer the end, which was to satisfy them that
the men into whose hands they were l'allcn were Christians; that they
ahhorred eating men or wtunen; and that they might he sure they would
not he killed. As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to describe;
for, it seems, they were of seve 'al nations.

The woman. who was their interpreter, was hid, in the next place, to
ask them if they were willing to he servants, aml to work for the men
who had brought them away, to save their lives; at which they all 13:" a
dancing; and, presently, one tell to taking up this, and another that, any
thing that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to intimate they were willing
to work.

The governor, who l'ouml that the having women among them would
presently he attended with some inconvenience, and might occasion some
strife, and, perhaps, hlood, asked the three men what they intended to do
with these Women, and how they iutemled to use them, whether as servants,
or as women. One of the Englishmen answered very holdly and readily,
that they would use them as both; to which the governor said, "I am not
going to restrain you from it; you are your own masters as to that; but
this l think is hut just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and
I desire it of you for that reason only, viz: that you will all engage, that,
if any of you take any of these women, as a woman or wife, that he shall
take hut one; and that, having taken one, none else shall touch her; for,
though we cannot marry any one of you, yet it is hut reasonahle that, while
you stay here, the woman any of you takes should he maintained by the
man that takes her, and should he his wife. 1 mean," says he, "while he
continues here; and that none else shall have anything to do with her."
All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it without any difficulty.

Then the Englishman asked the Spaniards if they designed to take any
of them. But evory one of them answered, "No." Some of them said
they had wives in Spain; and the others did not like women that were not
Christians; and all together declared that they would not touch one of
theIn,--whieh was an instance of such virtue as l have not met with in all
my travels. On the other hand, to be short, the five Englishmen took them
every one a with--that is to say, a temporary wil'e,--aud so they set up
a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in my
old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The three
servnnts, which were taken in the last battle of the savages, lived with them;
and these carried on the main part of the colony, supplied all the rest with
food, and assisted them in any thing as they could, or as they found no-
cessity required.

But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory, ill-matched
fellows should agree about these women, and that two of them should not
pitch upon the same woman, especially, seeing two or three of them were,
without comparison, more agreeable than the others; but they took a good
way enough to prevent quarelling among themselves; for they set the five
women by themselves in one of their huts, and they went all into the other
but, and drew lots among them who should choose first.

He that drew to choose first, Went away by himself to the but where
the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he chow; and it was
worth observing, that he that chose first, took her that was reckoned the
homeliest and oldest of the live, which made mirth enough among the rest;
and eien the Spaniards laughed at it; but the fellow considered better than
any of them, that it was application and business they were to expect as-
sistance in, as much as in any tlnng else; and she proved the best wife
of all the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and fetched
out, one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon them again,
and they finnly believed they were now going to be devoured. Accord-
ingly, when the English sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the
rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took their leave
of her with such agonies and affection, as would have grieved the hardest
heart in the world; nor was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them
that they were not to be innnediately murdered, till they fetched the old
man,.Friday's father, who innnediately let them know that the five men,
who were to fetch them out one by one, had chosen them for their wives.

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a little over,
the man went to work, and the Spaniards came and helped them; and, in
a feW hours, they had built them every one a new but or tent, for their
lodging apart; for those they had already were crowded with their tools,
household stufi; and provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched far-
thest off, and the two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of the
island, so that they continued separated as before; and thus my island was
peopled in three places; and, as I might say, three towns were begun to
be built.

And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it oflen happens in the
world, (what the wise ends of God's providence are, in such a disposition
of things, I cannot say,) the two honest fellows had the two worst wives;
and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging, that were fit for
nothing, and neither seemed born to do themselves good, nor any one she,
had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious wives; not that the first
two were bad wives, as to their temper or humor, for all the five were
most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than
wives; but my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or in-
dustrious, or alike cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must make, to the honor of a diligent application

40314 Tue use as>> Ain'tzs'rvans

on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothl'ul, negligent, idle temper, on
the other, that, when I eatne to the place, and viewed the several improve-
ments, plantings, aml management of the several little colonies, the two
men had so titr outgone the three, that tltere was no comparison. They
had, indeed. both of them as much ground laid out for eoru us they \vauted;
and the reason was, lx-eause,tn'eordiug to my rttle, natttre dietated that it
was to no purpose to sow more eorn than they wanted; but the ditl'erenee
ot' the enltivatiou, ot' the planting, of the tbttecs, and, indeed, of every thing
else, was easy to be seen at first view.

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their hats, so
that, when you came to the place, nothing was to be seen but a wood; attd
though they had twice had their plantation demolished,--ouee by their
own eouutrytueu, tunl ouee by the enemy, as shall be shown in its place,--
yet they had restored all again, and every thing was thrivingr and flourishing
about them; they had grapes planted in order, atal managed like a vine-
yard, though they had themselves never seen any thing of that kind; and,
by their good ordering their vim-s, their grapes were as good again as any
of the others. They had also found themselves out a retreat in the thiekest
part of the Woods: where, though there was not a natural eave, as I had
iinual, yet they made one with ineessaut labor of their hands, and where,
when the misehiet; whieh tbllowed, happened, they seeured their wives and
children, so as they could never be timnd: they having, by slit-king imm-
nn-rahle stakes atul poles of the wood, whit-h, as I said, grew so readily,
made the grove. impassable,exeept itt some plat-es, where they elimbed up
to get over the outside part, and then went on by ways of their own leaving.

As to the three reprolnttes,tts l justly 'all them, though they were much
civilized by their settletneut, compared to what they were belbre, aml were
not so quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity, yet one of the eer-
tain eomlmnions ot'a protligate tnitnl never letl fluent. and that was their
idleness. It is true, they planted eoru, and made lettees; but Solomon's
words were never better verified than itt tltetn,--"l went by the vim-yard
ot' the slothtitl, atul it was all overgrown with tborns;" for when the Span-
iards eatne to view their crop, they eotthl not see it in some places lbr
\veeds; the hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had got in,
and eaten up the eorn; perhaps, here. and there, a dead bush was crammed
in, to stop them out tinr the present; bttt it was only shutting the stable-
door alter the steed was stolen; whereas, when they looked on the colony
of the other two, there was the very time of industry and sneeess upon alt
they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their eorn, or a gap iii
any of their hedges; tunl they, on the other halal, veritied Solomon's words
in another plaee, "that the diligent band tnaketh rieh;" for every thing
grew and thrived, atal they had plenty within and without; they had tnore
tatue rattle than the others, more utensils and neeesmries within doors,
and yet more pleasure and diversion, too.

It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly within
doors; and, having learned the English ways of dressing atul cooking from
one of the other I'Inglishtneu, who, as I said, was a cook's mate on board
the ship, they dressed their husbands" vietuals very uieely and well; whereas
the others could not be brought to understand it; but then the husband,
who, as I say, had been etmk's mate, did it hints-ell: But as tor the husbands
ot' the three wives, they loitered about, t'etelted turtlcs' eggs, and caught315 - 316
Missing
From
Original
 

fish and birds; in a word, any thing but labor; and they fared accordingly.
The diligent lived well and comfortably; and the slothfnl lived hard and
beggarly; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all over the world.

But] now come to a scene different from all that had happened before,
either to them or to me; and the original of the story was this:----Early
one morning, there came on shore five or six canoes of Indians or savages,
--call them which you please ;--and there is no room to doubt they came
upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but that part was now
so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not cancera
themselves about it, as ldid; but, having been made sensible, by their ex-
perience, that their only business was to lie concealed, and that, if they were
not seen by any of the savages, they would go off again quietly, when their
business was done, having, as yet, not the least notion of there being any
inhabitants in the island; I say, having been made sensible of this, they had
nothing to do but give notice to all the three plantations to keep within
doors, and not show themselves, only placing a scout in a proper place, to
give notice when the boats went to sea again.

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all these meas-
ures, and made it known among the savages that there were inhabitants there ;
which was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole colony. Alter the
canoes with the savages were gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again;
and some of them had the curiosity to go to the place where they had been,
to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they found
three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground. It was
supposed they had either been so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like
beasts, they were fidlen asleep, and would not stir when the others went, or
they had wandered into the woods, and did not come back in time to be
taken in.

The Spaniards Were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly at a loss
what to do. The Spanish governor, as it happened, was with them,
and his advice was asked; but he prolessed he knew not what to do.
As for slaves, they had enough already; and as to killing them, there
were none of them inclined to that; the Spaniard governor told me,
they could not think of shedding innocent blood; for, as to them, the
poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of their property,
and they thought they had uojust quarrel against them, to take away their
lives. And here ltunst, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that, let the
accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Pent be what they will, I never
met with seventeen men, of any nation whatsoever, in any lbreigu country,
who were so universally modest, tempemte, virtuous, so very good-humored,
and so courteous, as these Spaniards; and, as to cruelty, they had nothing
of it in their very natn \; no inhumanity, no burharity, no outrageous
passions; and yet all of them men of great courage and spirit. Their
temper and calmness had appeared in their hearing the itisutlerahle usage
of the three Englishmen; and their justice and humanity appeared now in
the case of the savages, as above. Afier saute consultation, they resolved
upon this: that they would lie still a while longer, till, it' pessihle, these
three men might be gone. But then the governor Spaniard recollected
that <<the three savages had no boat; and, if they were left to rove about
the island, they would certainly discover that there Were inhabitants in it;
and so they should be undone that way. Upon this, they \vent back again,
anti there lay the fellows fast asleep still; and so they resolved to awaken
thetn and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor tellows were
strangely frightened when they Were seized ttpou and hottud; and afraid,
like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten; for, it seems,
those people think all the world does as they do, eating men's flesh; but they
were soon made easy as to that, and away they carried them.

It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to their
castle; Imean to my palace under the hill; but they carried them first to
the bower, where was the chief of their country work, such as the keeping
the goats the planting the corn, &c.; and, afterward, they carried them to
the habitation of the two Englishmen.

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had for them
to do; and, whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or that they
thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know not; but one of them
run away, and, taking to the woods, they could never hear of him any more.

They had gnod reason to believe he got home again soon alter, in some
other boats or cances of savages who came on shore three or four weeks
afterwards; and who, carrying on their revels, as usual, went off in two
days' time. This thought terrified them exceedingly; for they concluded,
and that not without good cause, indeed, that, if this fellow came home safe
among his comrades, he would certainly give them an account that there
were people in the island, and also how few and weak they were; for this
savage, as observed before, had never been told, and it was very happy he had
not, how many there were, or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or
heard the fire of any of their guns, much less had they shown him any
of their other retired places; such as the cave in the valley, or the new
retreat which the two Englishmen had made, and the like.

The first testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence of
them was, that, about two months alter this, six canoes of savages, with
about seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the north
side of the island, where they never used to come before, and landed about
an hour utter sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile from the habitation
of the two Englislunen, where this escaped man had been kept. As the
Spaniard govemor said, had they been all there, the damage would not
have been so much, for not a man of them would have escaped; but the
case ditiered now very much, for two men to fifty was too much odds.
The two men had the happiness to discover them about a league of}; so that
it was above an hour before they landed; and as they landed a mile from
their huts, it was some time before they could come at them. Now, having
great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they did was
to bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two of the three men
whom they brought with the women, (who, it seems, proved very faithful to
them,) to lead them, with their two wives, and whatever they could carry
away with them, to their retired places in the woods, which I have spoken of
above, and there to bind the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard farther.

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and that
they had bent their course directly that way, they opened the fences where
the milch-goats were kept, and drove them all out; leaving their goats to
struggle in the woods, whither they pleased, that the savages might think they
were all bred wild; but the rogue who came with them was too cunning for
that, and gave them an account of it all, for they went directly to the place.

\Vhen the two poor, frightened men had secured their wives and goods,
they sent the other slave they had of the three who came with the women,
and who Was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards with all
speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy help; and, in the mean time,
they took their arms, and what ammunition they had, and retreated towards
the place in the wood where their wives were sent; keeping at a distance,
yet so that they might see, if possible, which way the savages took.

They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could see the
little army of their enemies come on directly to their habitation, and, in a
moment more, could see all their huts and household stuff flaming up
together, to their great grief and mortification; for they had a very great
loss, to them irretrievable, at least for some time. They kept their station
for a while, till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves
all over the place, rummaging every way, and every place they could think
of, in search of prey; and, in particular, for the people, of whom, now, it
plainly appeared they had intelligence.

The two Englishmen, seeing this, thinking themselves not secure where
they stood, because it was likely some of the wild people might come that
Way, and they might come too many together, thought it proper to make
another retreat, about half a mile farther; believing, as it afierwards hap-
pened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer would be together.

Their next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown part of the
woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and vastly
large; and in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to see there
what might otfer. They had not stood there long, before two of the savages320 nu: um: AND anvtzx'rvans

 

appeared, running directly that way, as if they already had notice where they
stood, and were coming up to attack them; and a little way farther they
espied three more coming alter them, aml live more beyond them, all eoming
the same way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a distance,
running another way; tbr. in a word, they ran every way, like sportsmen
heating tor their game.

The poor men Were now in great perplexity whether they should stand
and keep their posture, or tly : httt, alter a very short debate with themwlves,
they eonsiden-d. that, if the Nn'ages ranged the eountry thus heliire help
ealue. they might perhaps liml out their retreat in the woods, aml then all
would he lost: so they resolved to stand them there: and. it. they were too
many to deal with. then they would get up to the top of the tree. from
whence they doubted not to defend tliemselws. lire ewepted, as long as
their ammunition lasted, though all the savages that Were landed, which
was near tit'ty, were to attnek tiiem.

Having resolved upon this, they next eonsidered whether they should fire
at the tin" two. or wait for the three. and so take the middle party. by whiell
the twa and the live tlntt lidlowed would he separated: at length they re-
solved to let the tin-a two pm by, unless they should spy them in the tree,
and come to attack them. The first two savages confirmed them also in this
regulation, by turning a little ti'om them towards another part of the wood;
but the three, and the five alter them, came forward directly to the tree, as if
they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them come so straight
towards them, they resolved to take them in a line as they came; and, as
they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps the first shot might hit them
all three; for which purpose the man who was to fire put three or four small
bullets into his piece; and, having a fair loop-hole, as it were, from a broken
hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they
were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not miss.

While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they plainly saw that
one of the three was the runaway savage that had escaped from them; and
they both knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he should not
escape, though they should both fire; so the other stood ready with his piece,
that, if he did not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to have a second.
But the first was too good a marksman to miss his aim; for, as the

 

savages kept near one another, a little behind, in a line, he fired, and hit
two of them directly; the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the
head; the second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot through the
body, and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch
in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through the body of
the second; and, being dreadfully frightened, though not so much hurt,
sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.
The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise than sensible

of the danger, stood still at first; for the woods made the sound a thou-
41
sand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling from one side to
another, and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming, and every sort
making a ditl'erent noise, according to their kind; just as it was when
I fired the first gun that perhaps was ever shot off in the island.

However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what the matter
was, came on unconcemed, till they came to the place where their com-
panions lay in a condition miserable enough; and here the poor, ignorant
creatures, not sensible that they were within reach of the same mischiet;
stood all of a huddle over the wounded titan, talking, and, as may be
supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt; aml who, it is very
rational to believe, told them, that a flash of fire first, and immediately
aller, that thunder from their gods, had killed those two and wounded
him; this, lsay, is rational; for nothing is more certain than that, as
they saw no man near them, so they had never heard a gun in all their
lives, nor so much as heard of a gun; neither knew they any thing of
killing and wounding at a distance with lire aml bullets; if they had, one
might n'asouahly believe they would not have stood so unconcerned ill
viewing the line of their li-Ilows, without some apprehensions of their own.

Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them to be
obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time, had no
notion of their danger, yet, having them all thus in their power, and the
first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fly both together among
them: and singling out, by agreement, which to aim at, they shot together,
and killed, or very much wounded, four of them; the tilih, frightened
even to death, though not hurt, fell with the rest; so that our men, seeing
them all fit]! together, thought they had killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed, made our two men come
boldly ottt limit the tree before they had charged their guns, which was
a wrong step; and they were under some surprise when they came to the
place, and found no less than four of them alive, and of them, two very
little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged them to fiill upon them with
the stocks of their muskets; and first, they made sure of the runaway
savage, that had been the cause of all the mischief; and of another that
was hurt in the knee, and put them out of their pain; then the man that
was not lmrt at all, came and kneeled down to them, with his tw0 hands
held up, aml made piteous moans to them, by gestures and signs, for his
lite, but could not say one word to them that they could understand.
However, they made signs to him to sit down at the foot of a tree hard
by: and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twined, which he
had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him; and
there they left him, aml, with what speed they could, made afler the
other two, which were gone before, fearing they, or any more of them,
should timl the way to their covered place in the woods, where their
wives mid the few goods they had left, lay. They came once in sight of
the two men, lntt it was at a great distance; however, they had the sat-
isfaction to see them cross over a valley towards the sea, quite the
contrary way from that which led to their retreat, which they were afraid
of; and being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree where they
left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered by his comrades;
lbr be was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had
bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what course
to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers; so they
resolved to go away to the place where their wives Were, to see it' all
was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright enough, to
he sure; for, though the savages Were their own country-folk, yet they
were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the more for the knowl-
edge they had of them.

When they came there, they found the savages had been in the wood,
and very near that place, but had not found it; for it was indeed inac-
cessible, by the trees standing so thick, as before, unless the persons
seeking it had been directed by those that knew it, which these did not;
they found, therefore, every thing very safe, only the women ina terrible
fright. While they were here, they had the comfort to have seven of the
Spaniards come to their assistance; the other ten, with their servants, and
old Friday, (I mean Friday's father,) were gone in a body to defend their
bowar, and the corn and cattle that was kept there, in case the savages
should have roved over to that side of the country; but they did not
spread so far. With the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages,
who, as I said, were their prisoners fomterly; and with them also came
the savage whom the Englishmen had left bound hand and foot at the
tree; for it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven
men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them: where,
however, they were ohligul to bind him again, as they had the two others
who were left when the third ran away.

The prisoners now began to be a burden to them; and they were so
afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to kill them all,
believing they were under an absolute necessity to do so for their own
preservation. llowcver, the Spaniard governor would not consent to it;
but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent out of the way, to
my old cave in the valley, aml he kept there, with two Spaniards to guard
them, and give them food fiir their subsistence; which Was done; and
they were bound there, hand and foot, for that night.

When the Spaniards came, the two Englisluuen were so encouraged,
that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there; but, taking
five of the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets and a pistol
among them, and two stout quarter-stares, away they Went in quest of
the savages. And first they came to the tree where the men lay that had
been killed; but it Was easy to see that some more of the savages had
been there, for they had attempted to carry their dead men away, and had
dragged two of them a good way, but had given it over. From thence
they advanced to the first rising ground, where they had stood and seen
their camp destroyed, and where they had the mortifieation still to see
some of the smoke; but neither could they here see any of the savages.
They then resolved, though with all possible caution, to go forward, towards
their mined plantation; but, a little before they- came thither, coming in
sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all embarked again in
their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry, at first, that there
was no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow; but, upon the
whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of them.

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their improve.
ments destroyed, the test all agreed to come and help them to rebuild,
and to assist them with needtitl supplies. Their three countrymen, who
were not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any good, yet, as
soon as they heard of it, (for they, living remote eastward, knew nothing
of tlte tnatter till all was over.) eatne mnl otl'ered their help and assistance,
and did, very friendly, work for several days to restore their habitation,
and make necessaries for them. And thus, in a little time, they were set
upon their legs again.

About two days alter this, they had the farther satislhetion of seeing three
of the savages' canoes come driving on shore. and, at some distance from
them, two drowned men; by which they had reason to believe that they
had utet with a atom at sea, which had overset some of them; lbr it bad
blown very hard the night after they Went ofl'.

However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough of tbcnt
escaped to inl'onn the rest, as well of what they lnnl done as of what ltad
happened to them, and to whet them on to another enterprise of the some
nature; which the , it seems, resolved to attempt, with sntlicient force. to
carry all before them; for, except what the first lllnll had told them of
inhabitants, they could any little of it of their own knowledge, for they
never saw one man; and the li-llow being killed that had allirmed it, they
had no other witness to confirm it to them.

It was five or six months aller this before they heard any more of the
savages, in which time our men \vere in hopes they had either forgot
their former bad luck, or given over hopes of better; when, on a sudden,
they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no less than eight-and-
twcnty canoes, full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great elnbs,
wooden swords, and such like engines of war; and they brought such
numbers with them, that, in short, it pttt all our people into the utmost
constemation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side of
the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to do;
and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed was
their only safety bell-re, and would be lunch more so now, while the
number of their enemies was so great, they therefore resolved, first of all,
to take down the bots which were built for the two Englishmen, and
drive away their goats to the old cave; because they supposed the savages
would go directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old game over
again, though they did not new land within two leagues of it. In the
next place, they drove away all the flocks of goats they had at the old
bower, as I called it, which belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, lell
as little appearance of inhabitants any where as was possible; and the
next manning, early, they posted themselves, with all their force, at the
plantation of the two men, to wait for their coining. As they guessed, so
it happened; these new invaders, leaving their Canoes at the east end of
the island, came ranging along the shore, directly towards the place, to
the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could judge.
Our anny was bttt small, indeed; but that which was wonte, they had not
arms for all their number neither. The whole account, it seems, stood
thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five Englishmen, old Friday,
(or Friday's father,) the three slaves taken with the women, who proved
very faithful, and three other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards. To
arm these, they had eleven machete, five pistols, three fowling-pieces, five325 - 326
Missing
From
Original
mnskets, or fowliug-pieces, which were taken by me front the mutinous
seamen whom 1 reduced, two swords, aml three old halberts.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or titsee, but they had
every one a halbert, or a long stall, like a quarter-stall, with a great spike of
iron fastened into each etul of it, aml by his side a hatchet; also every one
of our men had a hatchet. Two of the Women could not be prevailed upon
but they would come into the tight, am! they had bows and arrows, which
the Spaniards had taken Ii'om the savages when the lirst action happened,
which I have spoken at; where the Italians fought with one another; and the
women had hatehcts too.

The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, commanded the
whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was
a most daring, bold fellow, commanded ntnler him. The savages came for-
ward like lious; and our men, which Was the worst of their litte, had no
advantage in their situation; only that \Vill Atkins, who now proved a most
useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of
bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to let the first of them pass by,
aml then tire into the tniddle of them, aml, as soon as he had tired, to make
his retreat as nimble as he could round a part of the wood, and so come in
behind the Standards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees betbre theta.

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way in heaps,
out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about titly of them pass by
him; then, seeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders three ofhis
men to tire, having loaded their muskets with six or seven bullets apiece,
about as big as large pistol-bullets. How many they killed or wounded they
knew not, but the consternation and surprise was inexpressible among the
savages; they were frightened to the last degree to hear such a dreadful noise,
and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did it; when, in
the middle of their fright, Will Atkins and his other three let tly again
among the thickest of them; atul in less than a minute the first three, being
loaded again, gave them a third volley.

llad \Vill Atkins aml his men retired immediately, as soon as they had
fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the body been at hand,
to have poured in their shot continually, the savages had been effectually
rented; for the terror that was among them catne principally from this, viz,
that they were killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, and could see
nobody that lmrt them; but Will Atkins, staying to load again, discovered
the cheat: some of the savages who were at a distance, spying them, came
upon them behind ; and, though Atkins and his men fired at them, also, two
or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they could, yet
they wounded Atkins himself; and killed one of his fellow-Englishmen with
their arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian
slaves who came with the women. This slave was a most gallant fellow,
and fought moat desperately, killing five of them with his own hand, having
no weapon but one of the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men, being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other men
killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood; and the Spaniards, alter
firing three volleys upon them, retreated also; for their number was so great,
and they were so desperate, that, though above fifty of them were killed, and
more than as many wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fear-
less of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed that
their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made outrageous by
their wounds, and tintght like tnadtuen.

When our men retreated, they let! the Spaniard and the Englishman that
were killed behind them; and the savages, when they came up to tltetu, killed
them over again in a wretched manner, breaking their artus, legs, attd heads,
with their clubs and wooden swords, like true savages; but finding ottr men
were gone, they did not seem to punsue them, but drew themselves up in a ring,
which is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token of their victory ;
ntlcr which, they had the mortification to see several of their wounded men
fall, dying with the tuerc loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together upon a
rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have had them march
and charge again all together at once ; bttt the Spaniard replied,---" Seignior
Atkins, you see how their wounded men tight; let them alone till morning;
all the wounded men will be stitl' and sore with their Wounds, and faint with
the loss of blood;und so we slntll have the lewer to eugag ." This advice
was good; Inn Will Atkins replied merrily, " That is trtte, Seignior, and so
shall I too; and that is the reason I would go on while I am warm."
" Well, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, " you have behaved gallantly,
and done your part: we will fight for yott, if you cannot come on; but I
think it best to stay till morning : " so they waited.

lint, as it was a clear, moonlight night, and they found the savages in great
disorder about their dead and wounded tncn, and a gmat noise and hurry
among them where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fall upon tltetn in
the night; especially if they could come to give them bttt one volley before
they were discovered, which they had a fair opportunity to do; for one of
the I'anlislnuetl, in whose quarter it was where the fight began, led them
round between the woods and the sea-side westward, and, then turning short
south, they came so near where the thickest of them lay, that, before they
were seen or heard, eight of thctn fired in among them, and did dreadful
execution upon them; itt half a minute more, eight others fired afler them,
pouring in their small shot in such a quamuy, that abundance were killed
and wounded; and all this while they were not able to see who hurt them,
or which way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then di-
vided themselves in Have bodies, and resolved to fall in among them all
together. They had in each body eight persons, that is to say, twenty-two
men, and the mo women, who, by the way, fought desperately. They di-
vided the tire-arms equally in each party, and so the halberts and staves.
They would have had the women kept back, but they said they were re-
solved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed their little army, they
marched out from among the trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy,
shouting and lmllooing as loud as they could; the savages stood all together,
but were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting
from three quarters together: they would have fought iftheyhad seen us;
thr, as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows were shot, and
poor old Friday was wounded, though not dangerously; but our men gave
them no time, but, running up to them, fired among them three ways, and
then tell in with the butt-ends of their muskets, their swords, armed slaves,
and hatchets, and laid about them so well that, in a word, they set up a
dismal screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which way soever
they could.329 - 330
Missing
From
Original
Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally wounded
in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them; the rest, being
frightened out of their wits, scoured through the woods and over the hills,
with all the speed fear and nimble feet could help them to; and, as we did
not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got all together to the sea-
side where they landed, and where their canoes lay. But their disaster was
not at an end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the
sea, so that it was impossible for them to go off; nay, the storm continuing
all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of them driven by
the surge of the sea so high upon the shore that it required infinite toil to
get them ofi'; and some of them were even dashed to pieces against the
beach, or against one another.

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that night; but,
having reti'cshed themselves as well as they could, they resolved to march
to that part of the island where the savages were fled, and see what posture
they were in. This necessarily led them over the place where the fight had
been, and where they found several of the poor creatures not quite dead, and
yet past recovering life -- a sight disagreeable enough to generous minds; for
a truly great man, though obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy,
takes no delight in his misery. However, there was no need to give any
orders in this case; for their own savages, who were their servants, de-
spatched these poor creatures with their hatchets.

At length, they came in view of the place where the more miserable re-
mains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about a hundred still:
their posture was generally sitting upon the ground, with their knees up to-332 Tue tart>>: AND anvau'rmms

wards their mouth, mnl the head put between the two hands, leaning down
upon the knees.

When our tnen -ame within two musket shots of them, the Spaniard gov-
ernor ordered two muskets to be tired, without hall, to alarm them: this he
did, that hy their eountenauta- he might know what to expeet, vim, whether
they were. Hill in lteart to tight, or Were so heartily beaten as to he dispiritcd
and dist-oumged, aml so he might manage aeeordingly. This strutagem
took ; tor. as soon as the savages heard the lirst gun, aml saw the llash ol'tlte
second, they started up upon their li-et iu the greatest consternation imagi-
uahle; and, as our men ndvmneed swiftly towards them, they all ran scream-
ing and yelling away. with a kind of howling noise. whieh our men did ttot
understand, and had never heard helhre; and thus they nut up the hills into
the eountry.

At tits: ottr men had much rather the weather had heen eahn, and they
had all gone away to seat; but they did not then eonsider that this might
prolmhly have been the occasion of. their eomiug again itt sueh multitudes as
not to he resisted, or, at least, to eome so many and so oth-n, as Would quite
desolate the island, atnl starve them. Will Atkins, therelhre, who, notwith-
standing his wound, kept always with them. proved the best eouusellor itt
this ease: his ad\iee was, to take the advantage that otl'ered. atnl elap in he-
tweeu them and their boats, and so deprive thetn ol' the annuity of ever re-
turning any more to plague the island.

'l'hey consulted long about this: and some were against it for fear of
toakiug the wretehes lly to the woods aml live there desperate, and so they
should have them to httut like wild hensts, he ali'aid to stir out ahottt their
business. and have their plantations eoutinttally ritled, all their tatue goats
destroyed. and, in short, he redueed to a me ot'eontiuttnl distress.

"'ill Atkins told them they had hetter have to do with a hundred tttelt
than with a hundred nations: that, as they tuttst destroy their hoats, so they
ntttst destroy the men. or he all of them destroyed themselves. ltt a word,
he showed them the net-essity of it so plainly that they all eattte ittto it: so
they went to work iuum-diately with the heals, and, getting some dry wood
together from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them on lire, lntt they
were so wet that they would not huru; however, the tire so hunted the
upper part, that it soon tnade them until tiu' swimming in the sea as heats.
"hen the Indians saw what they were. ahout, some. of them 'atue running
out of the woods,autl, eoming as near as they eonld to our men, kneeled
down, and eried, " ()a, (la, \Varamokoa," atnl some other words of their
language. \\ltieh none of the others understood any thing ol': hut, as they
tnade pitilitl gestures atnl strange noises, it was easy to understand they
ln-gged to have their hoats spared, atnl that they would he gone. and never
eotne there again. lint ottr tneu were now satistied that they had no way to
preserve themselves. or to save their eolony, httt elli-etually to prevent atty
ot'these people from ever going home again; depending upon this, that, if
even so nun-h as one ol'thent got back into their eontttry to tell the story, the
eotony was Imdoue: so that, letting them know that they should not have
any tuerey, they tell to work with their eauoes, and destroyed them every
one that the storm had not destroyed helitr-z ttt the sight ot' whieh, the
savages raised a hideous ery iu the woods, whieh our people heard plain
enough, allcr whieh they ran about the island like distraeted men; so that, in
a word, our men did not really know what at first to do with then). Nor didKx

' or aonmson causoe. 333

  
 

: ' I; '_'
~';-\{* .J

l '2
it: :\\
i 2! <<at: ' '4'

the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider that, while they made those
people thus desperate, they ought to have kept a good guard at the same
time upon their plantations; for though, it is true, they had driven away
their cattle, and tne Indians did not find out their main retreat,--I mean
my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the valley,--yet they found out my
plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and
planting about it; trod all the corn under foot, tore up the vines and grapes,
being just then almost ripe, and did our men an inestimable damage, though
to themselves not one farthing's worth of service.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet they
were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down; for, as
they were too nimble of foot for our men, when they fouml them single, so
our men dumt not go abroad single, for fear of being surrounded with their
numbers. The best was, they had no Weapons; lbr, though they had hows,
they had no arrows left, nor any materials to make any; nor had they any
edgetool or weapon among them.

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and indeed
deplorable; but, at the same time, our men were also brought to very bad
circumstances by them; for, though their retreats Were preserved, yet their
provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled ; and what to do, or which
way to turn themselves, they knew not. The only refuge they had now was
the stack of cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some little corn
which grew were, and the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins
and his comrades, who were ttow redttced to two; otte of tltcnt being killed
by an arrow, which strttck ltittt on the side of his head, just ttttder tlte tent-
ples, so that lte never spoke more; ttttd it was very remarkable tltat this was
the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave with his hatchet,
attd who ullerwards intended to have murdered the Spaniards

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time tltatt mine was
at atty tittte, alter I first discovered the grains of barley and rice, and got ittto
tlte manner of planting, attd raising ttty corn, and my tame cattle; for now
they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves upon the island, which would
devour everything they could come at, yet cottld be hardly come at them-
selves.

When they saw what their ciretttttstanees were, the fast thing they con-
cluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the further part
ol'tltc island, south-west, that, il'any tttore savages came on shore, they might
not find one another; then that they would daily lutttt attd harass them, attd
kill as many of them as they eouhl coute at, till they had reduced their num-
ber; attd, it' they could at last tatne them, and bring them to any thing, they
would give tltettt corn, and teach llIt-ttt how to plant, and live upon their
daily labor.

ltt order to this, they so followed them. aml so territicd them with their
gttns, that, ill a few days, it' any of them tired a gun at an Indian, it' he did
ttot ltit him, yet he would titll down tor lieu-:and so dreadlitlly li'ightened they
were that they kept ottt of sight farther attd timber; till, at last, ottr men
fitllowing them, and almost every day killittg or wounding sonte of them,
tltey kept up itt the woods or hollow places so much that it reduced them
to the utmost tnisery tor want of loud: attd tttany \vere allerwards found
dead itt the woods. without any hurt, absolutely starved to death.

\Vhen ottr tnett titund this, it made their hearts relent, and pity moved
them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was tlte tttost gentleman-like,
generous-minded tttatt that I ever tttet with itt my lite; attd lte proposed, it'
possible, to take one of them alive, atnl bring ltittt to understand what they
meant, so litr as to be able to act as interpreter, attd go atttottg them, attd
see if they tttight be brought to some conditions that might be depended
upon, to save their lives attd do us no harm.

It Was sottte while betitre any of them could be takett; bttt, being weak
and half-starved, one of tltettt was at last surprised attd made a prisoner.
He was sullen at first, atnl would neither eat ttor drink; but, finding himself
kindly used, attd victnals given to hint, aml tto violence ofl'ercd ltittt, he at
last grew tractable, attd cattte to hints-ell: They brought old Friday to him,
who talked ollen with hint,and told hint ltow kind the others would be to
tltettt all ; that they would not only save their lives, httt give them part of the
island to live in, provided they would give. satisfaction that they would keep
itt their own hounds, aml ttot cottte beyond it to injure or prejudice others;
and that they should have cortt given them to plant attd make it grow for
their bread, attd some bread given them for their present subsistence; and
old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of his countrymen, and
see what they said to it, assuring them that, it' they did not agree imme-

diately, they should be all destroyed.
The poor wretchcs, thoroughly humbled, attd reduced in number to about

thirty--seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, and begged to have
some food given them; upon which, twelve Spaniards and two Enghsltmen,
 

well armed, with three Indian slaves and old Friday, marched to the place
where they were. The three Indian slaves carried them a large quantity of
bread, some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in the sun, and three live
goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat
down, ate their provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows
to their words that could be thought of; for, except when they came to beg
vietuals and directions, they never came out of their bounds; and there
they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see them.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame goats,
and milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and they soon would have
been a nation. They were confined to a neck of land, surrounded with high
rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the sea before them, on the
south-east corner of the island. They had land enough, and it was very
good and fruitful ; about a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in
length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for myself;
and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or four knives; and there
they lived, the most subjected, innocent creatures that ever were heard of.

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity, with respect to the
savages, till I came to revisit them, which was about two years after; not
but that, now and then, some canoes of savages came on shore for their
triumphal, unnatural feasts; but, as they were of several nations, and per-
haps had never heard of those that came before, or the reason of it, they did
not make any search or inquiry after their countrymen; and, if they had, it
would have been very hard to have found them out.

Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that happened to them till336 'rnt'. LIFF. AND Imvstv'rutttzs

my return, at least, that was worth notiee. The Indiana or savages were
wonderfully civilized by them, and they li-equently went among them; but
forbid, on pain of death, any one of the Italians coming to thetn, because
they Wuttltl not have their settlement betrayed again. Otto thing was very
rtunarkable, vir... that they taught the savages to make wicker-work, or bas-
kets, but they soon ontdid their utasters; tor they made abundance of most
ingenious things in wieker--work, particularly of all sorts of baskets, sieves,
bird eages, euplioards, eke. ; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and
abnndanee of other things; being very ingenious at such work, when they
were onec pttt in the way of it.

My eomiug was a partieular relief to these people, because. we furnished
them with knives, seissors, spades, shovels, piekaxes, and all things of that
kind whieh they eonld want. With the help of those tools, they were so
very handy that they etune at last to build up their huts, or houses, very
handsomely, mddli v or working it up like basketowork all the way round;
wbieh was a very extraordinary pieee of ingenuity, and looked very odd, but
was an exeeeding good feuee, as well against heat as against all sorts of ver-
min; and our men were so taken with it, that they got the wild savages to
eome and do the like for them ; so that, when l emne to see the two English-
men's eolotties, they looked, at a distauee, as if they all lived like bees in a
hive. As tor Will Atkins, who was now beeonie a very industrious, useful,
and sober liellow, he had made himself suelt a tent of basket-work as, I be-
lieve, was never seen: it was one hundred and twonty pares round on tho
outside, as I measured by my steps; the walls were as close worked as a
basket, in panels or squares of thirty-two in number, and very strong.
standing about seven tin-t high; in the middle was another not above twenty-
two paees round, but built stronger, being octagon in its form, and in the
eight corners stood eight very strong posts; round the top of which be laid
strong pieees, pinned together with wooden pills, li'otn wltieh he raised a
pynunid tor a roof of eight rallcm, very handsome, I assure you, and joined
together very well, though he had no nails, and only a few iron spikes, which
he made himself too, out of the old iron that I had let! there; and, indeed,
this fellow showed alntndunee ofingenuity in several things which he had no
knowledge of: he made ltitn a liirge, with a pair of wooden bellows to blow
the tire: he made himself ebareoal for his work; and he formed out of the
iron news a middling good anvil to lnnmner upon: in this manner he made
many things but especially books, staples, atul spikes, bolts and hinges. But
to return to the house: After he had pitehed the roof of his innermost tent,
he worked it up between the rollers with basketowork, so firm, and thatched
that over again so ingeniously with riee. straw, and over that a large leaf of a
tree, whieh eovered the top, that his house was as dry as if it lnul been tiled
or slated. lmleed, he owned that the savages had made the basket-work for
him. The. outer eirettit was eovercd as a lean-to, all round this ittner apart-
tueut, mul long rollers lay from the thirty-two angles to the top posts of the
inner house, being about twenty liret distant, so that there was tt space like
a walk within the outer wicker-wall and without the inner, near twenty
li'et wide.

The inner plaee be partitioned ofl' with the. same. wieker-work. but much
titirer, uml divided into six apartments, so that he had six rooms on a
liner, aml out of every one of these there was a door; first into the entry,
or eotning into the main tent, another door into the main tent, and another337 - 338
Missing
From
Original
door into the space or walk that was round it; so that walk was also
divided into six equal parts, which served not only for a retreat, but to
store up any necessaries which the liimily had occasion for. These six
spaces not taking up the whole circumlerence, what other apartments the
outer circle had were thus orderedz--As soon as you were in at the
door of the outer circle, you had a short passage straight before you to
the door of the inner house; but on either side was a wicker partition,
and a door in it, by which you went first into a large room, or storehouse,
twenty feet wide and about thirty feet long, and through that into another,
not quite so long; so that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms,
six of which were only to be come at through the apartments of the inner
tent, and served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective charnhers
of the inner circle; and four large warehouses, or barns, or what you
please to call them, which went through one another, two on,either hand
of the passage, that led through the outer door to the inner tent.

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the world,
nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much least so built. In this great
beehive lived the three families, that is to say, Will Atkins and his com-
panion; the third was killed, but his wife remained, with three children,
for she was, it seems, big with child when he died; and the other two
were not at all backward to give the widow her full share of every thing,
--I mean as to their corn, milk, grapes, See, and when they killed a kid,
or found a turtle on the shore; so that they all lived well enough; thougb,
it was true, they were not so industrious as the other two, as has been
observed already.

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz, that as for religion, I do
not know that there was any thing of that kind among thorn: they often,
indeed, put one another in mind that there was a God, by the very com-
mon method of seamen, viz, swearing by his name; nor were their poor,
ignorant, savage wives much better for having been married to Christians,
as we must call them; for as they knew very little of God themselgea, so
they were utterly incapable of entering into any discourse with their wives
about a God, or to talk any thing to them concerning religion.

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the wives had made
fiom them was, that they had taught them to speak English pretty well;
and most of their children, which were near twenty in all, were taught to
speak English too, from their first learning to speak, though they at first
spoke it in a very broken manner, like their mothers There was none of
these children above six years old when I came thither, for it was not
much above seven years that they had fetched these five savage ladies
over; but they had all been pretty fruitful, for they had all e '
or less; I think the cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth child; and
the mothers were all a good sort of well-governed, quiet, laborious women,
modest and decent, helpfulto one another, mighty observant, and subject
to their masters, (I cannot call them husbands,) and wanted nothing but to
be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be legally married;
both which were happily brought about aflerwards by my means, or, at
least, in consequence of my coming among them.

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty much
of my runagate English, I must say something of the Spaniards, who were

the main body of the thmily, and in whose story there are some incidents
also remarkable enough.
I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they had
no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that country; that
they were a poor, misentble, dejected handful of people; that if means
had been put into their luunls, yet they had so abandoned themselves to
despair, nml so sunk under the weight of their misfortune, that they
thought of nothing lntt starvine. One of them, a grave and sensible man,
told on.- he was convinced they were in the wrong; that it was not the
part of wise. men to give themselves up to their tnisery, but always to take
hold of the helps which reason olli-red, as well for present support as for
future deliverance: he told me. that grief was the most senseless, insig-
nifictutt passion in the world, lbr that it regarded only things past, which
\vere generally impossible to be recalled, or to be remedied, but had no
view: of things to come, ntnl had no share in any thing that looked like
delivenmce, but rather added to the atlliction than proposed a remedy;
and upon this he repeated a Spanish proverb, which, though I cannot
repeat itt just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I remember I made
it into an English proverb of my own, thus:--- .

in trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I ltad made
in my solitude: lny unwt-aried application, as he. called it; and how I had
made a condition, which in its circumstances was at first much worse than
theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs was, even now, when they
were all together. He told one it was remarkable that Englishmen had a great
er presence oftnind, in their distress, than any people that ever he tnet With;
that their unhappy nation aml the Portuguese were the worst men in the
World to struggle with mislbrtnues; tor that their first step in dangers,
after the common etl'orts were over, was to despair, lie down tntder it, and
die, without musing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.

l tohl hitn their case and mine differed exceedingly; that they were
cast upon the shore without necessaries, without supply of food, or present
sustenance till they could provide for it; that, it was true, I had this dis-
advantage and disemnlbrt, that I was alone; but then the supplies I had
prm-identially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected driving of the
ship on shore, was such a help as would have eta-ountgcd any creature in
the world to have applied himself as I had done. "Seignior," says the
Spaniard, "had our poor Spaniards been in your case, we should never
have got half those things out of the ship, as you did : nay," says be, "we
should never have found means to have got a rail to carry tbetn, or to
have got the rall on shore without boat or sail; and how much less should
we have done if any of us had been alone!" Well, [desired hitu
to abate his compliment, aml go on with the history of their coming on
shore, where they landed. lle told me they ttnhappily landed at a place
where. there were people without provisions; whereas, had they ltad the
counuou sense to have put off to sea again, and gone to another island a
little farther, they had lbund provisions, though without people; there
being an island that way, as they had been told, where there were pro-
visions, though no people; that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad
bad frequently been there, and had filled the island with goats and bogs
at several times, where they had bred in such multitudes, and where
turtle and sea-fowls were in such plenty, that they could have been in no
want of flesh, though they had found no bread; whereas here, they were
only sustained with a few roots and herbs; which they understood not,
and which had no substance in them, and which the inhabitants gave
them sparingly enough; and who could treat thetn no better, unless they
would turn cannibals, and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of
their country.

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize the
savages they Were with, and to teach them rational customs hr the ordi-
nary way of living, but in vain; and how they retortcd it upon them, as
unjust, that they who eatne there for assistance and support, should attempt
to set up for instructors of those that gave them food; intimating, it seems,
that none should set up for the instructors of others, but those who could
live without them.

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven to ;
how sometimes they were many days without any fired at all, the island
they were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that lived more
indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with the necessaries of
life than they had reason to believe others were in the same part of the
world; and yet they found that these savages were less ravenous and
voracious than those who had better supplies of food. Also they added,
they could not but see with what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness
the goventing providence of God directs the events of things itt this world;
which, they said, appeared in their circumstances; for if, pressed by the
hardships they were under, and the barrenuess of the country where they
Were, they had searched after a better to live in, they had then been out
of the way of the relief that happened to them by my means.

They then gave rue an account how the savages whom they lived among
expected them to go out with them into their wars; and it was true, that,
as they had fire-arms with thetn, had they not had the disaster to lose
their ammunition, they should have been serviceable not only to their
ti'iends, but have made themselves terrible both to friends and enemies;
but, being without powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they could
not in reason deity to go out with their landlords to their wars, so, when
they catnc into the field of battle, they were in a worse condition than
the savages themselves, for they had neither bows nor arrows, nor could
they use those the savages gave them; so they could do nothing but stand
still, and be wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their
enemy; and then, indeed, the three halberds they had were of use to them;
and they would often drive a whole little army before them with those
halberds, and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their nrhskets:
but that, for all this they were sometimes surrounded with multitudes,
and in great danger from their arrows, till, at last, they found the way to
make themselves large targets of wood, which they covered with skins of
wild beasts, whose names they knew not; and these covered them from
the arrows of the savages: that, notwithstanding these, they were some-
times in great danger; and five of them were once knocked down together
with the clubs of the savages, which was the time when one of theta was
taken prisoner, that is to say, the Spaniard whom I had relieved: that at first
they thought he had been killed ; but when they afterwards heard he was
 

taken prisoner, they Were muler the greatest griet' imaginable, and would
willingly have. all ventured their lives to have resened him.

They told me that, when they \\'t't'(' so kttoeked down, the. rest of their
company resened tlu-m, and stood over them. lighting, till they were eome to
thenm-lt'es, all but him whom they thought had been dead; and then they
tnade their way with their ballu-nls and pieces, standing close together in a.
line, through a body ol'above a thousand savages, beating down all that
emne in their way, got the \'h'lur_\' over their enemies, but to their great
sorrow, beeattse it was with the loss of their ti'ieml, whom the other party,
finding him alive, t'fll't'h'tl oil; with sona- others, as I gave all account
before.

They deserilml. most alli-etion:ttel_\', how they were surprised with joy
at the return of their friend and eompanion in misery. who they thought
had been devoured by wild beasts of the Worst kind, \'i'/.., by wild men; and
yet, how more ntal more they were surprised with the aeeonnt he gave
them of his errand; and that there Was a ('hristian in any plaee near,--
tnncb more one that was able, and had humanity enough, to eontribute to
their delivemnee.

They described how they were astonished at the night of the relief I sent
them, and at the appearanee ot' loaves of bread --- things they had not seen
since their eoming to that miserable place; bow otlen they crossed and
blessed it, as bread sent from Heaven; and what a reviving cordial it was to
their spirits to taste it, as also the other things I had sent lbr their supply:
nnd,aller all, they would have told tne something of the joy they were in
at the sight ol'a boat and pilots, to carry them away to the person and place
from whenee all these new comliirts eame ; but it was impossible to express
it by Words, for, their exeess'ive joy naturally driving them to unbecoming
extravagant-es, they lnnl no way In deseriln- them, hat by telling me they
bordered tlpon lunaey, having no way to give vent to their [Missions suitable to
the sense that was upon tln-m: that in some it worked one way, and in some
another; and that some of them tln'nngh a surprise ot'joy, would burst.
into tears, others he stark mad, and others innnediately liiint. 'l'his dis-
course extremely atlheted me, aml called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when
he met his father, and the pom people's ecstasy when I took them up at
sea atier their ship was on tire: the joy of the mate of the ship when he
liannl himselt' delivered in the place where he expected to perish; and my
own joy, when. alier twenty-eight years' eaptivity, l linmd a good ship ready
to earry me to my own country. All these things made me more sensible of
the relation of these poor men, aml more afl'ected with it.

Having thus gin-n a \iew ot' the state of thingstnt I found thent,l must
relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the condition in which I
let! them. It was their opinion, aml mine too, that they would be troubled
no more with the. savages, or, it' they Were, they would be able to cut them
oil; it'they were twiee as many as het'ore; so they had no concern about that.
Then I entered into a serious dist-nurse with the Spaniard whom I eall
governor. about their stay in the island; tor, as l was not come to carry any
nt' them oil, so it wonhl not he just to earry otl' some and leave others,
who, perhaps. would he unwilling to stay if their strength was diminished.
0n the other hand, I told them I came to establish them there, not to remove-
thetn: and then I let them know that I had brought with me relic-t; ol' sundry
kinds, for them: that I had been at a great charge to supply them with all
things neeessary, as well for their ennt'enienee as their delirnee; aml that I
had sueh mnl sueh partienlar persons with me, as well to increase and
recruit their mnnlwr. as by the particular neeessary employments whieh they
were hred to, being artitieers, tn assist them in those things in which at
present they were in want.

They were all together when I talked thus to them: and, before I delivered
to them the stores I had hrought. I asked them. one by one, it' they had
entirely lot-got and buried the first anitnosities that had been among them,
and would shake hands with one another, aml engage in a strict ti'iendship
iuul union of interest, that so there might be no more tnisumlerstamlings

alnl jealousies.

.. \Vill Atkins. with almmlanec ot' frankness and good humor, said, they had
met with atllietion enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough to
make them all friends: that. tinr his part. he would live and die with them;
until \\'as so tiir li'nm designing any thing against the Spaniards, that he
owned they had done nothing to him but what his own mad humor made
necessary, and what he would have done, aml perhaps worse, in their
ease: alul that he would ask them pardon, it' I desired it, for the foolish
aml bnttish things he had done to them, and was very willing and
desirous of living in terms of entire li-iendship and union with them, and
would do any thing that lay in his power to convince them of it; and,
as for going to England, he eared not if he did not go thither these
twenty years.

The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first, disartned and excluded Will
Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill conduct, as they had let me
 

know; and they appealed to me for the necessity they were under to do so;
but that Will Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the great fight they
had with the savages, and on several occasions since, and had showed him-
self so faithful to, and concerned for, the general interest of them all, that
they had forgotten all that was passed, and thought he merited as much to
be trusted with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them; and
they had testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the command to
him, next to the governor himself; and as they had entire confidence in him
and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged they had merited that confi-
dence by all the methods that honest men could merit to be valued and
trusted; and they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this
assurance, that they would -never have any interest separate from one
another.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we appointed the
next day to dine altogether; and, indeed, we made a splendid feast. I
caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on shore and dress our dinner,
and the old cook's mate we had on shore assisted. We brought on shore
six pieces of good beef; and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provisions,
with our punch bowl, and materials to fill it; and, in particular, I gave them
ten bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of English beer--things that
neither the Spaniards nor the English had tasted for many years, and which,
it may be supposed, they were very glad of The Spaniards added to our
feasts five whole kids, which the cooks roasted; and three of them were345 - 346
Missing
From
Original
sent, covered up close, on hoard the ship to the seamen, that they might Ii-ast
on fresh meat from on share, as we did with their salt meat from on hoard.

Alter this limit, at whieh we Were Very innm'ently merry, I brought my
cargo of goods; wherein, that theme might he no dispute about <<hurling,
Ishowed tlu-m that there was a sullieieney for them all, desiring that they
might all take all equal quantity of the goods that were for wearing; that is
to say, equal when made up. As, first, I distributed linen sutlieient to make
every one. of theln t'onr shirts, and, at the Spaniard's request, allerwards
made them up si\'; these were exceeding: eomthrtahle to them, having
been what, as I may say, they luul lung sinee llbl'gnl the use of, or what it
was to Wear them. I allotted the thin English stntl's, "'Illt'll I nu-ntioned
hell-re, lo Innke, every one u light t'oat, like a froek, which I judged Iittest
tor the. heat ol' the season, eool and loose: atul ordered tlult. \tln'nen'r they
'ed, they should make "tore as they thought til: the like tiir ptnnps,
shoes. slot-kings, hats. (\u'.

l ennnot express what pleasure, what satislaetiou. mt upon the eounte-
nanees of all these poor men, when they saw the 'are I had taken ot' them,
and how well I had furnished tlu-m. They told me l was a lather to tln-m;
and that, having sIn-h a eta-respondent as l was in so remote a part of the
world, it wonhl make thetn tinrget that they were left in a desolate plaee:
and they all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave the plat't' without.
my eonsent.

Then I presented to tlu-tn the people I luul hronght with me, partienlarly
the tailor. the smith, and the two carpenters, all of them most neeessary
ln'oplt': hut. aluwe all. my general artitieer. than whom they eonld not name
any thing that was more useful In them: and the tailor. to show his eoneern
for tln-m, went to work imnn-diately, and, with my It-tn't', made them eyery
one a shirt. the tirst thing he did: and. which was still more, he taught
the women, not only how to sew. and stitch. and use the Needle. hut made
them assist to Intake the shirts for their hnshands, and for all the rest.

<<lee.-

 

:\s to the earlu-nters. I seart'e need nu-ntiou how useful they were: tiir
they took to pieees all my elnmsy, unhandy things, atnl made them eleyer,
rotIu-nient tables. stools. ln-dsteads, euplxmrds, lockers, shelves, and every
thing they wanted of that kind. llut to let them see how nature madc
artilieers at tirst, I carried the carpenters to see "'ill Atkins's lmsket-house,
as l ealled it: aml they both owned they never saw an instant-e ot' sneh
natural ingenuity hetiire, nor any thing so regular aml so handily huilt, at
least of its kind; aml one of tlu-m, when he saw it, after musing a good
while. turning ahont to me, " I am sure," says he, " that man has no need of
ns: you need do nothing hut give him tools."

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, mul gave every man a.
digging spade, a shovel, and a mke, tiir we had no harrows or ploughs; and
to every separate place, a piekthe, a crow, a hrmul-axe, and a saw; always
aplminting that, as otlen as any were. hroken or worn out, they should he
supplied, without grudging, out of the general stores that I left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges. hammers, ehisels, knives scissors, and all sorts of
iron-Work, they had without tale, as they required; for no man would take
more than he wanted, mul he must he a fool that would waste or spoil them
on any account whatever: and for the use of the smith, I letl two tons of
nnwmnght iron tbr a supply.

My nmgazinc of powder and arms which I brought them was such, even348 TI": tart: axo- Ain'tzs'rt'ntzs

to prolitsion. that Ila-y t'tlllltl not but rt-joit-v at tln-m: for now they could
tttaru'h. as l ttsml to do. with a muskt-t upon t'at'h shonldvr. if them was
or 'asion; and \u-rt- ahh- to light a thousand amigos. it' thry had but sumo
lllllt' advantagt-s of situation, which 1!th Ila-y could not miss, it' they had
ttt't'asiou.

l rarrit-d on show with Inc the young luau wltoso motht-r was starvvd
to dt-ath. antl tht' maid also: sltt' was It solN-r, \\'t-ll-t-dtu'att-tl, religious
young woman. attd lwhau-d so itlotli-usivrly. that t'\'('l'_\' one gave ln-r a
good word: sht- had. inth-t-d, all unhappy liti. with us. tht-rc being no
woman itt tho ship but horst'lt': hut sho hot-o it with patience. Alli-r a
whilr, saving things so well ttl'dt'l't'tl. and in so line a way of thriving upon
tny island. and t-otisidt-riug tltat they had In-ithrr httsim-ss ttor acquaiuutttt'o
in tln- I-Iasl Italic-s. or r -asou lin- taking so long a \'oyagv; I my, consid-
ering all this, lmth ot' tln-m came to mo, and tit-sin-tl 1 would give tlu-m
Intro to n-main on tho island. and it? t-nli-rvd among my litmily, as they
t-th-d it. I agn-t-d to this rvatlily; and "my had a little plot of ground
allotn-d to tln-m. "llt'l't' they had thrt'o touts or hottst-s set up. surrounded
with a Imskt-t-nork, palisadocd llkt' Atkins's. adjoining to his plantation.
'l'ht-ir tt-nts m-n- t'ttllll'lVl'tl so that tht-y ltad rat-h ot' tht-nt a room apart
to lodge in, and a lllllltlll' tout, like a great ston-ltousv. to lay their goods
in. and to out and drink in. And now tln- other two littglisInm-u removed
tllt'ir Itahitaliott to "IV sann- plauv; and so the island was divided into
llll't'l' colonic-s, and no morv. \'iz.. the Spaniards. with old Friday and tho
tirst st-rrants. at my old hal-italiott malt-r the hill. which was. in it Word,
llu- capital city. and wht-rt- tln-y had so t-nlargt-d and t-xtt-nthed their Works.
as wt-ll ttndt-r as on tho outsith- of tho hill. that lht-y livt-d. though pt-rti-t-tly
Court-alml. yt't lit" at largo. Non-r was tlwrt- sun-h a "HIP city in a wood,
and so hid. in any part of tln- world: liu' l \t-rily hrlitwt- a thousand tm-u
might htwt- ran-god tln- island a month, and. it' tln-y had not known tlu-re
was such a thing, and lookt-d on purpost- tor it. thoy would not have
tinmd it: ti-r tlu- trot-s stood so thirk and so close. and grow so titst "'OVI'II
otn- into anollu-r. that nothing hut t'tttlitlg lltt'ttl down tirst l'uttltl discover
t|n~ plat-v. rwopt "to only two narrow t-ntraut't-s whvrv tht-y wt-nt in and out
t'tltlltl lw Iinmd, whit-h was not \'t-t'y t'asy: our of "WI" was close down
at lllt' watt-r's vtlgr, on tho sidt- ot' Iltt' t-rt't-k. and it was allt-rwurds nlmvc
two htnnlrt-d yards to "to plow: attd tln- oIIn-r was up a Iadtlt-r at twiro,
as I han- alrt-ady t'orun-rly tlt'St'l'llM'll it: and tin-y had also a largo "'utltl,
tltirkly plantml. on tho top of tho hill. containing lllNWt' an at-rv. whit-h
grow tumor. and t'ottt't'ah-d llll' plat't- from all tltst'ovot'y thorn. with only
our narrow plat-o lwtwoott two trot-s not easily to ho discuyt'rt'd, lu t'ttlcr
on that sidt'. \

'l'ht- only colony was that of \Vill Atkins. "llt'l't' lllt'l't' "'('l't' lintr families
of l-Inglishmru: lm~an thost' I had h-ll tln'rtu with tln-ir "was attd t-hil-
drt-tt: lhrm- saragvs that "'t'l't' slim-s: tht- widow and tho t'hildn-u ol' the
Englishman that was kilh-d: tho young man and thtr maid: tllltl, by the
way. \\'1' math- a with ot' ht-r lit-tore or wool away. Them was also the
two t-arpvutt-Is and tho tailor, whom I brought with me for tlnrm: also
"to smith, who was a wry nt'rt-smry mail to thom, osin-t-ially as a gun-
smith, to lflkl' care of tln-ir arms; and my other ulna, whom lcullod
Jat'k-otiuIl-trath-s, who was ill himst-lt'as gtmtl almost as twenty ntcu; tor
he was not only a very ingenious tbllow, but a very merry fellow; and
 

before I went away we married him to the honest maid that came With
the youth in the ship I mentioned before.

And now I speak of marrying, it brings Inc naturally to say something
of the French eeclcsiastic that I had brought with me out of the ship's
crew whom I took up at sea. It is true this man was a Roman, and
perhaps it may give otl'enee to some herentter, it' I leave any thing extraor-
dinxu'y upon record of a man whom, betbre I begin, I must (to set him
out in just colors) represent in terms very much to his disadvantage. in
the account of Protestants; as, first, that he was it l'apist; secondly, a l'opish
priest; and, thirdly, a French l'opish priest. But justice demands of me
to give him a due character; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious,
and most religious person; exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and
exemplary in almost every thing he did. What, then, can any one say
against being very sensible ot' the value of such a man, notwithstanding
his profession? though it may be my opinion, perhaps, as well as the
opinion of others who shall read this, that he Was mistaken.

The first hour that I began to converse with him atler he had agreed
to go with me to the East Indies, 1 found reason to delight exceedingly
in his conversation; and he first began with me about religion in the most
obligiag manner imaginable. "Sir," says he, "you have not only, under
God, (and at that he crossed his breast,) saved my life, but you have admit-
ted me to go this voyage in your ship, and, by your obliging civility, have
taken me into your family, giving me an opportunity of flu: conversation.
Now, sir, you see, by my habit, what my profession is, and I guess by your
nation what yours is; 1 may think it is my duty, and doubtless it is so, to
use tny utmost endeavors, on all occasions, to bring all the souls I can to
the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic doctrine; but, as
I am here under your permission, and in your family, I am bound, in justice
to your kindness, as Well as in decency and good manners, to be umler
your government; and, therefore, I shall not, without your leave, enter into
any debate on the poitm of religion in which we tnay not agree, farther
than you shall give me leave."

I told him his carriage was so modest that I could not but acknowledge
it; that it was true we were such people as they called heretics, but that
he was not the first Catholic I had eonversed with, without tirlling into
inconveniences, or carrying the questions to any height in debate; that he
should not tind himself the Worse used tbr being of a different opinion
from us; and if We did not converse without any dislike on either side,
it should be his think, not ours.

He replied, that he thought all our conversation might be easily sepa-
rated ti'om disputes; that it was not his business to cap principles with
every man he. converscd with; and that be rather desired me to converse
with him as a gentleman Iliau as a rcligionist; and that, if I would give
him leave at any time to discourse upon religious subjects, he would readin
comply with it, and that he did not doubt Ian I would allow him also to
tlcti'nd his own opinions as well as he. could; but that, without my leave,
he would not break in upon me with any such thing. He told me timber,
that he would not cease to do all that became him, in his oflice as a priest,
as Well as a private Christian, to procure the good of the ship, uml the
satiety of tdl that was in her; aml though, perhaps, We would not join
with him, and he could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray ferns,
which he Wuttltl do upon all occasions. In this manner We couverscd;
aml as he was of the most obliging, gentlenmnlike behavior, so he was, if
I may be allowed to say so, a tuna ol' good sense, atul, as I believe, of
great learning.

He gave me a most diverting account of his life, aml of the many ex-
traordinary events of it; of niany adventures which had betltllen him in the
few years that he had been abroad in the world; and particularly this
was very remarkable, viz, that in the voyage he was now engaged in, he
had the mistimune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and never to
go to the place whither any of the ships be was in were at first designed;
that his first intent was to have gone to Martinico, and that he went on
board a ship bound thither at St. Malo; but, being forced into Lisbon by
bad weather, the ship received some damage by running agroutul in the
mouth of the River 'I'agus, and was obliged to unload her cargo there;
but finding a Portuguese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready to
sail, turd supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there bound to
Martinico, he went on board in order to sail to the Madeiras; but the
master of the Portuguese ship, being but an indifferent mariner, had been
out of his reckoning, am! they drove to Fyal; where, however, he hap-
pened to find a very good market for his cargo, which was com, and,
therefore, resolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt at the Isle
of May, and to go away to Newfoundland. He had no remedy in this
exigeuce but to go with the ship, and bad a pretty good voyage as far as
the Banks, (so they call the place where they catch the fish.) where, meeting
with a French ship bound from France to Quebec, in the River of Canada,
and Iron: thence to Martinieo, to carry provisions, he thought he should
have an opportunity to complete his first design; but when he came to
Quebec, the master of the ship died, and the vessel proceeded no timber;
so the next voyage, he shipped himself for France, in the ship that was
burned when we took them up at sea; and then shipped with us for the
first Indies, as l have already said. Thus he had been disappointed in
live voyages, all, as I may call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall have
occasion to mention farther ot' the same person.

But I shall not make digression into other men's stories, which have
no relation to my own; I return to what concerns our afi'uirs in the island.
He came to me one morning, (for he lodged among us all the while we
were upon the island.) and it happened to be just when I was going to
visit the Englishman's colony, at the lirrthest part of the island; I say, he
came to me, and told the with a very grave countenance, that he had for
two or three days desired an opportunity of some discourse with me,
which he hoped would not be displeasing to me, because he thought it
might in some measure correspond with my general design, which was,
the prosperity of my new colony, and perhaps might put it, at least more
titan he yet thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.

I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse, and turning
a little short, "How, sir," said I; " can it be said that we are not in the
way of God's blessing, alier such visible assistances and deliverances as
we have seen here, and of which I have given you a large account." "If
you had pleased, sir," said he, with a world of modesty, and yet great readi-
ness, -"to have heard me, you would have found no room to have been
displeased, much low to think so hard of me, that I should suggest that
you have not had wonderful assistance!) and deliverances; and I hope, on
your behalf, that you are in the way of God's bleming, as your design is
exceeding good, and will prosper; but, sir, though it were more so than is
even possible to you, yet there may be some among you that are not
equally right in their actions; and you know, that in the story of the
children of Israel, one Aehan in the camp removed God's blessing from
them, and tumed his hand so against them, that six-and-thirty of them,
though not eoncemed in the crime, were the objects of divine vengeance,
and bore the weight of that punishment."

I was sensibly touched with his discourse, and told him his inference was
so just, and the whole design seemed so sincere, and was really so religious
in its own nature, that l was very sorry] had interrupted him,and begged
him to go on; and, in the mean time, because it seemed that what We had
both to say might take up some time,l told him I was going to the Englishmen's
plantations, and asked him to go with me, and we might discourse of it by
the way. He told me he would the more willingly wait on me thither,
because there partly the thing was acted which he desired to speak to me
about: so we walked on, and I pressed him to be fine and plain with me in
what he had to say.

" Why, then, sir," says he, " be pleased to give me leave to lay down a few
propositions, as the foundation of what I have to say, that we may not difi'er
in the general principles, though we may be of some differing opinions in
thepracticeot'puticulars. First,sir,though we differ in someofthedoe-
trinal articles of religion, (and it is very unhappy it is so, especially in the
case before us, as I shall show atterwards,) yet there are some general princi-
ples in which we both agree, viz, that there is a God; and that, this God having
given us some stated general rules for our service and obedience, we ought
not willingly and knowingly to oileud him either by neglecting to do what
he has commanded, or by doing what he has expressly forbidden; and, let
our different religions be what they will, this general principle is readily
owned by us all, that the blessing of God does not ordinarily follow pre-
sumptuous sinning against his command; and every good Christian will be
allisetionately concerned to prevent any that are under his care living in a
total neglect of God and his commands. It is not your men being Protes-
tants, whatever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me from being
concerned for their souls, and from endeavoriug, if it lies before me, that
they should live in as little distance from enmity with their Maker as possi-
ble, especially if you give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit."

lcould not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him I granted all he
had said, and thanked him that he would so far coneem himself for us; and
begged he Would explain the particulars of what he had observed, that, like
Joshua, to take his own parable, I might put away the acmlrsed thing from us.

" Why. then, sir," says he, " I will take the liberty you give me; and there
are three things, which, if I am right, must stand in the way of God's blem-
iug upon your endeavors here, and which I should rejoice, for your sake
and their own, to see removed; and, sir, I promise myself that you will fully
agree \n'th me in them all, as soon as I name them; especially because I
shall convince you that every one of them may, with great ease, and very
much to your satisfaction, be remedied. First, air," says he, " you have here
four Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the savages, and
have taken thetn an their wivea, and have had many children by them all,
and yet are not married to them alter any stated legal manner, as the laws
of God and tuna require; mnl therefore are yet, in the sense of both, no less
than fornicatora, it' not living in adultery. To this, sir, I know you will object
that there was no elergynmn or priest of any kind, or any prolhssion, to per--
form the ceremony; nor any pen atul ink, or paper, to write down a contract
of marriage, and have it signed lwtwoen them; and I know also, air, what
the Spaniard governor has told you; I mean, of the agreement that lte
obliged theta to make when they took these women, viz, that they should
ehooae them out by cement. and keep separately to them; Which, by the
way, is nothing of a marriage, no agreement with the women, as wives, but
only an agn-ement among thctnaelves, to keep them from quarrelling. But,
sir, the essetwe of the mcrament of matrimony (so he called it, being a
Roman) consists not only in the tntttual consent of the parties to take one
another as man and wife, but in the formal nml legal obligation that there is
in the contract, to compel the tuna aml woman, at all titties, to own and
acknowledge each other; obliging the man to abstain ti'om all other women,
to engage in no other contract while these sulmist; and, on all occasions, as
ability allows, to provide honestly for them and their children; and to oblige
the women to the mine or like conditions, mttlah's mulandt's, on their side.
Now, air," says he, " these men may, when they please, or when occasion
presents, abandon these women, diwwn their children, leave them to perish,
and take other women, and marry them while these are living:" atul here
he added, with some warmth, " llow. air, is God honored in this tmlnwlitl
liberty? alnl how shall a blowing succeed your endeavors in this place, how.
ever good in themselves, and however sincere in your design. while these
men, who at present are your subjects, under your ahmlute government and
dominion, are allowed by you to live in open adultery ?"

l eouless I was struck with the thing itself, but much more with the con-
vincing arguments he supported it with; for it was certainly true, that though
they had no clergyman upon the spot, yet a formal contract on both sides,
made before witnesses, and confirmed by any token which they had all
agreed to be bound by, though it had been but breaking a stick between
them, engaging the men to own these women for their wives upon all occa-
sions, and tumor to abandon them or their children, and the women to the
same with their husbands, had been an efl'ectual lawful marriage in the
sight of God; and it was a great neglect that it; was not done. But I thought
to bare got off my young priest bytellinghim that all that part was done
when l was not there; and theyhad lived to many years with them now, that,
if it was adultery, it was past remedy; they could do nothing in it now.

" Sir," says he, " asking your pardon for each fieedom, you are right in
this, that, it being done in your absence, you could not beeharged with that
part of the crime; but, I beseech you, flatter not yourself that you are not
therefore under anobligation to do your utmost now to put an end to it.
Howcan youthink but tinglet the time pant lie on whom it wilLall the
guilt, {hr the future, will lie entirely upon you? because it is certainly in
your power now to put an end toil, and in nobody's power but yours."

I was so dull, still, that I did not take him right; but I imagined that, by
putting an end to it, he meant that I should part them, and not suffer them to

45
live together any longer; and I said to him I could not do that by any means,
for that would put the whole island into confusion. He seemed surprised that
Ishould so litr mistake him. " No, sir," says he, "I do ttot mean that you
should now separate tltetn, but legally and etl'ectually tnarry them net '; and
as, sir, tny way of marrying them may not be easy to reconcile tltetn to,
though it will be effectual, even by your own laws, so your way may be. as
well before God, and as valid among men; I mean, by a. written contract,
signed by both man and woman, and by all the \vitttems present, wltielkall
the laws of Europe would decree to be valid."

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so tnuch sincerity of ' 'al,
besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to his own party or
clntrch, and such true warmth for preserving the people that be had no
knowledge of or relation to; Isay, for preserving them from transgressing
the laws of God, the like of which I had, indeed, not met with atty where: but,
recollecting what he had said of marrying them by a written contract, which I
knew he would stand to, I returned it back ttpon him, and told him, I
granted all that he had said to be just, and on his part very kind; that I
wouhl discourse with the men upon the point now, when I cutue to them;
atul I knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marry them all,
which I knew well enough would be grinned to be as authentic and valid in
England as if they were married by one of our own clergymen. What was
allerwards done in this matter, I shall speak of by itscllZ

lthen pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint which he
had to make, acknowledging that I was very tnuclt his debtor for the first,
and thanked him heartily for it. He told me he would use the same tree-
dent and plainncss in the second, and hoped I Would take it as well; and
this was, that, notwithstanding these English subjects ol' tnine, as he called
them, had lived with these women for almost seven years, had taught them
to speak English, and even to read it, and that they were, as he perceived,
women of tolerable understanding, and capable of instruction, yet they had
ttot, to this hour, taught them any thing of the Christian religion; no, not so
much as to know that there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner
God was to be served; or that their own idolatry, and worshipping they
knew not whom, was litlse and absurd. This, he said, was an unaccount-
able neglect, and what God would certainly call them to account for, and
perhaps, at last, take the work out of their hands. He spoke this very afl'ec-
tiouately and warmly. " I am [u-rsuuded," says he, " had those men lived in
the savage country whence their wives came, the stvages would have taken
more pains to have brought them to be idolaters, and to worship the Devil,
than any of these men,so litr as I can see, have taken with them to teach them
the knowledge ol'the true God. Now, sir," said be, "though I do not acknowl-
edge your religion, or you mine, yet we would be glad to see the Devil's
servants, and the subjects of his kingdom, taught to know the general prin-
ciples ot' the Christian religion; that they might, at least, hear of God and a
Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a future state--things which we
all believe; they had, at least, been so much nearer coming into the bosom
of the true church than they are now, in the public profession of idolatry
and Devil worship."

lcould hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and embraced him with
an excess of passion. " How far," said I to him, " have I been from under-
standing the most essential part of a Christian, viz, to love the interest of
 

the Christian church, and the good of other men's souls! l scarce have
known what belongs to the being a Christian." " 0, air! do not say so,"
replied he; " this thing is not your fault." " No," said I; " but why did I
never lay it to heart as well as you?" " It is not too late yet," said he:
" be not too forward to comlemn yourself." " But what can be done now? "
said I? " you see I am going away." " Will you give me leave to talk with
these poor men about it?" " Yes, with all my heart," said I; " and will
oblige them to give heed to what you say too." " As to that," said he, " we
must leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is your business to assist
them, encourage them, and instruct them; and if you give me leave, and
God his blessing, I do not doubt but the poor, ignorant souls shall be brought
home to the great circle of Christianity, if not into the particular fitith we
all embrace, and that even while you stay here." Upon this, I said, " I shall
not only give you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it." \Vhat fol-
lowed on this account, I shall mention also again in its place.

I new pressed him for the third article in which we were to blame.
"Why, really," says he, "it is of the same nature; and I will proceed, ask-
ing your leave, with the same plainness as before: it is about your poor
savages, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects. It is a maxim,
sir, that ia, or ought to be, received among all Christians, of what church,
or pretended church, soever, viz.: The Christian knowledge ought to be
propagated by all possible means, and on all possible occasions. It is on
this principle that our church sends missionaries into Persia, India, and
China; and that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in356 was use [use anvsm'tmss

the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous residence among
murderers and barbarians, to teach thetn the knowledge of the true God,
and to bring thetn over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have
such an opportunity here to have six or seven and thirty poor savages
brought over from a state of idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker
and Redeemer, that l wottder how you can pass such an occasion of doing
good which is really worth the expense of a man's whole life."

I was now struck dumb, indeed, and had not one word to say. I had
here a spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me, let his
particular principles be of what kind soever; as for too, I had not so much
as entertained a thought of this itt my heart belbre, attd I believe I should
not have thought of it; for I looked upon these savages as slaves, and people
whom, had we had any work for them to do, we would have used as such,
or would ltave been glad to have transported them to any other part of tlto
world; for our business was to get rid of thctn; and We would all have
been satisfied if they had been sent to any country, so they had never seen
their own. But to the case,--I say, I was confounded at his discourse,
and knew not what answer to make him.

He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder. "Sir," says he,
"I shall he very sorry if what I have said gives you any offence." "No,
no," said I; "I ma offended with nobody bttt myself; but I atn perfectly
confounded, not only to think that I should nevor take any notice of this
before, httt with reflecting what notice I am able to take of it now. You
know, sir," said I, "what circumstances I atn in; I am bound to the East
Italics in a ship freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be an in-
sufferable piece of injustice to detain their ship here, the men lying all this
while at victuals and wages on the owners' account. It is true, I agreed
to be allowed twelve days here; and, if I stay more,I must pay three pounds
sterling per diem dcmurrage; nor can I stay upon demurrage above eight
days more, and I have been here thirteen already; so that I atn perfectly
unable to engage in this work, unless I would suffer myself to be lefl behind
here again; in which case, if this single ship should miscarry in any part
of her voyage, I should be just in the saute condition that I was left in here
at first, and from which I have been so wonderfully delivered." He owned
the case was very hard upon me as to my voyage; but laid it home upon
tny conscience, whether the blessing of saving thirty-seven souls was not
worth venturing all I had in the world for. l was not so sensible of that
as he was. I returned upon him tints: " Why, sir, it is a valuable thing,
indeed, to be an instrument in God's hand to convert thirty-seven heathens
to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an ccclcsiastic, and are given
over to the work, so that it seems so naturally to fall into the way of your
profession, how is it, then, that you do not rather offer yourself to under-
take it, than press me to do it?"

Upon this, he faced about just before me, as he walked along, and, put-
ting tne to a full stop, made me a very low bow. "I most heartily thank
God, and you, sir," said he, "for giving me so evident a call to so blessed
a work; and if you think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to
undertake it, I will most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all
the hazards and diflicultia of such a broken, disappointed voyage, as I have
met with, that I am dropped at last into so glorious a work."

I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while he spoke this to me;
his eyes sparkled like fire, his face glowed, and his color came and went,
as if he had been titlling into fits; in a word, he was fired with the joy
of being embarked in such a work. I paused a considerable while before
I could tell what to say to him; for I was really surprised to find a man
of such sincerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the ordinary
rate of men, not of his profession only, but even of any profession what-
soever. But after I had considered it a while, I asked him seriome if he
was in earnest, and that he would venture, on the single consideration of
an attempt on those poor people, to be locked up in an Implanted island
for perhaps his life, and at last might not know whether he should be able
to do them good or not.

He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a venture. " Pray,
sir," said be, "what do you think I consented to go in your ship to the
East Indies for?" "Nay," said I, "that I know not; unless it was to preach
to the Indians." "Doubtless it was," said he; "and do you think, if I can
convert thew thirty-seven men to the faith of Jesus Christ, it is not worth
my time, though I should never be fetched off the island again? Nay, is it
not infinitely of more worth, to save so many souls, than my life is, or the
life of twenty more of the same profession? Yes, sir," says he, "I would
give Christ and the Blessed Virgin thanks all my days, if I could be made
the least happy instrument of saving the souls of those poor men, though
I were never to set my lbot 013' this island, or see my native country any
more. But since you will honor me with putting me into this work--for
which I will pray for you all the days of my life,--I have one humble
petition to you besides." "What is that ?" said I. "W'hy," says he, "it
is, that you will leave your man Friday with me, to be my interpreter to
them, and to assist me; lbr, without some help, I cannot speak to them,
or they to me."

I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because I could not
think of parting with him, and that for many reasons: he had been the
companion of my travels; he was not only faithful to me, but sincerely
afiectionate to the last degree; and I had resolved to do something con-
siderable for him if he outlived me, as it was probable he would. Then
I knew, that as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it would quite
confound hitn to bring him to embrace another profession; and he would
never, while his eyes were open. believe that his old master was a here-
tic, and would be damned; and this might, in the end, ruin the poor fel-
low's principles, and so turn him back again to his first idolatry. However,
a sudden thought relieved me in this strait; and it was this: I told him I
could not say that I was willing to part with Friday on any account what-
ever, though a work that to him was of more value than his life, ought to
be to me of much more value than the keeping or paning with a servant.
But, on the other hand, 1 was persuaded that Friday would by no means
agree to part with me; and I could not force him to it without his con-
sent, without manifest injustice; because I had promised I Would never
put him away, and he had promised, and engaged to me, that he would
never leave me, unless I put him away.

He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational access to
these poor people, seeing he did not understand one word of their language,
nor they one of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him Friday's father had
learned Spanish, which, I found, he also understood, and he should serve
ltint as an interpreter. So he was tnuelt better satisfied, and nothing could
persuade him but he would stay aml endeavor to convert them; but Provi-
dence gave another very ltappy turn to all this.

lemnc lxlt'k now to the first part of his objections. When We catue to
the l-Inglishmcn, I sent lhr them all tog-tlter, and, aller some account given
them of what I had done tbr them, via, what necessary things I had
provided for them, and how they were distributed, which they were very
sensible of, and very thankful for, I began to talk to them of the scandalous
life they led, and gave thent a full-account of the notice tlte clergyman luul
taken of it ; aml arguing ltow tmchristian aml irreligions a life it was, I first
asked them if they were nutrrictl tnett or bachelors. They soon explained
their conditions to into, and showed that two of them were widowws, am!
the other three were single men, or bachelors. I asked them with what
conscience they could take those women, and lie with them as they had
done, call tltetn their wives, and have so many children by theta, and not be
lawfully tuarried to them. '

They all gave me the answer I expected, \'l'l.., that there was nobody to
ntarry them; that they agreed before the governor to keep them as their
wives, and to maintain them and own them as their wives; uttd they thought,
as things stood with them, they were as legally married as if they had been
married by a pursou, aml with all the Ibrtnulities in tlte world.

I told them that no doubt they were nutrried in the sight of God, and
"'cre hound itt conscience to keep them as their wives; but that, the laws
of men being otherwise, they might desert the poor women attd children
hereafter: aml that their wives, ltcitu.r poor, desolate women, li'icudless and
moncylcss, would have no way to help themselves; I thcrclhre told them
that, unless I was assured of their honest itltenl, I could do nothing lin' them,
but would take care that what I did should be for the women and children
without them; unit! that, unless they would give me some murauces that
they would marry the women, I could not tltink it was convenient they
should continue together as man aml with: litr that it was hotlt scandalous
to melt aml oll'ensive to God, who they cottld not think would bless them if
they went on thus.

All this went on as I expected: and tltcy told Inc--especially \Vill Atkins,
who now seemed to speak for the rest ---that they loved their wives as well
as ifthey had been born in their own native country, and would not leave
them on any account whatever; atttl they did verily believe tltut their wives
were as virtuous and as tuodcst, attd did, to the utmost of their skill, as tnuch
litr them atnl lbr their children as any women could possibly do; and they
would not part with them on any account: and "'ill Atkins, for his own
particular, added, that, if any man would take ltitn away, atul offer to carry
him home to England, and make him captain of tltc best man-of-war in
the navy, he would ttot go with hint, if he. might not carry his wife and
children with him; ntul if there was a clergyman ill the sltip, he would be
married to her new with all his ltcart.

This was just as I would have it: the priest was not with me at that
moment, but was not litr otl': so, to try hitu further, I told him I had a cler-
gyman with me, aml, if he was sincere, [would have him married next
morning, and bade him consider of it, and talk with the rest. He said, as
for llllllsull; he need not consider of it at all, lbr he was very ready to do it,
and was glad I had a minister with me, and he believed they would be all
 

willing also. I then told him that my friend, the mimster, was a Frenchman,
and could not speak English, but I would act the clerk benveen them. He
never so much as asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant, which
was, indeed, what I was afraid of; so we parted: I Went back to my clergy-
man, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his companions. I desired the
French gentleman not to say any thing to them till the business was
thorough ripe; and I told him what answer the men had given me.

Before I went from their quarter, they all mum to me, and told me they
had been considering what I had said; that they were glad to hear! had a
clergyman in my company, and they were very willing to give me the
satisfaction I desired, and to be formally married, as soon as I pleased;
for they were far from desiring to part with their wives, and that they meant
nothing but what was very honest when they chose them. So I appointed
them to meet me the next morning; and, in the mean time, they should let
their wives know the meaning of the man-iage law; and that it was not only
to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige them that they should not forsake
them, whatever might happen.

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and
were very wall satisfied with it, --as indeed they had reason to be ;--so they
filled not to attend, all together, at my apartment next morning, when I
brought out my clergyman; and, though he had not on a minister's gown,
alter the manner of England, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of
France, yet, having a black vest, something like a cassoclt, with a sash round
it, he did not look very unlike a minister; and, as for his language, I was
his interpreter. But the seriousness of his behavior to them, and the
scruples he made of marrying the women, because they wore not baptized
anti professed Christians, gave them an exceeding reverence for his person;
and there was no need, alter that, to inquire whether he was a clergyman or
not. Indeed, I was afraid his ecruples would have been carried so far as
that he would not have married them at all; nay, notwithstanding all [was
able to say to him, he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily; and,
at last, refused absolutely to marry them unless he had first talked with the
Inca, and the women too; and though, at first, I was a little backward to it,
yet, at last, I agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of his
design.

When he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted him with
their circumstances, and with the present design; that he was very willing
to perform that part of his function, and marry them, as I had desired; but
that before he could do it, he must take the liberty to talk with them. He
told them, that, in the sight of all inditl'erent men, and in the sense of the
laws of society, they had lived all this while in open fornication; and that it
was true, that nothing but the consenting to marry, or effectually separating
them from one another, could now put an end to it; but there was a diffi-
culty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony, which he
was not fully satisfied about, viz., that of marrying one that is a professed
Christian to a savage, an idolater, and a heathen, --onc that is not baptized;
and yet, that he. did not see that there "as time lelt to endeavor to persuade
the women to be baptized, or to protess the natne of Christ, whotn they had,
he doubted, heard nothing ot; and without which they could not be baptized.
He told them he doubted they were but indill'ercnt Christians themselves; that
they had but little knowlcdg - of God or of his ways, and, therefore, he could
not expect that they had said much to their wives on that head yet ; but that,
unless they would promise him to use their endeavors with their wives to
persuade them to become Christians, and would, as well as they could,
instruct them in the. knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to
worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them; for he
would have no hand in joining Christians with savages; nor was it con-
sistent with the principles of the Christian religion, and was, indeed, expressly
forbidden in God's law.

They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very faithfully to
them from his mouth, as near his own words as I could; only sometimes
adding something of my own, to convince them how just it was, and how
I was of his mind: and I always very litithtitlly distinguished between what I
said front mysell; and what were the clergymau's wards They told me it was
very true what the gentleman said, that they \vere very indifl'erent Christians
themselves, and that they had never talked to their wives about religion.
" Lord, sir," says Will Atkins, "how should we teach them religion? Why,
we know nothing ourselves; and besides, sir," said he, "should we talk to
them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell, it would make them
laugh at us, and ask us what we believe ourselves. And if we should tell
them that We believe all the things we speak of to them, such as of good
people going to heaven, and wicked people to the Devil, they would ask us
where we intend to go ourselves, that believe all this, and are such wicked
fellows as we indeed are. Why, sir, 'tis enough to give them a surfeit of
religion at first hearing; folks must have some religion themselves before
they pretend to teach other people." " Will Atkins," said I to him, "though
I am afraid that what you say has too much truth in it, yet can you not
tell your wife she is in the wrong; that there is a God, and a religion better
than her own; that her gods are idols; that they can neither hear nor
speak; that there is a great Being that made all things, and that can destroy
all that he has tnade; that he rewards the good and punishes the bad;
and that we are to be judged by him at last for all we do here? You
are not so ignorant bttt even nature itself will teach you that all this is
true, and I am satisfied you know it all to be true and believe it yourself."
"That is true, sir," said Atkins; "but with what face can I say any thing
to my wife of all this, when she will tell me immediately it cannot be-
true?" "Not true!" said I; "what do you mean by that?" "Why, sir,"
said he, "she will tell me it cannot be true that this God Ishall tell her
of can be just, or can punish or reward, sincel am not punished and sent
to the Devil, that have been such a wicked creature as she knows I have
been, even to her, and to every body else; and that I should be suffered
to live, that have been always acting so contrary to what I must tell her
is good, and to what I ought to have done." "Why, truly, Atkins," said I,
"I am afraid thou speakcst too much truth ;" and, with that, I informed the
clergyman of what Atkins had said, for he was impatient to know. "0,"
said the priest, "tell him there is one thing will make him the best minister
in the world to his wife, and that is repentance; for none teach repentance
like true penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, and then he will be so
much the better qualified to instruct his wife; he will then be able to tell her
that there is not only a God, and that he is the just rewarder of good and
evil, but that he is a merciful Being, and with infinite goodness and long-
sufi'cring forbears to punish those that offend; waiting to be gracious, and.
willing not the death of a sinner, but rather that he should return and live;
that oftentimes he suffers wicked men to go a long time, and even reserves
damnation to the general day of retribution; that it is a clear evidence of
God and of a future state, that righteous men receive not their reward, or
wicked men their punishment, till they come into another world; and this
will lead him to teach his wife the doctrine of the resurrection and of the
last judgment. Let him but repent for himself, he will be an excellent
preacher of repentance to his wife."

I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the while, and
who, we could easily perceive, was tnore than ordinarily affected with it;
when, being eager, and hardly suffering me to make an end--" I know all
this, master," says he, " and a great deal more; but I have not the imputlence
to talk thus to my wife, when God and my conscience know, and my wife
will be an undeniable evidence against me,that I have lived as if I had never
heard of a God or future state, or any thing about it; and to talk of my re-
peating, alas! (and with that he fetched a deep sigh, and 1 could see that the
tears stood in his eyes) 't is past all that with me." " Past it, Atkins ? " said
I: " what dost thou mean by that ? " " I know well enough what I mean,"
says he; " I mean 'tis too late, and that is too true."

I told the clergyman, word for word, what he said: the poor, zealous priest
--I must call him so, for, be is opinion what it will, be had certainly a most
singular aflbction for the good of other men's souls, and it would be hard to
think he had not the like for his own--l say, this affectionate man could
not refrain from tears; but, recovering himself; said to me, " Ask him but
one question: Is he easy that it is too late; or is he troubled, and wishes it

46362 'ran up: AND Antwan-ran:

 

were not so P" I put the question t'airly to Atkins; and he answered, with
a great deal of passion, " How could any man be easy in a condition that
must eertainly end in eternal destruction ? that he was far from being easy;
but that. on the contrary. he believed it would, one time or other, ruin him."
" What do you ntean by that?" said I. " Why," he said, " he believed he
should one time or other eat his throat, to put an end to the terror ot'it."

The. elergyman shook his head, with great convent in his tin-e, when I
told him all this; but turning quick to me upon it. says, " II' that be his case,
we may assure him it is not too late; Christ will give him relnnttance. But
pray." says he. " explain this to him: that, as no man is saved but by Christ,
and the merit of his pamion proeuring divine mercy for him, how can it be
too late titr any man to receive merry? Does he think he is able to sin
beyond the power or reach of divine mercy? Pray tell him, there may be a
time. when provoked merey will no longer strive, and when God may refuse
to hear, but that it is never too late for men to ask mercy; and we, that are
Christ's sen'ants, are commanded to preach merry at all times, in the. name
of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repeat; so that it is never too late
to repem."

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness; but it
seemed as it' he turned otl' the discourse to the rest, tor he said to me, he
would go and have some talk with his wife; so he went out a while, and we
talked to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to matters
of religion, as much as l was when 1 went rambling away from my father;
and yet there were none of them backward to hear what had been said : and
all of them seriously promised that they would talk with their wives about it,
and do their endeavors to persuade them to turn Christians.

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer they gave,
but said nothing a good while; but at last, shaking his head, " We that are
Christ's servants," says lte, " can go no farther titan to exhort and instruct;
and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and promise what We ask, 'tis
all we can do: we are bound to accept their good words; but, believe tttc,
sir," said he, " whatever you may have known of the life of that man you
call Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere convert among them: I will
not despair of the rest; but that man is apparently struck with the sense of
his past life, and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of religion to his wife,
he will talk himself effectually into it; for attempting todeach others is some-
times the best way of teaching ourselves. I know a man, who, having noth-
ing but a summary notion of religion himself; and being wicked and prof-
Iigate to the last degree in his life, tnade a thorough reformation in himself
by laboring to convert a Jew. If that poor Atkins begins but once to talk
seriously of Jesus Christ to his With, my life for it he mike himself into a
thorough convert, makes himself a penitent, and who knows what may
follow?"

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as above, to endeavor
to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the other two
couple; but Will 'Atkins and his wife wore not yet come in. After this, my
clergyman, waiting a while, was curious to know where Atkins was gone;
and, turning to me, said, "I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of your laby-
rinth here, uttd look; ldare say we shall find this poor malt somewhere or
other talking seriously to his wife, and teaching her already something of
rcligion." I began to he of the same mind; so we went out together, attd
learried him a way which none knew httt myself, and where the trees
were so very thick that it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves,
and litr harder to see in than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the
woed,l saw Atkins and his tawny with sitting under the shade of a bush,
very eager in discourse: i stopped short till my clergyman came up to me,
and then, having showed him where they were, we stood and looked very
steadily at thcttt a good \vltile. \Ve observed him very earnest with her,
pointing up to the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens, and then down
to the earth, then ottt to the sea, then to hitnsclt; then to her, to the woods,
to the trees. " Now," says the clergyman, " you see my words are made
good;the man preaches to her: mark him now; he is telling her that our
God has made him and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods,
the trees, &c." "I believe he is," said I. Immediately, we perceived Will
Atkins start upon his feet, fall down on his knees, and mi up both his
hands. We supposed he said something, but we could not hear him; it
was too far for that. He did not continue kneeling half a minute, but
comes and sits down again by his wife, and talks to her again; we perceived
then the woman very attentive, but whether she said any thing to him we
could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his heat-1,1 could see the
tears ma plentifnlly down my clergyman's cheeks, and I could hardly for-
hear myself; but it was a great affliction to us both that we were net near
enough to hear any thing that passed between them. Well, however, we
could come no nearer for fear of disturbing them; so we resolvad to see an
end of this piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud enough to us with-
out the help of voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and
talked again earneme to her, and two or three times we could see him embrace
her most passionately; another time we saw him take out his handkerchief
and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a kind of transport very

unusual; and after several of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump
p again, and lend her his hand to help her up, when, immediately leading
er by the build a step or two, they both kneeled down together, and contin-
ed so about two minutes. _

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, " St. Paul! St.

'unl! behold he prayeth." I was afraid Atkins would hear him; therefore

entneated him to withhold hituselfa while, that we might see an end of the
cone, which to me, I must confess, was the most afi'ecting that ever I saw in
ny me. Well, he strove with himself for a while, but,was in such ruptures,
0 think that the poor heathen woman was become a Christian, that he was
not able to contain himself; he wept several times, then, throwing up his
lands and crossing his breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and by
my of giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of the success of
mr endeavors: some he spoke softly, and I could not well hear others;
some in Latin, some in French ; then two or three times the tears would in-
terrupt him, that he could not speak at all; but I begged that he would con-
'ain himselt; and let us more narrowly and fully obsente what was before us,
which he did for a time, the scene not being near ended yet; for, after the
poor man and his wife were risen again from their knees, we observed he
stood talking still eagerly to her, and We observed her motion, that she was
greatly afl'ected with what he said, by her frequently lifting up her hands,
laying her hand to her breast, and such other postures as express the greatest
seriousness and attention: this continued about half a quarter of an hour,
and then they walked away; so we would see no tnore of them in that situa-
tion. I took this interval to talk with my clergyman; and, first, I was glad
to see the particulars we had both been witnesus to, that, though I was
hard enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to think it was all very
sincere here, both in the man and his wife, however ignorant they might
both be, and I hoped such a beginning would yet have a more happy end.
" And who know" said I, " but these two may, in time, by instruction and
example, work upon some of the others?" " Some of them?" said he,
taming quick upon me--" ay, upon all of them: depend upon it, if those two
savages-- for be has been but little better, as you relate it-- should embrace
Jesus Christ, they will never leave it till they work upon all the rest; for true
religion 18 naturally communicative, and he that is once made a Christian
will never leave a pagan behind him, if he can help it." I owned it was a
most Christian principle to think so, and a testimony of true zeal, as well as
a generous heart, in him. " But, tny friend," said I, " will you give me leave
to start one difiiculty here? I cannot tell how to object the least thing
against that afi'ectionate concern which you show for the turning of the poor
people from their paganism to the Christian religion: but how does this
comfort you, while these people are, in your account, out of the pale of the
Catholic church, without which you believe there is no salvation? so that
you esteem these but heretics, for other reasons as effectually lost as the
pagans themselves."

To this he answered, with abundance of candor, thus: "Sir, I am a
Catholic of the Roman church, and a priest of the order of St: Benedict, and
I embrace all the principles of the Roman faith, but yet, if you will believe
me, and that I do not speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my ciro
cumstanees and your civilitics , I say, nevertheless, I do not look upon you,365 - 366
Missing
From
Original
who call yourselves reformed, without some charity: I dare not say (though
lknow it is our opinion in general) that you cannot be saved: [will by no
means limit the mercy of Christ so far as to think that he cannot receive
you into the bosom of his church, in a manner to us nnperceivable; and I
hope you have the same charity for us: I pray daily for your being all
restored to Christ's church, by whatsoever method he, who is all-wise, is
pleased to direct. In the mean time, surely, you will allow it consists with
me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a Protestant and a pagan: be-
tween one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way which I do not think
is according to the true faith, and a savage or a barbarian, that knows no
God, no Christ, no Redeemer; and if you are not within the pale of the
Catholic church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it than those
that know nothing of God or of his church; and l rejoice, therefore, when I
see this poor man, who, you say, has been a profiigate, and almost a mur-
derer, kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, though not
fully enlightened; believing that God, li'om whom every such work proceeds,
will sensibly touch his heart, and bring him to the farther knowledge of that
truth in his own time: and if God shall influence this poor man to convert
and instntct the ignorant savage, his wife, I can never believe that he shall
be cast away himseltl And have I not reason, then, to rejoice, the nearer
any are brought to the knowledge ol'Christ, though they may not be brought
quite home into the bosom of the Catholic church just at the time when!
may desire it, leaving it to the goodness of Christ to perfect his work in his
own time, and in his own way? Certainly, I would rejoice if all the savages
in America were brought, like this poor woman, to pray to God, though they
were all to be Protestants at first, rather than they should continue pagans
or heathens; firmly ln-licving, that he that had bestowed the first light to
them would tin-flier ilhuninatc them with a beam of his heavenly grace,
and bring them into the pale of his church, when he should see good."

I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this pious Papist, as
much as I was oppressed by the [mwcr of his rcasoning; and it presently
occurred to my thoughts, that if such a temper was universal, we might
be all Catholic Christians, whatever church or particular profession we
joined in; that a spirit of charity would soon work us all up into right
principles; and as he thought that the like charity would make us all Catho-
lics, so I told him I believed, had all the members of his church the like
moderation, they would seen all be Protestants. And there we left that
part, for we never disputed at all.

However, I talked to him another way, and, taking him by the hand,
"My friend," says I, "I wish all the clergy ot' the Romish church were
blessed with such moderation, and had an equal share of your charity. I
am entirely of your opinion; but I must tell you, that, if you should preach
such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put you into the Inquisition."
"It may be so," said he; "I know not what they would do in Spain or
Italy; but I will not say they would be the better Christians for that
severity; for I am sure there is no heresy in abounding with charity."

Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there was
over; so we went back our own way; and when we came back, we found
them waiting to be called in: observing this, I asked my clergyman if we
should discover to him that we had seen him under the bush or not; and
it was his opinion we should not, but that we should talk to him first,
.0;

. I I

.: .1
as
at".

.
1,,
"2":

 

and hear what he would say to us; so we called him in alone, nobody
being in the place but ourselves, and I began with him thus:--

"Will Atkins," said I, "pr'y thee what education had you? What was
your father ? "

W. J). A better man than ever I shall be; sir, my father was a cler-
gyman.

R. C. What education did he give you ? >>

W. .0. He would have taught me well, sir; but I despised all education,
instruction, or correction, like a beast as I was.

R. C. It is true, Solomon says, "He that despises reproof is brutish."

W. .4. Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed, for I murdered my father; for
God's sake, sir, talk no more about that; air, I murdered my poor father.

Pr. Ha! a murderer! .

Here the priest started, (for I interpreted every word as he spoke,) and
looked pale: it seems he believed that Will had really killed his father.

R. C. No, no, sir, I do not understand him so: Will Atkins, explain
yourself; you did not kill your father, did you, with your own hands ?

W. J). No, sir, I did not cut his throat; but I cut the thread of all his
comforts, and shortened his days; I broke his heart by the most ungrateful,
unnatural return, for the most tender and affectionate treatment that ever
father gave, or child could receive.
R. 0. Well, I did not ask you about your father to extort this confes-
sion; I pray God give you repentance for it, and forgive that and all your
other sins; but [asked you because [see that though you have not much
learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some are in things that are good;
that you have known more of religion, a great deal, than you have practised.

W. .'l. Though you, sir, did not extort the confession that I make about
my lhther, conscience does; and whenever we come to look back upon
our lives, the sins against our indulgent parents are certainly the first that
touch as; the wounds they make lie deepest, and the weight they leave
will lie heaviest upon the mind, of all the sins we can commit.

R. C. You talk too l'eeliugly and sensibly for me, Atkins; I cannot
hear it. .

W. .z'l. You hear it, master! I dare say you know nothing of it.

R. 0. Yes, Atkins; every shore, every hill, nay,l may say every tree
in this island, is witness to the anguish of my soul for my ingratitude and
bad usage of a good, tender father; a Esther much like yours, by your
description; aml l murdered my father as we" as you, Will Atkins; but
I think, liir all that, my repentance is short of yours too, by a great deal.

I would have said more, il'I could have restrained my passions; but I
thought this poor man's repentance was so much sineerer than mine, that
l was going to leave 011' the discourse and retire; for I was surprised with
what he had said, and thought that, instead of my going about to teach
and instruct him, the man was made a teacher and instructor to me in a
most surprising and unexpected manner.

1 laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly affected with
it, and said to me, "Did! not say, air, that when this man was converted,
he would preach to us all? I tell you, air, if this one man be made a true
penitent, here will be no need of me; he will make Christians of all in the
island." But having a little composed myself, I renewed my discourse
with Will Atkins. "But, Will," said I, "how comes the sense of this mat-
ter to touch you just now?"

W. .0. Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart through
my very soul; I have been talking about God and religion to my wife, in
order, as you directed me, to make a Christian of her, and she has preached
such a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I live.

R. C. No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you; but when you
were moving religious arguments to her, conscience has flung them back
upon you.

W. .3. .-\y, sir, with such force as is not to be resisted.

R. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed betWeen you and your wife,
for I know something of it already.

W. .4. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it; I am too
full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it; but let her have
said what she will, and though I cannot give you an account of it, the I
can tell you, that l have resolved to amend and reform my life.

R. 0. But tell us some of it; how did you begin, Will? For thishas
been an extraordinary case, that is certain. She has preached a sermon,
indeed, if she has wrought this upon yoh. .

W. 49. Why, I first told her the nature of our lawsabout marriage, and
what the reasons were that men and women were obliged to enter into
such compacts, as it was neither in the power of one nor other to break;

47370 Tue LIFP. .mo aovttx'rtrnns

that, otherwise, order aml justice cottld not be natintained, and men would
nm from their wives and abandon their cltildren, mix contim-dly with one
another, aml neither tinnilies be kept entire, nor inheritanees be settled by
legal descent.

R. C. You talk like a eivilian, "'ill. Could you tnake her understand
what you meant by inheritance and tinnilies ? They know no such things
among the savages, but marry any how, without regard to relation, con-
sanguinity, or fmnily; brother and sister, any, as I have been told, even tho
titther atnl the daughter, aml the Km aml the ntotlter.

"l .'I. I believe, sir, you are misint'ormed, and my wife assures me of
the contrary, and that they abhor it; perhaps, for any timber relations they
tnay not be. so exact as we are; but she tells me they never touch one
another in the near relationship you speak otl

R. C. Well, what did she say to what you tohl her?

W. .'l. She said she liked it very well, and it was muelr better than in
her country.

R. 0. But did you tell her what marriage was ?

W. J). Ay, ay, there. began our dialogue. I asked her if she would be
married to me, our way. She asked me what way that Was. I told her
marriage was appointed by God: atul here we had a strange talk together,
indeed. as ever man attd witi'. had, I believe.

N. li.--'l'bis dialogue bctm-en Will Atkins and his wife I took down in
writing, just utter he had told it into, which was as follows:--

Il'f/i'. Appointed by your God ! Why, have you a God in your country ?

If. .'I. Yes. my dear, God is ill every country.

III/E. No your God in my eountry; my country have the great old
Benamuekee God.

ll'. .11. Child. I atn very nntit to show you who God is; God is in
heaven. and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that in them is

My}. No makee dc earth; no you God makee all earth; no tnukee
my country.

Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not making her
country.

ll'ifi'. No laugh: why laugh me? This nothing to laugh.

He was justly reproved by his wit"; tor she was more serious than he
at first.

ll". .4. That's true. indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dear.

Wife. Why, you sty you God makec all?

I". .'I. Yes, child: our God made the whole world, and you, and me,
and all things: litr he is the only true God, and there is no God but him;
he lives forever itt heaven.

Wife. Why you no tell me long ago?

I". ."l. 'l'hat's true, indeed: but I have been a wicked wreteh, and have
not only forgotten to acquaint thee with any thing betbre, but have lived
without God in the world myself:

Wi c. What! have you a great God in your country, you no know him?
No say 0 to him? No do good thing for him? That no possible.

"2.4. It is true, though, tor all that; we live as if there was no God
in h 'aveu, or that he had no power on earth.

Wife. But why God let you do so? Why he no makee you good live?

"1.0. It is all our own fault.' " 'me

or nonmson causoa. 371

 

Wife. But you say me he is great, much great, have much great power;
can makce kill when he will; why he no makee kill when you no serve
him? No say 0 to him, no be good mans.

W. .8. That is true; he might strike me dead, and I ought to expect
it; for l have been a wicked wretch, that is true; but God is merciful;
and does not deal with us as we deserve.

Wife. But then you do not tell God thankee for that, too?

W. J). No, indeed; I have not thanked God for his mercy, any more
than I have feared God for his power.

Wife. Then you God no God; me no think believe he be such one,
great much power strong; no makee kill you, though you make him
much angry.

W. J]. What! will my wicked life hinder you from believing in God?
What a dreadful creature am I! and what a sad truth is it, that the hor-
rid lives of Christians hinder the conversion of heathens!

Wife. How me think you have great much God up there, (she points
up to heaven,) and yet no do well, no do good thing? Can he tell? Sure
he no tell what you do? '

W: J]. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things; he hears us speak; sees
what we do; knows what we think, though we do 'not speak.

Wife. What! he no hear you curse, swear, Speak de great damn?

W. .4. Yes, yes, he beats it all. '

Wife. Where he then the much great power strong?

[7.3. He is merciful; that is all we can say for it; and this proves
him to be the true God; he is God, and not man; and therefore we are
not consumed

IIere Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, to think how he
could tell his with so clearly that God sees, and bears, and known the
secret thoughts of the heart, and all that We do; and yet that he had dared
to do all the vile things he had done.

H'i'fc. Merciful! What you call that?

"141. He is our Father and Maker, aml he pitiw and spares us

II'i/'c. So then he never makee kill, never angry when you do wicked;
then he no good himself, or no great able.

"1J1. Yes, yes, my dear; he is infinitely good and infinitely great, and
able to punish, too; and, sometimes, to show his justice and vengeance,
he lets fly his anger to destroy sinners and make examples; many are
cut off in their sins.

Wife. But no makee kill you yet; then he tell you, may be, that he
no makee you kill; so you makee dc bargain with him,---you do bad thing,
he no be angry at you when he he angry at other mans.

"1J1. No, indeed; my sins are all presmnptions upon his goodness;
am] he would be infinitely just if he destroyed me, as he has done other
men.

Wife. \Vell, and yet no kill, no makee you dead; what you say to hint
for that? You no tell him thankee for all that, too?

W. J). I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true.

Wife. "'hy he no makee you nmch good better? You say he makee you.

"1.4. He made me,as he made all the world; it is I have deformed
myself, and abused his goodness, and made myself all abominable wretch.

Wife 1 wish you makee God know me; I no makee him angry; I no
do bad wicked thing.

Iicre Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him, to hear a poor, un-
taught creature desire to be taught to know God, and he such a wicked
wretch that he could not say one word to her about God, but what the
reproach of his own carriage would make most irrational to her to believe;
nay, that already she had told him that sire could not believe in God, be-
cause he, that was so wicked, was not destroyed.

W. J). My dear, you mean you wish I could teach you to know God,
not God to know you; for he knows you already, and every thought in
your heart. _

Wife. Why, then he know what I say to you now; he know me wish
to know him; how shall me know who makee me?

W, .6. Poor creature, he must teach thee; I cannot teach thee; I will
pray to him to teach thee to know him, and forgive me, that am unworthy
to teach thee.

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to make her
know God, and her wishing to know him, that he said he fell down on his
knees before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind with the saving
knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being
the unworthy instnunent of instructing her in the principles of religion;
alter which, he sat down by her again, and their dialogue went on. This
was the time when we saw him kneel down, and hold up his hands.

Wife. What you put down the knee for? What you hold up the hand
for? "Hint you say? Who you speak to? What is all that?
W. .4. My dear, 1 how my knees in token of my submission to him
that made me; 1 said 0 to him, as you call it, and as your old men do
to their idol, Bcnamuckee; that is, I prayed to him.

Wi e. What say you 0 to him for?

W. J1. I prayed to him to open your eyes and your understanding, that
you may know him, and be accepted by him.

Wife. Can he do that, too? '

W. J). Yes, he can; he can do all things.

Wife. 'But now he hear what you say?

'W. J1. Yes; he has bid us pray to him, and promised to hear us.

Wife. Bid you pray? When he bid you? How he bid you? What!
you hear him speak?

W. fl. No, We do not hear him speak; but he has revealed himself
many ways to us.

Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God has re-
vealed himself to us by his word, and what his word was; but, at last,
he told it her thus:--

W. J1. God has spoken to some good men, in former days, even from
heaven, by plain words; and God has inspired good men by his Spirit;
and they have written all his laws down in a book.

Wife. Me no understand that; where is book?

W. A. Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book; but I hope I
shall one time or other get it for you, and help you to read it.

Here he embraced her with great affection, but with inexprefiible grief
that he had not a Bible.

Wife. But how you makee me know that God teachee them to write
that book?

W. J). By the mme rule that We know him to be God.

Wife. What rule? What way you know him?

"1J1. Because he teaches and commands nothing but what is good,
righteous, and holy, and tends to make us perfectly good, as Well as per-
fectly happy; and because he forbids, and commands us to avoid, all that
is wicked, that is evil in itself; or evil in its consequence.

Wifi. That me would understand, that me fain see; if he teaches all
good thing, he makee all good thing, he give all thing, he hear me when
I say 0 to him, as you do just now; he makee me good, it' I wish to be
good; he spare me, no makee kill me, when I no be good: all this you
say he do, yet he be great God; me take, think, believe him to be great
God; me say 0 to him with you, my dear.

Here the poor man could l'orbear no longer, but raised her up, made
her keeel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the
knowledge of himself, by his Spirit; and that, by some good providence,
if possible, she might some time or other come to have a Bible, that she
might read the word of God, and be taught by it to know him. This was
the time that we saw him lift her up by the hand, and saw him kneel
down by her, as above.

They had several other discourses, it seems, afler this, too long to be
set down here; and particularly she made him. promise that since be con-
fessed his own life had been a wicked, abominable course of provocations
against God, that he would reform it, and not make God angry any more;
lest he should make him dead, as she called it, and then she would be
let] alone, and never be taught to know this God better; attd lest he should
be Iniserable,as he had told her wicked men would be, after death.

This was a strange account, attd very atl'ecting to us both, but particu-
larly to the young elergynmn; he was, imleed, wondertitlly surprised with
it, but under the greatest atllietion imaginable that lte could not talk to
her, that he could not speak English, to make her understand hitn; atul,
as she spoke but very broken English, he could not understand her; how-
ever, he turned himself to me, and told me that he believed that there
must be tnore to do with this woman than to marry her. I did not under-
stand him at first, bttt at length lte explained himself; viz., that she ought
to be baptized. I agreed with hittt itt tluu part readily, and was (or going
about it presently. "No, no; hold, sir," said be; "though I would hare
her be baptized by all metals, yet I must obserVe that \Vill Atkins, her
husband, has indeed brought her, in a wonderful tnanuer, to be willing to
embrace a religious lite, and has given her just ideas of the being of a
God; of his power, justice, and mercy: yet I desire to know of him
if he has said any thing to her of Jesus Christ, and ofthe salvation of sitt-
ners; of the nature of titith in him, aml redemption by hitn; of the Holy
Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and a fttture state.

1 called "'ill Atkins again, and asked hitn; bttt the poor fellow fell
immediately into tents, and told us he had said something to her of all
those things, but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own
eonseience so mproaehed him with his horrid, ungodly me, that he trembled
at tlt ' apprehensions that her knowledge of hitn should lessen the attention
she should give to those things, atul make her 'ather eontemu religion than
receive it; but he was assured, he said, that her mittd was so dislutsed to
receive due impressions of all those things, and that if] would but dis-
course with her, she would make it appear to my satistitetion tltttt my labor
would not be lost upon her.

.-\eeordingly,l ealled her in, and, placing myself as interpreter between
my religious priest aml the Woman, I eutreated him to begin with her;
but sure such a sermon was never preaehed by a l'opish priest in these
latter ages of the world ; atul, as I told him, I thought he had all the Zeal,
all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, without the error oftt
Roman Catholic; atul that I took hitn to be such a clergyman as the Roman
bishops were, betbre the church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty
over the eonseiences of men. In a word, he brought the poor woman to
embrace the knowledge of Christ, atul of redetnptiou by him, not with
wonder and astonishment only, as she did the first notions ot'a God, but
with joy and titith; with an atl'eetion, and a surprising degree of under--
standing, came to be. imagined, much less to be exprewed; and, at her
own request, she "as baptized.

When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him that he would
perform that otiiee with some caution, that the man might not perceive
he was of the ltotnan ehureh, if lmssible, because of other ill consequences
which might attend a ditl'erenee among us in that very religion which we
were instructing the other in. He told me that,as he had no consecrated
chapel, nor proper things for the otlice,l should see he would do it in a
matmer that I should not know by it that he was a Roman Catholic mysclt;
ifl had not know" it before; and so he did; for saying only some words
over to himself in Latin, which Icould not understand, be poured a whole
l

     

"i

   

Hllllllllili'

 

"\fllnmub

INUMWMI

  

dishfnl of water upon the woman's head, pronouncing, in French, very
loud, " Mary," (which was the name her husband desired me to give her, for
[was her godfathen) "l baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of
the Son, and of the Holy Ghost;" so that none could know any thing by
it what religion he was oi: He gave the benediction afterwards in Latin,
but either Will Atkins did not know but it was French, or else did not
take notice of it at that time.

As soon as this was over, we tnarried them ; and, alter the marriage Was
over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted
him, not only to persevere in that good disposition he was in, but to sup-
port the convictions that were upon him by a resolution: to rel'onn his life;
told him it was in vain to say he repented if he did not fomke his crimes:
represented to him how God had honored him with being the instrument
of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the Christian religion, and that he
should be careful he did not dishonor the grace of God; and that if he
did, he would see the heathen a better Christian than himself; the savage-
converted, and the instrument cast away. He said a great many good things
to them both; and then, recommending them to God's goodness, gave
them the benediction again, I repeating every thing to them in English;
and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant and agree-
able day to me that ever I passed in my whole life.

But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts hung continually
upon the conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and fain he would have
staid upon the island to have undertaken it; but I convinced him, first,376 'rtna Ltt't'. .\.\'n AIH'I-ZV'I'I'IU-ts

that his undertaking was impmetieahlo in itsell'; and, seeondly, that per-
haps I would put it into a way of lining done in his alisenee to his
satistin'tion: ot' whieh lw and Irv.

Ilaring thus brought the atlitirs ot' the island to a narrow compass, I
was preparing to go on hoard the ship. when the. young man I had taken
out of the tinnished ship's company eante to me. and told tue he under-
stood I It d a elerg_\tnan with me, and that I had eaused the I'iuglisInm-n
to he married to the savages: tltat he had a tnatrh too. "hieh he desired
might he finished IN'IIII" I went, ltetween two Christians, which he hoped
would not. he disagreeable to me.

I I'm-w this must he the young woman who was his nmther's servant,
for there was no other ('hristian woman on the island: so I hegan to
persuade him not to do any thing of that kind rashly. or heeause he t'ound
himself in this solitary t'iretnnslanee. I represented to him that he had
some eonsidel'ahh- suhstanee ill tlte world, and good friends, as I under-
stood by himself. and the maid also; that the maid "as not only poor,
and a servant, Inn was unequal to him. she being six or sereu and twenty
years old, and he not allow sewuleeu or eighteen: that he might very
prohahl), with my assistam'e. make a remove from this wilderness. atul
eome into his own eountry again: and that then it wuuhl he a thousand
to one Ian he would repent his ehoiee, aml the dislike of that eiretunstauec
tnight he dismlrantageons to both. I was going to say more, but he inter-
rupted the, smiling. and told me, with a great deal of modesty. that I
mistook in my gnesses.--that he haul nothing of that kind in his thoughts;
and he was wry glad to hear that I had an intent of putting them in a
way to see their own country 'IIII; and nothing should have put hint
upon stznittg there. hat that the Voyage I was going Was so exeeeding long
aml hazaulous, and would earry him quite out of the r-aelt of all his
ti'iends: that he had nothing to desire of me, hat that I wonhl settle him
in some little property in the island where he was. give him a servant or
two. and some ti-w ueeesmries, and he would settle hitnsell' here like a
planter. waiting the good time when, it' ever I returned to I'Ingl:nnl,l
woahl redeetn them: and hoped I would not he tnunindlitl oI' hitn when
I l'fllllt' to I'll-gland: that he would give me some letters to his li'ieads in
London, to let them know how good I had been to him, and in what part
of the. world, and what eirenmsuna-es I had IetI him in; and he promised
me that, whenever I redeemed him, the plantation. and all the improve-
tnents he had made upon it. let the value he what it would, should be
wholly mine.

Ilis diseourse was very pn-ttily delivered. eonsidering his youth, and was
the tuore agreeahle to me. because he told me positively the mateh was
not tor himseltl I gave him all possible assumnees, that it' I lived to come
sale to I land, I would deliver his letters, and do his business elli'etually;
and that he might depend I should never torget the eireumstanees I had
let't him in: but still I was impatient to know who was the person to he
married; upon whieh he told me it was my Jaek-otlall-trades and his
amid Susan. I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match;
tor, indeed. I tlmught it very suitable. The eharaetor of that man I have
given already; and as linr the maid, she was a very honest. modest,
soher. and religions young woman: had a very good share of sense, was
agreeable enough in her person, spoke very handsomely and to the pur-377 - 378
Missing
From
Original
pose, always with decency aml good manners, atul neither too backward
to speak when requisite, nor impertincntly forward when it was not her
business: very handy and honsmviIE-ly. and an excellent namager: tit,
indeed, to hate been governess to the whole island; and she knew very
well how to behave in every respect.

The match being prolmsed in this manner, we married them the same
clay ; aml as I was littla-r at the altar, as I may any, nml gave her away,
so I gave her a portion: liir I apptnuted her atul her huslmtul a haml-
some large space of ground liIr their plantation ; and, indeed, this match,
and the proposal the young gentleman made to give him a small property
in the island, put me upon parcelling it out amongst them, that they might
not quarrel afterwards about their situation.

This sharing out the laml to them I left to Will Atkins, who was now
grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, perti-ctly retonnml, exceedingly
pious and religious: and, as tar as I may be allowed to speak positively
in such a case, I verily believe he was a true pettitettt. lle divided things
so justly, nml so much to every one's satistitctioa, that they only desired
one general writing nmler my hand [hr the whole, which I caused to be
drawn up, and signed aml sealed to theta, setting out the bounds and
situation of every man's plantation, and testifying that I gave tltetn thereby
severally a right to the whole possession aml inheritance of the respective
plantations or tiiruat, with their improvements, to them and their heirs,
reserving all the rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent
for every particular plantation alter eleven years, it' I, or any one from me,
or in tny name, came to demand it, producing an attested copy of the
same writing.

As to the government aml laws among theta, I told theta l was not capa-
ble of giving them better rules than they were able to give themselves; only
I made them promise me to live in love and good neighborhood with one
another; and so I prepared to leave them.

One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being new settled in a kind
0t commonwealth among themselves, and having much business in hand, it
was but odd to have. seven and thirty Indians live in a nook ot' the island,
indqmndent, and, indeed, unemployed: for, except the providing themselves
food, which they had ditliculty enough to do, sometimes they had no manner
of hnsim-zet or property to manage: lproposed, therefore, to the governor
Spaniard, that he should go to them, with Friday's lather, and propose to
them to remove, and either plant for themselves, or take them into their
several liunilies as servants. to he maintained tinr their labor, but without
being: absolute slaves: liir I would not admit them to make them slaves by
force, by any means: because they had their liberty given them by eapitula-
tion, as it were, articles of surrender which they ought not to break.

They most willingly embraced the proposal, aml catne all very cheertitl
along: with him: so we allotted them laml and plantations, which three or
limr accepted 01', but all the rest chose to be employed as senmtts in the
several tinnilies we had settled: and thus my colony was in a manner
settled, as liillows:--'l'he Spaniards lmssessed my original habitation, which
was the capital city, and extended their plantations all along the side of the
brook, which made the creek that l have so olten described, as titras my
bower; and as they increased their culture, it went always eastward. The
English lived in the north-east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades380 TH}: tare AND MW :N'rtmtzs

la'gau. and came on southward and south-west, towards the back part of the
Slutuiards: aml every platttation had a great :alditiou of land to take in, it'
they littutd ta'casiou. so that they need not jostle one another for want of
room. All the east end of the island was lcti uninhabited, that il'auy ot' the
mvagt-s should come on shore there only tbr their usual customary barbari-
tit-s. they might come and go; if tltey disturbed nobody, nobody would dis-
turb tlu-m: and no doubt but they were otlcn ashore, and went away again:
liu' I never heard that the planters wore ever attacked or disturbed any more.

It now came into my thoughts, tllatl had hinted to lay li'iend the eler-
gytaau, that the work of converting the savages tnigltt, perhaps, be set on
toot, itt his absence, to his satislitction, and told hitn that now ltboagbt it
was put in a thir Wn '; for the savages being thus divided among the Chris-
tians, it' they would but every one of them do their part with those which
came under their hands I hoped it might ltave a very good etl'ect.

lle agreed presently in that, if they did their part. "But how," says he,
"shall we obtain that of theta?" I told hitu we would call them all
together. and leave it in charge with them, or go to them one by one, which
he thought best; so we divided it, he to speak to the Spaniards, who were.
all l'apists, atnl l to tile 'Inglish, who Were all Protestants; and we. recom-
ua-uded it earnestly to them, and nanle theta promise that they would
never make any distinction of l'apist or Protestant itt their exhortiug the
savages to tttrtt Christians, but teach them the general knowledge of the
trtte God, and of their Savior Jesus Christ; and they likewise promised us
that they would never have any dilliuvnces or disputes one with another
about r -ligion.

Wltctt l cattle to \\'ill Atkitts's house, (I may eall it SO, lbr such a house, or
such a piece of lutsket-work, I believe, was not stamliug in the world again.)
there I limud the young woman I have mentioned above atul Will Alkins's
witi- were lM't'tIlllt' intinmtcs: and this prudent, religiotts young wonam had
perfected the work Will Atkins had begun: atnl though it was not above
four days after what I have related, yet the new-baptized savage wotuan
was nanle such a ('hristiatt as l have seldom heard of it: all my observation
or conversation in the World.

It catne next into my mitnl, iu the morning helbrc I went to theta, that
amongst all the needt'ul things l had to leave with them, I had not lcli theta
a Bible. in which I showed tnyseit' less considering t'or tltetu than my good
friend the widow was liir Inc, When she sent me the may>> ol'a hundred
pounds from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a pntycr-btmk.
However, the good woman's charity had a greater extent than ever she
imagined, tor they wer- reserved tor the conttbrt and instruction ot' those
that made lunch better use of theta than I had done.

I took one of the llibh-s in my pocket, and when I came to "'ill Atkins's
tent, or house. and liumd the young woanm and Atkius's baptized wit'e had
been disconrsiug of religion together, - lbr Will Atkins told it me with a great
deal ot'joy. --- I asked it' they \vere together now, and he. said yes; so 1 went
ittto the. house, and he witlt me, atal we. lhuud theta together, very earnest
in discourse. "U sir." says Will Atkins, "when God has sinners to recon-
cile to himselt; and aliens to bring home, he never wants a messenger; my
wife ltas got a new instructor: I knew I "as as unworthy as I Was incapable
of that Work; that young woman has been sent hither than Heaven; she is
enough to convert a whole island of savages." The young woman blushed.
 

and rose up to go away, but I desired her to sit still; I told her she had a
good work upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless her in it.

\Ve talked a little, and I did not perceive they had any book among them,
though 1 did not ask; but I put my hand into my pocket, and pulled out my
Bible. "Here," says I to Atkins, "I have brought you an assistant that
perhaps you had not before." The man was so confounded that he was
not able to speak for some time; but, recovering himself; he takes it with
both his hands, and, turning to his wile, "Here, my dear," says he; " did not
I tell you our God, though he lives above, could hear what we have said?
Here's the book I prayed for when you and I knecled down under the bush;
now God has heard us, and sent it." When he had said so, the man fell into
such transports of passionate joy, that between the joy of having it, and giving
God thanks for it, the tears ran down his face like a child that was crying.

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a mistake that
none of us were aware of; for she firmly believed God had sent the book
upon her husband's petition. It is true that providentially it was so, and
might be taken so in a consequent sense; but I believe it would have
been no difficult matter, at that time, to have persuaded the poor woman
to have believed that an express messenger came from Heaven on purpose
to bring that individual book; but it was too serious a matter to suffer any
delusion to take place; so I turned to the young woman, and told her we
did not desire to impose upon the new convert, in her first and more igno-
rant understanding of things, and begged her to explain to her that God
may be very properly said to answer our petitions, when, in the course of
His providence, such things are in a particular manner brought to pass as
we petitioned for; but we did not expect returns front Heaven in.a miracu-
lous and particular manner, and it is our mercy that it is not so.

This the young woman did alierwurds efl'ectually, so that there was, I
more you, no priestcrali used here; and I should have thought it one of
the most unjustifiable frauds ill the world to have bad it so. But the sur-
prise of joy upon Will Atkins is really not to be expremd; and there, we
tuay he sure, was no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the
world lirr any thing of its kind than he was for the Bible; nor, I believe,
never arty man was glad ofa Bible from a better principle; attd though he
lyd been a most profligate creature, headstrong, furious, and dcspemtely
wicked, yet this man is a standing rule to us all for the well instructing
children, viz., that parents should never give over to teach and instruct, nor
ever despair of the success of their endeavors, let the children be ever so
rel'mctory, or, to appearance, insensihle of instruction; for, if ever God, in
"is providence, touches the conscience of such, the three of their education
retunrs upon them, and the early instruction of parents is not lost, though
it may have been many years laid asleep, but sortie tinte or other, they tnay
fund the benefit of it. Thus it was with this poor man; however ignorant
he was of religion, aml Christian knowledge, he found be had some to do
with now more ignorant than himself; and that the least part of the instruc-
tion of his good titther that now came to his mind, was of use to him.

Among the rest, it occurred to him, he. said, how his lirthcr used to insist
so much on the. inexpressible value of the Bible, the privilege and blessing
of it to nations, liunilies, nrnl persons; but he never entertained the last
notion of the Worth of it till now, when, being to talk to heatheus, savages,
and barbarians, he wanted the help of the written oracle for his assistance.

The young woman was glad ol'it, also, for the present occasion, though
she had one, and so had the youth, on board our ship, among their goods,
which "'ch not yet brought on shore. And now, having said so many things
of this young Woman, I cannot omit telling one story more of her and my-
self, which has something in it very intbrrniug and remarkable.

l have related to what extremity the poor young woman was reduced;
how her mistress was starved to death, and died on board that unhappy ship
We met at sea, and how the whole ship's eompatty was reduced to the last
extremity. 'l'he. gentlewoman, and her son, and this natid, were first hardly
used, as to provisions, and at last totally neglected and starved; that is to say:
brought to the last extremity of hunger. One day, being discoursing with
her on the extremities they sutfered, I asked her if she could describe, by
what she had ti-lt, what it was to starve, aml how it appeared. She told
me she believed she could, and she told her tale very distinctly, thus:--

"First, sir," said she, "we had for some days fared exceeding hard, and
suffered very great hunger; but, at last, we were wholly without tbod of any
kind, except sugar, and a little wine and water. The first day, aflcr I had
received no food at all, I found mysell; towards evening, first empty and sick
at the stomach, and, nearer night, much inclined to yawning and sleep. I
lay down on the couch in the great cabin to sleep, and slept about three
hours, and awaited a little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when i lay
down: after being about three hours awake, it being about five o'clock in
the morning, i found myself empty, and my stomach sickish, and lay down
again, but could not sleep at all, being very thin! and ill; and thus I con-
tinued all the second day, with a strange variety, first hungry, then sick
again, with retehings to vomit. The second night, being obliged to go to
bed again without any food more than a draught of fresh water, and being ,
asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that the market was mightily
stocked with provisions: that I bought some for my mistress, and went and
dined very heartily. I thought my stomach was as full alter this as it would
have been alter a good dinner; but when I awalted, I was exceedingly sunk
in my spirits to find myself in the extremity of famine. The last glass of
wine we had I drank, and put sugar in it, because of its having some spirit
to supply nourislnnent; but there being no substance in the stomach for the
digesting oilice to work upon, I found the only affect of the wine . to
raise disagreeable fumes from the stomach into the head; and I lay, as" ey
told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk, for some time. The third day,
in the morning, alter a night of strange, confused, and inconsistent dreams,
and rathec dozing than sleeping, I awaked ravenous and furious with hunger;
and I question, had not my understanding returned and conquered it,
whether, if I had been a mother, and had bad a little child with me, its life
would have been safe or not. This lasted about three hours; during which
time I was twice raging mad as any creature in Bedlam, as my young
master told me, aml as he can now inform you.

" In one ofthese tits oflunacy or distraction I fell down, and struck my face
against the corner of a pallet-bed, in which my mistress lay, and, with the
blow, the blood gushed out of my nose; and the cabin-boy bringing me a.
little basin, I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and, as the blood came
from me, I came to myself; and the violence of the flame or fever [was in
abated, and so did the ravenous part of the hunger. Then I grew sick, and
retched to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my stomach to bring
up. After I had bled some time,l swooned, and they all believed I was
dead; but I came to myself soon alter, and then had a most dreadful pain in
my stomach, not to be described, not like the colic, but a gnawing, eager pain
for food; and towards the night it went on; with a kind ofearnest wishing or
longing for food, something like, as I suppose, the longing of a woman with
child. I took another draught of water, with sugar in it; but my stomach
loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again; then I took a draught of water
without sugar. and that staid with me; and I laid me down upon the bed,
praying most heartily that it would please God to take me away; and, com-
posing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered a while, and then, waiting, thought
myself dying, being light with vapors from an empty stomach; I recom-
mended my soul then to God, and earnestly wished that somebody would
throw me into the sea.

" All this while, my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expiring, but
bore it with much more patience than I; gave the last bit of bread she had
left to her child, my young master, who would not have taken it, but she
obliged him to eat it; and I believe it saved his life.

" Towards the morning, I slept again; and, when I awoke, I fell into a vio-
lent passion of crying, and after that bad a second fit of violent hunger: I
got up ravenous, and in a most dreadful condition: had my mism been
deadumucbasllovedberflameertainlshouldhaveeatenapieceofher
flesh with as much relish, and as unconcerned,asever I did eat the flesh om
creature appointed the food; and once or twice I was going to bite my own
arm: atlastleawthe basin in which was the blood I had bledatrny noes
the day before; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste, and each a
 

greedy appetite. as if] wondered nobody had taken it IM'II'I't', and afraid it
should be taken li'mn lllt' tum. Alia-r it was down. though the thoughts of it
filled Inc with horror. yet it elteeked the lit of hunger. and I took another
draught of water. and was composed and reli'eshed tor some hours after.
This was the tintth day: and thus I held it till towards night: when. within
the compass of three hours. I had all the sen-ral circumstances over again,
one atler another, \'l'l... siek. sleepy. eagerly hungry. pain it: the stomach, tltett
ravenous again: then sick, then lunatic. then crying, then ravenous again;
and so every quarter of an hour: and my strength wasted t-M'eedinglyz at
night. I laid me down, havin;_r nu eomthrt but in the hope that I should die
lit-litre morning.

" All this night I had no sleep: but the hunger was now turned ittto a dis-
'a.~'e: attd I had a terrible colic and griping. by wind. instead of food, having
lhund its way into the bowels: and in this condition I lay till morning, when
I was surprised lay the cries aml Iamentations of my young master, who
called out to me that his mother was dead. I lifted myself up a little, for I
had not strength to rise. but found she \\ as not dead, though she was able to
give very little signs of lite.

"I had then such convulsions in my stomach. liir want of some suste-
nanee. that I cannot describe: with such ti'equent throes and pangs ot' appc-
lite, that nothing: but the tortures of death can imitate; and in this condition
lwas when I heard the seamen alums cry out, ' A sail! a sail !' and halloo
and jump about as it' they were distracted.

" l was not able to get otl' from the bed, and my mistress much less: and
my young master was so sick tltat I thought he had been expiring; so we
could not open the cabin door. or get any account what it was that occa-
sioned such eonlitsiou: nor had we any eonversation with the ship's com-
pany for two days, they having tohl as that they had not a mouthful of any
thing to eat in the ship: attd this they told Its at'terwnrds,--they thought we
had been dead. It was this dreadtitl condition we were in when you were
sent to save our lives: and how you found as, sir, you know as well as I, and
better too."
This Was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of starving to
death, as I confess I never met with, and was exceeding entertaining to me.
I am the rather apt to believe it to be a true account, because the youth
gave me an account of a good part of it; though, I mttst own, not so distinct
atul so feeling as the maid; and the rather, because it seems his mother ti-d
hitn at the price of her own life; but the poor maid, though her constitution
being stronger tlum that of her mistress, who was in years, aml a weakly
woman too, she might struggle harder with it; I say, the poor maid might he
supposed to feel the extremity something sooner than her mistress, who
might be allowed to keep the last bit something longer than she parted with
any to relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here related, it' our
ship, or some other, had not so providentially met them, a few days more
would have ended all their lives, unless they had pt'cVetttcd it by eating one
another; and that even, as their case stood, Would have served them but
a little. while, they [wing live hundred leagues from any land. or any possibil-
ity ol' reliet; other than in the miraculous tnauuer it happened: but this is
by the way: I return to my disposition ol'things among the IM'tIpIt'.

.-\ud, first, it is to be observed here, that for many reasons I did not think
lit to let them know any thing of the sloop I had li'atued, atul which I
thought of setting up among them; tor l liumd, at least at my tirst coming,
such seeds of division among them, that I saw plainly, had I set up the
sloop, atul let! it among them, they would, ttpott every light disgust, have
separated, aml gone away from one another; or perhaps have turned pirates,
and so made the island a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober and
religious people, as I intended it: nor did I leave the two pieces of brass
cannon that I had on board, or the two quarter-deck guns that my nephew
took t'xtntortliunry. for the same reason: I thought it was enough to quality
them for a defensive war uglinst any that should invade them, but not to set
them up for an otl'ensive war, or to go abroad to attack others; which, in the
end, would only bring rain and destruction upon theta: I reserved the sloop,
tbcrclbre, and the guns, for their service another way, as I shall observe in
its place. ' '-

IIaving now done with the island, I left them all in good circumstances,
and in a flourishing condition, atul Went on board my ship again on the tith
of May, having been about twenty-live days among them; atul, as they were
all resolved to stay upon the island till I came to remove them, I promised to
send them litrthcr relief from the Brasils, it' I could possibly find an oppor-
tunity; and, particularly, I promised to send them some cattle, such as
sheep, hogs, aml cows; as to the two cows and calves which I brought li'om
England, we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill them at
sea, tbr want of bay to teed them.

The next day, giving them a sdnte of five guns at parting, we set sail, and
arrived at the Bay of All Saints, in the Brasils, in about twenty-two days,
meeting nothing remarkable in our passage bttt this: that about three days
alter we had sailed, being becalmcd, and the current setting strong to the E.
N. 8., running, as it were, into a bay, or gulf; on the land side, we were
driven something out of our course, and once or twice our men cried out,
" Land to the eastward !" but whether it was the continent or islands we
could not tell by any means. But the third day, towards evening, the sea
smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards

the land with something very black: not being able to discover what it was,
49
till alter some timeI our chief mate, going up the main-shrouds a little way,
and looking at them with u Inerstu-etive, cried out it was all army. 1 could
not imagine what he tneaut by on many, atul thwarted him a little hastily.
" Nay, sir." says he, " don't be angry, I'or 'tis an army. and a fleet too; lbr I
believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle along, for
they are coming towards us apuee."

I was a little surprised then, indeed. and so want my nephew, the captain:
lin- he had heard sueh terrible stories ol'them itt the isltmd,and having never
been in those sens betin'e, that he eonld not tell what to think of it, but said.
two or three titties, we should a" be. devoured. I must eonfess, considering
we were beealmed, and the current set strong towards tlte short-J liked it
the worse; however. I bade them not be afraid, lntt bring the. ship to an
uuehor as soon as we eutne so near us to know that we must engage them.

The weather eontinuul who. and they eutue. on apnee towards us: 8" I
gave orders to come to all tutehor, and l'urI all our sails: as lbr tlte savages,
I told them they had nothing to ti-ar but tire, mul then-litre they should get
their boats out. and litsten tlu-m. one elose by the head, and the other by the
stern, atul man them both well. and wait the issue in that lmsture: this I
did, tlntt the. tnett in the boats might be ready with sheets atul buekets to put
out any tire these savages might endeavor to tix to the outside ol'the ship.

In this posture ne lay by lbr them, aml in a little while. they eatne up with
us: but never was sueh a horrid sight seen by (.'hristinns: though my mate
was mueh mistaken in his ealculation of their number, yet, when they came
up, we reekoned about a hundred ntul twenty-six; some of them had sixteen
or seventeen men in them, and some tnore, and the least six or seven.

When they eame nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with womler and
astonishnn-nt, as at a sight whielt doubtless they had never seen before; uor
eonld they at first, as we atierwards tutdersttmd, know what to tunke of us;
they eame boldly up. however, very near to lug and seemed to go about to
row round us; but we rolled to our men in the boots not to let them come
too near them. This very onler brought us to an engagement with them,
without our designing it; for five, or six of the large. canoes came so near
our long-luau, that our men beekolted with their hands to keep them back,
which they understoml very well, and went back; but, at their retreat, about
tilly arrows eame on board as titom those lxmts. and one of our men in the
long-boat was very mueh wounded. IlowcverJ called to them not to tire
by any means; but we handed down some deal boards into the boat, and the
Carpenter presently set up a kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them
from the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again.

About half an hour atterwards, they all came up in a body atom of us,
and so near as that we couhl easily discern what they were, though we could
not tell their design ; and l easily found they were some of my old friends,
the some sort of savages that I had been used to engage with; and, in a
short time more, they rowed a little further out to sea, till they came
directly broadside with us. and then rowed down straight upon us, till they
came so near that they could hear us speak: upon this, I ordered all my
men to keep close, lest they should shoot any more anowa, and made all
our guns ready; but, being so uearas to be within hearingfl made Friday
go out upon the deck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to
know what they meant; which accordingly he did. \Vhether they under-
stood him or not, that I knew not; but as soon as he had called to them,
six of them, who were in the foremost or nighest boat to us, turned their387 - 388
Missing
From
Original
canoes that us, and, stooping down, showed us their naked hacksides, just
as it; in English, saving your presence, they had bid as kiss --: whether
this was a defiance or challenge we knew not, or whether it Was done itt
more contempt, or as a signal to the rest; but immediately Friday cried
out they Were going to shoot, and, nnhappily for him, poor tellow, they
let Ily about three hundred of their arrows and, to tny inexpressible grief,
tilled poor Friday, no other man being in their sight. The poor fellow
was shot with no less than three arrows, and about three more fell very
near him; such unlucky marksman they were!

I was so enraged at the loss of my old, trusty servant and companion,
that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot, and
four with great, and gave them such a broadside as they ltad never heard
in their lives before, to be sure. They were not above half a cable's length
off when we fired; and our gunners took their aitn so Well that three or
four of their canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe, by one
shot only.

The ill manners of turning up their bare backsides to us gave us no
great offence; neither did I know for certain whether that which would
pass for the greatest contempt among us, might be understood so by them,
or not; therefore, in retum, i had only resolved to have fired four or five
guns at them with powder only, which I knew would friglneu them sulfi-
ciently ; 'but when they shot at us directly, with all the fury they were
capable at; and especially as they had killed my poor Friday. whom I so
entirely loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought
myself not only justifiable before God and man, but would have been
very glad if 1 could have overeat every canoe there, and drowued every
one of them.

I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we wounded at
this broadside; but sure such a fright sud hurry never were seen among
such a multitude: there were thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split
and overeat in all, atnl the men all set a-swiuuning: the rest, frightened
out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little
care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot: sol
suppose that many of them were lost; and our men took up one poor
fellow, swimming for his life, above an hour alter they Were all gone.

The small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a great
many; but, in short, we never know any thing how it went with them,
for they fled so fast, that in three hours, or thereabouts, we could not see
above three or four straggling canoes; nor did we ever see the rest any
more; for a breeze of wind springing up the saute evening, we weighed,
and set sail hr the Brasils.

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he would
neither eat our speak, and we all fancied he would starve himself to death;
but 1 took a way to cute him; for I made them take him and turn him
into the long-boat, and make hint believe they would tom him into the
sea again, and so leave him where they found hint, if he would not speak:
nor would that do, but they really did throw him into the sea, and came
away from him; and then he followed them, for he swam like a cork,
and called to them in his tongue, though they knew not one word of what
he said; however, at last they took him in again, and then he began to
be more u-actable; nor did I ever design they should drown him.390 'rnr. th'r'. AN!) anvtzx'rumzs

We Were now under sail again; but I was the most diseonsolate
creature alive titr \vaut of my tttau l-'riday, attd would have been very glad
to have gone back to the island, to have taken one of the rest from thence
for my occasion; but it could not be: so we went on. we ltttd one
prisoner, as l have said, atnl it was a long time before we cottld make
him understand any thing; but, in time, our men taught him some. Eng-
lish, and he began to be a little tractable. Allerwards, we inquired what
cottntry he came from, bttt could make nothing of what he said; litr his
speech was so odd, all gutturals, attd ltc spoke in the throat in such a
hollow, odd matttter, that we, could never form a word atler him; and We
were all of opinion tlntt they might speak tltat language as well if they
were gagged as otherwise; ttor eottld we perceive tlntt they had any occa-
sion either Iitr teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but titrated tlteir words just
as a hunting-horn forms a tune, with an open throat. He told us, however,
some time alter, when we had taught him to speak a little English, that
they "we going with their kings to fight a great battle. When lte said
kings, we asked him how many kings. He said they were five nation,
(we could ttot make him understand the plural 3,) and that they all joined
to go against two nation. We asked him what made them come up to
us He said, "To makee to. great wonder look." Here it is to be observed,
that all those natives, as also those of Africa, when they learn English,
always add two ('8 at the end of the words where we use one; and they
place the accent upon them, as makee, takee, attd the like; nay, I could
hardly make Friday leave it ofi; though at last he did.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last leave
of him. Poor, honest Friday! We buried hitu with all the decency attd
solemnity possible, by putting hint into a coffin, and throwing him into
the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns for him: and so ended
the lili- ot' the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most afi'ectionate servant
that ever ntan had.

We went now away with a fair wind for Bmsil; and in about twelve
days' tittte we. made laud, ill the latitttdc of five degrees south of the
line, being the north-castennnost lattd of all that part of America. we
kept on, S. by 1-1., in sight of the shore four days, when we tnade Cape St.
Augustine, and ill three days came to alt anchor off the Bay of All Saints,
the old place of my deliverance, from whence cante botlt my good and
evil title.

Never ship catnc to this port that had less business than I had, and yet
it was with great ditliculty that we were admitted to hold the least cor-
respondence on short : not my partner himself; who was alive, attd made
a great figure among them, not my two merchant-trustees not the fame
of lay wonderful preservation in the island, could obtain ttte that favor;
but my partner, remembering that I had given live lutmlrcd ntoitlores to
the prior 01' the monastery of the Augustines, atnl two hundred and
seventy-two to the poor, went to the monastery, and oblig'd the prior that
then was, to go to the governor, attd get leave for tne personally, with the
captain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more -, attd this upon condition, almlutely capitulated for, that we should
not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away

without license. They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods,
that it was with extreme ditticulty that I got on shore three bales of Eng-
"3'3 '
Witt?" ' '1
_ : 'fh"'~' /. 4
'95 "gh'ii'Efi'WQMIn/ZZ ,,

.. QV -1 .. .
t , era't'wlfiI'M '

 

lish goods, such as fine broadcloths, stuffs, and some linen, which 1 had
brought for a present to my partner.

He was a very generous, open-hearted man; though, like me, he came
from little at first; and though he knew not that] had the least design of
giving him any thing, he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions,
wine, and sweetmeats, worth above thirty moidores, including some tobacco,
and three or four fine medals of gold: but I was chn with him in my
present, which, as l have said, consisted of fine broadcloth, English stuffs,
lace, and fine Hollands; also, I delivered him about the value of one
hundred pounds sterling, in the same goods, for other uses; and I obliged
him to set up the sloop, which I had brought with me from England, as
l have said, for the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments
I intended to my plantation.

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few days,
for she was already framed; and I gave the master of her such instruc-
tions as that he could not miss the place; nor did he miss them, as I had
an account from my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with the
small cargo I sent them; and one of our seamen, that had been on
shore with me there, offered to go with the sloop and settle there, upon
my letter to the governor Spaniard, to allot him a sufficient quantity of
land lbr a plantation, attd giving him some clothes atnl tools Ibr his planting
work, which he said he understtmd, having been an old planter at Mary-
land, and a bnceaneer into the bargain. I encouraged the fellow by
granting all he desired; and, as an addition, I gave him the savage whom
We had taken prisoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered the governor
Spaniard to give hitn his share of every thing he wanted with the rest.

When we came to lit this tnan out, my old partner told tne there was
a eertain very honest fellow, a Brasil planter of his acquaintance, who had
talleu into the displeasure ot'tho church. "I know not what the matter
is with him," says be, "but, on my conscienee, 1 think he is a heretie in
his heart, and lte has been obliged to coneeal himself for fear of the
Inquisition ;" that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to make
his est-ape, with his wife and two daughters; and il' I would let them go
to my island, and allot them a plantation, he would give them a small
stoek to begin with; for the ofiicers of the Inquisition had seized all his
etli-ets aml estate, and he had nothing let! but a little household stall?
and two slaves; "and," adds be, "though I hate his principles, yet I would
not have him fall into their hands, for Inc will be assuredly burned alive
it' he does."

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with theta; and we
eoneealed the man, and his wife and daughters, on board our ship, till
the sloop ptlt ottt to go to sea; and then, having pttt all their goods on
board some time before, we pttt them on board the sleep after she was
got ottt ol' the bay.

Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and their stocks,
indeed, were much alike, rich in tools, in preliamtions, and a farm; bttt
nothing to begin with, cxrt'pt as above; however, they carried over with
them, whieh was worth all the rest, stunt: materials lbr planting sugar-eanes,
with some. plants of etntes, which he --l mean the Portugal mun--under-
stood very well. .

Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in tlte island, I sent
them, by the sloop, three tnilelt eowa and live ealves, about twenty-two hogs
among theta, three sows big with pig, two mares, and a stone-horse. For
my Standards, aeeording to my promise, I engaged three Portugal women
to go, and n-eommemled it to them to marry them, and use them kindly. l
eonld have. pmetn'ed more. wotnen, bit! I remembered that the poor, proses
euted man had two daughtem, and that there were but tive of the Spaniards
that wanted; the rest had wives of their own, though in another country.

All this eargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, was very
weleome to my old inhabitants, who were now, with this addition, betwoen
sixty and serenty people, besides little children, of which there were a great
many. I [hand letters at London from them all, by way of Lisbon, when
I came haek to England, of which I shall also take some notice inunodiately.

I have now done with the island, and all manner of discourse about it;
and whoever reads the rest of my mcmorandums, would do well to turn his
thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the follies of an old man,
not warned by his own harms, much less by those of other tnen, to beware
of the like; not eOoled by almost forty years' miseries and disappointments;
not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation, nor made cautious by afflic-
tions and distress beyond imitation.
 

I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a man at full
liberty has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him to lock him up
among the prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel
from England, and gone directly to the island; had I loaded her, as I did
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation, and for my
people; taken a patent from the government here to have secured my prop-
erty, in subjection only to that of England; had I carried over cannon and
ammunition, servants and people to plant, and taken possession of the place,
fortified and strengthened it in the name of England, and increased it with
people, as I might easily have done; had I then settled myself there, and
sent the ship hack laden with good rice, as I might also have done in six
months' time, and ordered my friends to have fitted her out again for our
supply; had I done this, and staid there myself, I had, at least, acted like a
man of common sense; but I was possessed with a wandering spirit, and
scorned all advantages;I pleased myself with being the patron of the
people I placed there, and doing for them in a kind of haughty, majestic
way, like an old patriarchal monarch, providing for them as if I had been
father of the whole family, as well as of the plantation ; but I never so much
as pretended to plant in the name of any government or nation, or to ac-
knowledge any prince, or to call my people subjects to any one nation more
than another; nay, I never so much as gave the place a name, but left it
as I found it, belonging to nobody and the people under no discipline or
government but my own; who, though I had influence over them as a father
and benefactor, had no authority or power to act or command one way or

'other, farther than voluntary consent moved them to comply; yet, even
this, had I staid there, would have done well enough; but, as I rambled from
them, and came there no more, the last letters I had from any of them

were by my partner's means, who afterwards sent another sloop to the place,
50-.. 4 '_: .' '3'

394 Tm: Lire .mo anvas'rcacs

and who sent me word, though 1 had not the letter till I got to London,
several years after it was written, that they went on but poorly, were mal-
coutent with their long stay there; that Will Atkins was dead; that tive of
the Spaniards were come away; and, though they had not been much
molested by the savages, yet tltey had had some skirmishes with them; and
that they la-gged of him to write to me to think of the promise I had made
to fen-h them away, that they might see their country again before they died.

But I was gone a wild-goose chase, indeed! aml they that will have any
more of me, must be content to follow'me into a new variety of follies,
hardships, and wild adventures, wherein the justice of Providence may be
duly observed; and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge us with our
own desires, make the strongest of our wishes be our .afllietion, and punish
us most severely with those very things which we think it would be our
utmost happiness to be allowed in. Whether I bad business or no business,
away I went: it is no time now to enlarge upon the reason or absurdity of
my own conduct, but to come to the history; I was embarked for the voyage,
and the voyage. 1 went.

I shall only add a word or two concerning my honest Popish clergyman;
for let their opinion of us, and all other hen-ties in generaI,--as they call
us, ---be as nucharitable as it may, l verily believe this man was very sincere,
and wished the good of all men: yet I believe he was upon the reserve
in many of his expressions, to prevent giving me otli'nce; tor l scarce heard
him olu'e eall on the Blessed Virgin, or mention St. Jago, or his guardian
angel, though so eonnnou with the rest ol'tbeln: however, I my, I had not the
least doubt of his sincerity and pious intentions on his own part; and I am
firmly ot' opinion, if the rest of the l'opish missionaries were like him, they
would strive to visit even the poor 'l'artars and Implanders, where they have
nothing to give them, as well as covet to tloek to India, Persia, China,
&c., the most wealthy ot'the heathen countries; tor, il'tla-y exported to bring
no gains to their ehureh by it, it may well be admired how they came to
admit the Chinese ('ontiteius into the ealendar of the Christian saints. But
this by the by.

A ship being ready to sail tor Lisbon, my pious priest asked tne leave to
go thither: being still, as he observed, lmund never to finish any voyage
he lwgan. llow happy had it been for me ifl had gone with him! But
it was too late now: all things llmveu appoints tor the best: had I gone
with hitn, I had never had so tnany things to be thankful for, and the
reader had never heard of the second part of the. travels and adventures of
Robinson Crusoe: so I must here leave exelaimiug at tnyselt; and go on
with my voyage. From the Brasils, we made directly over the Atlantic Sea
to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable gmul voyage, our course
generally south-east, now and then a storm, aml some contrary winds: but
my disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and cross events were
to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land was as well prepared to
be our scourge as the sea. '

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supereargo on board, who
was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only being limited
to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party, at the several ports
she was to go to. This was none of my business, neither did I meddle with
it; my nephew, the captain, and the supereargo, adjusting all those things
between them as they thought fit.
 

\Ve staid at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in fresh water,
but made the best of our way for the coast of Corotnaudel. "'e were,
indeed, intbrtned that a French man-of-war, ot' titly guns, and two large
merchant-ships, were gone for the Indies; and as I knew we were at war
with France, [had some appn-hensions of them; but they went their own
way, and we. heard no more of tliem.

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious description of places, journals
of our voyages, variations ot' the eompzmt, latitudes, trade-winds, Sun: it is
enough to Intuit: the ports and places which we touched at, and what oc-
curred to us upon ottr passage than one to another. \Ve touched titst at the
Island of Madagascar, where, though the people are lierce and treacherous,
and very well armed with lam-es and hows, which they use with inconceiv-
ahle dexterity, yet We tin-ed very Well with them a while; they treated us
Very civilly; and, for some trilles which we gave them, such as knives,
sciwors, &e., they brought us eleven good tilt lutllocks, ot' a middling size,
which we took in, partly for ti'osh provisions for our present spending, and
the. rest to salt for the ship's use.

\Ve were obliged to stay here. some time after we had furnished ourselves
with provisions; and I, who was always too curious to look into every nook
of the world, wherever I came, was for going on shore as ol'ten as I could.
It was on the east side of the island that we went on shore one evening; and
the people, who, by the way, are very numerous, came thronging about us,
and stood gazing at us at a distance; but, as we had traded freely with theta,
and had been kindly used, we thought ourselves in no danger; but, when we
saw the people, we out three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them up at a
distance from us; which, it seems, is a mark, in that country, not only of a
truce and friendship, but whett it is accepted, the other side set up three
poles or boughs, which is a signal tltat tltey accept tlte truce too; but, then,
this tree is a known condition of the trace, that you are not to pass beyond
their tltree poles towards them, nor they to come past your three poles, or
bottglnt, towards you; so that you are pert'eetly seenre. within the three poles,
and all the space between your poles attd theirs is allow-d, like a market,
for free converse, traflie, and eonnnerve. When you go there, you must not
earry yottr weapons with you; and, il' tltey eotne ittto tltat spnee, they stiek
up their javclitts and homes all at the first poles, and eome on unarmed; but,
it' any violence is ofl'eted them, and the trace thereby broken, away they rtm
to the poles, and lay hold of their weapons, and the trace is at an end.

It happened one evening, when We Went on shore, that a greater number
of their people came down titan usual, but all Very friendly and civil; and
they brought several kinds of provisions, for which we satisfied theta with
such toys as we had: their women also brought lltl milk and roots, and
several things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet; and we made us a
little tent or ltttt of some boughs of trees, attd lay on shore all night.

I know not what was the oeension, but I was not so well satisfied to lie on
shore as the rest; and, the boat riding at an ttttt'ltor about a stone's cast from
the haul, with two tnett in her to lake "It" of her, I made one ol' them
mine on shore; attd, getting some boughs of trees to cover us. also, in tlto
boat, I spread the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay ttttder the cover of
the branehes ol'the trees all night, ill the boat.

About two o'eloek iii the morning, we heard one of ottr tnett tttake a ter-
rible noise on the shore, enlling ottt, litr God's sake, to bring the boat itt, ntnl
eotne atnl help them, for they were all like to be murdered; til the some
little, I heard the tire of live ttntskets, whit-h was the number of guns they
had, and that three times over: lin', it seems, the natives here were not so
easily li'iglttetted with guns as the. savages were ill Anteriea, where l lltltl to
do with them. All this while. I knew not what was the matter, lntt, rousing
ittttnediately from sleep with the noise, I eausetl tlte boat to be tltntst itt, and
rt'mlved, with three l'usees we had on board, to land attd assist ottr tttett.

\Ve got the boat soon to the. shore, lntt ottr tnett were. itt too tnttelt haste ;
for, being eottte to the shore, they plunged into the water, to get to the boat
with all the expedition they could, being pursued by between tltree and tintr
hundred men. ()ur men were lntt nine itt all, and only tive of them had
flan-es with tltetn; the nest had pistols and swords, indeed, bttt they were of
tuna" use. to them.

We took up seven of our men, atnl with ditlieulty enough too, three of
them being very ill wounded; atid that whieh was still Worse was, that while
we. stood in the boat to take our men in, We were in as much danger as they
were. in on shore; for they pottred their arrows in upon us so thick that we
were glad to harrieado the side of the boat up with the henehes, and two or
three loose boards whielt, to our great satislitction. we had by mere accident
in the boat. And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it seems, sueh exaet
marksmen, that it' they could have seen httt the least part of any of as, tltey
would have been sure of as \Ve had, by the light of the tnoon, a little
sight of them, as they stood peltittg us from the shore with darts and arrows;
and, having got ready our lire-anus, we gave tltettt a volley, that we could
bear, by the cries of some of them, had wounded several; however, they
 

stood thus in batt.e army on the ahom till break of day, which we supposed
was that they might see the better to take their aim at us.

In this condition We lay, and could not tell how to weigh our anchor or
set up our sail, lwcause We must needs staml up in the boat, and they were
as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small film". We
made signals of distress to the ship, which, though she rode a league ofl',
yet my nephew, the captain, hearing ottr tiring, and by glasses perceiving the
posture we lay in, and that We fired towards the shore, pretty well under-
stood us; and Weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore
as he dnrst with the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten hands in her,
to assist us; bttt we called to them not to come too near, telling them what
condition we were in; however, they stood in near to us, and one of the
men, taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and keeping one heat between
him and the enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam on board
us, and made fast the line to the boat; upon which we slipped out a little
cable, and, leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of reach of the
enema; we all the while lying close behind the barricado we had made.

As soon as We were got from between the ship and the shore, that we
could lay her side to the shore, she ran along just by them, and poured in a
broadside among thetn, loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets,
and such stufl', besides the great shot, which made a terrible havoc among
them.

When we were got on board, and out of danger, we had time to exam-
ine into the occasion of this fray; and, indeed, our aupercargo, who had
been oflcn in those parts, put me upon it; for he said he was sure the inhab-
itants would not have touched an utter we had made a truce, if We had not
done something to provoke them to it. At length, it came out that an old
woman, who had come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our
poles, and a young woman with her, who also brought some roots or herbs;
and while the old wouum (whether she was mother to the young woman or
no they could not tell) was selling us the milk, one of our men offered some
rudencm to the Wench that was with her, at which the old woman made a
great noise: however. the seanum would not quit his prize, but carried her
out of the old woman's sight among the trees, it being almost dark: the old
woman went away without her, and, an we may suppose, made an outcry
among the people she came from; who, upon notice, raiswd this great army
upon us in three or four houns; and it was great odds but we had all been
destroyed.

One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at him Just at the begin-
ning of the attack, as he sullied out ot'the tent they had made: the rest came
off lice, all but the fellow who was the occasion ol' all the mischief, who
paid dear enough for his black mistress, for We could not hear what became
of him for a great while. We lay upon the shore two days aller, though the
wind presented, aml made signals lbr him, and made our boat sail up shore
and down shore several leagues, but in vain; so we Were obliged to give him
over; utul il' be alone had sutlin'ed liir it, the loss had been [can

I could not wuisly mysell; how'cver, without venturing on shore once
more, to try if! could learn any thing of him or them: it was the third
night after the action that I had a great mind to learn, if I could by any
means, what mischief we had done, and how the game stood on the Indians'
side. I was careful to do it in the dark, lest We should be attacked again;
butl ought, indeed, to have been sure that the men [went with had been
under my command, before I engaged in a thing so hazardous and mischiev-
ous as l was brought into by it, without design.

We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the
supercargo aml mysell; and we landed two hours before midnight, at the
same place where the Indians stood drawn up in the evening before. I
landed here because my design, as l have said, was chiefly to see if they
had quilted the field, aml if they had left any marks behind them of the
mischief we had done them; tuid I thought, it' we could surprise one or two
of them, perhaps we might get our man again, by way of exchange.

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two bodies,
whereof the houtswuin commanded one, and l the other. We neither saw
nor heard any body stir when we landed; and We marched up, one body at
a distance from the other, to the place; but at first could see nothing, it
being very dark; till, by and by, our boatswain, who led the first party,
stumbled, and tell over a dead body. This made them halt a while; for,
knowing by the circumstances that they were at the place where the lmlians
had stood, they waited for my coming up there. We concluded to halt till
the moon began to rise, which We knew would be in less than an hour,
when we could easily discern the havoc we had made among them. \Ve
told thirty-twu bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead;
some had an arm, and some a leg shot oil; and one his head: those that were
wounded, we supposed, they had carried away.

\'Vhen we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we could come to
the knowledge of; l was resolved forgoing on board; but the boatswain and his
party sent me word that they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian
town, where these dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go
along with them; and if they could find them, as they still fancied they
should, they did not doubt of getting a good booty; and it might be they
might find Tom Jefl'ry there: that was the man's name we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough what answer to
have given'them; for I should have commanded them instantly on board,
knowing'it was not a hazard fit for us to run, who had a ship, and
ship-loadhig in our charge, and a voyage to make which depended very
much upon the lives of the men; but as they sent me word they were
resolved to go, and only askedvme and my company to go along with them,
I positively refused it, and rose up, for I was sitting on the ground, in order
togo to the boat. One ortwo ofthe men began to importune me to go;
and when I refused, began to grumble, and say they were not under my
command, and they would go. " Come, Jack," says one of the men, " will
you gowith me P I'llgo for one." Jack said he would,--and then another;
---and, in a word, they all left me but one, whom I persuaded to stay, and a
boy left in the boat. So 'the supercargo and I, with the third man, went
back to the boat, where we told them we would stay for them, and take
care to take in as manyofthem as shouldbe left; for I told them itwu
a mad thing they were going about, and supposed most of them would run
the fate of Tom Jeffry.

They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would come. ofi'
again, and they would take care, 8m; so away they went. I enn'eated them
to consider the ship and the voyage, that their lives were not their own,
and that they were intrusted with the voyage, in some measure; that, if they
miscarried, the ship might be lost for want of their help, and that they
could not answer for it to God or man. But I might as well have talked
to the nruinmast of the ship; they were mad upon their journey; only they
gave me good words, and begged I would not be angry; that they did not
doubt but they would be back again in about an hour at firrthest; for the
Indian town, they said, was not above half a mile oil; though they found it
show two miles before they got to it.

Well, they all went away, and though the attempt was desperate, and such
as none but madmen wmrld have gone about, yet, to give them their due,
they Went about it as warily as boldly: they were gallantly armed, for they
had every man a fusee or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol; some of them had
broad cutlasses, some of them had hangers, and the boatswain and two more
had poleaxes; besides all which, they had among them thirteen hand gre-
nadees: bolder fellows, and better provided, never went about any wicked
work in the world.

When they went out, their chief design was plunder, and they were in
mighty hopes of finding gold there; but a circumstance, which none of
them wore aware of, set them on fire with revenge, and made devils of
them all. When they came to the flaw Indian houses which they thought
had been the town, which was not above halfa mile oil; they were under
a great rlizuppointment, for there were not above twelve or thirteen
houses; and where the town was, or how big, they knew not. They con-
sulted, therefirre, what to do, and were some time before they could resolve;
for, if they fell upon these, they must cut all their throats, and it was ten to
one but some of them might escape, it being in the night, though the moon
was up; and if one escaped, Ire would run and raise all the town, so they
should lrnve a whole army upon them: again, on the other band, if they
went away and lell those untouched,--for the people were all asleep,--they
could not tell which Way to look for the town: however, the last was the best
advice; so they resolved to leave them, and look for the town as well as they
could. They went on a little way, and found a cow tied to a tree; this,
they presently concluded, would be a good guide to them; for, they said, the
cow certainly belonged to the town before them, or the town behind them;
and if they untied her, they should see which way she went; if she Went back,
they had nothing to my to her; but if she went forward, they would follow
her: so they cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags, and the cow
went on before them, directly to the town; which, as they reported, consisted
of above two hundred houses or huts, and in some of these they (hand
several families living together.

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep could make
them; and, first, they called another council, to consider what they had to
do; and, in a word, they resolved to divide themselves into three bodies;
andsoset three houses entire in three parts ofthe town; andasthemen
came out, to seize them and bind them, (if any mined, they need not he
asked what to do then.) and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder;
but they resolved to march silently first through the town, and see what
dimensions it was or; and if they might venture upon it or no.

They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture upon them;
but while they were animating one another to the work, three of them,
who were a little before the rest, called out aloud to theta, and told them
that they had found 'l'om Jeffry: they all ran up to tlte place, where they
found the poor fellow hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat cut.
There was an Indian house just by the tree, where they lbund sixteen or
seventeen of the principal Indians, who had been concerted in the fray with
us before, and two or three of them wounded with our shot; and our men

found they were awake, and talking one to another in that house, but knew
not their number.

The sight of their poor, mangled comrade so enraged them, as before,
that they swore to one another they would be revenged, and that not an Indian
that came into their hamls should have any quarter; and to work they went
immediately, and yet not so madly as might be expected from the rage and
fury they were in. Their first care was to get something that Would soon take
fire, but, alter a little search, they found that would be to no purpose; for
most of the houses were low, and thatched with flags and rushes, of which
the country is litll; so they presently made some wildfire, as We cail it, by
wetting a little powder in the palm of their hands, and in a quarter of an
hour they set the town on fire in four or live places, and particularly that
house where the Indians were not gone to bed.

As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor, frightened creatures began to
rush out to mve their lives, but met with their fate in the attempt; and espe-
cially at the door, where they drove them back, the boatswain himself killing
one or two with his poleaxe. The house being large, and many in it, he did
not care to go in, but called for a hand grenade, and threw it among them,
which at first frightened thorn, but, when it burst, made such havoc among
them that they cried out in a hideous manner. In short, most of the Indians
who were in the open part of the house were killed or hurt with the gre-
nade, except two or three more, who pressed to the door, which the boatswain
and two more kept, with their hayonets on the muzzles of their pieces, and
despatched all that came in their way; but there was another apartment in
the house, where the prince, or king, or whatever he was, and several others
were; and these were kept in till the house, which was by this time all in a
light flame, fell in upon them, and they were smothered together.

All this while they fired not a gun, because they wotdd not waken the
people faster than they could master them; but the fire began to waken
them fast enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little together in
bodies; for the fire grew so raging, all the houses being made of light, com-
bustible stall; that they could hardly bear the street between them; and their
business was to follow the fire, for the snrer execution: as fast as the fire either
forced the people out of those homes which were burning, or frightemd
them out of others, our people Were ready at their doors to knock them
on the head, still calling and hallooing one to another to remember Tom
Jefl'ry.

While this was doing, I must confess I was ver-yuneasy,snd especially
wlnenlmwthefiannsofthetowmwhichitbeingnighgseemed to bsjust
by me. My nephew, the captain, who was mused bybis men, seeing such
a fire,was very uneasy,not knowing what the 'tnatterwas," what danger
l was in,ewecially hearingthe gtmstoqferbythis timetheybeganto use
their firearms; a thousand thoughts oppressed his mind concerning me and
tlresuperenrnghatwouldbecomeofus; and, at lasgthoagh he could ill

51402 rut: tart: AND anvnsruncs

spare anymore men, yet not knowing what exigence we might be in, he
takes another boat, and with thirteen then and himself comes on shore to me.

He was surprised to see me and the supercurgo in the boat with no
more than two men; and though he was glad that we were well, yet he was
in the same impatience with us to know what was doing; for the noise contin-
ued, and the flame increased; in short, it was next to an impossibility for
any men in the world to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened,
or their concern tiir the satiny of the men: in a word, the captain told me
he would go aml help his men, let what would come. I argued with him,
as I did belbre with the men, the safety ofthe ship, the danger of the voyage,
the interest of the owners and merchants, &.c., and told hint l and the twa
men would go, and only see if We couhl at a distance learn what was like
to be the event, aml cotnc back and tell him. It was all one to talk to my
nephew, as it was to talk to the rest before; he would go, he said; and he
only wished he had Ietl. but ten men in the ship, for he could not think of
having his men lost tbr want of help; he had rather lose the ship, the
voyage, and his lith, and all: and away he went.

I was no more able to stay behind now, than I was to persuade them ttot
to go; so, in short, the captain ordered two tnen to row back the pinnace,
and fetch twelve men more, leaving the long-boat at an anchor; and that
when they came back, six men should keep the two boats, and six more
come alter us: so that he Ieti only sixteen men iii the ship; for the whole
ship's company consisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were lost in the
late quarrel which brought this mischief on.

Being now on the march, you may be sure we firlt little of the ground
we trod on; and being guided by the fire, we kept no path, but went
directly to the place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was attr-
prising to us before, the cries of the poor people were now quite of another
nature, and filled us with horror. 1 must confess I was never at the sacking
a city, or at the taking a town by storm. Iliad heard of Oliver Cromwell
taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing man, woman, and child; and 1 had
read ol'Count 'I'illy sacking the city of Magdebourg, and cutting the throats of
twenty-two thottsand of all sexes; but I never had an idea of the thing itself
hetbre, nor is it possible to describe it, or the horror that was upon our
minds at hearing it. However, we went on, and at length came to the town,
though there was no entering the streets of it for the fire. The first object
we met with was the ruins of a hat or house, or rather the ashes of it, for
the house was consumed; and just before it, plain now to be seen by the
light of the tire, lay four men antl three Women killed, and, as we thought,
one or two more lay in the heap among the fire; in short, there were such
instances of rage altogether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond
what was htunau, that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of
it; or, if they were the authors of it, we thought they ought to be every one
of them put to the worst of deaths. But this was not all: we saw the fire
increased forward, and the cry went on just as the fire went on; so that we
were in the utmost confusion. \Ve advanced a little way farther; and,
behold, to our astonislnneut, three naked women, and crying in a most
dreadtitl manner, came flying as if they had wings, and after them sixteen
or seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and consternation, with three
of our English butchers in the rear; who, when they could not overtake
them, fired in among them, and one that was killed by their shot fell down403 - 404
Missing
From
Originalor limitation cnusoe. 405

in our sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and
that we would murder them as well as those that pursued them, they set
up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women, and two of them fell
down, as if already dead, with the fright.

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins, when
I saw this: and I believe, had the three English sailors that pursued them come
on, I had made our men kill them all: however, we took some ways to let the
poor, flying creatures know that we would not hurt them; and immediately
they came up to us,and kneeling down, with their hands lified up, made
piteous. lamentation to us to save them, which we let them know we
would; whereupon they crept altogether in a huddle close behind us, as
for protection. I let! my men drawn up together, and charging them to
hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of our people, and see what
devil itwaspossessedthem,andwhattheyintendedto dqandtocom-
mand them 03'; assuring them that if they staid till daylight, they
would have a hundred thousand men about their ears: I say, I lett them,
and went among those flying people, taking only two of our men with
me; andtherewasindeed a piteous spectacle among them, some ofthem
had their feet terribly burned, with trampling and running through the
fire, others their hands burned; one of the women had titllen down in
the fire, and was very much burned before she could get out again; and two
or three of the men had cuts in their hseksand thighs, ti'om ourmen pur-
suing; and another was shot through the body, and died while I was there.

I would faiu have learned what the occasion of all this was, but I could
not understand one word they said; though, by signs, I perceived some of
them knew not what was the occasion themselves. I was so terrified in my
thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I could not stay there, but went
back to my own men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town,
through the fire, or whatever might be in the way, and put an end to it,
oostwhatitwould: acoordingiy,asI same backto my men, Itold them my
resolution, and commanded them to bllow me, when, at the very moment,
cameburofourmernwiththeboatswainattheirhead, rovingoverhespsof
bodies theyhad killed,all covered with blood and dust, as iftheywantsd
more people to massacre, when our men hallooed to them as loud as they
could halloo; and, with much ado, one of them made them hear, so that
theyknewwhowewerqandeameuptous.

Assoonasthe boatswain sawns,he setupahslloo likeashout of
triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come; and withoutwaiting
to hearme, "Captain," says he, "noble captain! I am glad youareeorne;
we have not half done yet; villanous, hell-hmmd dogs! I'll kill as many
ofthemaspoor'l'omhsshairsuponhishead: wehaveswornto were
none ofthetn; we'll rootoutthe very nation of them from the earth:"
andthusheranon,outofbreathtoowithaction,andwouldnotgiveus
leave to speak a word.

At last, raising my voice, that I might silence him a little, "Barbarous
dog. "' said I, "what are you doing? I won't have one creature touched
more, upon pain of death: I charge you, upon your life, to stop your
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this minute." "Why,
sir," says he, "do you know what you do, or what they have done ? If
you want a reason for what we have done, some hither ;" and with that
he showed me the poor fellow hanging, with his throat cut.406 Tin: m1: AND AlWI-iN'l'tIltBs

 

It-oufiw I was urgod lIIt'll tnysolt; and at another limo would have
horn forward (-unngh: hut I tiuought tIu-y had t'IlI'I'It'tI tlu-ir mgo loo flu,
and rt-uu'tulwn-d Jm'oh's words to his sons Sinuson uud Levi--"('um'd
ho tlu-ir nugu-r. liir it was lit-I've; und llu-ir wruth, lhr it was t'rttt-I." But
.I had now u now tnsk ulmn my hands; lhr wlu-u tlu- turn I mrriod with
ma saw this sight. us I lmd done, I lmd us much to do to n-stmin tlu'ln,
us I should hum hud with "I" otht-rs; tmy. my m-pIu-w Ilium-If ti~|l in
with thnt, and told mo, in tIu-ir hvuring, thut lu- wns only rom'vrnvd t'or
ti-ur of the turn lu-iug owrpom-n-d ; and us to tho lwoplo, Ilt' thought not
out- oI'IhI-m ought to "'1'; liw they had all gluttvd thc-um-lwu with tho
munlc-r ut IIII' poor umu. and that they ought to ho urn-d liko IlIIIrtIt'I'I'n'.
Upon IIIt'M' words, nwuy rant right of my tin-n, withth lumtswuin and his
crow, to l'tllll'lIt'It' tIu-ir hloody work: and I, sewing it quite. out of my
pom-r to n-stmiu thmn, mum- uwny "Find"! and sad; thr I could uot
Iu-nr tho sight, much haw tho horrihlc Hoist: and (Tim of tho poor wmtvht-s
that ti'll into thvir hands.

I got uohody to come hook with "W hut tho stuwrrnrgo and two mm,
and with the-so wnlkvd hack to tho hoot. It wax u very grout piom- oI' Ihlly
in um, I t'llllII'SS, to wnturo luu-k,ns it won-,ulouo; liir, us it lit-gnu now
to ho almost day, and IIII' :durm had run on-r tho country, then: stood
uhont tony tm-n urtm-d with hum-s nud hows, at tho Iittlu llItlt'c when:
the twelve. or thirteen houses stood, tnontionvd thiiro; but by um'idt-ut I
missed thv phu'c. mtd I'umt! dirt-vtly to the awn-aide; and by the time I
got to tho sun-side, it was hroud duy: inmwdiutclyl took the pinnacc
and went on board, and sent Iu-r hut-k to assist the men in what might
Imppt-n.

I observed, about the limo. that I came to the Dom-side, that the fire407 - 408
Missing
From
Original
was pretty well out, and the noise abated, but in about half an hour after
I got on board, I heard a volley of our men's fire-arms, and saw a great
smokc- , this, as I understood allerwurds, was our men falling upon the
Illt'll, who, as I said, stood at the few houses on the way, ol whom they
killed sixteen or seventeen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not
meddle with the women or children.

By the time the men got to the shore again with the pinnace, our
men began to appear; they came dropping in, not in two bodies, as they
went, but straggling here and there in such a "tanner, that asmall force
of resolute men might have cut them all oil! But the dread of them was
upon the whole country; and the men were surprised, andso frightened,
that I believe a hundred of them would have fled at the sight of but
five of our man; nor in all this terrible action was there a man that
made any considerable defence; they were so surprised between the
terror of the tire and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that
they knew not which way to turn themselves; tbr if they fled one way,
they Were met by one party, it' back again, by another; so that they
were every where knocked down; nor did any of our men receive the
least hurt, except one that sprained his foot, and another that had one
of his hands burned.

I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and, indeed, with all
the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as well for his acting so
out of his duty, as commander of the ship, and having the charge of the
voyage upon him, as in his prompting, rather than cooling, the rage of
his blind men, in so bloody and cruel an enterprise. My nephew answered
me very respectfully, but told me that when he saw the body of the
poor scnmau whom they had murdered in so cruel and harbaronsa man-
ner, he was not master of himself, neither could he govern his passion;
he owned he should not have done so, as he was conunander of the ship;
betas he wasa man, and nature movedhirmhecouldnothsarit. As
for the rest of the men, they were not subject to me at all, and they
knew it well enough; so they took no notice of my dislike.

The next day we set sail; so we never heard any more of it. Our
man difi'ered in the account of the number they had killed; but, according
to the best of their accounts, put all together, they killed or destroyed
about one hundred and tiny people, men, women, and children, and left
not a house standing in the town. As for the poor follow, Tom Jefli'y,
as he was quite dead, (for his throat was so cut that his head was half
ofi') it would do him no service to bring him away , so they only tookhim
down from the tree where he was hanging by one hand.

However just our men thought this action, I was against them in it,
and I always, after that time, told them God would blast the voyage; for
I looked upon all the blood they shed that night to be murder in them;
for though it is true that they had killed Tom Jefi'ry, yet Jefi'ry was the ag-
gressor, had broken the trace, and had violated or debauched a young wo-
man of theirs, who came down to them innocently, and en the litith of
the public capitulation.

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on board.
He said itwastruethatwe seemed to breakthetruce,butreally had not;
and that the war was begun the night before by the natives themselves, who
had shot at us, and killed one of our men without any just provocation;

52-'I'."-C;'.j .

410 Tue LIFE AND ADVENTURES

so that, an we Were in a capacity to light thetn now, we might also be in a
capacity to do ourselves justice upon them itt an extraordinary manner;
tltat though tlte poor man had taken a little liberty witlt tho Wench, he ought
not to have been murdered, and tltat in such a villnnoue manner; atul that
tltey did nothing ltttt what was just, nttd what tlte lawsot' God allowed to
be done to murderers.

()ne tvouhl think this should have. been enough to Iiiwe warned us against
going on shore amongst heatheus atnl barbarians; lntt it is itttlmible to
ntake mankind wise but at their own expense ; attd their experience seems
to he always of most use to them when it is dearest bought.

We Were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and li'om thence to the coast
of (Torouutudel. only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the supercargo's
design lay at the Hay of Bengal: where, it' he missed his httsinetet out-
ward-Ismail, he Was to go up to China, attd return to tlte west as he came
home.

The first disaster that befall us was in the Gulf of Persia, where live of
our men, venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the gall, were sur-
rounded by the Arabians, and either all killed, or carried away into slavery;
tlte rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue them, and had but just
titttc to get oll' their boat. I began to ttphrnid them with the just retrio
lnttiott ol' Ilt'tlYt'lt in this case; but the boatswaiu very warmly told me,
he thought I went timber itt my consort-s than I could show any warrant
for in Scripture, and referred to Luke xiii. 4, where our Savior intitttates
that tlutse tttett on whom the Tower of Siloant t'ell were not sinners above
all the (lalileans: lntt that which put toe to silence in the case was, that
ttot one of these. live tttett who were. now lost were. of those who went on
shore to the mantacre of Madagascar; so I always called it, though our
men could not hear to ltear the word massacre with any patience.

But my frequent preachingr to them on this subject had worse conse-
quences than I expected: atul tlte Imatswaiu, who had been the head of
the attempt, cante up boldly to me one time, and told tne he found that
I brought that atlitir coutitutally upon tlte stage; that 'I made unjust refleco
tious upon it, and had used tlte tnctt very ill on tltnt account, and himself
itt particular; that as I Was lntt a passenger, and ltad no command in the
ship, or concern in the Voyage, they were ttot obliged to bear it; that they
did ttot know but I might have some. ill design itt my head, and perhaps
to call them to an aecotutt litr it when they came to England; and that,
therefore, unless I would resolve to have dotte with it, tutti also not to
concern myself any farther With ltittt, or any of his affairs, he would leave
the ship; tor he did ttot think it was sale to sail with me among them.

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and tltett told him that
l eonli-ssed I ltnd all along opposed the massacre of Madagascar, and that
I had, on all occasions, spoken my tttiml freely about it, though not more
ttpott hint than any of the rest; that, as to having no command in the ship,
that was true: nor did 1 exercise any authority, only took the liberty of
speaking my mind in things which publicly concerned as all; and what
concent I had iii the voyage was none of his blltllllm; that l m a con-
siderablc. owner iii the ship; itt that claint l conceived I had a right to
speak even farther than I had done, and would ttot be accountable to him
or any one else; and began to be a little warm with him. He made but
little reply to me at tltat time, and I thought the ninth- had been over. We
 

were at this time in the road at Bengal; and, being willing to see the place,
I went on shore with the supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself;
and towards evening was preparing to go on board, when one of the men
came to me, and told me he would not have me trouble myself to come
down to the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on board any more.
Any one may guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a message;
and I asked the man who bade him deliver that message to me. He told
me, the coxswain. I said no more to the fellow, but bade him let them
snow he had delivered his message, and that I had given him no answer
to it.

I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him the story,
adding, what I presently foresaw, that there would be a mutiny in the ship;
and entreated him to go immediately on board the ship in an Indian boat,
and acquaint the captain of it. But I1night have spared this intelligence,
for, before I had spoken to him on shore, the matter was effected on board.
The boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior officers, as
soon as I was gone off in the boat, came up, and desired to speak with the
captain ; and there the boatswain, making a long harangue, and repeating all
he had said to me, told the captain, in a few words, that as I was now gone
peaceably on shore, they were loath to use any violence with me, which, if I
had not gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have
gone; they therefore thought fit to tell him, that, as they shipped themselves
to serve in the ship under his command, they would perform it well and
faithfully; but if I would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit
it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no further with him; and at that4l2 'rus Lire ans anvsmuass

word all, he turned his fitce toward the tuaiumast, which was, it seems, the
signal agreed on betwoen them, at which. all the seamen, being got together
there, cried out, " One and all! one and all .' "

My nephew, the captain, was a tnun of spirit, atul of great presence of
mind; and, though he was surprised, yott may be sure, at the thing, yet he
told them, calmly, that he would consider of the matter; but that lte could
do nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it. He used some arguments
with them, to show them the unreasottubleuess and injustice of the thing;
but it was all in vain; they swore, and shook hands round betbre his face,
that they would all go on shore, unless he would engage to them not to sufl'er-
me to come any more on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me, and did
not know how I might take it: so he began to talk snutrtly to theta; told
them that l was a very considerable owner of the ship, and that, in justice,
he could not put me out of my own house; that this was next door to
serving me asthe famous pirate Kidd had done, who made a mutiny in the '
ship, set the captain on shore on an uninhabited island, and ran away with
the ship; that, let them go into what ship they would, if ever they cante to
England again, it would cost them very dear; that the ship was mine, and
that he could not put me out of it; and that he would rather lose the ship,
and the voyage too, than disoblige me so much; so they might do as they
pleased: however, he would go on shore and talk with me, and invited the
lumtswain to go with him, attd perhaps they might accommodate the tnatter
with me. But they all rejected the proposal, and said they would have
nothing to do with tue any more; aml it' I came on board, they would all go
on shore. " Well," said the captain, "if you are all of this tnitnl, let tne go
on shore and talk with him." So away he came to me, with this account, a
little aller the nutssage had been brought to me liout the eoxswuin.

l was very glad to see my nephew, 1 must confess; for l was not without
apprehensions that they Would eonliue hitn by violence, set sail, and run
away with the ship, and then I had been stripped naked in a remote country,
having nothing to hclp myself; in short, I had been in aworse case than
when l was alone in the island. But they had ttot come to that length, it
seems, to my sntislitetion; antl, when my Nephew told me what they had
said to him, and how they had sworn and shook hands that they would, one
and all, leave the ship, it] was sufl'crcd to come on board, I told him he
should not be concerned at it at. all, for i would stay on shore: I only desired
he would take care and send me all my necessary things on shore, and leave
tue a sufficient stun of money, and I would find my way to England as well
as leould.

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no way to
help it but to comply; so, in short, he went on board the ship again, and
satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to their ituportttnity, and had
sent for his goods from on board the ship; so that the matter was over in a
few hours, the men returned to their duty, and I began to consider, what
course I should steer.

l was now alone, in the most remote part of the world, as I think 1 may
call it, for I was near three thousand leagues, by sea, further 01? from Eng-
land, than lwas at my island; only, it is true, I might travel here, by land,
over the Great Mognl's country, to Surat, might go from thence to Restore.
by sea, up the Gulf of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over the
 

Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon; from thence, by sea again, to
Italy, am! so, overland, into France; and this, put together, might, at least, be
a full diameter of the globe, or more. .

I had another way before me, which was, to wait for some English ships,
which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the Island of Sumatra, and
get passage on board them for England. But as I came hither without any
concern with the English East India Company, so it would be difficult to go
from hence without their license, unless with great favor of the captains of
the ships, or the Company's factors; and to both I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me--a treat-
ment, I think, a. man in my circumstances scarce ever met with, except from
pirates running away with a ship, and setting those that would not agree
with their villany ou shone. Indeed, this was next door to it, both ways;
however, my nephew let! me twa servants, or, rather, one companion and
one servant; the first was clerk to the ptuser,'whom he engaged to go with
me, and the other was his own servant. I took me, also, a good lodging in
the house of an Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged, some
French, two Italians, or, rather, Jews, and one Englishman; here I was
handsomely enough entertained; and, that I might not he said to run rashly
upon any thing, I staid here above nine months, considering what course to
take, and how to manage myself I had some English goods with me of
value, and a considerable sum of money; my nephew furnishing me with a
thousand pieces'of-eight, and a letter of credit for more, if I had occasion,
that I might not be straitened, whatever might happen.

I quickly disposed of my goods to advantage; and, as I originally intended,
I bought here some very good diamonds, which, of all other things, were the
most proper for me, in my present circumstances, because I could always
carry my whole estate about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to Eng-
land, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who lodged
with me, and whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance with, came to
me one morning: "Countryman," says he, "I have a project to communicate
to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with
yours also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it. Here we are
posted, you by accident, and I by my own choice, in a part of the world
very remote from our own country; but it is in a country where, by us who
understand trade and business, a great deal of money is to be got. If you
will put one thousand pounds to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a
ship here, the first we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll go a trading voyage to China; for what should we
stand still for? The whole world is in motion, rolling round and round; all
the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, are busy and diligent;
why should we be idle? There are no drones in the world but men; why
should we be of that number? "

I liked this proposal very well; and the more because it seemed to be ex-
pressed with so much good-will, and in so friendly a manner. I will not
say but that I might, by my loose, unhinged circumstances, be the fitter to
embrace a proposal for trade, or, indeed, any thing else; whereas, otherwise,
trade was none of my element. However, I might, perhaps, say with some
truth, that if trade was not my element, rambling was; and no proposal for
seeing any part of the world which I had never seen before, could possibly
come amiss to me.

\\ \ 1K"?
\\\{\\\' \\\ \

a

'N'or aonmsorv (meson. <<"5

It was, however, some time before We could get a ship to our minds, and
whett We had got a vessel, it was not easy to get English sailors; that is to
say, so many as Were necessary to govern the voyage and haulage the sailors
which we should pick up there. Alter sotne time, we gota mate, a boat-
swain,nud a gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter: and three lbrenanat men.
With those, We lbuml We could do Well enough, having Indian seamen, such
as they were, to rnako up.

There are so nanny travellers who have wrote a history of their voyages
and travels this way, that it would be very little diversion to any body in give
a long account of the places we went to, and the people who inhabit there;
these things I lenvo to others, and refer the reader to thaw journals and
travels of I'Inglisluneu, of which many, I lind, are published, and more
promised eVery day; it is anmlgh for me to tell you, that we made this
voyage to Achiu, in the Island ol'Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where
we exchanged mum of our wares tiir apimn and some arrack; the lirst a
commodity which bears a great price among the Chinese, and which, at that
time, was much wanted there. in a word, we \vent up to Saskan, made a
very great voyage, were eight months out, and returned to Bengrrl; and l
was Vary Well mlislied with my advonture. l observe that our people in

Ingland ollen admire how officers, which the Comprury send into lndia, and
the merchants which generally stay there, get such very great estates as they
do, and sometimes come. home worth sixty or seventy thousand pounds at a
time; but it is no wonder, or at least we shall see so much timber into it.
when we consider the innumerable ports and places where they have a free
commerce, that it will be none; and much less it will be so when m: con-
sider that, at those places and parts where the.l'lnglish ships come, there is
such great and constant demands for the growth of all other countries, that
there is a certain vent for the returns, as well as a market abroad [hr the
goods carried out.

in short, we tnade a very good voyage, and I got so nulch money by my
first adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting more, that,
had I been twenty years younger, I should have been tempted to have staid
here, and sought no farther lbr making any fortune; but what was all this
to a man upwards of threesome, that was rich enough, and came abroad
more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world, than a covetous
desire of gaining by it. And, indeed, I think it is with great justice I now
call it restless desire, for it was so When I was at home, I was restless to
go abroad; and when I was abroad, I was restless to be at home. I say,
what was this gain to me? I was rich enough already, nor had I any uneasy
desires about getting more money , and therelbro the profit or the voyage to
me was of no great force for the prompting me forward to finite/render.-
takings; hence I thought that, by this voyage, I had made noprogrooa at all,
because I was come back, as I might call it, to the place. from whence!
came, as to a home; whereas my eye, like that which Solomon speaks 'ol;
was never <<tidied with seeing. was still more desirom of wandering and
seeing. Iwas come into a part of the world which I was never in before,
and that part, in particular, which I had heard much of, and was resolved to
see as ranch of it as I could: and then I thought I might say I had seen all

the world that was worth seeing.
But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions: I do not name this

to insist on my own, for I acknowledge his were the moat just, and the most
suited to the end of a merchant's life; who, when he is abroad upon ad-
ventures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best thing for him, which
he is like to get tho most money by. My new friend kept himself to the
nature of the thing, aml would have been content to have gone, like a car-
rier's horse, always to the same inn, backward aml liirward, provided he
could, as he called it, find his account in it. On the other hand, mine was
the notion of a mad, rambling boy, that never cares to see a thing twice
over. lhrt this was not all: 1 had a kind of impatience upon me to ho
nearor home, and yet the most unwttled resolution imaginable which way
to go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who was always
upon tho search for luminous. proposed another voyage to me among the
Spice Islands, and to bring home a loading of cloves from the Mtutillas,
or thcnrolmuts--placcns indocd, whore tho Dutch trade, but islattds belong-
ing partly to tho Spaniards; though we wont not so far, but to some
other, whom they have not the whole power, as they have at Batavia,
Ceylon, &c.

We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty was
in bringing Inc. to come into it: hou'ovcr, at last, nothing else oflering,
and finding that nutlly stirring about aml trading, the profit being so great,
and, as I may say, certain, had more pleasure in it, arnl had more satisfaction
to my mind, than sitting still, which, to me especially, was the nnhappiest
pan oi liti-, I ro-solvml on this myogo, too, which no tnado very succemdully
touching at llorm-o. and scteml islands whom names I do not remember:
and come home' in about live months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly
clovos, nml some nutmogs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the golf; and, making near tivo of one, we really got a great deal
of money.

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me. " \Vell, now,"
said ho, with a sort of agreeable insult upon my indolent temper, "is not
this hotter than walking about here, like a man of nothing to do, and spend-
ing our time in staring at the nonsense and ignorance of the pagans?"
"Why, truly," says I, "my friend, I think it is, and] begin to be a convert
to the principles of merchandising; but I must tell you," said I, "by the
way, you do not know what I am doing; for if] once conquer my back-
warducss, and embark heartily, as old as I am, I shall harass you up and
down the world till ltire you; for [shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never
lot too he still. "

But, to be short with my speculations, a little while alter this there came
in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not a European trader,
of about two hundred tons' bunlen; the men, as they pretended, having
been so sickly that the captain had not hands enough to go to sea with, he
lay by at Bengal; and having, it seems, got money enough, or being willing,
for other reasons, to go for Etuope, he gave public notice he would sell
his ship. This came to my ears before my new partner heard of it, and
lhad a great mind to buy it; so I went to him, and told him at; it. He
considered a while, for he was no rash man neither; but, musing some time,
he mplied, "She is a little too big; but, however, we will have her." Ac-
cordingly, we bought the ship, and, agreeing with the master, we paid for
her, and took poucssion. When We had done so, we resolved>> entertain
the men, if we could, to join them with than we had, for the purlfing
our business; but, on a sudden, they having received, not their wages, but
their share of the money. as we allot-wards learned, not one of them was
to be found; we inquired much about them, and at length were told that
they wars all gone together by lend to Agra,the great city of the Mogul's
residence, and ii'om thence to travel to Surat, and go by the sea to the
Gulf of Persia. '

Nothing had so much tmtthlcd me a good while, as that I should miss
the opportunity of going with them; for such a ramble, I thought, and in
such company as would both have guarded and diverted me, would have
suited mightin with my great design; and I should have both won the
World and gone homeward too; but I was much better satisfied a few
days atler, when I came to know what sort of fellows they were; for, in
short, their history was that this man they called captain wasthe gunner only,
not the commander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which they
had been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and that, aller the captain was killed, these
men, eleven in number, had resolved, to run away with the ship, which
they did, and brought her to llengal, leaving the mate and five men more
on shore; of whom hereafter.

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by her
as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into things so exactly
as we ought; for we never inquired any thing of the seamen, who would
certainly have titltered in their account, contradicted one another, and
perhaps contradicted themselves; or one how or other we should have had
reason to have suspected them; but the man showed us a bill of sale for
the ship, to one Emanuel Clostorshoveu, or some such tram--for I suppose
it was all a forgery,---and called himself by that name, and we could not
contradict him , and withal, having no suspicion ot the thing, we went
through with our bargain.

We picked up some more English sailor-s here afier this, and some
Dutch; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the southeast for
cloves, &,c., that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucca Isles; and,
in short, not to fill up this part of my story with triflee, when what '3 to
come is so remarkable, I spent, from first to last, six years in this country
trading from port to port, backward and forward, and with very good suc-
cess, and was now the last year with my new partner, going in the ship
above mentioned, on a voyage to China, but designing first to Siam, to
buy rice.

In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and down a
great while in the Straits of Molacca, and arnong.the islands, we were no
sooner got clear of these difficult seas than we found our ship had sprung
a leak, and we were not able, by all our industry, to find out where it was.
This forced us to makesome port, and mypartner, who knewtheeountry
better than 1 did, directed the captain to put into the Riverof Cambodia;
tbr I had made the English mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not being
willing to take the charge ofthe shipnpon myself: This riverliesonthe
north side ofthe greetbayorgulfwhich goesupto Siam. Whilewe
wenberqmdgoingoflenonshoreibr nfiesbmengthere oomestome
onedaymEngibhmamandhewaaitseemaagunner'smteonbeud
an English East'lndia ship which node in the same river,at ornearthe
city ofGambodia; what brought him hither we knew not; but becomes
to mend speaking'English, "Sir," says be, "you are a strangeno are,

' 534l8 'rns urn AND aovasrtmas

and I to you, but I have something to tell you that very ncarly coa-
eerns you."

I looked steadliistly at him a good while, and thought at first I had
known him, Inn 1 did not. " II' it very nearly concerns me," said I, "and
not yourselt; what moves you to tell it to me ?" "I am moved," says he,
"by the imminent danger you are in, and, tor might I see, you have no
knowledge of it." "I know tto danger I out in," says I, "hut that my ship
is leaky, aml I cannot tind it out; hot I intend to lay her aground I0-lll0l'-
row, to see if I can tind it." " But, sir," says he, "leaky or not leaky, find
it or not find it, you will he wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow
when you hear what I have to say to you. Do you know, sir," said he.
"the town of (hanhodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river; aml there
are two large English ships about five leagues on this side, aml three
hutch ?" "Well," said I, "and what is that to me ?" "Why, sir." mid
he, "is it Iill' a man that is upon such atlventurcs as you are, to come into a
port, aml not examine first what ships there are there, ntul whether he. is able
to deal with them ? I suppose you do not think you are a match for them ? "
l was amused very much at his discourse, hut not amazed at it, lor I could
not conceit-e what he meant; aml I turned short upon him, and mid, "Sir,
I wish yott wottld explain yourself: I cannot imagine wltnt masonl have
to he ali'aid of any of the. Company's ships, or Dutch ships: I atn no inter-
Ioper; what can they have to say to me?" He looked like a tuna hall'
angry and half pleased, and, pausing a while. hut smiling, " Well, sir," says
he, "if you think yourself secure, you must take your chance; lam sorry
your title should blind you against good advice; but assure yourself, if you
do not put to sea immediately, you will the very next tide he attacked by
five long-heats fitll of men, and perhaps, it' you are taken, you will be
hanged for a pirate, aml the particulars he exmnined atlerwards. I thought,
sir," added he, "I should have met with a hotter reception than this, for
doing you a piece of service of such importance:" "I can never be un-
gratetitl," said I, "tiir any service, or to any man that otl'ers me any
kindness; but it is past my comprehension what they should have such
a design upon me for: however, since you say there is no time to be
lost. and that there is some. villanons design on hand against me, I will go
on hoard this minute, and put to sea innnediately, if my men can stop
the leak, or it~ we can swim without stopping it; hot, air," said I, "shall
I go away ignomnt of the cause of all this ? Can you give. mono further
light into it ?" "I can tell you but part of the story, sir," says he: "but
I have a Dutch scamau here with me, and I believe. I could persuade him
to tell you the rest ; Inn there is scarce time lbr it: but the short of the story
is this, the. first part of which, I suppose, you know well enough, viz, that
you was with this ship at Sumatra ; that there your captain was murdered by
the Malays, with three of his men; and that you, or some of those that
were on board with you, ran away with the ship, and are since turned
pirates This is the sum of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates,
I can assure you, and executed with very little ceremony; for you know
merchant-ships show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their
power." " Now you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank you; and
though I know nothing that we have done. like what you talk ofl--for I am
sure we came honestly aml fitirly by the ship,--- yet, seeing such a work is
doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly,I will be upon my
guard." "Nay, sir," says he, "do not talk ofheing upon your guard; the
host defence 'm, to be out of the danger; if you have any regard for your
lite, and the lives of all your men, put to see, without fail, at high water,
and, as you have a whole tide before you, you wfll be gone too far out
before they can come down; for they will come array at high water, and,
ns they have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them
by the difference of the tide, not reckoning the length of the way; besides,
as they are only hosts, and not ships, they will not venture to follow
you far out to sea, especially if it blows." "Well," said I, " you have been
very kind in this; what shall 1 do for you to make you amends?" "Sir,"
says he, "you may not be willing to make me any amends, because you
may not be convinced of the truth of it: I will make an ofl'er to you; I
have nineteen months' pay due to me on board the ship ~----, which I
came out of England in; and the Dutchman that is with me has seven
months' pay due to him; if you will make good our pay to us, we will
go along with you; if you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more;
but if we do convince you that we have saved your lives, and the ship.
and the lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you."

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and the
two men with me. As soon as 1 came to the ship's side, my partner,
who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called to me with
a great deal ofjoy,--"0 ho! 0 ho! we have stoppedtheleak; we have
stopped the leak!" "Sayyeu so?" said I; "thank God! but weigh anchor,
then, immediately." "Weigh!" says be; "what doyou mean by that?
What is the matter P" "Ask no questions," said I; "but all lands to work,
and weigh without losing a minute." He was surprised; but, however,
he called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got
up; and though the tide was not quite down, yel,a little land-breeze
blowing, we stood out to sea. Then 1 called him into the cabin, and told
him the story; and we called in the men, and they told us the rest of it;
but as it took up a great deal of time, before we had done, a seamen comes
to the cabin door, and called out to us that the captain bade him tell us
we were chased. "Chasedl" says I; "by what?" "By five sloops, or
boats," says the fellow, "full of men." "Very well," said I; "then it is
apparent there is something in it." In the next place, I ordered all our
men to be called up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship,
and to take us for pirates, and asked them if they would stand by us,
and by one another; the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they
would live and die With us. Then 1 salted the captain what, way he
thought best tbr us to manage a fight with them; formist them lwas
resolved we would, and that to the last. drop. He said readily, that, the way
was to keep them ofl' with our great shot as long as we could, and then
to fire at them with our mall arms,.to keep them from boarding.us;,but
when neither of these would do any longer, weshould retirerto out. close
quarters; perhaps they had not materials to hreak. openwrbulk'headaor
get in upon us.

The gunnerhad,in the meantime, ordersto bring twogunsto bear-fore
and alhout ofthesteengeto clear thedeclt. sndlosdtbemwithmnshet
helletsandsmall pieces ofold iron, and..what came next to hand; and
thuawsmade ready for tight: butallthiswhilewe keptouttosea, with
wind-enough,.andlconld see the boats at a distance, being five large long-
boats, following us with all the sail they could make.420 rue use All) anemones

 

Two of these boats (which by our glasses we couid see were English)
outsailed the rest, were near two leagues a-head of them, and gained upon
us considerably, so tltat we found they would come up with us; upon
which we fired a gun without hall to intimate that they should bring to:
and we put out a flag of truce, as a signal for parley: but they oaine
crowding aller us, till they came within shot, when we took in our white
flag, they having made no (ulstver to it, and hung out a red flag, and fired
at them with a shot. Notwithstanding this, they came on till they were
near enough to call to them with a speaking trumpet, which we had on
board; so we called to them, and bade thent keep 08', at their peril.

It was all one; they crowded afler us, and endeavored to come under
our stern, so as to board us on our quarter; upon which, seeing they were
resolute for mischief; and depended upon the strength that followed them,
I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside; when
immediately we tired five guns at them, one of which had been levelled so
true, as to carry away the stem of the hindermost boat, and bring them
to the necessity of taking down their sail, and running all to the head of
the boat, to keep her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of
it; but, seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready to fire
at her in particular. While this was doing, one of the three boats that
was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up to the boat which
we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take out the men;

I
we called again to the foremost boat, and ofi'emd a truce, to parley again,
and to know what her business was with us; but had no answer,--only
she crowded close under our stern. Upon this, our gunner, who was a
very dexterous fellow, ran out his two chase-guns, and fired again at her;
but, the shot missing, the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and
came on; but the gunner, getting quickly ready again, fired among them
a second time, one shot of which, though it missed the boat iwelf, yet fell
in among the men, and, we could easily see, had done a great deal of mis-
chief among them; but we took no notice of that, were the ship again, and
brought our quarter to bear upon them; and, firing three guns more, we
found the boat was almost split to pieces; in particular, her rudder, and
a piece of her stem, was shot quite away; so they handed her sail in
mediately, and were in great disorder. But, to complete their misfortune,
our gunner let fly two guns at them again; where he hit them we could
not tell; but we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men already
in the water: upon this, I immediately manned out our pinnace, which
we had kept close by our side, with orders to pick up some of the men,
if they could, and save them from drowning, and immediately come on
board the ship with them, because we saw the remofthe boats began to
come up. Our men in the pinnace lbllowed their orders, and took up
three men, one of whom was just drowning,and it was a good while be-
fore we could recover him. As soon as theywereon board," crowded
allthesailwe couldmake,andstoodfirtberouttossa; andwe found
that when the other three boats came up to the firm, they gave over
their chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not the rea-
son of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I apprehended, I resolved
that we should change our course, and not let any one know whither we
were going; so we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of
all European ships, whether they ware bound to China, or any where else,
within the commerce of the European nations.

When we were at sea, we began to consult with the two seamen, and
inquire what the meaning of all this should be; and the Dutchman let us
into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow that sold us the ship, as
we said, was no more than a thiefi that had run away with her. Then
he told us how the captain, whose name, too, he told us,---thongh I do
not remember it now,--was treacherously murdered by the natives on
the coast of Malacca, with three of his men; and that be, this Dutchman,
and four more, got into the woods where they wandered about a great
while, till at length he, in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his
escape, and swam of to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore, in
its way fiom China, had sent their boat on shore for flesh water; that he
durstnotcometothatpanoftheahorewherethe boat was,butmade
shift in the night to take the water timber OE} and, swimming a great
while, at last the ship's boat took him up.

He then told us that he wenttoBatavia,where twooftheseamenbe-
longing to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest in their travels, and
gave an account thatthe fellow .who had run'awaywith theshipsold her
atBengal to a set of pit-ans, which were gone a-eruising in her; andthst
theyhadalreadytakenan English shipandtwoDntchahipaveryr-ichly
laden. '
This latter part we found to concem us directly, though we knew it to be
false; yet, as my partner said, very justly, if we had fallen into their hands,
and they had had such a prepomssion against us beforehand, it had been in
vain for us to have defended ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter at
their hands; and, especially, considering that our accusers had been our
judges, and that We could have expected nothing from them but what rage
would have dictated, aml an ungovemed passion have executed; and therefore
it was his opinion we should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we
came, without putting in at any port whatever; because there we could giva
a good account of ourselch, could prove where we were when the ship put
in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and, which was more than all the
rest, if we were put upon the necessity of bringing it before the proper
judges, we should be sure to have some justice, and not to be hanged first
and judged allenvards.

I was some time of my partner's opinion; but, after a little more serious
thinking, [told him I thought it was a very great hazard for us to attempt
returning to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side of the Straits of
Malacca, and that if the alarm was given, we should be sure to be waylaid
on every side, as well by the Dutch at Batavia as the English elsewhere; that,
if we should be taken, as it were, running away, we should even condemn
ourselves and there would want no more evidence to destroy us. I also
asked the English sailor's opinion, who mid he was of my mind, and that
we should certainly be taken. This danger a little startled my partner, and
all the ship's company, and we inunediatcly resolved to go away to the coast
of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China; and, pursuing the first design as
to trade, find some way or other to dispose of the ship, and come back in some
of the vessels of the country, such as we could get. This was approved of
as the best method for our security; and, accordingly, we steered away
N. N. E, keeping above filly leagues 0!? from the usual course to the
eastward. This, however, put us to some inconvenience; for, first, the
winds, when we came to that distance from the shore, seemed to be more
steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E. and E.
N. 3., so that we were a long while upon our voyage, and we were but ill
provided with victuals for so long a run; and, which was still worse, there
was some danger that these English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued
us, whereof some were bound that way, might be got in before us, and, if not,
some other ship bound to China might have infonnation of us from them,
and pursue us with the same vigor.

I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself; including the
late escape from the long-boats, to have been in the most dangerous condi-
tion that ever I was in through my past life; for, whatever ill circumstances
I had been in, I was never pursued for a thief before; nor bad 1 ever
done any thing that merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much
less thievish; I had chiefly been my own enemy, or, as I may rightly
say, I had been nobody's enemy but my own; but now I was em-
barassed in the worst condition imaginable; for, though I was perfectly
innocent, I was in no condition to make that innocence appear; and if I had
been taken, it had been under a supposed guilt of the worst kind. This
made me very anxious to make an escape, though which way to do it I
knew not, or what port or place we could go to. My partner, seeing me
thus dejected, though he was the most concerned at first, began to en-
courage me, and, describing to me the several ports of that coast, told me
he would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the Bay of Tonquin, in-
tending afterwards to go to Macao, a town once in possession of the Por-
tuguese, and where still a great many European families resided; and par-
ticularly the missionary priests usually went thither in order to their going
forward to China.

Hither, then, we resolved to go; and, accordingly, though after a tedious
and irregular course, and very much straitened for provisions, we came
within sight of the coast very early in the morning; and upon reflection on
the past circumstances we Were in, and the danger, if we had not escaped,
we resolved to put into a small river. which, however, had depth enough
of water for us, and to see if we could, either overland or by the ship's
pinuace, come to know what ships were in any port thereaboutl. This
happy step was, indeed, our deliverance; for, though we did not immediately
see any European ships in the Bay of Tonquin, yet the next morning there
came into the hay two Dutch ships; and a third, without any colors spread
out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at about two
leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China; and, in the afiernoon,
went by two English ships steering the same course; and thus we thought
we saw ourselves beset with enemies both one way and the other. The place
we were in was wild and barbarous; the people thieves, even by occupa-
tion or profemion; and though, it is true, we had not much to seek of them,
and, except getting a few provisions, cared not how little we had to do with
them, yet it was with much difficulty that we kept ourselves from being
insulted by them several ways. We were in a small river of this country,
within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our boat we
coasted north-east, to the point of land which opens the great Bay of Ton-
quin; and it was in this beating up along the shore that we discovered
we Were surrounded with enemies. The people we were among were
the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the coast, having no corre-
' spondence with any other nation, and dealing only in fish and oil, and such
gross commodities; and it maybe particularly seen that theyare the most har-
barous of any of the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this one,
viz, that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it was not
long before we found a piece of their kindness this way on the occasion

following:
lhaveobserved above,that our ship sprung aleak at seaandthat

we could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said, it was
stopped unexpectedly, in the happy minute of our being to be seized by
the Dutch and English ships in the Bay of Siam; yet, as we did not find
the ship so perfectly tight and sound as we desired, we resdved, while we
were at this place, to lay her on shore,,and take out what heavy things
we had on board,and clean her bottom; and, ifpossiblqto find. outwhere
the leaks were; Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all
our guns and other moveahles to one side, we tried to bring her down,that
we mightcome ather bottom; but,on secondthoughts, we did noteare to
lay her on dry ground, neither could we find out a proper phee for it.

The inhabitants, who had never been acquahmd with such a sight, came
wondering down the shore to look at us; and, seeing the ship lie down on.
one side in such a manner, and healing in towards the shore, and not
seeing our men, who Were at Work on her bottom with stages, and with
their boats on the oti' side, they presently eoneluded that the ship was cast
nwuy, and lay so that on the ground. On this supposition, tltey all came
uhont us in two or three hours' time, with ten or twelve lnrgo bouts, having
some ot'thom eight, some ten men in u bout, intending, no doubt, to have come
on hourd nud plundered tlto ship; and, if they hud tinnul Int there, to have
enrried us nwny t'or slaves to their king, or whntever they roll him, for we
knew nothing ol'tlteir governor.

When they enmo up to the ship,nnd begun to row round her, they dis-
covered us ull lltll'tl at work on tho outside of the ship's bottom nnd side,
wushing, nnd gruving. mul stopping, us every sentiiring mutt knows how.
They stood tiir it while, gar/.ing at us, nml We, who were it little surprised,
eould not iltmgine what their design this; but, being willing to he sure, we
took this opportunity to get some of us into tlte ship, ntul others to hand
down nrms nnd mumuuition to those that were nt work to defend themselves
with, if there should be twensiou: mul it Wits no tnore then need; for, in
less then a qnnrter ol' rm hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the
ship wus really it wreek: tunl tlntt we were all at work endeavoring to
NWI'. her, or to save. our lives by the ltelp ol' ottr bouts; mul when we
lutnded our arms into tlte hont, they concluded, by that motion, that we
were endenvoring to sure some of our goods; upon this they took it for
granted \ve nll belonged to them, nnd away they eume directly upon our men,
us if it lnnl been ill u line of bottle.

()ur men. seeing so mnny of them, begun to be. frightened, for we. lay but
in an ill posture to light, and cried out to us to know what they should
do. I iuunedintely culled to the men Illttl. worked upon the stages, to slip
them down, and g2! up the side into the ship; and bath) those in the boat425 - 426
Missing
From
Original
to row round, and come on board; and those few who were on board
worked with all the strength and hands we had, to bring the ship to
rights; hut, hon/ever, neither the men upon the stages nor those in the boats
could do us they Went ordered, lit-litre the Cochin Chinese Were upon them;
nml two of their boats boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the
men as their prisoners.

The first man they laid hold of was an English scatnan, a stout, strong
l'uIIOW, who, having a musket in his hand, never offered to fire it, but
laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought; but he understood his
bushtees better than I could teach him; for he grappled the pagan, and
dragged him by main force out of their boat into ours, where, taking him
by the ears, he beat his head so against the boat's gunnel, that the fellow
died in his hands; and, in the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, took
up the musket, and with the butt-end of it so laid about him, that he
knocked down five of them who attempted to enter the boat. But this was
doing little towards resisting thirty or forty men, who, fearless, because ig-
norant of their danger, begun to throw themselves into the long-boat, where
we had but five men in all to dofen'd it; but the following accident, which
deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete victory.

Our carpenter, being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as well
as to pay the seams where he had calked her to stop the leaks; had got two
kettles just let down into the host, one filled with boiling pitch, and the
other with resin, tullow, and oil, and such stuff as the shipwrights use for
that work; and the mun that attended the carpenter had a great iron ladle' in
his hand, with which he supplied the men that were at work with the hot
stufil Two of the enemy's men entered the boat just where this fellow
stood, being' in the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted them with a ladle-
full of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned and scalded them, being half
naked, that they roared out like bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped both
into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out, " Well done, Jack! give
them some more of it;" and, stepping forward himsell; takes one of the
mops, and. dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among them
so plentifhlly, that, in short, of all the men in the three boats, there was not
one that escaped being scolded and burned with it, in a most frightful,
pitiful manner, and made such a howling and crying, that! never heard a ,
worse noise; for it is worth observing, that, though pain naturally makes all
people cry out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclamation, and
makes noises as difl'erent from one another-as their speech. I cannot give
the noise these creatures made a better name titan howling, nor a name
morepropertothetoneofitfibrlnevervheard any thing more likethe
noiseofthe wolveawhiehms lhavesaid,l heardhowl intheforestoa the
frontiers of haguedoe.

l wasnem better pleased with a victoryia myiifii; not onlyasit was
aperfect surprise to me, and that our danger was hnminentbeforqbutas
we got this victory without any bloodshed, except of that man the fellow
killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much concerned at; for
I was sick of killing such poor savage wretchee, even though itwas in my
own defence; knowing they came on errands which they thought just, and
knew no better; and that though it may be a just thing, because necessary,
(for there is no necessary wickedness in nature,) yet I thought it was a sad
life, when we must be always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to4:38 'rllt: LII-'t'. axn Anvm'rrnns

preserve ourselves; and. indeed. l think so still: and I would even now
stiller a great deal, rather than I would take away the litii even nt' tho
worst person injuring me: and. I believe. all eonsidering people, who know
the value nl' life. would be of my opinion, it' they entered seriously into tho
eonsidemtion nl' it.

llat In return to my storyt--All tltu while this was doing, my lutrtnor atul
I, who tmnmged the rest of the men on board, had with great dexterity
brought the ship almost In rights. and having got the guns into their plures
again. the gunner ealled to tne to bid our boat get nttt of the way, litr ho
would let lly among Ila-m. l ealled Ina-k again to him. and bid him not
inner to Iir-. lhr the earpenter would do the work without him: bttt bid
him heat another piteIt-kettle, whit'h nttr enok, who was on board, took
eat'e ol'; but the enemy was so tert'itied with what they had tnet with in their
tit-st attnek. that they would not enme on again : atnl some of them who \vero
farthest oll', seeing the ship swim. as it were, upright, lwgtut, as we suppose,
In see their mistake. atal give over the enterprise. finding it was not as they
t'\|lt't'lt'tl. Thus we got elear of this merry light: tunl having got somo
riee. aml some roots atal bread, with about si\teett hogs, on board. two days
helium \ve resolved In stay here no longer. but go livrwnrd, whatever eamo
of it : Iitr we made no doubt but we should be surrounded the next day with
rogues enough, perhaps tnnre than our piteh-kettle \vnuld dispose of for
us. "'e then-litre gnt all our things nu board the same evening, and tlto
next morning wer- ready to sail: in the mean time. lying at attehor at some
distanee ti'mn the shore. we were not so mneh enneerned, heing now in a
lighting posture. us well as in a sailing posture. if any enemy had presented.
The next day. having finished our work within board, and finding our ship
was perli-etly healed of all her leaks. we set sail. We would have gone
into the llu_v nl' 'I'nmptin, the we wanted to lllllll'tlt ourselves of what was to
be known eotteerning the Ihtteh ships tlntt had been there; but we dnrst not
stand in ther-. beeause. we laid seen several ships go in.as We snptmsed,
but a little before: so we kept on N. It. townrds the. Island of Formosa, us
mueh afraid of being seen by a llnteh or English merchant-ship, as a
Duteh or English an-rehant-ship, in tho Mediterram-an, is nt'au Algerino
nmu-nI'-\var.

When we were thus got to sea. we kept on N. I'L, as it' we would go
to the lllunillas or the Philippine Islands; atal this we did tlatt we. might
not tidl into the way of any of the l".nrn|wan ships: aml then we. stem-ml
north. till we emne to the latitude of 2:! degrees 30 minutes, by whieb means
we made the Island l-'nrmnsa din-etly, where we eame to nu auehor, in
order to get water and fresh provisions, whieh the people there. who am
very eanrteons atnl eivil in their manners. supplied us with willingly. and
dealt very Iitirly and pnnetnally with us in all their agreements nnd bargains;
which is what we did not find among other people, and may be owing to
the remains of ('hristianity whieh was onee planted hero by n Dnteh mitt-
sionary ol' Protestants, and is a testimony of what I have olleu olmm'cd,
viz, that the ('hristian religion always eivilizes the people and reforms
their numuers, where it is reeeived, whether it works saving etiocts upon
them or no.

l-'rum Ila-nee we. sailed still north. keeping the coast of China at an
equal distant-e, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of China, whom
our European ships usually come; being resolved, it' possible, not to litllor untthsoN ent'soe. 4'39

into any of their hands, especially in this country; where, as our circum-
stances Were, we. could not titil of being entirely ruinetL

lining now cotne tn the latitude of 30 degrees, we resolved to put into
the lirst trading port we should come at; and, standing in liir the shore. a
boat came oll'twn leagues to us with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who,
knowing tut tn he a I'Inropmtn ship, catno to nlli-r his service, which. indeed,
we were glad nl, and took hitn on board; upon which, without asking us
whither we would go, be dismissed the boat he cattle in, and sent it back.

I thought it was now so much itt ottr choice tn make the old man carry
us whither we wnnhl, that I began to talk to him about carrying us tn the
Gulf of Natuptin, which is tlto most northern part of tlte coast of China.
The. old ntan said he knew tlto Gulf of Numptin very well; but, smiling,
asked us what we would do there? I told hittt we wottld sell our cargo,
ntnl purchase China wares, ealieoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, kc" tunl so
would return by the same course we tuunc. He told us ottr best port had
been to put in ttt Macao, where we could ttnt have litiled nl'a market for
our opitntt to our satislitctiou, atnl might, litt' our money, have purchased all
sorts ol'Cbina goods as cheap as We could at Natuptin.

Not being ttblo to put tlte old man out of his talk, of which he was very
opinionated or conceited, I told him We were gentlemen as well as mer-
chants, and tltat we had a mind to go mnl see the gum city of l'-kin, atnl
the linttnas court ol'the monarch of China. " Why. then," says the old man,
" you should go to N ingpo, where, by the river which rims into the sen them,
you may go up within live leagues ol' the great canal. This canal is a
navigable stream, which goes through the heart of tlntt vast empire ol'China,
crosses all tlto rivets, passes some considerable bills by the help of slttiees
atnl gates, atnl goes up to the eity of l' akin, being in length near two Intu-
dred and seventy leagues"

"Well," said I, "Seiguior Portuguese, but tltat is not our basil-era now;
the great question is, it'yna eatt carry us up to the city of Nanqnin, from
whence we. can travel to l'ekiu allertvards." He said he could do so very
well, and tlntt there was a great Dutch ship gone tip that way just before.
This gave me a little shock, tbr a Dutch ship was now our terror, and we
had much rather have tnet the detil, at least il'lte had ttot come in too fright-
lhl :1 figure: and we. depended ulna: it that a Dutch ship Would he ottr
destnletinn, for We Were in no condition to tight theta; all the ships they
trade with into those parts being of great burden, and of much greater force
than we were.

The old man tinnnl me a little t'ultlllsml, and under some concern, when
he named a Dutch ship; and said to me, "Sir, yott need be under no
apprehensions ot' the Dutch; I suppose they we not now at war with your
nation." "No," said I, "that's true; lntt I know not what liberties men
may take wltott they are nttt ol' the reach of the laws of their own country."
" Why," says Ito, " you are no pirates; what need you fear? They will not
meddle with peaceable merchants sure."

If] had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at that
word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels appointed by nature to
circulate it. for it put me into the greatest disorder and confusion imagina-
ble; ttor was it possible tia- mo to conceal it so but the old man easily
perceived it.

"Sir," says he, "I find you are itt some disorder in your thoughts at my
 

talk; pray he pleased to go which way you think lit, and, depend upon it,
I'll do you all the service I can." " \Vhy, seignior," said I. "it is true I atn a
little unsettled in my resolution at this time. whither to go in particular: and
lumsomething more so for what you said ahout pirates. I hope then' are
no pirates in these seas: we are hut in an ill condition to meet with Ila-mo
for you see we have hat a small time. and are hut very weakly manned."
"O, sir," gays he, "don't be concerned: I do not know that them have been
any pimtes in theec seas these titlcen ycam, except one, which was seen,
an I hear, in the Bay ot'Siam, about a month since: but you may he almond
she is gone to the southward; nor wan alte a ship of any great force, or fit
liir the Work: she was not built tor a pri\'utecr, hat was run away with by
a rcprohatc crew that was on hoard, atler the captain and some of his men
had been murdered by tho lllalayatw, at or near the Island of Suma-
tra." "\Vhat," said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, "did they
murder the captain?" "No," said he, "I don't understand that they mur-
dered him; but, as they alierwards ma away with the ship, it is generally
believed that they betrayed him into the hands of the Malayana, who did
murder him, and perhaps they pnmured them to do it." " Why, then," said
1, "they deserve death as lunch as it' they had done it themselves." "Nay,"
any- the old man, "they do deserve it ; and they will certainly have it, if they
light upon any English or Dutch ship; for they have all agreed together,
that. it' they meet that rogue, they'll give him no quarter." " Bat," said Ito
him, "you say the pirate is gone out of these seas: how can they meet with
him, then?" "Why, tlmt'a true," says he, "they do say no; but he was
as I tell you, in the Bay of Siam, in the River Cambodia, and was discovered
there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and who were left on
shore when they run away with her; aml, some English and Dutch traders
being in the river, they Were within a little of taking him: nay," said he, "if
the foremost boats had been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly
taken him ; bttt he, finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about,
and fired at those two, and disabled them before the others came up, and
then standing of to sea, the others Were not able to follow, and so he got
away; but they have all so exact a description of the ship, that they will be
sure to know her; and, wherever they find her, they have vowed to give no
quarter, either to the captain or seamen, but to hang them all up at the yard-
arm." " What!" said I, " will they execute them, right or wrong; hang them
first, and judge them afierwards ? " " O, sir," says the old pilot, "there is no
need to make a formal business of it with such rogues as those; let them tie
them back to back, and set them a diving; 'tis no more than they deserve."

lknewl had my old man fast on board, and that he could do no harm,
so that I turned short upon him: "Well, now, seiguior," said I, "this is the
very reason why I would have you carry us up to Nanquin, and not put
back to Macao, or to any other part of the country where the English or
Dutch ships come; for, be it known to you, seignior, those captains of the
English and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent fellows,
that neither know what belongs to justice, or how to behave themselves as
the laws of God and nature direct; but, being prottd of their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would act the murderers to punish robbers;
would take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and determine them
guilty without due inquiry: and perhaps I may live to bring some of them to
account for it, when they may be taught how justice is to be executed; and
that no tnatt ought to he treated as a criminal till some evidence may be had
of the crime, and that he is the man."

With this,l told him that this was the very ship they attacked, and gave
him a full account ofthe skirmish we had with their boats, and how foolishly
and cowardly they behaved. I told him all the story of our buying the ship,
and how the Dutchman served us. I told him the reasons! had to believe
the story of killing the master by the Malayans was true, as also the running
away with the ship; but it was all a fiction of their own, to suggest that
the men had turned pirates, and they ought to have been sure it was so,

before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to resist '
thorn; adding, that they would have the blood of those men, whom we killed

there in just defence, to answer for.

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told tts we were very much
in the right to go away to the north; and that, it'he might advise us, it should
be to sell the ship in China, which we might very well do, and buy or build
another in the country; "and," said he, "though you will not get so good a

ship, yet you may get one able enough to carry you and all your goods baelr :
again to Bengal, or any where else." I told him I would take his advice when

lcametoanyportwharelwuldfindadfipformymmorgetanyem'.
tobuythis. He replied,lsbould moetwith customers enough forth-lip '
atNanquia, andthata Chinese-junk weuldsei'vemevery well to go beat EV"
again;andthathewouldprecuremepeoplebothtohuyoneandselltha .
other. "Well, but, seignior," saidl,"as you saytbeykaowtbeshipsowell,

I may, perhaps, if 1 follow your measures, be insuuutantal to bring some
 

honest, innocent men into a terrible broil, and perhaps to be murdered in
cold blood; for, wherever they find the ship, they will prove the guilt upon
the men, by proving this was the ship; and so innocent men may probably
be overpowered and murdered." " Why," says the old man, "I'll find out a
way to prevent that also; for, as 1 know all those commanders you speak of
very well, and shall see them all as they pass by, I will be sure to set them
to rights in the thing, and let them know that they had been so much in the
wrong; that though the people who were on board at first might run away
with the ship, yet it was not true that they had turned pirates; and that, in
particular, those were not the men that first went off with the ship, but inno-
cently bought her for their trade; aml I am persuaded they will so lhr believe
me, as at least to act more cautiously for the time to come."

\Vhile these things were passing between us, by way of discourse, we
went forward directly for Nanqnid, and in about thirteen days' sail, came to
an anchor, at the south-west point of the great Gulf of Nanquin ; where, by
the way, I came by accident to understand that two Dutch ships were gone
the length before me, and that I should certainly fall into their hands. 1 con-
sulted my partner again in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I
was, and would very gladly have been safe on shore almost any where: how-
ever, I was not in such perplexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if there
was no creek or harbor which I might pttt into and pursue my business with
the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of the enemy. He told me, if I
would sail to the southward about forty-two leagues, there was a little port
called Quinchang, where the fathers of the mission usually landed from
Macao, on their progress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships <<wt-r put in; and if] thought to put in there, I
might consider what litrtlter course to take when l was on shore. lle con-
fessed, he said. it was not a place for merchants, except that at some certain
times they had a kind of a litir there, when the merchants from Japan came
tn'cr tltitltor to buy Chinese titercbandises.

We all agreed to go back to this place; the uatne of the port, as he called
it. I may perhaps spell wrong, lbr I do not lmrticularly remember it. having
lust this, together with the names of many other placea set down in a little
pocket-book, which Watt spoiled by the water by an accident; but tltis I re-
member, that the Chinese or Japanese merchants we corresponded with,
called it by a ditl'ereat name float that which our Portuguese pilot gave it,
and pronounced it, as above, Quittchaug.

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we weighed
the next day. having only gone twice on shore where we were to get fresh
water; on both which occasions the people of the country were very civil to
us. and brought us abundance of things to sell to us,-l mean of provisions,
plants, roots, tea, rice, and some fowls; but nothing without money.

We ('ttlllo to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till five days but
it was very much to our satisfictien; and l was joythl, and I may say thank-
thl. when I set any that on shore, resolving, and my partner too, that if it
was lmssihle to dispose of ourselves and efl'ecto anyother way, though not
every way to our satisfaction, we would never set one lbot on board that
unhappy vessel more; and, indeed, I must acknowledge, that, of all the
t'ln'tlttlslttltt'uu ol' liliu that ever I had any experience of, nothing makes
nutnkiud so completely miserable as that of being itt constant ti-ur. \Vell
does the Scripture say, "'rltt' li-nr ul' ttuut brings a snare;" it is a lift! of
death, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable of no
relief.

Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by heightening
every danger; repn'senting the English and Dutch captaitts to be men
incapable of hearing reason. or of distinguishing between honest men and
rogues; or helm-en a story calculated for ottr own turn. made out of
nothing, on purpose to (leech-e, and a true, genuine account of our whole
voyage, progress, and design; for we might, many ways, have convinced
any reasonable creatures that we more not pirates; the goods we had on
board, the course we steered, our frankly showing ourselves, and entering
into such and such ports: and even our very manner, the force we had,
the number of men, the few ernng the little ammunition. short provisions;
all these would have served to convince any men that we were no pirates.
'l'he opiunt and other goods we had on board would make it appear the
ship had been at Bengal. 'l'he Dutchmen, who, it was said, had the names
of all the men that Were in the ship. might easily see that we were a
mixture of English, Portuguese, and indium, and but two Dutchmen on
board. These, and many other particular circumstances, might have made
it evident to the understanding of any commander, whose hands we might
fall into, that we were no pirates. But fear, that blind, useless passion,
worked another way, and throw us into the vapors; it bewildered our
understandings, and set the imagination at work to than a thousand terrible
things that perhaps might never happen. We firstsnpposed, as indeed every
bodyhadrelatcdtouathatthesesmenonboardthefinghshsndbtmh

55434 ms urn nan anemones

ships, but esmcially the Dutch, were so enraged at the name of a pirate,
and especially at our beating 03' their boats and escaping, that they would
not give themselves leave to inquire whether we were pirates or no, but
would execute us ofi' hand, as we call it, without giving us any room for
a defence. We reflected that there really was so much apparent evidence
before them, that they \vould scarce inquire utter aity more; as, first, that
the ship was certainly the aame, and that some of the seamen among
them knew her, and had been on heard her; and, secondly, that when we
had intelligence at the River of Cambodia that they were coming down to
examine us, we fought their hosts and tied; so that we made no doubt
but they were as tlilly satisfied of our being pirates, as we were satisfied
ot' the contrary; and, as I often said,l know not but I should have been
apt to have taken those circumatancoa for evidence, ii' the tables were
tnrned,and my case was theirs; aml havo made no sample of cutting all
the crew to pier-ca, without believing, or perhaps considering, what they
might have to offer in their defence.

But let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions; and both my
partner aml l scarce slow a night without dreaming of haltera and yard-
arms, that is to say, gibbeta; nt'tighting, and being taken; of killing, and
being killed: and one night I was in such a titry in my dream, fancying
the Dutchmen ltad boarded as, and l was knocking one of their acumen
down, that I struck my double flat against the side of the cabin I lay in
with such a force as wounded my hand grievonaly, broke my knuckles, and
cut and bruised the flesh, so that it awaited me out of my sleep.

Another apprehension I had was, the cruel usage We might meet with
from them it' We fell into their hands: then the story of Amboyna came
into my head, and how the Dutch might perhaps tenure as, as they did
our countrymen there, and make some of-ois' mes, by extremity of torture,
confess those crimes they never were guilty of} or own themselves and all
ofus to be pirates, and sotheywould putustodeathwith aformsl
appearance of justice; and that they might be tempted to do this for the
gain of our ship and cargo, which was worth four or five thomand pounds,
put all together.

These things tormented me,snd my partner too, night and day; nos-did
we consider that the captains of ships have no authority to act thus; and
if we had surrendered prisoners to them, they could not answer the de-
stroying us, or torturing us, but would be accountable tor it when they
came to their own country: this, I say, gave me no mtiafaetion; for if
they were to not thus with us, what advantage would it he to us thatthey
should he called to an account for it ?-or, if we were first to be mur-
dered, what satisfaction would it be to us to have them punished when
they came home P

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections I now had upon the
vast variety of my particular circumstances; how hard I thought it was
that I, who had spent forty years in a life of continual dificulties, and
was at last come, as it were, to the port or haven which all men drive at,
viz, to have rest and plenty, should be a volunwer in new sorrows by my
own unhappy choice; and that I, who had escaped so many dangers in
my youth, should now come to be hanged in my old age, and in so remote
a place, for a crime which I was not in the least inclined to, much less
guilty oi!

Alter these thoughts, something of religion would come in; and I should
be considering that this seemed to me to be a disposition of immediate
providence, and l ought to look upon it and submit to it as such; that
although i was innocent as to men, 1 was fiir' from being innocent as to
my Maker; and I ought to look in and examine what other crimes in my
life were most obvious to rue, and for which Providence might justly inflict
this punishment as a retribution; and that i ought to submit to this, just
as I would to n shipwreck, if it had pleased God to havo brought such a
disaster upon me.

In its turn natural courage would sometimes take its place, and then 1
would be talking myself up to vigorous resolutions; that I would not be
taken to be harbarously used by a parcel "merciless wretches in cold
blood; that it were much better to have filial into the hands of the sav-
ages, though I was sure they would feast alumna MM. had taken
rue, than those who would perhaps glut their rage upondma'. by inhuman

tortures and barbarities; that in the case ofthersawges, lalways resolved .

to die fighting to the last gasp, and why should I M aohow' seeing it
was much more dreadful, to me at least, to think of figllingninto these
men's hands, than ever it was to think of Being entered)! lists} for the
savages, give them their due, would not eat a man till ha'mliilled and
dead, but that these men had many arts heyoad\the eriialty'i-pt'death.
Whenever these thoughts prevailed-{was autelb'pit: mealtime a kind
of {liver with the agitation of a supposed tights: 'r'ny blood would boil, and
myeyuaparquuiflwasensfisedvandlalwayaresolvedtotakeno
quarter at their hands, but, even at last, if I could rea'nt no longer, I
would blow up the ship and all that was in her, and leave them but little
booty to boast of:
The greater Weight the anxictiea and pendexitiea ot' tltcao things were
to our thoughts while we were at sea, the [matter was our aatiatitetiett
when we now ourselves on shore; and my partner told me he dreamed
that he had a very heavy load upon hit back, whiclt ho waa to carry up
a hill,aud foetal that he was not able to stand longer under it; but that
the Portuguese pilot eauw and took it otl' his book. and the hill iii-appeared,
tlte ground balore him appearing all tnnooth and plain: and truly it waa
so, they were all like melt who had a load taken otl' their bet-.Ita. For my
port, I had a Weight taken <<of than my heart that it We: not able any
longer to hear; and, as I said ahoVe, we resolved to go no more to arm in
that ship. When we came on show, the old pilot, who was now our
friend, got us a lodging and a warehouse. for our goods, which, hy the
way, wu- tnuch tho tonne: it was a little house, or hat, with a larger house
adjoining to it, all built with mun-s, and lmliaadocd round with large canca,
to keep out pilt'eriug thicvos, of which, it Ht'ttltltl, there were not a titer in
that country: however, the magistrates allowed us a little guard. and we
laid a soldier with a kind ot' halhord, or half-pike, who stood sentinel at
ottr door; to whom wo allom-d a pint of rice, and a little piece ot'utonoy,
about the value of than-pence, por day, so that our goods were kept very
satin

The fair, or mart, usually kept in this place, had been over some time :
however, we tiiund that them were three or timr junk>> in the rchr, and
two .lapatuters, ---l tin-.nn ships from Japan. ---with goods which they lutd
bought in China, and wore not gone away, having some Japanese mer-
chants on show.

The tire! thing mtr old Portuguese pilot did tbr us was, to get us
acquainted with three tniaaiouary Rotnish priests who were in the town,
and who had been there sonte titne converting the woplo to Christianity;
but we thought they made but poor \vork ot' it, and made them but aorry
Christiana when they had done; hourover, that was none ot' our business.
One et' those was a Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon; another
was a l'ortugueae; tutti the third a "choose; but Father Simon was
courteous, easy in his manner, aml wry agreeable eouipany; the other
two were more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied seriously
to the work they came about, rim, to talk with, and insinuate tlu-m~
wives among the inhabitanta, whenever they hml opportunity. We ollcu
ate and drunk with these men; out! though, I must confess, the con-
version, as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so liar from
the true conversion required to bring heathen people to the titith of Christ,
that it seems to amount to little more than letting them know the name
of Christ, and any atunc prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a
tongue which they undonttaud not, and to cross themselves, and the like;
yet it must be contimacd that the n-littiouiatu, whom Wt) call missionaries
have a firm belief that those people will be aavod, and that they are the
instruments of it; and, on this amount, they undergo not only the fatigue
of the voyage, and the hazards of living in such places, but ottentituoa
death itaclt; and the most violent tortures, for the sake ot' thia work.

But to return to my story: This French priest, Father Simon, waa
appoiawd, it aeema, by order of the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin,
the royal aeat of the Chinese emperor, and waited only for another prieat,
who waa ordered to come to him from Macao, to go along with him; and
we scarce ever met together but he was inviting me to go that journey;
telling me how he would show me all the glorioua things of that mighty
empire, and, among the rest, the greatest city in the world; "a city," said
he, "that your London and our Paris put together cannot be equal to."
This w the city of Pokin, which, I conlbss, in very great, and infinitely
full of people; but as I looked on thoee things with different eyes from
other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in a few words, when I
come, in the ooum of my travels, to speak more pdrticulsrly of them.
But, first, I come to my Irin- or min-lonely. Dining with him one day,
and being very merry together, lahowed some little inclination to go with
him; end he pron-ed mo and my lutrtnor very hard, and with a great many
persttaeions, to consent. "Why, Father Simon," says my partner, "ahould
you desire our company so much ? You know We are heretics, and you do
not love us, nor cannot keep us company with any pleasure." "0!" says
he, "you may perhups be good Cutholice in time; my business here is to

 

convert henthens, and who knows but I may convert you too ?" " Very
well, father," said I; "so you will preach to its all the way?" "I will
not be troublesome to you," says he; "our religion does not divest us of-
good manners; besides, we are here like countrymen; end so we are,
compared to the pm ween in; mdifywanfluguemwdlaCath--
olie,we my all he Christiane at last; at least,we are all gentlemand
we may convene sq without being uneasy to one another." I liked thb
partot'hisdiseourseverywell, and it begantoputmeinmindofmy
priestthatlhedleltintheBrasils; butthisl-'atherSimondid notcome
up to ltis character by a great deal; for, thottglt Father Simon had no
appearance of a eritttinal levity itt him neitlter, yet he had not that fund
of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere afi'ection to religion, that my
otlter good ccclesiastic bad.

But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor soliciting us to
go with him,---we had something else before us at first, for we had all
this while our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to
be Very doubtful what we should do, tor we were now itt a place of very
little business; and once I was about to venture to sail for the river of
Kilatu, and the city of Naaquitt; but Providence seemed now more visibly,
as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our afl'airs; and [was encour-
aged, liom this very time, to think I should, one way or other, get out of
this entangled circumstance, attd be brought home to nty own country
again, though I had not the least view of the manner. Providence, lsay,
began here to clear up our way a little; and the first thing that offered
was, that ottr old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
inquired what goods we had; and, in the first place, he bought all our
opium,and gave tie a Very good price for it, paying Its in gold byweight,
some itt small pieces of their own coin, and some itt small wedges, of
about tett or twelve ounces each. While we were dealing with ltitn lin'
ottr opittttt, it came ittlo ttty ltead that lte might perhaps deal for the ship
too, ttttd I ordered tlte interpreter to propose it to hint: he shrunk up his
shoulders at it, when it Was first proposed to hint; httt ill a few days
alter he came to tne, with one of the missionary priests for his interpreter,
and told tne lte ltud a proposal to make to me, which was this:--lto had
bought a great quantity of goods of us, when he had no thoughts of pro-
posals made to him of buying the ship; attd tltat, tlterelbre, he had not
money enough to pay for the ship: but il'l would let tlte same men who
were itt the ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan;
and would send them front thence to the Philippine Islands with another
loading, which he would pay the freight of before they went frotn Japan;
tutd tltat at their return he Would btty the ship. I began to listen to his
proposal, attd so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I could
not bttt begin to entertain a notion of going myself with him, and so to
set sail from tlte Philippine lslttttds away to the South Seas; accordingly,
I asked the Japanese Inert-hunt if he Would not hire us to the Philippine
Islands, and discharge tts there. He said, no, he. could ttot do that, for tlten
he could not how the return of his cargo; bttt lte Would discharge its in
Japan, at tlto ship's return. Well, still I was lbr taking him at that pro-
posal, attd goittg myself; but my partner, wiser tltatt myself; persuaded ttte
from it, representing tlte dangers, as Well of the seas as of the Japanese,
who are a litlse, cruel, attd treacherous people; likewise those of the
Spaniards at tlte Philippines, more litlse, cruel, attd treacherous than they.

But to bring this long tum of our affairs to a conclusion: the first thing
we ltad to do was, to consult with the captain of the ship, and with his men,
attd know if they were willing to go to Japan: and while I was doing this,
the young man whom my nephew had left with tne as my companion for
my travels. came to me, and told me that he thought that voyage premised.
very fair, and that there was a great prospect of advantage, and he would
be very glad it'l undertook it; but that lf 1 would not, and would give him
leave, he Would go as a merchant, or how I pleased to order him; that if
 

ever he came to England, and I was there and alive, he would render me a
faithful account of his succem, which should be as much mine as I pleased.
I was really loath to part with him; but, considering the prospect of advan-
tage, which really was considerable, and that he was a young fellow as
likely to do well in it as any I knew, I inclined to let him go; but I told him
I would consult my partner, and give him an answer the next day. My
partner and I discoursed about it, and my partner made a most generous
offer: " You know it has been an unlucky ship," said he, " and we both re-
solve not to go to sea in it again: if your steward (so he called my man)
will venture the voyage,l will leave my share of the vessel to him,and let
him make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England, and he meets
with success abroad, he shall account for one half of the profits of the ship's
freight to us; the other shall be his own."

If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young man, made him
such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the crime; and all the ship's
company being willing to go with him, we made over half the ship to him is
property, and took a writing from him, obliging him to account for the other;
and away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very punctual,
honest man to him; protected him at Japan, and got him a license to come
on shore, which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
his freight very punctually; sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan
and China wares, and a supercargo of their own, who, traficlring with the
Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and a great quantity of
cloves and other spices; and there he was not, onlypaid his freight very

well, and atavery good price, but not being willingtosell the-hip then, the

merchant furnished him goods on his own account; andwithsome money
and some spices of his own which he brought with hirn,he went back to
theManillaetotht-Span'nnhwherehesoldhiscargoverywell. Bare.

L--L\'_ - -
having got a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship;
and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco, in America, on
the coast of Mexico, and gave him a license to land there, and to travel to
Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe, with all his men. He
made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and there he sold his ship; and
having there also obtained allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he
found means, somehow or other, to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure; and,
about eight years afler, came to England exceeding rich, of which I shall
take notice in its place; in the mean time, I return to our particular affairs.

Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, it came before us, of
course, to consider what recompense we should give to the two men that
gave us such timely notice of the design against us in the River Cambodia.
The truth was, they had done us a very considerable service, and deserved
well at our hands; though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues too;
for, as they believed the story of our being pirates, and that we had really
run away with the ship, they came down to us not only to betray the design
that was fonned against us, httt to go to sea with tts as pirates; and one of
them confessed afterwards that nothing else but the hopes of going a-roguing
brought him to do it: however, the service they did us was not the less;
and, therefore, as I had promised to be grateful to them, i first ordered the
money to be paid them which they said was due to them on board their
respective ships; ovcr and above that, I gave each of them a small sum of
money in gold, which contented them very wall; then I tnade the English-
man gunner in the ship, the gunner being now made second mate and
parser; the Dutchman 1 made hontswaiu; so they were both very well
pleased, and proved very serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout
fellows.

We were now on shore in China: if I thought myself banished and rec
mote from my own country at Bengal, where I had many ways to get home
for my money, what could I think of myself now, when I was got about a
thousand leagues farther off from home, and perfectly destitute of all mn-
ner ol' prospect of return? All we had for it was this, that in about four
months' time there was to be another fair at the place where we were, and
then we might be able to purchase all sorts of the manufactures of the
country, and withal might possibly find some Chinese junks or vewels from
Tonquin, that would he to be sold, and would carry us and onrgoods whither
we pleased. This I liked very well, and resolved to wait; besides, as our
particular persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch ships
came thither, perhaps we might have an opportunity to load our goods, and
get [mange to mate other place in India nearer home. Upon these hopes,
we resolved to continue here; but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three
joumeys into the country. First, we Went ten days' journey, to the city of
Nanquin, a city well worth seeing, indeed; they say it has a million of people
in it: it is regularly built, the streets all exactly straight, and cross one
another in direct lines, which gives the figure of it great advantage, But,
when I come to compare the miserable people of these countries with
ours; their fabrics, their manner of living, their government, their religion,
their wealth, and their glory, as some call it, I must confess that [scarcely
think it worth my while to mention them here. It is very observable, that"
wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the cemmonieqthe govern-
ment, the manufactures, the commerce, and conduct of these pcsplettnot
that it is to be wondered at, or, indeed, in the least to be regarded, but
because, having a true notion of the barbarity of those countries, the rude-
ness and the ignorance that prevail there, we do not expect to find any such
thing so titr ofil Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces and
royal buildings of Europe? What their trade to the universal commerce
of England, Holland, France, and Spain? What are their cities to ours,
for Wealth, strength, gayety of apparel, rich furniture, and infinite variety?
What are their ports, supplied with a few junks and barks, to our navigation,
our merchant fleets, our large and powerful navies? Our city of London
has more trade than half their mighty empire: one English, Dutch, or
French man-of-war of eighty guns, would be able to fight almost all the
shipping belonging to China: but the greatness of their wealth, their trade,
the power of their government, and the strength of their armies, may be a
little surprising to us, because, as l. have said, considering them as a barba-
rous nation of pagans, little better than savages we did not expect such
things among them: and this, indeed, is the advantage with which all their
greatness and power is represented to us; otherwise, it is in itself nothing
at all; for what I have said of their ships may be said of their armies and
troops; all the forces of their empire, though they were to bring two rail-
lions of men into the field together, would be able to do nothing but ruin
the country, and starve themselves, if they were to besiege a strong town in
Flanders, or to fight a disciplined army; one good line of German cuiras-
siers, or of French cavalry, might withstand all the horse of China; a mil-
lion of their foot could not stand before one embattled body of our infantry,
posted so as not to be surrounded, though they were not to be one to twenty
in number; any, 1 do not boast, if I say, that thirty thousand German or
English foot, and ten thousand horse, well managed, could defeat all the
forces of China; and so of our fortified towns, and of the art of our engi-
neers in assaulting and defending towns; there is nota fortified town in China
could hold out one month against the batteries and attacks of a European .
army; and, at the same time, all the armies of China could never take such
a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not starved; no, not in a ten years'
siege. They have fire-anus, it is true, but they are awkward and uncertain
in their going off; and their powder has but little strength. Their armies
are badly disciplined, and want skill to attack, or temper to retreat; and,
therefore, I must confess, it seemed strange to me, when I came home, and
heard our people say such fine things of the power, glory, magnificence,
and trade of the Chinese; because, as far as I saw, they appeared to be a con-
temptible herd or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, subjected to a govern-
ment qualified only to rule such a people; and were not its distance incon-
ceivably great from Muscovy, and the Muscovite empire in a manner as rude,
impotent, and ill-governed as they, the czar of Muscovy might with ease
drive them all out of their country, and conquer them in one campaign; and
had the car (who is now a growing prince) fallen this way, instead of
attacking the wulike Swedes, and equally improved himself in the art of
war, as they say he has done; and if none of the powers of Europe had
envied or interrupted him, he might by this time have been emperor of
China, instead of being beaten by the king of SWeden at Narva, when the
latter waanotonetosixin number. As their strength and their grandeur,
so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry, are very imperfect, compared
tothe mme things in Europe; also,in their knowledge, their leara'mg,and
56
 

in their skill in the sciences, they are either very awkward or defective, though
they have globes or spheres, and a smattering of the mathematics, and think
they know more than all the world besides; but they know little of the mo-
tions of the heavenly bodies; and so grossly and absurdly ignorant are their
common people, that, when the sun is eclipsed, they think a great dragon
has assaulted it, and is going to run away with it; and they fall a cluttering
with all the drums and kettles in the country, to fright the monster away,
just as we do to hive a swarm of bees.

As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have made in all the
accounts I have given of my travels, so 1 shall make no more such; it is
none of my business, nor any part of my design; but to give an account of
my own adventures through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long
variety of changes, which, perhaps, few that come after me will have heard
the like of: 1 shall, therefore, say very little of all the mighty places, desert
countries, and numerous people 1 have yet to pass through, more than relates
to my own story, and which my concern among them make necessary.

I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about thirty
degrees north of the line; for we were returned from Nanquin: I had, indeed,
a mind to see the city of Pckin, which I had heard so much of; and Father
Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going away
being set, and the other missionary, who was to go with him, being arrived from
Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve either to go or not; so 1 re
ferred it wholly to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice, who at length
resolved it in the-affirmative, and we prepared for our journey. \Ve set out
with very good advantage, as to tinding the way; for we got leave to travel
in tho retinue of one of their mandaring a kind of Viceroy or principal ma-
gistrate in the province where they reside, and who tnlte great state upon
them, travelling with great attetulance, and with great homage from the
people, who are sometimes greatly impoverished by them; being obliged to
litrnish provisions for them and all their attendants in their journeys. That
which I particularly ohservod, as to our unveiling with his baggage, was this,
that, though we received sutlicient provisions both for ourselves and our
horses from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet we were obliged
to pay for every thing we had, alter the market price" the country, and the
mandarin's steward collected it duly item as; so that our travelling in the
retinue ot' the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to us, was not
such a mighty favor in him, but was a great advantage to him, consider-
ing there were above thirty other people travelled in thentne manner besides
us, umler the protection of his retinue; litr the country 11th all the pro-
visions for nothing to him, and yet he took our money lbr them.

We were twenty-five days travelling to Pekin, through a country infinitely
populous, but 1 think badly cultivated; the husbandry, the economy, and the
way of living miserable, though they boast so touch of the industry of the
people; I say miserable, it' compared with our own, but not so to these poor
wretches, who know no other. The pride of the people is infinitely great,
and exceeded by nothing but their poverty, in some parts, which adds to that
which I call their misery ; and I must needs think the naked ravages of Amer-
ica live much more happy than the poorer sort of these, because as they
have nothing, so they desire nothing; whereas these are proud and insolent,
and in the main are in many parts more beggars and drudgcs; their ostenta-
tiou is inexpretuihlt': and, il' they can, they love to keep multitudes of ser-
vants or slaves, which is to the last degree ridiculous as well as the contempt
of all the world but themselves.

[must confess. ltravelled more pleasantly alterwanls in the deserts and
vast wildernesscs of Grand 'l'artnry than here; and yet the roads- here are
well paved and well kept, and very conVcnient for travellers; but nothing was
more awkward to me than to see such a haughty, imperiouts insolent people,
in the midst of the grease" simplicity and ignorance; and my friend Father
Simon and I used to he very merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly
pride of these people: for example. coming by the house of a country
gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues off the city of
Nauquin. we had, first of all, the honor to ride with the master of the
house, about two miles; the state he rode in was a peril-ct Don Quixoteistn,
being a mixture of pomp and poverty. the habit was very proper for a
scaramoucb, or merry-entire"; being a dirty calico, with hanging sleeves,
tassela. and outs and slashes almost on every side; it covered a tafi'ety vest,
as greasy as a butcher's, and which testiticd that his honor must be a most
exquisite eleven. His hem was but a poor. starved, hobbling creature, and
he had two slaves followed him on foot to drive the poor creature along; he
had a whip in his band, and he belahotcd the beast as fast about the head as
his slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode by as, with about ten or
twelve servants, going liom the city to his country-seat, about half a league
before the We travelled on gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away
before us; and as we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us, when
weeataebytheeouau-ysseatot'dtisgteatman,we sawhim inalittle plane4-l-l 'rnt-z LIFI'. AND nova'I-umzs

 

before his door. eating a repeat. It "as it kind of a garden, but he wau my
to he soon; and we won given to undenaaad that the more we looked at him
the better he would be pleased. lle mt under a tree. something like the
pnltncttO, whieh etli-etaally ahadml him over the head, and on the south side;
but antler the tree was placed a large umbrella, which made that part look
well enough: he sat lolliug hack in a great elbow<zhair, being a heavy, cot>>
pnleat man, and had his meat hrought him by two women eleven; he had
two more. one of which fed tho squire with a <<pom. and the other held the
dish with one hand. and scraped oll' what he let fall upon his worship'l
heard and tall'ety vent.

'l'huu leaving the poor wreteh to please himself with our looking at him.
as it' We admitted his pomp, though we really pitiod and coutemned him. we
pursued our journey; only Father Simon had the curiosity to my to inform
himself what daiutieu the country justice had to feed on in all his state,
which he had the honor to taste oi; aml whieh wait, I think, a mess of boiled
rice. with a great pieee ol' garlie in it. aml a little hag filled with green
pepper, and another plant whieh they have there. aonwlhing like ottr ginger.
hut ana-lling like lttllsk.ttlttl tasting like muatard; all this was put together.
and a small pieee of lean mutton boiled in it, am! this was his \t'erehip'a
repaut ; limr or live servants mom attemled at a distance. who, "'0 supposed,
Were to fill ul'lhe same nller their "nutter.

Art for our mandarin. with whom we tmwlled. he was reopened its a king,
anrmanded always with his gentlemen. and attended in all his appearance-
with anal! pump, that I saw little of him Ian at a distance; bttt this 1 ob-445 - 446
Missing
From
Original
served, that there was not a horse in his retinue but that our carriers' pack-
horses in England scented to toe to look much better; though it was hard
to judge rightly, for they were so covered with equipage, mantles, trappings,
&.c., that We could scarce see any thing but their feet and their heads as
they went along.

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexity that I have
given all accotmt of being over, I had no anxious thoughts about Inc, which
made this journey the pleasanter to me; nor had I any ill accident attended
me, only in passing or t'ording a small river; my horse fell, and made me
lies of the country, as they call it,---- that is to say, threw me in ;-- the place
was not deep, but it wetted me all over. I mention it because it spoiled my
pocket-book, wherein I had set down the names of several people and places -
which I had occasion to remember, and which not taking due care 0!; the
leaves rotted, and the words Were never alter to be read, to my great Io.
as to the names ot'some of the places I touched at in this journey.

At length, we arrived at I'ekin; I had nobody with me but the youth
whom my nephew, the captain, had given me to attend me as a servant, and
who proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody with him
but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being
desirous to see the court, we here his charges for his company, and to use
him as an interpreter, for he understood the language of the country,and
spoke good French and a little English; and, indeed, this old man was a
most uwtiil implement to us every where; for we had not been above a
week at Pekin, when he caine, Ianghing,--- "Ah, Seignior Inglese," says he,
"I have something to tell will make your heart glad." "My heart glad,"
says I; "what can that be? I don't know any thing in this country can
either give me joy or grief to any great degree." "Yes, yes," said the old
man, in broken English, "tnnke you glad, tne sorry." " Why," said I, " will
it make you sorry?" "Because," said be, "you have brought me here
twenty-five days' journey, and will leave me to go back alone; and which
way shall I get to my port allot-wards without a ship, without a horse,
without prnmc :' "--so he called money, being his broken Latin, of which
he had abundance to make us merry with. In short, he told us there
was a mat caravan of Muscovito and Polish merchants in the city, preo
paring to set out on their journey by land to Mnscovy, within four or five
weeks, and be was sure we would take the opportunity to go with them, and
leave him behind, to go back alone.

I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and had scarce
power to speak to hitn for some time; but at last I tttmed to him. "How
do you know this?" said I: "are you sure it is true ?" "Yes," says he; "I
met this morning. in the street, on old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian,
who is among them: he came last from Astraean, and was designing to go
to Tonquiu, where I formerly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is
now resolved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the River Wolga
to Astracan." "Well, seig'nior," rays I, "do not he uneasy about being let!
to go back alone; if this be a method for my return to England, it shall be
your fault if you go back to Macao at alL" We then went to consult to-
gether what was to be done; and I asked my partner what he thought of
the pilot's news, and whether it would suit with his affairs He told me
he would do just as I would; for he had settled all his afl'airs so well at
Bengahandlefthisefl'ectsiasucb goodhanda,that,aswe hadmadeagood
voyngu here, it' he could vest it in China eillot. wrought and raw. such u
might be worth the carriage, he would be content to go to England, and
then make his voyage back to llengal by the Company'aa ahlpe.

Having remived upon this, we agreed that it' our Portuguese pilot would
go with on, we would hour his charges to Moscow, or to England, if he
pleaded; nor. indeed. were We to be esteemed over generous in that neither,
it'wa had not mwanled him limiter, the service he had done us being really
Worth more than that; tbr he had not only been a pilot to us at sea, but
he had been like a broker for mt on shore; and his procuring tbr no the
Japan men-hunt wna aottto hundreds of pounds in our luteketo. So we con-
aulted together about it, and, being willing to gratity him, which was but doing
hitu justice, and very willing also to have hitn with tnt besides, (or he watt a.
moat nvceotaary man on all oecaeiotu. we agreed to give hint a quantity of
coined gold, which, an I compute it. came to about one hundred and seventy-
tive poundn aterling. betWt-en on. and to hear all hia charges, both for himself
and home, except only a horao to carry hilt gooda. llaving ttetllod this between
ouraelvea, \vo milled him to let him know what we had resolved. I told him
he had complained of our being willing to let him go back alone, and l was
now about to tell hitn we Wont rexoh'od he should not go bark at all: that as
we had t'eoolved to go to Europe with the caravan. we l't'lIOth'tl also he should
go with us; nnd thnt wo l'ltllt'tl hint to know his mind. lie shook hiu head,
and said it \Vnaa long journey. and he had no prrtute to curry hint thither,
or to nultsiat himself when he value there. We tohl ltllll \vo believed it was
no. and therefore We hnd maolved to do aonwlhing tor him that should let hint
two how wttaihle we were of the service he hutl done on, and also how
agreeable ho was to ua: and then I told hitn what we had resolved to give
hitu here, which he might lay out on We wmdd do our own; and that, as
for his charges. it' he would go with mt, We would not him safe on shore (life
and ctwualtieo excepted) either in Must-ovy or I-lnglnnd, which he would, ttt
our own charge, except only tho carriage of his gtnula. He received the
pmpoual like a tuna translmrtod, and told mt ho \vould go with us over
the whole world; run] so we all pn-lmrt-d tor our journey. However. tut it
was with Int, so it wan with tho (llllt'l' tnoruhnnta; they had many things to
do; and. imnoml of being ready in live weeks. it won four months and some
days before all thinga wore got togotlwr.

It was tho beginning of l-'t-hrunry, our Mylo, when Wt) not out from Pekin.
My partner and tho old pilot hnd gone express back to the port where we
had tint! put in. to diapmo ot'uotne goods whit-h we had lotl there: and l,
with a Chineno nwn'hnnt, Whom l hnd some luum'lodge of at Nattquin, and
who came to l'eltin on his own atlitint, went to Nantptiu. where I bought
ninety pieces of line tlttlltutlkll. with about two hundred liltFt'tts of other very
lino nilktt ot'noverul sort>>, some mixed with gold| antl had all these brought to
hatch: against my partner's return; ll'flltltlfl this, we bought a very large
quantity of raw silk. and some other goods. our cargo amounting, in these
good: only, to about three thousand five hundred pounds sterling; which,
together with tea, and some fine ralit-oos. and three eamola' loads ot'nutmege
and eleven. loaded in all eighteen camela tbr our share. heaidea those we rode
upon; which, with two or three spare hereon, and two horses loaded with
pmviaione, made no, in short, twenty-nix catneltt and horses in our retinue.

The company was tery great, and, as near an 1 can remember. made

between three and tour hundred home, and upwards of one hundred and- . p -':x
or noemeon ceneol. 449

maymverymnemdendpmldedfirellmmtfor,uthefim
mmmmhihtoheemkedhydnflhqeouetheeehydnw;
but they-re not dtogethereodnngemeetheAnhe, noreoherherom
when theypteveil.

The eotnpenyconeietetl ofpeopleofeevenlnetione; butthexewete
ehove eixty of them merchants or inhehitente ofMeeeow,though of then:
eomeweto Livouienegend,toourputh2uleruthfiction,fiveofthemm
Scotqwhoeppeuedeleotohemenofmntexpetieneeinbmineqnnd
ofverygoodeubetence.

When we hedu-evelledonedey'ejoumey,theguidee,whowetefivein
number, celled all the gentlemen and menhente--thet in to any, ell the
peeeengen except the eervente--to e greet council," they celled it. At
thin council, every one deposited n eateinquentityot' money toneontnon
mohhrtheneoeeenryexpeneeofbuyingfiregeonthewey,whereitwu
mofiemhemhehfimdfwufiflingthepfldqueuinghmefi
the like;endhetetlieyconetituted thejourney,eetheyeellit,viz.,they
munduptdmendoflimntodnwmeflunendgivetheweulol'eom-
nund,ineeeeofenetteclt,nnd give everyone theirntrnofeotnmend;
norwuthieformingueintoonler enymorethenwhetwe foundneedfitl
on the wey,eeehell heoheet'ved.

Themed,nllonthieeideoftheoountry,ieverypopulou,endiefitllof
potwumdeenh-tnnken--thetieto eey, people thettempettheeerth the
the Chinnwuez--and.es [wee coming .1mean pilot, who hul
Ilweye nomething or other to any to make no merry, came, meeting, to
mnudtddmehowouldehowmethemnrityinelltbeeotm
endthetlehould hnvethietouyofChingnflet-ell the ill-bummed thinge
dutlheduidofigthetlhedeeenone thing whiehweenottobeeeen
in All the world hoeide. lwu very importunete to know whet it wan:
at lest he told me it was e gentleman's house, built with Chine were.
"Well," aye I, "are not the tmteriele of their building: the product of
theirownoountry,endeoitieellChinewue,ieitnot?" "No,no,"ee_n
ho,"lmennitiaehoueenllnmleof0hiuewue,euchuyoueellitin
Enghnd,or,uitiucellodinourcountry,poreolein" "Well," eeyel,"euch
nthingmnyhofliow higiait? Cenweouryitinnhoxuponneemel?
lfwemwe will huyit." "Upouneuneli'eeyetheold pilot,holdl._ng
uphothhilhnnde;"why,thenien&milyofthinypeopleliminit.'

lwuthenoufiouqithoeeeit;nndwhenleemetoifitmnothing
btnthhtitmenfimberhomuehomohtfilguweeellitinfinghnd,
with lath end platen but all thie plant-in; weenelly Chine were,--
thetietoeey,itwupluteted withtheeuththetnnkeeChinnm
ThewuquwhichmemehwehMupomqumdhohedvu-y
weleex-fictly whmeudpeintedwithhluefigumuthehrgecunem
inEnglnndiepeintotLudherduit'ithedbeenbmed. Antotheineideg
outltewellqineteedofweineoogwetelinedwithhudenedendpeinted450 7m: 1.1m AND aovam'uaas

t
'

 

painted, exeept some smaller roman, like clout-ta which \vem all, as it Were,
Ptn't'tl with the some tile; the veiling, and all the plastering work in tho
whole house, Were ot' the mine enrth; and, alter nll, the mot' was covered
with tiles ot' the name. hut of n deep, uliiniug llltlt'k. This was a ('hina
ware house. huh-ml. truly and literally to he ('llllt'tl so; and had I not been
"pun tho journey. I emthl luu'e stnitl some <<lays to see and examine the par-
tienlnm of it. They told me there were linmtnins utnl fish-ponds in tho
garden, all paved on the Imttom and sides with the some, and line statues

net up in mm: on the walks, entirely liirmetl ot' the. lmreolnin earth, and
burned whole.
. An this is one. of the singularities oi (Inna, so they may he allowed to

cxeel in it; hot l mu wry sure they excel in their neeounts of it; for they
told me sneh inerealililu things of their performance in enwkerymmre, for

' such it is, that I care not to n-lnte,nn knowing it could not be true. They
told me. in partienlnrmt' one workman that made. a ship with all it: tackle,
and masts, and sails. in earthen-warn, big enough to carry filly men. If they
had told me he lnnnehed it, and made a voyage to Japan in it, I might
luwo said noun-thing to it indeed; but, as it was, I knew the whole of the
story, which was, in short, asking pardon for the word, that the fellow lied;
so I umilml, and said nothing to it.

This odd sight kept me- two hours behind the caravan, for which the451 - 452
Missing
From
Original
leader of it for the day fined me about the value of three shillings; and told
me if it had been three days' journey without the wall, as it was three days'
within, he must have fined me four times as much, and made me ask pardon
the next council day: I promised to be more orderly; and, indeed, I found
aflerwards the orders made for keeping all together were abaolutely neme-
sary for our common safety.

In two days more, we passed the great China wall, made for a fortification
against the Tartan! ; and a very great work it in going over hills and mountains
in a needless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as
no enemy could possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no
Wall could hinder them. They tell us its length is near a thousand English
miles, but that the country is five hundred in a straight, measured line, which
the walls bounds, without measuring the windings and turnings it takes; it
is about four iiithoms high, and as many thick in some places.

I stood still an hour or thereabouta, without trespassing our orders, (for so
long the caravan was in passing the gate,)to look at it on every side, near
and far off--I mean that was within myview: and the guide ofour caravan,
who had been extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty eager
to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most excellent thing to keep
out the Tartars; which he happened not to understand as I meant it, and
so took it for a compliment; but the old pilot laughed: " O, Seignior
Inglese," says he, "you speak in colors." "In colors!" said I, "what do
you mean by that?" " Why, you speak what lookswhite thisvwayand black
thatway; gay one way and dull another. You tell him it'nagood wallto
keep out Tartars , you tell me by that' it is good for nothing but to keep out
Tartan. I understand you, Seignior Inglese, I understand you , but Seignior
Chinese understood youhis ownway." 'Well,"says I," Seignior, do you
think it would stand out an army of our country people, with a good train
of artillery; or our engineers, with two companies of miners? Would not

3..., 3" . .-

they batter it down in ten days, that an army might enterin battalia; or blow '

it upintheair,fiundation andalLthat there shouldbe no signofitlefi?"
" Ay, sy," says he, " I know that." The Chinem mted mightily to know
what I said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days alter, tbr we were
then almost out of their country, and he was to leave us in a little time after
this; but when he knew what I said, he was dumb all the rest of the way,
sndweheardnomoreofhisfineetoryoftheChinesepowerandgreat--
nose while he staid.

Afler we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, something like the
Picts' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans, we began to
find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather confined to live in
fortified towns and cities, as being subject to the inroads and depredations
of the Tartan, who rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted
by the naked inhabitants of an open country. And here I began to find the
necessity of keeping together in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw seve-
ral troops of Tar-tars roving about; but when I came to see them distinctly,
I wondered more that the Chinese empire could be conquered by such con-
temptible fellows; for they are a mere horde of wild fellows, keeping no
order, and understanding no discipline or manner of fight. Their horses are
poor, lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit for nothing; and this we thund
thefirstdaywe sawthem,which was after we entered the wilder part of
the country. Our leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go454 was an ass anvssrvsss

a-hunting, as they call it; and what was this but hunting of sheep! How-
ever, it may be called hunting too, for the creatures are the wildest and
switlest of foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a great
way, and you are sure of spmt when you begin tho chase, for they appear
generally thirty or t'orty in a flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together
when they fly.

In pursuit of this odd sort of gains, it was our hop to meet with about
forty 'l'artars: whether they were hunting mutton, as We Were, or whether
they looked tivr another kintl of prey, We know not; but as soon as they
saw as, one of them blew a kind of horn very loud, but with a harbamus
tsmnd that l had never heard before, and, by the way, never care to hear
again; We all' supposed this was to call their friends about them, and so it
was ; for, in less than ten minutes, a troop of forty or filly more appeared, at
ahotu a mile distance; but our work was over first, as it happened.

()ne of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst us, and
assoon as he heard the born, he told us that we had nothing to do but to charge
them immediately, without loss of time; and drawing as up in a line, he
asked it" we Were resolved. We told him we were ready to follow him; so
he rode directly towards them. They stood gazing at us like a mere crowd,
drawn up in no order, nor showing the titre of any order at all ; but, as soon
as they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows, which, howaver, missed us
very happily: it mans they mistook not their aim, but their distance; for
their arrows all tell a little short of us, but with so true an aim, that had we
been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several men wounded, if
not killed.

Immediately We halted: and though it was at a great distance, we fired,
and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, following our shot fllll
gallop, to fall in among them award in hand, for so our hold Scot that led as
directed. lie was, indeed, but a merchant, but he behaved with that vigor
and bravery on this occasion, and yet with such cool courage too, that I never
saw any man in action litter tor command. As soon as we came up to them,
we tired our pistols in their litres, and then draw; but they tied in the great-
est confusion imaginable. The only stand any of them made was on our
right, where three of them stood, and, by signs, called the rest to come back
to them, having a kind of cimeter in their hands, and their bows hanging
to their backs. Our brave commander, without asking any body to follow
him, gallope up close to them, and with his fuseo knocks one of them oll' his
horse, killed the second with his pistol, and the third ran away; and thus
ended our tight: but we had this misfortune attending it, that all our mutton
We had in chase got away. We had not a "lull killed or hurt; but as for the
'l'artars, there were about five of them killed; how many Were wounded we
knew not; but this We knew, that the other party were so frightened with
the noise of our guns, that they made oil; and never made any attempt
upon us.

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the Tartan!
were not so bold as atlerwards; but, in about five days, We entered a-Vast,
great, wild desert, which held as three days' and nights' march; and we
Were obliged to carry our water with us in great leathern bottles, and to
encamp all night, just as l have heard they do in the desert of Arabia.

I asked our guides whose dominion this was in; and they told me this
Was a kind of border, that might be called no man's land, laying a part of455 - 456
Missing
From
Original
Great Karaltathy, or Grand Tartary; but, however, it was all reckoned as
belonging to Cltina, bttt that there was no care taken here to preserve it
fiom the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert
in the whole march, though We were to go over some much larger.

In passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful to me, we saw,
two or three times, little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon
their own affairs, and to have no design upon us; and so, like the ntan who
met the devil, if they had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to say to
them: We let them go. Once, however, a party of them earns so near as to
stand and gaze at us; whether it was to consider if they should attack us or
not, we knew not; but when we were [tossed at some distance by them, we
made a rear-guard of terry men, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan
pass half a mile, or theroabouta, before us: but after a while they marched ofi;
only we tbund they saluted us with five arrows at their parting, which wounded
a horse, so that it disabled him, and we loll him the next day, poor creature! in
great need of a good furrier: they tnight shoot more arrows which might fill!
short of tilt, but we saw no more arrows or Tartars that time.

We travelled near a month alter this, the ways not being so good asst
first, though still in the dotniuions of the emperor of China, but lay for the
most part in the villagers some of which were fortified, because of the incur-
sions of the Tartar-s. When we were come to one of these towns, (it was
about two days and a half's journey before We were come to the city of
Naum,) I wanted to buy a camel, of which there are plenty to be sold all the
way upon that road, and horses also, such as they are, because, so many cera-
vans coming that way, they are ollen wanted. The person that I spoke to
to get me a camel, would have gone and fetched one for me; but I, like a
fool, must be oflicious, and go myself along with him: the place was about
two miles out of the village, where, it scents, they kept the camels and horses
feeding, under a guard.

I walked it on feet, with my old pilot and a Chinese, being very desirous
of a little variety. When we canto to the place, it was a low, marshy
ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry, without mortar or earth
among it, like a park, with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the door.
Having bought a camel, and agreed for the price, 1 came away, and the
Chinese man that went with me led the camel, when on a sudden came up
five'l'artats on horseback ; two of them seized the fellow, and took the camel
' from him, while the other three stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing
us, as it ware, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but my sword, which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came up
stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for they are errant cowards; but
a second, coming upon my loll, gave me a blow on the head, which I never
felt till afierwartls, and wondered, when I came to myself, what was the
matter, and where lwas, for he laid me flat on the ground; but my never-
fiiiling old pilot, the Portuguese, (so Providence, unleolted for, directs deliver-
ances liom dangers which to us are unforeseen.) had a pistol in his pocket,
which I knew nothing of; nor the Tartars neither; if they had, I suppose
they would not have attacked us; but cowards are. always boldest when there
is no danger. The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up
to the fellow that had struck me, and, laying hold of his arm with one hand,
and pulling him down by main force a little towards him with the other,
shot him in the head,and laid him dead upon the spot. He then imme-

58
diately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I said, and before he could
come forward again, made a blow at him with a cimeter, which he always
wore, but, missing the man, cut his horse in the side of his head, out one
of the ears off by the root, and a great slice down by the side of his face.
The poor beast, enraged with the wound, was no mere to be governed by his
rider,--though the fellow sat well enough, too,--but away he flew, and carried
him quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some distance rising upon his hind
legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him;

In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel, but
he had no weapon: however, seeing the Tartar down, and his horse fallen
upon him, away he runs to him, and, seizing upon an ugly, ill-favored
weapon he had by his side, something like a poleaxe, but not a poleaxe
neither, he wrenched it from him, and made shift to knock his Tartarian
brains out with it. But my old man had the third Tartar to deal with
still; and, seeing he did not fly as he expected, nor come on to fight him.
as he apprehended, but stood stock still, the old man stood still too, and
fell to work with his tackle to charge his pistol again; but as soon as the
Tartar saw the pistol, away he scoured, and left my pilot--my champion I
called him afterwards--a complete victory.

By this time I was a little recovered; for I thought, when I first began
to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I said above, I won-
dered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and what was the matter;
but a few moments after, as sense retumed,l felt pain, though I did not
know where; so I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away bloody;
then I felt my head ache; and then, in a moment, memory returned, and
every thing was present to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly,
and got hold of my sword, but no enemies in view: I found a Tartar lie
dead, and his horse standing very quietly by him; and, looking farther, I
saw my champion and dclivcrer, who had been to see what the Chinese
had done, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old man, seeing
me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a great deal459 - 460
Missing
From
Original
of jOy, being afraid before that I had been killed; and, seeing me bloody,
would see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we call a
broken head; neither did I allerwards find any great inconvenience from
the blow, for it was well again in two or three days.

We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost a camel
and gained a home; but that which Was remarkable, when we came back
to the village, the man demanded to be paid lbr the camel; I disputed it,
and it was brought to a hearing belhre the Chinese judge of the place.
To give him his due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and impar-
tiality; aml, having heard both sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man
that went with me to buy the camel, whose servant he was. "I am no
servant," says he, "but went with the summer." "At whose request?"
says the justice. " At the stranger's request," says he. " Why, then," says
the justice, "you were the stranger's servant for the time; and the camel
being delivered to his servmu, it was delivered to him, and he must pay
for it."

I confem the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to say; but,
admiring to see such just reasoning upon the consequence, and an accurate
stating of the case, I paid willingly for the camel, and sent for another;
but, you may observe, I did not go to letch it myself any more, for I had
had enough of that.

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire; they call it forti-
fied, and so it is, as fortifications go there; for this I will venture to aflimi,
that all the Tartars iu Karakathay, which, I believe, are some millions,
could not batter down the walls with their bows and arrows; but to call
it strong, if it were attacked with cannon, Would be to make those who
understand it, laugh at you.

We wanted, as l have said, above two days' journey of this city, when
messengers were sent express to every part of the road to tell all travel-
lers and caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for them; for that an
unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the
way, about thirty miles beyond the city.

This was very bad news to travellers; however, it was carefully done
of the governor, and we were very glad to hear We should have a guard.
Accordingly, two days afler, we had two hundred soldiers sent us front a
garrison of the Chinese, on our lelt, and three hundred more from the city
of Nauru, and with these we advanced boldly; the three hundred soldiers
from Naum marched in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and our
men on each side of our camels, with our baggage, and the whole caravan
in the centre; in this order, and well prepared for battle, we thought
ourselves a match for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartar-s, if they had
appeared; but the next day, when they did appear, it was quite another
thing.

It was early in the morning, when, marching from a well-situated little
town, called Changu, we had a river to pass, which we were obliged to
ferry; and, had the Tartars had any intelligence, then had been the time
to have attacked as, when, the caravan being over, the rear guard was
behind; but they did not appear there. About three hours alter, when
we were entered upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles over,
behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an enemy was at hand;
and they were'at hand indeed, for they came on upon the spur.462 r": urn arm mun-retina

The Chinese, our guard in the float, who had talked no big the day
before, began to stagger; and the noldiera frequently'looked behind them.
which in a certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready to run away.
My old pilot warn of my mind: and, being near me, called out, "Beignior
Ingleae," rays be, "those ti'Ilown nuno he encouraged, or they will ruin on
all; for it' the 'l'urtunt come on, tltey will never stand it." "I atn of your
mind," said I; "but what untat be done?" "Done!" eaytt he, "let titty
of our men advance, and flank theta on each wing, and encourage them;
and they will tight like bmve fltllowu in brave conumny; bttt without this,
they will every man turn hit: back." Immediately] rude up to our leader,
and told him, who wart exactly of our mind; and accordingly titty of us
numbed to the right wing, and titty to the led, and the mat made a line
of fiancee; and no we man-bed, leaving the hint two hundred melt to make
a body by thenn-cb'ea, and to guard tho camels; only that, if need were,
they should send a hundred men to matint the hurt filiy.

In a word, the 'l'nrtnrrt came on, and an innumerable company they were:
how many we could not tell, but ten thousand, we thought, was the least;
a party of them came on tiret, and viewed our posture, travereing the
ground in the limit of our line; and, as we tintnd them within gunshot,
our leader urtlurt-d the two wings to advance nwilily, and give thetn a
retire on I'm'll wing with their abet, which was done; but they went off,
arid I "Impose hack, to give an account of tho reception they were lilte to
meet with: and, indeed. that salute eloycd their etmttaebrt, for they imme-
diately halted, utoml awhile to conkidcr of it, and wheeling ofl' to the In".
they gavo over their design, and mid no more to mt for that time; which
watt \'et'y agreeable to our circuunttancctt, which \Vcre but very indifferent
for a battle with such a number.

Two days alter, we t'lllllo to the city of Noun, or Naum; we thanked
the governor for his cure of ml, and collected to the value of a hundred
crowns, or tlten'ultotttu, which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard tut;
and here we rented one day. This in a garrison indced, and there were
nine hundred soldiers kept hero; but the retnum of it was, that formerly
the Muacovite li'utttient luy nmrer to them than they now do, the Munro-
vitea having abandoned that part of the country, which lice from this city
west {or about twu huudrcd miles, mt detiolate and unfit for use; and more
eepeehlly being an very remote, and no diliieult to tread troops thitherfor
its defence; for we had yet above two thoneand milca to hluacovy, prep-
erly so called. ,

After this, we [Missed net-oral great rivers, and two dreadful demons; one
of which we ware eixtecn dnya putting over; attd which, an I <<aid, wan
to be called no nmn'a loud; and, on the 13th of April, we came to the
frontier>> of the Mtwcorite dominiona. I think the first town or forties.
whichever it nmy be called, that belonged to the czar of Muacovy, we!
called Arguna, being on the West aide of the River Argttna.

I could not but discover an infinite eatialhction that I was no noon arrived
in, as I called it, a Christian country, or, at least, in a country governed
by Christiana; for, though the Muecovitea do, in my opinion, but just
deserve the name of Christiane, yet such they pretend to be, and are very
devout in their way. It would certainly occur to any man who travels the
world an I have done, and who had any power of reflection, what a bleac-
ing it in to be brought into the world where the mareofGod=andaes aostsson closes. m

Redeemer is known, adored, and worshipped; and not where the people,
given up by Heaven to strong delustoas,--waship the devil, and prostrate
themselves to stocks and stories; worship momters, elements, horrid-shaped
animals, and statues or images of monsters. Not a town or city we [ta-ed
through but had their pagods, their idols, and their temples, and iguana
people worshipping even the works of their own hands. Now, we came
where, at least, a liteo of the Christian worship appeared; where the knee
was bowed to Jesus; and whether ignorantly or not, yet the Christian reli-
gion was owned, and the more of the true God was called upon and
adored, and it made my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Seats
merchant I mentioned above with my first acknowledgment of this; and,
taking hitn by the hand, I said to him, "messed be God, we are once
again nurongst Christians." He smiled, and answered, "Do not rejoice toe
soon, countryman; these Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians;
Imd but for the name of it, you may see very little of the substance for
some tnonths farther of our journey." " Well," says I. "but still it is better
than paganism and worshipping of devils." "Why, I will tell you," says
he, "except the Russian soldiers in the garrisons, and a few of the inhab-
itants of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this country, for above a
thousand miles timber, is inhabited by the worst and most ignorant of
pagntts." And so, indeed, we found it.

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if I under-
stand any thing of the surface of the globe, that is to be found in any
part of the world; we had, at least, twelve thousand miles to the sea,
eastward; ttvo thousand to the bottom of the Baltic Sea, westward; and
above three thousand, if we left that "and went on west,to the British
and French Channels; we had full five thousand miles to the Indian or
Persian Sea, south; and about eight hundred to the Frozen Sea, north.
Nay, if some people may he believed, there might be no sea north-east till
we came round the pole, and consequently into the north-west, and so bad
a continent of land into America, the Lord knows where; though I could
give some reasons why I believe that to be a mistake.

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while before we
came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to observe there but this;
first, that all the rivers run to the east: as I understood by the charts, which
some in our caravan had with them, it was plain all those rivers ran ins the
great River YanIoIIr, or Gatnour; which river, by the sauna] courd of i,
must run into the East See, or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell-II, the
the mouth of this river is choked up with bulmshes of a monstrous growth,
via, three feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high, I must be allowed to
say, I believe nothing of it; but, as its navigation is of no use, because there
is no trade that way, the Tartan, to whom it alone belongs, dealing in noth-
ing but cattle, so nobody that ever I heard at; has been curious enough
either to go down to the mouth of it in boats, or come up fromthe mouth
of it in shipsaefiras Icantind; but this isoertain,thatthis river,rnnnlng
east, in the latitude of about titty degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers
alongwith it.and finds an oceanto emptyitselt'inthatlstitude;soweare
sure of sea there.

Someleaguestotbenorthofthisriver,tbersuessseral eonsiderahb
riversnvhoss stream run as due north astheYamonrnmaeuttaad'diess
areallfitund tojoin their waters with thetgl'ed River-Tammanndiss

' ""3? '3'. '43:464 'rna Lira nan novamunaa

from the northernmost nations of tho Mogul Tartan; who, as the Chinese
say, Were the first 'l'artars in the World; and who, as our geographers allege,
are the (log and lllagog mentioned in sacred story. These rivers running
all northward, as well an all "other rivont I am yet to speak of, make it
evident that the Northern Oeoonbounds the lands also on that side; so that
it does not seem rational-lit the "to think that tho latul can extend itself
to join with America on .tht sldogfiordllat there is not a communication
between the. northern and eastern ocean: hat of this I shall say no more; it
was my <<dawn-alien at that time. and therefim: I take notice of it in this place.

We now advanced them the River Argtum by easy and moderate journeys,
and Wore Vt'ry visibly obliged to the can the emr ol' Museovy has taken to
have chin>> and towns built in as many places as it is tmihle to place them.
where his soldiers lteep garrison, something like the stationary soldiers placed
by the Romans in the rntttotest countries oi'their empire ; some of which that
I lunl read of were placed in Britain, for the uecmity of commerce, and for
the lodging travellers: and thus it was here; for, wherever we came, though
at these towns and stations the garflsons and govemers Were Russians and
prol'etutul Christians, yet the inhabitants were mam lmgntnt; sacrificing to
idols, antl worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the. bout of heaven;
and not only so. but were," all the heathen and pagans that ever I met
with, the most barbarous, oxeept only that they did not eat men's flesh, as our
savages of America did.

Some instances of this we met with in the country between Arguna, where
we enter the Muscovita dentin-ions, and a city of Torture and Russians to-
gether, called Nortziousky, in which is a continued desert or forest, which
cost us twenty days to travel over. In a village near the lust of these places,
I had the ettrimtity to go and see their way of living, which is most hrutish
and nnsutli:mhle: they had, 1 suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for there
stmul out, upon an old stump ot'a tree, an idol made of Wood, friglttlltl as the
devil; at lmtxt, as any thing we can think ot' to represent the devil can be
made: it had a head not so much as resembling any emanate that the world
ever now: can as big as goats' horns, and as high; eyes as big as a crown-
pim-a; a none like a crooked rntn's horn, and a mouth extended tour-cornered,
like that et'a'lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under-bill; it was
tin-sued up in the filthiest manner that you could suppoae: its upper garment
was of tlluwp-skimt, with the wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet on the
head, with two horas growing through it; it was about eight feet high, yet
bad no feet or legit, nor any other pmportiou of parts.

This somermw was set up at the outer side of the village; and, when [come
near to it, tltore were sixteen or seventeen creatures, whether men or women
lennltl not tell, flir they made no distinction by their habits, all lying flat
upon the ground round this formidable block of sltaluvletat wood: ] saw no
motion ttttltmg them any more than it' they had been all logs of wood, like
the idol, and. at first, 1 really thought they had been so; but, when I came a
little nearer, they started up upon their that, and raised a howling cry, as if it
had been so many deep-mouthed bounds, and walked away, an if they were
displeasml at our disturbing them. A little way oil' from the idol, and at the
door ol'n tent or but. made all ofsheep-altina ntnl cow-skins dried, stood three
butchers. --I thought they were such; when I came nearer to theta, I found
they had long knives in their hands; and in the middle of the tent appeared
three sheep killed, and one young bullock or steer. These, it scennt, were465 - 466
Missing
From
Original' n-v--tw- '

or aostuson causes. 46?

sacrifices to that senseless leg of an idol; the three men were priests belong-
ing to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretcbes were the people who brought
the offering, and were making their prayers to that stock.

I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish worship of a
hohgoblin than ever I was at any thing In my life; to see God' a most gloriotu
and beat creature, to whom He had granted so many advantages, even by
creation above the rest of the works of his hands, vested with a reasonable
soul, and that soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to
honor his Maker and be honored by Him, sunk and degenerated to a degree
so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a mere imaginary
object, dreamed up by themselves, and made terrible to themselves by their
own contrivance, adorned only with clouts and rags; and thatthis should be the
efl'ect of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil him-
self; who, envying to his Maker tho homage and adoration of His creatures,
had deluded them into such sordid and brutish things as one would think
should shock nature itself!

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts? Thus
it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there was no room to wonder at it,
or think it impomihle: all my adIIIirutioII tttmed to rage, and I rode up to the
image or nIoIIster,--- call it what you will, --and with my sword made a stroke
at the bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two; and one of our men that
was with me took hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled at it;
when, behohl, a most hideous outcry and howling ran through the village,
and two or three hundred people canto about tny cars, so that I was glad to
scour for it, for We saw some had bows and arrowa; but I resolved from that
moment to visit them again.

Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about four miles
em in order to provide some horses which they wanted, several of the horses
having been lamed and jaded with the badness of the way and long march
over the last desert: so we luul some leisure here to put my design in execu-
tion. I communicated my design to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of
whose courage I had sufficient testimony: [told him what] had seen, and
with what indignation I had since thought that human nature could be so do-
generate; ltold hiIII il'l could get but four or five men well armed to go with
Inc, I was resolved to go atul tlesu'oy that vile, abominable idol, and let them
see that it had no power to help itself; and consequently could not be an
object of worship, or to he prayed to, much less help them that offered sacri-
fices to it.

He laughed at me : -- says he, " Your zeal may be good, but what do you
propose to yourself by it?" " Propose!" said I, to vindicate the honor of
God, which is insulted by this devil-worship." "But how will it vindicate
the honor of God," said he, " while the people will not be able to know
what you mean by it. unless you could speak to them, and tell them so ? and
then they will fight you, and beat you too, I'll assure you; for they are des-
perate fellows, and that especially in defence of their idolatry." " Can we not,"
said I, " do it in the night, and then leave them the reasons and the causes in
writing in their own language ?" " Writing!" said he; " why, there is not
a man in five nations of theta that knows any thing of a letter, or how to read
a word any way." " Wretched ignorance!" said I to him: "however, I
have a great mind to do it; perhaps nature may draw inferences from it to
them, to let them see how brutish theyare to worship such horrid things."
" Look you, sir," said he; "if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you
must do it; but, in the next place, I would have you consider, these wild
nations of people are subjected by force to the czar of Muscovy's dominion,
and if you do this, it is ten to one but theywill come by thousands to the
governor of Nertsinskay, and demand satisfaction; and if he cannot give
them satisfaction, it is ten to one but they revolt; and it will occasion a new
war with all the Tartars in the country."

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for a while; but I harped
upon the same string still; and all that day I was uneasy to put my project in
execution. Towards the evening, the Scots merchant met me by accident in
our walk about the town, and desired to speak with me. "I believe," said he:
" l have put you off your good design ; l have been a little concerned about it
since; for I abhor idolatry as much as you can do." "Truly," said I, " you
have put it off a little as to the execution of it, but you have not put it out of
my thoughts, and I believe I shall do it before I quit this place, though 1 were
to be delivered up to them for satisfaction." " No, no," said he, " God for-
bid they should deliver you up to such a crew of monsters! they shall not do
that neither; that would be murdering you indeed." " Why," said I, " how
would they use me?" " Use you!" said he, " I'll tell you how they served
a poor Russian who afi'ronted them in their worship just as you did, and
whom they took prisoner after they had lamed him with an arrow, that he
could not run away; they took him and stripped him stark naked, and set
him upon the top of the idol-monster, and stood all round him, and shot as
many arrows into him as would stick over his whole body; and then they
burned him and all the arrows sticking in him, asa sacrifice to the idol."
" And was this the same idol?" said I. " Yes," said he, " the very same."
" Well," said I, "1 will tell you a story." So I related the story of our men
at Madagascar, and how they burned and sacked the village there, and killed
man, woman, and child, for their murdering one of our men, just as it is related
before; and I added, that I thought we ought t0'do so to this village.
lie listened very mentorer to the story: but when I talked of doing so to
that village, said he. " You mistake very much; it was not this village; it was
almosta hundred miles from this place; but it w the same idol, for they
carry him about in procession all over the country." " Well," said I, " then
that idol ought to be punished for it; and it shall," aid 1, ' if 1 live this
night out."

in a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and told me I should
not go alone, but he would go with me, but he would go first and bring a
stout tisllow, one of his countrymen, to go also with as; " and one," said
he, " as famous lbr his zeal as you can desire any one to be against such
devilish things as these." In a ward, he brought me his comrade, a Scots-
man, whom he called Captain Richardson; and I gave him a full account of
what I had seen, and also what I intembd; attd he told me readily, he would
go with me ifit cost him his life. So we agreed to go--only we three. lhad,
indeed, proposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He said he was ready
to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, formy defence; but this
was an adventure quite out of his way; so, I say, we resolved upon our
work, only we three and my man-senant, and to put it in execution that night
about midnight, with all the secrecy imaginable.

However, upon second thoughts, we Were willing to delay it till the next
night, because the caravan being to not forward in the morning, we sup-
powd the governor could not pretend to give them any satisfaction upon
us when we were out of his power. The Scots merchant, u steady in his
resolution for the enterprise as bold in executing, brought me a Tartar's
robe or gown of sheep-skirts, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and
had provided the same for himself and his countrymen, that the people,
if they saw us, should not determine who we were.

All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter with
aqua vita, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could get; and,
having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour aller night we
set out upon our expedition.

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found that the
people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their idol. The night
was cloudy; yet the utoon gave us light enough to see that the idol stood
just in the same posture and place that it did before. The people seemed
to be all at their rest; only that, in the great hut, or tent,as we called it,
where we saw the three priests whom we mistook for butchers, we saw
a light, and going up close to the door, we heard people talking as if there
were five or six of them, we concluded, therefore, that, if we set wildfire
totheidol, thesemenwould eotneoa'timmediataly, and mnuptothe
place to rescue it ti'om the destruction that weiatended forjtt: audwhat
to do with them we knewnot, Once; we thought of carrying it away,
and setting fire to it at a distance, but when we earns to handle it, we
found it too bulky liar our carriage; sowewe'reata loasagain. The
second Scotsman was throwing fire to the mmhugand knockingtho
creatures that were there on the headwhen there-ma out; but I could
notjoin withahat; I wasagainn killing thennil'h were passihlsto avoid
it. "Well, then," said the Scots merchang'lwilltell yoawhat we will
do: we wil try to malts them prisoners, tie their hands, and make them
stand and see their idol destroyed."

As.- -It happened, we'hed twine or pack-thread anghgh cheat as, which we470 TIIB tan AND mvnmnntzs

used to tie ottr tin-looks together with; no we resolved to attack those people
tine, uttd with as little noise as we could. The first thing we did, we
knoeked ut the door, when one of the prietttn coming to it, We immediately
seized upon him, stopped his ntotttb, and tied his hands behind him, and led
hint to tlte idol, where we gngged him, tltut he might not make I 'ttoiee, tied
his leet nlso together, and loll him on tlte ground.

Two of us then wuitod at the door, experting that another Would come
ottt to see whut the ttuttter wns; lntt we wnited no long till the tltird men
eunn- Imelt tons; end then nobody eoming out, we knocked again gently,
uttd inunediutely ottt enttte two more. end we served them jtlet in the flame
ttuttmer, htlt were obliged to go till with tltetn, and lay them down by the itlol
Ntlllt' tliNtuttt'e from one number; when. going lint-k, we found two more
were eome. out to the door, nud u thirtl stood behind them within the door.
We H'ill'tl the two, uttd imn'tedintely tied them, when tlte third stepping buck
und erying out, tny Seotn merehttnt \t'ent itt utter him. ntul taking out a rent-
positiott we ltttd outdo thnt would only ntttoke und stink, lte net the to it, and
threw it ill ttmong them: by tltnt time, the other Seotsman tutd my mun,
tnking ehnrge. ot' the two men ulreudy bound, nttd tied togetherntluo by the
nrm. led them any to tlte idol. und leti them there to see it' their idol Would
relieve. them, nothing lmste ltuek to us.

When the lite/.e we httd thrown in hud'tilled tho lntt with so much nmoko
thnt they were. uhnost nttlliieuted, we then threw in u smnll lenther bag of
nnother kind, which tlumed like u enttdle,nnd following it in, we tinmd there
were but timr people, ntnl, no we supposed, ltntl been ubottt some of their
dinbolie merilieex 'l'bey nppeured, in short, frightened to death, nt lettut no
us to sit tretttblittg and stupid, end not able to spenk neither tor the utttolte.

In it word, we took them, botuul them on we hml done the otltor, and all
without nny noise. I should have said we brought them ottt ot' the house. or
hot tirst : tiir indeed we were not uhle to beer the tnnoke any more tltntt they
were. When we had done this, we ettrried lhettt ull together to the idol:
when we 'ttltte there, we li-ll to work with him; utul tirst We duttbetl hint all
over, nntl his robes nlso, with lnr, ntul stteh other stutl' us we httd, whieh wus
tnllow mixed with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth
full of gunpowder ; then we wrnpped up u gretu pieee ot' wildfire. in his
bonnet: nnd then, slit-king till the eombnstibles wo ltutl brought with us upon
ltittt, we looked nbont to see it' we eould liml nuy thing else to ltelp to lmm
him; when tny Seotsmun remembered thnt by the tent or but, where tlte
tnen wow, there lny u henp of dry tiirnge, whether strnw or rmdtett I do not
remember; nwny he end the other Seotsmun mu, nnd ti-tehed their uruut full
of tltnt. When We had done this. we took all our prisoners, and brought
them, boring untied their Ii-et und ungugged their mouths, und made them
stand up, nttd set them before their monstrous idol, end then set fire to
the Whole.

\Ve stuid by it u quarter of on hour, or therenbouts, till the powder ilt tho
eyes, nnd moutlt.tmtl enrs, ot'the idol blew up, nnd. us We could pereeive, httd
split nml dethroned the xlmpe ot'it; uttd, itt u word, till We saw it burned ittto
a mere blot-k or log of wood; nnd netting dry {brugo to it, We found it would
be soon quite rot-sinned; so we begun to think of going away; but the
Seotxunun snid, " No, we must not go, for these poor, deluded wretches will
all throw themselves into the tire, nttd lntrtt thenm'lvcs with tlte idol." So
we resolved to stay till the forage was burned doom too,nud then came away

and letl them.
 

Alter the feat was performed, we appeared in the morning among our t'el-
low-tmvellers, exeeediugly busy in getting ready for our journey; nor could
any man suggest that We had been any where but in our beds, as travellers
might be supposed to be, to lit themselves tor the tittigues ot' the day's
journey.

But the aflhir did not end so; the next day came a great number of the
country people to the town gates, and in a nmst outrageous umnner demand-
ed satisfitetion ot' the Russian governor tor the insulting their priests, and
burning their great Chain Chi-'I'haungn. The people of Nertsinskay Were at
first in a great consternation, tor they said the 'l'artavs were already no less
than thirty thousand strong. The Russian governor sent out messengers to
appease them, and gave them all the good Words imaginable; assuring them
that he know nothing of it, and that there had not a soul in his garrison been
abroad, so that it could not be from any body there; but it" they could let him
know who did it, they should be exelnplnrily punished. They returned
httughtily, that all the country revereneed the great Chum Chi-'l'hnungu, who
dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared to otl'er violence to his
image but some Christian miscreaut; and they therefore resolved to denounce
war against him and all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and
Christians.4732 run was me aovaureaas

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to have any
cause of war alleged to he given by him, the czar having strictly charged
him to treat the conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave them
still all the good Words he could. At last, he told them there was a caravan
gone towards Russia that morning, anti perhaps it was some of them who
had done them this injury; and that if they would he satisfied with that, he
would send alter them to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a
little; and accordingly the governor sent alter us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing Was; intitnating Withal, that if anyin our caravan had
done it, they should make their escape; but that, whether we had done it or
no, we should make all the haste Ward that was possible, and that, in the
mean time, he would keep them in play as long as he could.

'l'hia wu very triendly in thegovernort however, when it came to the
caravan, there was nobody knew any thing of the matter; and as for us that
were guilty, we were least of all suspected. However, the captain of the
caravan for the time, took the hint that the governor gave us, and We travelled
two days and two nigh", without any considerable stop, and then we lay
at a villago celled Plothua: nor did we make anylong stop here, but hastened
on towards Jarawena, another of the car of Muacovy's colonies, and where
we expected we should be do. But upon the second day's march front
Plothus, by the clouds ot'dust behind us at a great distance, some of our
people began to be sensible we were pursued We had entered a groin dos.
art, and had grassed by a great lake called Schaks User, when We perceived
a very gnvat body of horse appear on the other side of the lake, to the north,
we travelling west. We observed they \vont away west, as We did, but had
supposed we would have taken tltat side of the lake, whereas we very hap-
pily took the south side; and in twa days more they disappeared again; for
they, believing we were still before them, pushed on till they came to the
River lldda, a very great river when it passes farther north, but when We came
to it, Wt) found it narrow and fordahle.

The third day they had either found their mistake, or had intelligence of
us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk oftho evening. We had,
to our great satislhction, just pitched upon a place hit our camp, which was
Very convenient for the night; for as we were upon a desert, though but at
the beginning of it, that was shove five hundred miles over, we had no towns
to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the city Jarawona, which we had
yet two days' march to; the desert, howover, had some few woods in it on
this side, and little rivers which ran all into the great River Udda; it was in a
narrow strait, between little but very thick woods, that we pitched our little
camp for that night, expecting to be attacked before morning.

Nohody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for; but as it was usual
for the Mogul Tar-tars to go about in troops in that desert, so the caravans
always fortify themselvoa every night against them, as against armies of rob-
bers; and it was, therefore, no new thing to be pursued.

But we had this night, ot'all the nights of our travels, a most advantageous
camp; for we lay between two woods, with a little rivulet running just be-
fore our front, so that we could not be surrounded, or attacked any way, but
in our front or rear. We took care, also, to make our front as strong as we
could, by placing our packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line, on the
inside of the river, and felling some trees in our rear.

to this posture we encamped for the night; but the enemy was upon us473 - 474
Missing
From
Original
before we had finished our situation. They did not come on us like thieves,
as We expected, but sent three messengers to us, to demand the men to be
delivered to them that had abused their priests, and burned their god Chem
Chi-Thaungu with fire, that they might burn them with fire; and upon this,
they said, they would go away, and do us no further harm; otherwise, they
would destroy us all. Our men looked very blank at this menage, and be-
gan to stare at one another, to see who looked with the most guilt in their
faces; but nobody was tho Word; nobody did it. The leader of the caravan
sent word, he Was well assured that it was not done by any of our camp;
that we Were [maceablo merchants, travelling on our business; that we had
done no harm to them, or to any one else; and that, therefore, they must
look further for their enemies who had injured them, for we were not the
people; so desired them not to disturb us, for, if they did, we should defend
ourseIVeiL

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer; and a great
crowd of them came running down in the moming, by break of day, to our
catnp; but, seeing as in such an unaccountable situation, they durtlt come no
farther than the brook in our front. where they stood, and showed us such a
number. that, indeed, terrified us very much; for those that spoke least of
them, spoke of ten thousand. Ilene they stood and looked at us a while, and
then, setting up a great howl, they let fly a crowd of arrows atnong us; but
we Wort) \vell enough liirtified tor that, for we sheltered under our baggage,
and I do not mtllembor that one of us was hurt.

Some time after this, We saw them move a little to our right, and expected
them on the rear; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack of Jarawena, in the pay
of the Mttscovites, calling to the leader of the caravan, said to him, "I'll go
send all then: people away to Siheilka." This was a city, four or five days'
journey, at least, to the right, and rather behind us. So he takes his bow
and arrows, and, getting on horseback, he rides away from our rear, directly,
as it were back to Nertsinskay; alter this, he takes a great circuit about, and
comes directly on the army of the Tartan, as if he had been sent express to
tell them a long story, that the people who had burned the Cbam Chi-Thelm-
gu, were gone to Silteilka, with a caravan of miscreants, as he called them,--
that is to my, Christians, --- and that they had resolved to burn the god Saba!-
lanr, belonging to the Tongue-nest

As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke their lan-
guage, he counterfeited so Well that they all took it from him, and aWay they
drove in a most violent hurry to Siheilka,--which, it seems, was five days'
joumey to the nortlt,--nnd, in less than three hours, they were entirely out
of our sight, and we never heard any tnore of them, nor whether they went
to Silteilka or no. So we passed away safely on to Jamwena, where there
was a garrison of llluscovitea; and there we rented five days,-- the caravan
being exceedingly liitigued with the last day's hard march, and with want of

rest in the night.
From this city We had a frightful desert, which hold us twenty-three days'

march. We litrnished ourselves with some tents here, for the better accom-
modating ourselves in the night; and the leader of the caravan procured
sixteen carriages, or wagons of the country, for carrying our water or provis-
ions; and these carriages were our defence, every night, round our little
camp; so that, had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been very numer-
ous indeed, they would not have been able to hurt as.
We may well be supposed to want rest again atter this long journey; for
in this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a bush; though we
saw abundance of the sable hunters, who are all Tartars of the Mogul Tar-
tary, of which this country is a part; and they frequently attack small cara-
vans, but we saw no numbers of them together.

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well in-
habited; that is to say, we found towns and castles, settled by the czar of
Muscovy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers, to protect the caravans and
defend the country against the Tat-tars, who would otherwise make it very
dangerous travelling; and his czarish majesty has given such strict orders for
the well guarding the caravans and merchants, that, if there are any Tartar-s
heard of in the countr ', detachments of the garrisons are always sent to see
the travellers safe front station to station. And thus the govemor of Adin-
skoy, whom] had an opportunity to make a visit to, by means of the Scots
merchant, who was acquainted with him, oflered us a guard of filly tnen, if
we thought there was any danger, to the next station.

I thought, long before this, that, as we came nearer to Europe, we should
find the country better inhabited, and the people more civilized; but I found
myself mistaken in both ; for we had yet the nation of the 'l'ongueses to pass
through, where we saw the same tokens of paganism and barbarity as before;
only, as they were conquered by the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous;
but for rudeness of manners and idolatry, no people in the world ever went
beyond them; they are clothed all in skins of beasts, and their houses are
built of the same; you know not a man from a woman, neither by the rug-
gedness of their countenanccs nor their clothes; anti, in the winter, when
the ground is covered with snow, they live under ground, in vaults, which
have cavities going from one to another.

If the Tartars had their Chant Cbi-Thanngn for a "hole village or country,
these had idols' Ill every but and every cave; besides, they worship the stars,
the sun, the water, the snow, and, in a word, every thing they do not under-
stand, nnd they understand but very little; so that every eletnent, every
uncommon thing, sets them a sacrificing. I met with nothing peculiar to
myself in all this country, which I reckon was, from the desert] spoke of
last, at least four hundred miles, half of it being another desert, which took
us up twelve days' severe travelling, without house or tree; and we were
obliged again to can'y our own provisions, as well water as bread. Alter we
were out of this desert, and had travelled two days we came to Janezay, a
Muscovite city or station, on the great River Janezay, which, they told us
there, parted Europe from Asia.

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in the
Muscovite garrisons; all the country between the River Oby and the River
.lanezay, is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, us the rentotest of
the Tartars; nay, as any nation, for aught I know, in Asia or America. lalso
found, (which I observed to the Muscovite governors whom I had an oppor-
tunity to converse with,) that the poor pagans are not much wiser, or nearer
Christianity, for being under the Muscovite government, which they ac-
knowledged was trtte enough; but that, as they said, was none of their
businem; that if the czar expected to convert his Siberian, Tongucse, or
Tartar subjects, it should he done by sending clergymen among them, not
soldiers; and they added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they
found it was not so much the concern of their monarch to make the people
Christians as it was to make them subjects.

From this river to the great River Oby, we crossed a wild, uncultivated
country, barren of people and good management; otherwise it is, in itself, a
most pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found
in it are all pagans, except such as are sent among them from Rumia; for
this is the country --I mean on both sides the River Oby --whithcr the Mus-
covite criminals, that are not put to death, are banished, and from whence it
is neat to imp0$ible they should ever come away.

lhave nothing material to say of my particular afl'airs, till I came to To-
bolski, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued seine time, on the
following occasion :

\Vc had now been almost seven months on our journey, and winter began
to come on apace ; whereupon, my partner and I called a council about our
particular alliiirg in which we found it proper, as we were bound for Eng-
land, and not for Moscow, to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They
told us of sledges and reindeer to carry us over the snow in the winter time;
and, indeed, they have such things that it would be incredible to relate the
particulars of; by which means the Russians travel more in the winter than

 

they can in summer, as in these sledgcs they are able to run night and day;
the snow, being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by which the hills,
valrs, rivers. and lakes, are all smooth and hard as a stone, and they run upon
the snrliicc, without any regard to what is underneath.

But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kind; I was
bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways; either I must
go on as the caravan went, till I came to Jaroslaw, and then go off west for
Narva, and the Gulf of Finland, and so to Dantzic, where I might possibly
sell my China cargo to good advantage; or 1 must leave the caravan at a little
town on the DWina, from whence I ltad but six days by water to Archangel,
and than thence might be sure of shipping either to England, Holland, or
llamburglt.

Now, to go any of these joumeys in the winter, wottld have been prepos-
terous; for, as to Dautzic, the Baltic would have been frozen up, and I could
not get Wife; and to go by land in those countries was far less safe than
among the Mogul 'l'artars; likewise, to go to Archangel in October, all the
ships would be gone from thence, and even the merchants who dwell there
in summer retire south to Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone;
so that I could have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarci-
ty ot'provisious, and must lie in an etupty town all the winter; so that, upon
the whole, I thought it much my better way to let the caravan go, and malte
provision to winter where I Was, at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the latitude of
about no degrees, where l was sure of three things to wear out a cold winter
with, viz, plenty of provisions, such as the country afforded, a warm house,
with fuel enough, and excellent company.

I one now in a quite dillierent climate from my beloved island, where I never
felt cold, except when I had my ague: on the coutmry, I had much to do to
bear any clothes on lay back, and never made any fire but without doors,
which was necessary tbr dressing my food, 8w. Now I tnade tne three good
vests, with large robes or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and
button close to the wrists; am! all these lined with litrs, to make them
sullicieutly warm.

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our Way in England
of making fires in every mom in the house in open chimneys, which, when
the tire was out, always kept the air in the room cold as the climate; but,
taking an apartment in a good house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be
built like a furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like a stove; the funnel
to carry the snmke went up one way, the door to come at tltc fire Went in
another, and all the rooms were kept equally warm, but no fire seen, just as
they beat the bagmios in England. lly this means, we lutd always the same
climate in all the rooms, and an etpud heat was preserved; attd bow cold
socver it was without, it was always warm within; uttd yet we saw no fire,
nor \vere ever iucommmled with smoke.

The most wonderful thing: of all was that it should be. possible to meet
with good compzuty here, in a country so barbarous as that of the most
northerly parts of Europe, near the Frozen Ocean, within but a very few
degrees of Nova Zembla. But this being the country where the state crimi-
nals of Mum-ovy, as I observed lit-titre, are all banished, this city was full of
noblemcu, gentlemen, soldiers, aml eourtiers ol' Muscovy. Home was the
liunous l'rinee Galitzen, the ob] General llobostiski, attd several other persons
of note, and smile ladies. lly means of my Scots merchant, whom, never-
theless, l parted with here, I made an acquaintance with several ol'theee
gentlemen; and from these, in the long winter nights in which I staid here,
I received several Very agreeable visits

It was talking one night with Prince -------, one of the banished ministers
of state belonging.' to the czar of M useovy, that the discourse of my portions
lar case, began. lle had been telling tue abundance of fine things of the
greatnetu, the magnificence, the dominions, and the absolute power of the
emperor of the lltuesians. l interrupted him, and told bitn l was a greater
and tnore powerful prince than even the czar of Muscovy was, though my
 

dominions were not so large, or my people so many. ' The Russian grandee
looked a little surprised, and, fixing his eyes steadily upon me, began to
wonder what I meant. I told him his wonder would cease when I had ex-
plained myselfl First, I told him I had absolute disposal of the lives and
fortunes of all my subjects; that, notwithstanding my absolute power, I had
not one person disaffected to my government, or to my person, in all my
dominions He shook his head at that, and said, there, indeed, I outdid the
czar of Muscovy. I told him that all the lands in my kingdom were my own,
and all my subjects were not only my tenants, but tenants at will; that they
would all fight for me to the last drop; and that never tyrant--for such I
acknowledge myself to be--was ever so universally beloved, and yet so
horribly feared by his subjects.

After amusing him with these riddles in government for awhile, I opened
>> the ease, and told him the story at large of my living in the island; and how
I managed both myself and the people that were under me, just as I have
since minuted it down. They were exceedingly taken with the story, and
especially the prince, who told me, with a sigh, that the true greatness of life
was to be masters of ourselves; that he would not have exchanged such a
state of life as mine, to be czar of Muscovy; and that he found more felicity
in the retirement he seemed to be banished to there, than ever he found in
the highest authority he enjoyed in the court of his master, the czar; that the480 TI": use AND Athtfl'l'tttttzs

height of human wisdom was to bring our tempers down to our circum--
stances, and to make a calm within, under the weight of the greatest storms
without. \Vheu he came tirst hither, he mid he used to tear the hair from
his head, and the clothes from his back, as others had tlone before him, deg bttt
a little time and consideration had made hint] lookinto himselt, as Well as
rottml hint, to things without , that he toiled the mind ol num,t if it was but
once brought to reflect upon the state 6! universal life, atul how little this
wurhl ans concerned in its true felicity, was perlectly capable of making a
t'eliI-ity tor itsell. titlly satiflfihg to itshlflond'. suitable to its own best ends
tltttl III-sires, with but very little assistance that the world; tho air to breathe
in, food to sustain life, clothes for warmth, and liberty for exerciw, in order
to health, completed, in his opinion, all that the world could do for as; and,
though the greatness, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures "'Ilit'll some
enjoyed in the world, had much in them that was agreeable to as, yet all
those things chit-fly gratified the coarsest of our affections, such as our am-
bitioa, ottr particular pride, avarice, vanity, and sensuality; all which, being
the. mere produet ol' the worst part of man, won: in themselves crimes,
and had in them the seeds of all manner of crimes; but neither \veI-e
related to, nor concerned with, any of those virtues, that constituted as
wise. men, or ol'those graces that distinguished as as Christians; that, being
now deprived of all the tiIm-ietl l'elieity whieh he enjoyed in the. full t-xereise
of all those vices, he said he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of
them, where he lintnd all manner ot'delbrmity, and was now convinced that
virtue only utakes II man truly wise, rich, attd great, aml preserves hint in the
way to <<superior happiness in a litturo state; and in this, he said, they owe
more ham" in their Isuiislnnent than all their eIIeIIIies \vere, who had the
full [attenuation of all the wealth and pom-r they had lell behind them. " Nor.
sir," says he, " do I Ill'l mg my mind to this politically, by the IIet-essity of my
circumstances, whit-II some eull miserable: but, if I know atty thing of my-
sclt; Iwouhl not now go back, though the war, my master, should eall me, and
reinstate Inc in all my former grandeur: I say, I would Ito more go back to
it than I believe my soul, when it shall be delivered from this prison ot'the
body, oIId has had a taste of the glorious state beyond life, would come latek
to the mud ol'lh-sh and blootl it is now enclosed in, and leave heaven, to deal
in the dirt and erime of human atthirs."

He spoke this with so much Warmth in his temper, so much earnestness
and motion ol'his spirits, that it was evident it was the trtte seat-e ol'his soul;
there was no room to doubt his sincerity. I told him I once thought myself
a kind of tltottat't'lt in my old station, of which I had given him an account;
but that I thought he was not only a monarch, but a great conqueror; l'or lte
that has got a victory over his own exorbitant desires and the absolute do-
minion over himsell} whose reason entirely governs his will, is eertaitILy
greater than he that conquers It city. " But, my lord," said I, "shall I take
the liberty to ask you a question ?" "With all my heart," says be. "If the
door of your liberty was opened," said I, "would you not take hold ol' it to
deliver you from this exile?" "Hold," said be; "your question is subtile,
and requires some serious, just distinctions to give its sincere answer; and
lwill m've it you from the bottom of my heart. Nothing that I know of in
this world would move me to deliver myself from this state of banishment,
except these two; first, the enjoymem of my relations; and, secondly, a little
moot- climate; but I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of the
 

court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister of state; the wealth, the
gayety, and the pleasures of a courtier; if my master should send me word
this moment that he restores me to all he banished me from,Iprotest, if I
know myself at all, Iwould not leave this wilderness, these deserts, and these
frozen lakes, for the palace at Moscow." "But, my lord," said I, "perhaps
you not only are banished from the pleasures of the court, and from the
power, authority, and wealth you enjoyed before, but you may be absent, too,
from some of the conveniences of life; your estate, perhaps, confiscated, and
your effects plundered; and the supplies left you here may not be suitable
to the ordinary demands of life." "Ay," says he, "that is as you suppose
me to be a lord, or a prince, &c.; so, indeed, I am; but you are now to con-
sider me only as a man, a human creature, not at all distinguished from
another; and so I can suffer no want, unless I should be visited with sickness
and distempers. However, to put the question out of dispute, you see our
manner; we are, in this place, five persons of rank; we live perfectly retired,
as suited to a state of banishment; we have something rescued from the
shipwreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from the mere necessity of hunt-
ing for food; but the poor soldiers, who are here without that help, live in as
much plenty as we, who go into the woods and catch sables and foxes; the
labor of a month will maintain them a year; and, as the way of living is not
expensive, so it is not hard to get sufficient to ourselves. So that objection
is out of doors."

I have not room to give a full account of the most agreeable conversation
I had with this truly great man; in all which he showed that his mind was so
inspired with a superior knowledge of things, so supported by religion, as
well as by a vast share of wisdom, that his contempt of the world was really
as much as he had expressed, and that he was always the same to the last, as
will appear in the story I am going to tell.

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I thought it; the
cold so intense that I could notso much as look abroad without being wrapped
in furs, and a mask of fur before my face, or rather a hood, with only a hole
for breath, and two for sight: the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned,

for three months, not above five hours a day, and six at most; only that the
614823 Tu): tars AND Anna-warm

annw lying on tho ground oontinually. and tho \vonthor olonr. it was never
quito dark. Our hora-a woro ltopt. or mthor starvod, tntdor ground ; and as for
our m-rt'uuts. whont th hirod horo to look allor ttltt'ttt'lvott nttd honour. W0 had,
orory now atttl tlton. thoir lingors atnl toou to thaw and tako cam ol; lost. thoy
should "many and litll olll

It is trtto within dooru wo woro wartn. tlto hotutos hoing olouo. tho Wall!
thick. tho lights small. and tho glass all douhlo. tlur food was ohiolly tho
llosh of door. driod atnl ourod in tho mama: broad good ouottgh. httt haltod
as him-nits: driod lish ol' sororal sorts. attd sonn- llosh ol'tnnttou. atnl of tho
ltttl'litlm-zg ohioh is protty goml ntoat. .'\l| tho utorozd of provisions titr tho
wintor aro laid up in tho sunnnor. and woll onrod : ottr drinlt was wator. ntixod
with aqua-vino iustoad ol' hrandy : and. liir a trout. tut-ad instoad ot' wino. whioh.
hottovor. tltoy haro o.\oollont good. 'I'lto htmtono. who rontttro abroad ttll
\t'onthors, li-oquontly brought us in lino \'onison. ttttd sotnotinu-u hoars' llosh.
hut wo did ttot tnuolt oaro lin- tho lust. \\'o luul a good stook of Ira. with
whioh wo tt'oatod our l'rit'tnls. as alum o. nttd wo liu-d yot'y oltoorlitlly nttd woll,
all things oonsidorml.

It was now Mart-h. tho days grown oonsidorahly longor. and tho woathot' at
h-ast tolornhlo : so tho othor trm'ollors hogan to proparo slodgos to oarry tltout
twor tho snow. and to got things roady to ho going: lntt tny tnonsttrt's hoing
tixt-tl. as l haro said. liu- .-\rohaugol. and not tor Must-ory or tho llaltio.l ttutdo
no motion; knowing t'ory woll that tho ships from tho south do not sot out
tor tlntt part ol'tho world till May or Juno. ntnl that if I was thoro hy tho ho-
ginniugol' August. it would ho as soon us any ships would ho. roudy to go
away ; and thoroliu'o l utndo no hasto to ho gono. as othot~.t did: itt a word, I
flaw in grout nuttty pooplo. ttay.all tho trtwollors. go away ltol'oro mo. It soonut
orory your tltoy go lion: thonoo to Masonry titr trado. iii... to oarry litrs, attd
htty nooossarios. whioh thoy ln'iug hat-k with tltout to litrnish thoir shops:
also othom wont on tho sumo ot'rand to .-\t\-hangol; lntt tltott thoy all. boittg
to mono hark again uhot'o oight Innulrod ntih-s. \\'t'lll all ottt hol'oro ttto.

In tho month of May. I hogan to tuako all roady to put-k up: and. tttl I was
doing this, it ooottrt'od lo tno that. sooing all thoso pooplo woro hanishod by
tho war of Masonry to Sihoriu. ntnl yot. "hon thoy ontno thoro, woro loll at
lihot'ty to go whithor thoy would. \thy tIa-y did not tIn-n go away to any part
of tho world. whonwor thoy thought tit ; nttd I hogan to oxatnino what should
hindor tltont than making such an attotupt. Ilut tny wondor watt o\'t't' whoa
I ontorod upon that sulijoot with tho pot-sou l huro nlontionod. who anuworod
tno thus: " t'onsidor. timt. sir." said ho. " tho plaoo whoro \vo aro; alnl. soo-
ondly. tlto oonditiott wo am in; osIN-oially tho gonortdity of tho pooplu who
ttt'u hanisln-d hithor. \\'o aro surroundod with strougor thinga than hunt or
holta; on tho north sido. an unnavigmhlo oooau. whoro ship novor sailod. and
hunt lltt\'t'l' swam :Vt'n'l')' otln-r way. wo huro ahoro a thousand tnilos to pass
through tho owtr's own dotnittious and by ways uttorly inumssahlo, oxoopt
by tho roads mudo hy the gm'ortttnont. atnl through tho towns garrioottod by
his troops: on that wo could noithot'qutsa tttalisotworod hytho road, nor lull)-
sist any othor way: so that it is in vain to attotnpt it."

I win- silonotul. indood. at now. nttd tintud that tltoy woro in a prison ovary
jot tut uoottm as il'thoy ltad boon looked up in tho oaatlo nt Mosoow: ltowot'er,
it outuo. into my thmtghtathat I might oortainly ho nuulo an ittatruniout to pm-
outo tho mapo of this excellent portion: and that. whatovor lumtrd I not, I
would oortainly try il' I could carry him oll: Upon this. I took an coca-ion,
one evening. to toll him my thoughts. I mproscntod to him that it was very
oasy tor me to rurry him nn'ny, thorn hoing no gum-d over him in the country;
and, us I wus not going to Mosoow, hot to Arohungol, aml that I went in the
rotinuc ot'n raruran, hy whioh I wns not ohligod to Iio in tho stutiouary towns
in tho dost-rt, hut oould onoump ovory night whom I would, wo might easily
puss Imintorrnptod to .-\rohnngol, whom I would itmncdiutoly sot-um him on
hourd no English ship. and onrry him sutii nlong with mo: and us to his sol)-
sistonoo and othor mrtionlurs, it should ho my onru till he could better supply
himsoIII

IIo hoard mo vory altontivoly. nml Iookod earnestly on ma all tho while I
spoko : nny. I oonld son in his vory tin-o that whnt Isuid pttt his spirits into an
oxooodiug ti-rtnout; his oolor li'oqnonlly ohnngod. his oyos lookod had, and his
hoart thtttorod, that it might ho ot'ott lwrooivod in his ootmtouanoo ; nor could
ho immodintoly answor mo. whon l lunl done, und, us it won-, hositutod what
ho would sny to it; hut nllor ho had puusod u littlo, hu omhruood me, and
suid, " Ilow nnhuppy uro wo. ungnurdod orontnros as we are, thut even our
groutost urts ol'li'ioudship nro nmdo snuros unto us, nnd Wu nro made tomptent
ol'ono unolhor! My donr li'iond." suid ho. " your odor is so sinooro, has such
kinduoss in it. is so disintorostod in itsolI; and is so onloulntod tbr my udvun-
tngo. thut I must Intro \'ory Iittlo knowlodgo of tho world il'I did not both
wondornt it. und nt-knowh-dgo tho ohligution I Imvo upon mo to you for it. But
did you holioro I was sinooro in whut l lun'o otton snid to you of my cott-
tompt of tho world? Did you holiovo I spoko my vory soul to you, and that
I hud roully ohtninod tlmt dogn-o ot' ti-Iioity horo thut hud pIeood me above
ull thut tho world oonld giro mo? Did you holiot'o. I was sincere when I
tohl you I would not go INIt'k, it' I was rooullod oven to ho ull that I once was
in tho oonrt. with tho floor of tho oznr. my mnstor? Did yott believe me,
my. l'riond to ho nu honost man? or did you holiovo mu to ho n boasting hyp-
ocrito?" Iloro ho stuppod. us it' ho would hour what I would say; but, in.
dood. I soon nllor porooit'od thut ho stoppod hocnuso his spirits worn in mo-
tion: his grout hourt wns full of strugglos. nud Ito could not go on. I \vns. I
oonli'ss. nstonishod nt tho thing as woll as ut the num. und I nsod sotno argu-
tnonts with him to nrgo him to sot himsolt' li'oo; thnt ho ought to look upon
this us it door opouod hy Ilonvon for his dolivomln'o, and a summons hy Prov-
idonoo. who hns tho onro uml disposition of nll events, to do hinm-It' good,
ntnl to rondor himsolt'usolid in tho world.

Ilo hnd hy this timo rooovorod himsolll " Ilow do you know, sir." says he
wurndy. " Iutt thnt. instoud of n summons from Ilonvon, it may ho n [hint
ot'nuothor instrnnn-nt. n'pn'sonting. in uIInring oolons to mo tho show of
ti'lioity us it doliromnro. whioh muy in itsolt' ho my snaro. and tond dimtly to
my ruin? Iloro I uni two from tho tomptution ot' roturning to my t'ormor
misomhlo gn'utnoss: thoro I not not sum hot that ull tho soods ot' prido. um-
hition. at'urioo, nml Imury. whioh I know romnin in naturo, may rovive, und
tnko root. and. in n word. ngnin ororwholm mo : and thou tho hnppy prisoner.
whom you soo now mash-r of his soul's lihorty. shall ho tho. misorahle slave
of his own sonsos in tho titll ot' nll lh'flflllfll lihorty. Door sir. lot too remain
in this hlom'd continomout. Inunishod from tho orimos of mo. rather than pur-
ohuso a show of li'oodom at tho oxponso of tho lihorty of my mason, and at
tho thtumJtappim-ss which I now havo. in my View. but shall then, I fear,
quickly lose sight of: for I am but tlosh: a num. a more man; have M008
and alI'ootions as likoly to possoss uml m'orthmw me no any man: 0, be not
my friend and tomptor both tugmhor ! "
If I was uttrpriued before, I won quite dumh new, and stood silent. looking
at him. nud, indeed, ndmiring what I saw. The struggle in his soul wnu no
gn-nt thut, though the wentlu-r wnu extremely eold, it put hitn into it most rio--
lent uwent, and I found he wnnted to give vent to his mind: so I said u word
or two, that I would leave him to eonsider of it, nud wait on hitu ngnin, nnd
then I withdrew to my own apartment.

About two hours tiller, I heard somebody at or near the door of my room.
and I won going to open the door: hut he had opened it und route. in. " My
denr li'iend," say: he, " you hnd almost orerset me, but I out reeoyen-d. llo
not take it ill that I do not close with yourotli-r; I were you it is not for wunt
of sense of the kindness of it in you; nod [come to make the most uineere
nekuowledgmcut of it to you ; hut I hope I have got the victory over myself."
" My lord." said I, " I hope you are tlilly satisfied that you do not resist the
will of Ileiwen." "Sir." said he, " if it had boon Il'om Ilem'en, the none
power would have inlluoneed me to how accepted it; but I hope, and Ill"
fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven than I decline it; tmtl I have infinite antis-
{union in the parting, that you shall leave me an honest man still, though not.
a lien man."

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make proflsniona to him of my
lowing no end in it hot a sincere denim to serve him. He embraced me very
pimiountely, and assured me he was sensible of that, and should always no--
knowledge it; nod with tluu ho otl'ored mo a very line present of nobles.--
too much, indeed. for me to neeept from it man in hit: eirclunsunu-es. and I
would have avoided them, but he would not he ml'uned.

The next morning I sent my M'fl'lllll to his lordship with a small pmmu
often, mul two pieeemvt'tThiuu dmnusk, nud fimr little Wedges ol' annn gold.
whieh did not ull weigh nhore six omu'es or then'nlmtttn, hut were litr short.
ol'the \'ullte ol'his Ntlllt's. whieh. when I eutne to l'ItIglmul. l tiuuul worth uem'
two hundred pounds. lIe ueeepted the teuuttul one pioee ot'the dumnslt. and
one of the pieeen ot'gold, whieh luul o tine stump upon it. of the home eoiu-
"gt" wliieh I timed he took for the unity of it, hut would not lnke nny more ;
and he sent word by my <<ervunl tlmt he desired to spt'nlt with me.

""heu I enme to him. he told me I knew wlmt luul luissed hetween us. and
hoped I would not more him any more in thnt ntlitir: lutt tlmt. sinee l luul
mode Nllt'll n generous oll'er to him, he uskod me it' I luul klmlllt'sfl enough to
otli-r the some to unother person that he would name to me. in whom he luul
it great Shore of eoueern. I told him tlmt I eould not my I itieliued to do so
mueh tiir uuy hut himselliliu' whom I had it purtieulnr vnlue. und should Inwe
heen glml to hm'e heen the instrmneut of his deliveruuee: however. if he
would pleuse to name the person to me, I would give him my answer. He
told me it won his only son: who. though l luul not seen him. yet he "'08 in
the some eomliliou with himself. ntul nhore two lunulred miles li-om him, on
the other Hide the (ll-y; hut tlml. if I ennseuted. he would send tor him.

I nuule no hesitation. hut told him I wouhl do it. I uuule sonu- eeremony
in letting him undersuuul that it won wholly on his neeounl : mul llutt. seeing
I eonld not premil on him. I would show my reupeet to him by my concern
tiir his son: lutt these thing>>: nee too tedious to repent here. He ill-tit any
the next dny [or his son; utul in uhout tWeuty day: he. enme Iltlt'It with tho
nu-mu-nger. hriugiug six or seven hornet! loaded with very rieh tiimnnd whieh,
in the whole. nmmmted to u very grout value. "in H'n'nnts brought the homes
into the town, qu lell the young lord at n dirtnuee till night. when hoeotue
A'Vt'] 'M [WW

/

   
 

. W
J

0",.

incognito into our apartment, and his father presented him to me; and, in
short, we concerted the manner of our travelling, and every thing proper for
the journey.

I had bought a considerable quantity ol'sables, black fox-skins, fine ermines,
and such other furs as are very rich in that city, in exchange for some of the
goods I had brought from China; in particular lbr the cloves and nutmegs,
of which I sold the greatest part here, and the rest afterwards at Archangel,
for a much better price than I could have got at London; and my partner,
who was sensible of the profit, and whose bllSlIIOS, more particularly than
mine, was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our stay, on account of the
traffic we made here.

It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place; a city, I be-
lieve, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it is so far out of the road of
commerce, that I know not how it should be much talked of. \Ve were now
reduced to a very small caravan, having only thirty-two horses and camels in
all, and all of them passed lbr mine, though my new guest was proprietor of
eleven of them; it was most natural also that I should take more servants
with me than I had before; and the young lord passed for my steward; what
great man I passed for myself, I know not, neither did it concern me to in-
quire. We had here the worst and the largest desert to pass over that we
met with in our whole journey; I call it the worst, because the way was very
deep in some places, and very uneven in others; the best we had to say for it
was, that we thought we had no troops of Tat-tam or robbers to fear, and that48" Tu>> 1.!" mo noun-watts

they not'cr mum on this sido tho ltiwr (thy, or at Ions: but vory aoldotn; but
we found it otltorwino.

My young lortl hntl n titithl'nl Sihorinu awrwtut, who was perfectly acquainted
with tho country, and lml on hy private routht, no that. wo avoided coming into
tho principnl towns nml t-itii-u upon tho grout rottd, such as 'htmon, Soloy
Ktnuultoinmtl now-ml otllt'ru; hoouuot' tho anovito gmiaona which arokept
thorn nt'o very t'lll'lullfl ttnd strict in thoil' olnorvation upon travellers, and
svttrt'lting lost any ot' tho Imiiahrd portmm of note should make their <<calm
that way into Moscow ; hot, by this moans, no wowero itopt out of tho citiox.
no our whoio journoy won a dcnort, and wo woro obliged to oncomp and he
in ottr touts, whon wu might htwo hnd wry good aocotnmodution in the cities
on tho way: this tho young IUI'II \Vtttt no nousiblo of, that Ito would not allow
us to ho abroad Whon wo mono to normal citiu on the way, but lay "not!
home"; with his son-nut, in tho woods, and met on IlWIyI at tho appointed
plum-it.

Wo Woro just ontomd l'iuropo, having pnatod tho Rivor Kama, which in
tin-no parts in tho boundary hotwoou l'inropo and Asia. and tho first city on tho
European aitlo was called Soloy Knumkoi, which in tut much an to say, tho
grout city on tho rivor Ktuun ; and horo we thought to non ttomo ovidcnt altor--
ntiou in tho pooplo; hut o-o wom tniutttkon ; liir, on Mt had a vast desert to
prom, which is near sown hundn-<<l milou long itt mum phtcos. httt not uhovo
two hundred lllilt'N ovor whoro Wo ptuou-tl it. so, till wo vtuuo pmtt that horri-
lilt' plnt'o, wo liutntl wry lilllt- tlitli~ronro llt'l\\'t't'll tltnt country tttttl tho Mogul
'l'nrtnry: tho pooplo oro mostly [ongoing tttnl littlo lu-ttor than tho nutrition! of
Ann-rim; tht-ir hottsou tttltl towtm t'ull ot'itlols, nnd tlu'ir wuy ol'living wholly
lutrhttroutt. oxt't-pt in tho t'itiox. tut nhow, ntul tho \'illngvn nt'nr thotn, whoro
tlwy ttl'" ('hristiunrg nu tin-y t'ull tht'tuxt-lws, of tho (irt'ok church; but how
lin-ir n-ligiou miuglt-d with so mnny whim of nulwrxtition, titttt it in noun-o to
be known in sumo plum-x li-otu lltt't'l' son'ory tnul "'ilt'ltt'l'tlll.

ln tumingthis fort-st. l thought. indood. We must (nth-roll our dungont wore,
to ottr inmgitmliou. t-st-npt-tl us il'lltn') luu'o lit-on pltttttlot't'tl ntttl rohht-d. ttlttl
pt-rhttpn ntnrtlort-tl, hr at troop ol' thit-von; ot' wlutt rountry thoy woro, I out
yot nt A loan: to know, but tltt-y woro nll on liurst'lmt-it, t'tll'l'lt'ti hows ntttl
ttrrowu, and wow I" "I?" uhout i'orty-tiw in number: tin-y t'lllllt' so llt'llr to tut
lot to ho within two hotshot-shots, ntul. uniting no qtu'stionn. ntlrrottntlotl lit!
with thoir hum-:5 uml Iookod wry t-tu'nt-ntly ttpott IIN twico; at length, thoy
phtt'od tht-tmuvh't-n just in our wuy; upon which "'I' th'ow up in n littlo lino,
ht-t'oro our mum-Ix. living not ohm-o uistt't'u turn in oil ; and. being drawn up
tlnut, wo lutlti-tl, tllltl soot ottt tho Silu-rinn n-rvunt, who ottt-ntlt-tl his lord. to
two who thoy worn: his tnustvr mm tho utoro willing to lot hitu go, hot'ttuxo
ho was not n littlo nppn-ht-nuiro thnt tltoy won- it Sihorintt troop m-nt out ntlor
hint. 'l'lu- mun t'tllllt' up noun-r tlu-tu with u tlttg ot'trttoomttd t'nllod to tlwtn;
hut though llt' upoko th'l'tll ot'tlu-ir ltlllgtltlgt'tl, or tlinlot'ts ol' louguugos rntlwr,
Ito could ttot tttnlomtund tt word tlwy mid; howovor, nflt'r nonn- sigtut to him
not to room uoor thom ut his poril. tho follow onmo hark no wisvr than he
Wont; only tlutl by thoir (Irons, llt' mid. ho lu-Iiovvd them to ho uotno 'l'nrtnru
of Kniltlllt'k, or of tho Cimtxxinn hurtling attd tlutt them must he mom of
thom upon tho grout tlonort,thottgh ho nowzr hoard that (my ol'thont worn soon
so far north helium.

About an hour ntior, thoy ngoin mado a motion to attttck tttt, and rode round
our little wood to 800 when thoy might break in'_hut, finding us always
 

ready to face them, they went off again; and we resolved not to' stir for
that night.

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy: there was, on
our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little grove, and very
near the road; I immediately resolved we should advance to those trees, and
fortify ourselves as well as we could there; for, first,l considered that the
trees would in a great measure cover us from their arrows; and, in the next
place, they could not come to charge us in a body; it was indeed, my old
Portuguese pilot who proposed it, and who had this cxcellency attending him,
that he was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage us in cases
of the most danger. \Ve advanced immediately, with what speed we could,
and gained that little wood ; the 'l'artars, or thieves, ---- for we knew not what
to call them, -- keeping their stand, and not attempting to hinder us. \Vhen we
came thither, we found, to our great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece
of ground, and on the one side a very great spring of water, which, running
out in a little brook, was, a little farther, joined by another of the like size;
and was, in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterwards the
\Virtska; the trees which grew about this spring were not above two hundred,
very large, and stood pretty thick, so that, as soon as we got in, we saw our-
selves perfectly safe from the enemy, nnlex they attacked us on foot.

While we Staid here waiting the motion of the enemy some hours, with-
out perceiving they made any movement, our Portuguese, with some help,
out several arms of trees half ofl', and laid them Imaging across from one
tree to another, and in a manner fenced us in. About two hours before
night, they came down directly upon us; and, though we had not perceived
it, we found they had been joined by some more of the same, so that they
were near fourscorc horse ; whereof, however, we fancied some were women.
They came on till they were within haltlshot of our little wood, when we fired488 was LIFE sun anvsmuass

one musket without hall, and called to tltem in the Rumian tongue to know
what they wanted, and bade them keep off; but they canto on with a double
fury up to the wood side, not imagining we ware so barricaded that they
could not easily break in. Our old pilot was our captain, as well as our en~
gineer, and desired Its not to fire upon them till they came within pistol-shot,
that we might be sure to ltill ; and that, When we did fire, we should be sure
to take good aim; we hude him give the word ot'cotnnutnd, which he delayed
so long, that they were some of them within two pikes' length of us when we
let fly. We aimed so true. that We killed fourteen of them, and wounded sev-
eml others, as also several of their horses; for we had all of us loaded our
pieces with two or three bullets at least.

The y \\ ere terrihh surprised with our fire, and retreated immediately about
one hundred rods from us; in which time, we loaded our pieces again; and,
seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and oatched four or five of
their hum-s, whose riders we supposed were killed; and coating up to the
dead, we judged they were Tutors, but knew not how they came to malts an
exenrsion such an unusual length.

We slept little, you may he sure, but spent the most part of the night in
strengthening our sitttatiott, attd Itarricading the entrances into the wood,
and keeping a strict watch. We waited tor daylight, and, when it came, it
gave nsa Very unweleonte discovery indeed; tbr tlte enemy, who, we thought,
were discouraged with the reception they ntct with, were now greatly in-
I'rt-Itst'd, and had set up eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if they were re-
solved to hesiege, as; and this little camp they had pitched upon the open
plain, about three quarters ofa mile from us. We ware, indeed, surprised at
this discovery; and now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and-all that 1
had. The loss of my effects did not lie so near me, though very considera-
hle, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such barbarians, at the latter
end of my journey, after so many ditiicultics and hazards as I had gone
through, and even in sight of our port, where we expected safety and deliv-
entnee. As to my partner, he was raging, and declared, that to lose his ~
goods n ottld be his ruin, and that he would rather die than be started, and
he "as for fighting to the last drop.

'1' he \oung lord, a gallant youth, Was tbr fighting to the last, also; and my
old pilot was of the Opinion, we were able to resist them all, in the situation
we were then iIt ; and thus we spent the day in debates of what we should
do; hut, towards etening, we found that the number of our enemies still
ine reused, and we did not know but, by the morning, they might still he a
greater number, so i begun to inquire of the?>> people we had brought from
'l'olmlski, it there were no private ways by which we might avoid them' at
the, night, and, perhaps, retreat to some town, or get help to guard as over
the desert. The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord, told us, if We
designed to ttvnitl them, and not fight, he would engage to carry Its 011' in tlte
night, to II way that went nortlt, towards the River Petrott, by which he made
Ito question lntt we might get away, and the 'l'artars never tlte wiser; httt,
he said, his lord had told him he would not retreat, but would rather choose
to light. I told him he mistook his lord; for that he was too wise a man to
love lighting thr the sake of it; that I knew his lord was hrare enough, by
what he had showed already; hat that his lord knew better than to desire
seventeen or eighteen men to tight five hundred, unless an unavoidable ne-489 - 490
Missing
From
Original
cessity forced them to it; and that, if he thought it possible for us to escape
in the night, we had nothing else to do but to attempt it. He answered, if
his lordship gave him such orders, he Would lose his life if he did not per-
form it; we soon brought his lord to give that order, though privately, and
we immediately prepared for the putting it in practice.

And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fire in our little
camp, which we kept hunting, and prepared so as to make it burn all night,
that the Tartnrs might conclude we were still there; but, as soon as it was
dark, and we could see the stars, (for our guide would not stir before,) having
all our horses and camels ready loaded, we followed our new guide, who, I
soon found, steered himself by the north star.

Alter we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter still;
not that it was dark all night, but the moon began to rise, so that, in shon,
it was rather lighter than we wished it to be; but, by six o'clock the next
morning, we were got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled our horses.
llere we found a Russian'village, named Kermaziaskoy, where we rested;
and heard nothing of the Kahnuclt Tartars that day. About No hours be.
fore night, we set out again, and unveiled till eight the next morning, though
not quite so'bard as before; and, about seven o'clock, we passed a little river,
called Kirtza, and came to a good large town, inhabited by Russians, called
Ozomoys; there we heard that several troops of Kahnucks had been abroad
upon the desert, but that we were now completely out of danger of them,
which was to our great satisfaction. Here we were obliged to get some
fresh horses, and, having need enough of rest, We staid five days; and my
partner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian, who brought us thither, the
value of ten pistoles.

In five days more, we came to Veuslima, upon the River Wirtzogda, and
running into the Dwina; we were there, very happily, near the end of our
travels by land, --that river being navigable, in seven days' passage, to Arch-
angel. From hean came to Lawrenskoy, the 3d of July; and, providing
ourselves with two luggage boats, and a barge fbr our own convenience, we
embarked the 7th, and arrived all safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a
year, five months, and three days on the journey, including our stay of eight
months at Tobolski. We were obliged to stay at this place six Weeks, for
the arrival of the ships; and must have tarried longer, had not a Hamburgher
come in above a month sooner than any of the English ships; when, after
some consideration that the city of Hamburgb might happen to be as good
a market for our goods as London, we all took freight with him; and, having
put our goods on board, it was most natural for me to put my steward on
board to take care of them; by which means, my young lord had a sufficient
opportunity to conceal himselfi--never coming on shore again all the time
we staid there; and this he did that he might not be seen in the city, where
some of the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and discov-
ered him.

We then set sail fi'om Archangel, the 20th of August, the same year;
and, after no extraordinary bed voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe, the 18th
of September. Here my partner and I found a very good sale tor our
goods, as well those of China, as the sables, &c., of Siberia; and, dividing
the produce, my share amounted to PS3,475 17s. 3d., including about six
hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which 1 purchased at Bengal.49:2 The urn AND Anvemunes or nonmeon cnvson.

Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the Elbe, in order
to go to the court of Vienna, where he resolved to seek protection, and
could correspond with those of his father's friends who were left alive. He
did not part without testimonies of gratitude for the service 1 had done him,
and his sense of my kindness to the prince his father.

To conclude: having staid near four months in Ilamburgh, I came from
thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the packet, and arrived
in London, the 10th of January, 1705, having been absent from England
ten years and nine months. And here I resolved to prepare for a longer
journey than all these,--having lived a life of infinite variety seventy-two
years, and learned sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and the
blessing of ending our days in peace.

I'll!" ' i

I 7, ' "gibfim i.

v

M '

. 27 z
HAVE JUST PUBLISHED

THE

LIFE OF NAPOLEON;

now 1'": FRENCH 0'

M. LAURENT DE L'ARDECHE,

Number or the lmtltuto ut' Prince.

WIT" FIVE IIUNDBID BNGBAVINGI.
(YUM I'LB'I'F IN TWO V01 17" PS 8m" TAS'I'EFUI.LY BOUND.

 

 

THE
VIC AR OF WAKEFIELD:

OLIVER GOLDSMITH.

A SPLENDID EDITION ILLUSIIATED WITH UPWABDS 0!"

01030 fiunhnh Engraving;
1""! ~ Li .' Q--WNQ'K'.'

V 2.5%?!" ' .
. f , 5." $0111" W3;

" Ito wio'iiiiut'moh miotyotpowou ind iiihtoticityofm am he
alwiyi oo'onodhdo hoot, Mwhhh ma Wilhwhohdthoin of being
mutc without W and wont whhmt' <<(ooh-funk" tannin wi- copiou-
wiihout hum-om without <<mink-ind my, without woihneu. " --Dr.
Johnson. 3'8; _

uNo whid tho deimwuh-unodw- iwritorwhitiver litenry
acquisition ho undo. Bil dud "Doubled i Milo hut thin nail; thonwu i quick but
not a itrong vegetitiou of WW clinical to ho thrown upon it. The oak of the fomt
did not now them. but tho elegant ohmhbory ind tho frigrint pinem appoint! in gay
auccmion."--- 8mm.

" 'l'hix tulo in the lasting monument of Goldmith's genius. his great logicy of pit-inure
to genunitimut punt. pn-si-nt. mul to runw."-- leminn.

"Goldsmith. both in vcmo uml linm', was one of the m! delightful writers in the
I'l's'll'b'0- "it! Who tluwalikv 3 "mph! stream. "is cute in quitu unconscious. Every
thing in him is sputum-nus. uustudu-d, unaffected. yvt vie-glut. harmonious. grit-0M. ind
nearly fiultluo."---lla:lm.

         

 

WeWbtflommfl-'muomu'mmNAPOLEON FOR THE PEOPLE!

 

     

,r266 vrcnn or WAKEFIELD.

butler, " or to any man's face. To tell you a truth, Master
Thornhill, I never either loved you or liked you, and [don't
care if I tell you now a piece of my mind." --- " Now then,"
cried Jenkinson, "tell his honor whether you know anything
of me." --" I can't say," replied the butler, " that I know
much good of you. The night that gentleman's daughter
was deluded to our house, you was one of them." -- " So

then," cried Sir William, " I find you have brought a very
fine witness to prove your innocence; thou stain to human-
ity! to associate with such wretches! But," continuing
his examination, "you tell me, Mr. Butler, that this was the
person who brought him this old gentleman's daughter."

 

-- " No, please your honor," replied the butler, " he did not
=bring'her, for the squire himself undertook that basins:
but he brought the priest that pretended to marry them."
---"-It is but too true," cried Jenkinson, " I cannot deny it;
that was the employment asigned to me; and I confess it
to my confusion."

" Good Heavens!" exclaimed the worthy baronet, " how
every new discovery of hisvillany alarms me! All h's
guilt is now too plain, and I find histh prosecution was
pleasure and convenience of our lives! How many seem.
ing accidents must unite before we can be clothed or fed!
The peasant must be disposed to labor; the shower must
fall, the wind fill the merchant's sail, or numbers must
want the usual supply.

We all continued silent for some moments, while my
charming pupil, which was the name I generally gave this
young lady, united in her looks compassion and astonish-

Q

'\
\'

V ,'r.

W ,

arm}:-

 

ment, which gave new finishings to her beauty. "Indeed,
my dear Mr. Thornhill," cried she, to the squire, who she
supposed was come here to succor, and not to oppress us,
"I take it a little unkindly that you should come here with-
out me, or never inform me of the situation of a family so
dear to us both; you know I should take as much pleasure
in contributing to the relief of my reverend old master here,
whom I shall ever esteem, as you can. But I find that, like
your uncle, you take a pleasure in doing good in secret."

" He find pleasure in doing good!" cried Sir William,
interrupting her; " no, my dear, his pleasures are as base
as he is. You see in him, madam, as complete a villain
as ever disgraced humanity. A wretch, who, after having

usiveasrrv mess, was r. mow, mxren.VALUABLE 8: IMPORTANT BOOKS

l'llllLlBlll-il) BY

D. APPLETON & 00.,

FOR SALE AT Till-21R

LITERARY EMPORIUM,
200 Broadway, New-York.

PICTORIAL LIFE OF NAPOLEON.

Film, of N-puloon nominate. tnn-l-tcd from tho F'nmh o( M. Lutmmt do L'Anlocho. vuth in
hundred uplntod Illmtntmm, hflordmupn- by llunco Vernon-ml twenty original punit- ongnn-d
In the but Ilylo. t'mnploto in turn handwmo volumes. uctuvo. uhuut av. hundred pun- ouch.

'l'lu- [.va or NAI-ouzou. winch Ill Imw ufl'mul in tho public. in built up uml mmpounl from the lunc-
<<lqu-l nlllln-nllos nu thou annulled by pmuw- Imam-u- .tml humuphou; with thu I-Ilhllrot.
also. o! the nulutunhro wayku ut' the lnttur. Illll of all important woth utwo pnhluhnl. or mm m
mm of Wilda-Mum. l-'mm muful llama-tn and nfonncn; (man u (lily-Idea". hllhulu ol' the
final. and mullet-tun full, Itttlfltwntl opnuuul Iud cumu'tunl prohdulltiu, uranium-My found In
diurt umumtiou IIIIOIIK "thank" 0' equal inflmm and vhltdlty. tho luthor has sought ta Ill-III :-
fixed oqttlllhnulu "lg-luau! tmth. It has not bran 1mm ed to gin I Hutu, of Fame In tho Ito-mu
time ul' the Reva-luttuu. urn: tho Incentive period.- uf o Div-awry, tho Consul-lo. or tho Em nn-l
The wulont rut-um of tho En huh public huluuow puma uny, u ported hu ulnudy com-cunt r...
tho oxemu ut' u tamper-to j uncut. 'l'ho luthm hu ulm oudouvound not to {amt-II tun. ham-h
thoonu. ur duponu roman or prim. Tho durum-hing Ind "mu-ding twang-noun. Inln
when an Ittvmpt to Emu or'uuon murmur thou-manna. And muludhu action would lend.
could not ho undertaken Without h eotnptohoutn Itudy and minimum. "puma. of the hunt ad
puluwul world and in variou- mutation: tho, mun-squat], form an put of tho put-ht dough.

PICTORIAL ROBINSON CRUBOE.

The w. and Adumum of Rnbiltlon Cmm. by Dunn. DI Pot. with u Ila-cite! tho Author.
Ind u: Ens-y on hu Wntmp. Illtutntod With three hundnd Ipt'titul Eur-via;- hy the colohntod
Punch mm (tunnvuu. rum-an; nu olepnt volum. act-w. of 500 N'-

" Wu thou out any thing wnttnt h new an that tha ton-hr um long", "pt Rubin-n

Guns. Dol Quuwtto. Ind tho Pnlgmn'u tunn- l"--Dr. 1m
" "our law, thut thu. tho out moral of Ion-neon, in manly the nut chum!" of hooks. but tho

"I mattucttvu."--A. Winery. '
" No fiction in In, luau" was on: hottu supported than that Adult-m of m (ha-no."

-Dr. Blair.

"thuohtlhdhuuly ntothomloudthodckndthomndthomau
"nun-tad null tit-light to Ill nuk- uud clan-on of tho mmnuuty. For wuh h". huh mou-
mondly nod. or non justly admired; few that Inn yielded nah filmy-hat Inna-cu, ad. ll the
an tun. huvo donlupd no any luv-u of practical immatur-Sw W. 8"".

PIOTORIAL VICAR OF WAKEFIELD.
I'ho Vb" of Wnoaold. By ()uvn Goumttu, oloputly mounted with we mm null-g -
Mutitul volume, act-v0. u! about :50 MI.
~ "This tulo in the lasting "mutant of Wth'l min, his out Ioncy of plenum to [nul-

W put. resent. had In rumor--humor.
" Gold-math. both In vet-o and run. wu one of the not delightful Wilton in tho language. H:-

m lluvu like u limp-d mm. llu rule I: quit. mom. Bury thing in him l; Ilium-I.
Iutudued, un-flocted. ynt elrgant. hunmtnotll, small. and with funltleu."--lluw.

GEMS FROM TRAVELLERS.

llltutmtlw oI \'lnuuu [WI u: lluly Saul-tum. Wllh nvutly one huudml oxquiuito Eugmu-cs,
Ann-m; the uutlmntml quutnl Will he fuuml the fulluwiug dutnzguuhe-l mum-u Humor. Lat-unto.
Luna. Madden. t'lulle. Put'ot'Lo, Chandler. Malt-um. llmtloy. Ruwll. Jumtt. Chmo, Shun. M>>
It". Nethullr. Ilium. Chluut. ll. llluut. lh-lzum. Lunl Lindsay. <<1'. .Qt'.
Thi- nxqumlo Volume. Io bountiful n: In onmnu-nt tn Ilw wntm tabla. wull tum-t unclear" tum-p
6m ut' the bounty. prowl-fly nun! uulln ol' tlu- ll 3) Muptu..-. 1t..." ...._\ m...- "nu rlvt' rul-Inlml.
INCIDENTS OF A WHALINO VOYAGE.
To which it Idded Olzeerutieee . I the Scenery, hleniiere. Ind Cuetnne, Ind Minimiery StItleII d

the Sandwich ml Society Ielnede, "Filed by turn-emu pletee. By FIIucII Aunt OLI-
ITID. One hand-nine volume. "the.

The eIrieue publication- before the public. illuetretinx our rIIriIe Iml navel hietery, here never.
we liuheve. In yet culnmtl tutu the rumour of I whelmg nyue--I whele ehip, rte equu-tnente. die-
aplnw. Ind mune ul' upontmee in the inlemel eoounuiy Iud vened contingemm--uuttl the I] -
Inn of tho prune-it volume. by one who IIII eume pmteneume to ecienoe, bath in the phll my of
IIIIute null mluullum. The work indeed only prune-rte the evente of I IIMIO mnge. but ie ended
with en much of mrnlentel liietury. elm-stilling iti fearl- rellttee to the IelItrde of the I'Icllic, the Mir
enemy elatluul lltt'le'. end the .m rte el' civilrutmn upon the untutored heme-of the South. layout"
with the illuetniuone of the thle fiehery, II to embody I In- of intelligence, intereetiii to the
ordinary remler ni- well M tn the philowphwel inquirer. The Iuthtrr II Ieon of Prufeeeor t lmetenl.
ol \'ule tfdluue. who, m the pureuit el' heelth, In I hm; voyage. hee noted the otieervetieee to which
we rrh-r."----JV. Y. l'uuner.

MRS. AUSTI N's GERMAN WRITERS.
Free-urine from German l'mee \Vn'tere. trIeelItnl by Mun. Aeetin. llluetruted with Biognphieel

Ind (tutu-II Note-e. I vol. flaw. Elegantly printed on tine white pIper.

'- Thine wlm wieh to clue I hook with the mfortelile feeling thet no new idrI hee heeu euueeteil,
Incl tin uld mm IllllulIn'tl, will rennin! tlue u very qeeetmeeble pniee ; but thuee who read in enler to
he made to think. wtll. I luvpe. ilenw mum entiefuzti-Ii from the freeman" thue thrown together.
The LIluK't) at three lnuuxee he- been deter-aimed by muudenltuttl lII enrleue ee their ell-renter end
their Itllljtfl'll. Iii emne it wee the nlue of the ieetter. iI other- the beeuty ol' the form thet etrueh
iur ; m mute the vixnmue, unefl'ected ml Ienee. in other: the {entrance-MI It eticel chem. Saute re-
t-IIIi-d fulmlmr trains of thought which meet In In I (mist: IiterIture liked l'rteiide in I I'll country.
elheni nltdgether new and Itruiige."- Ville Prefect.

THE NATURAL HISTORY OF SOCIETY,

in 1a: IAIIIIOUI AND CIVILIIID I'I'I'I'I.
Au Bony- tuwnrde dieroverin; the Origin Ind Cameo of "linen lunmetnent. By W. Coon iI'IV-
wit. I.I..ll.. km, of Tiinity College, Dublin. llIIdeonely printed oI flee peper. I vule. I".

" A inlet elite work. the den-xii of which u to determine from II en-iIItieI d the eIrieee fine
II which army he! been formed. whet wee the orig-u ul' civilization, end under whet eireuneteeree
thun- attrition-e of humanity, which in one mntry become the foe-deflate e! eoniIl heppineee. end in
mother perverted to the pmdection of ueIetIl teieery. For the purpuee the nether hu eepIrItely
run-med the prim-nut elemenu by which euciety, under Ill ite upeete. le held together Ind treeed
rifle to in eourre Ill human hetere. "I he then directed Ittenttee tethe development of theee prin-
nplv. In: pointed out the cireueieteeeee by which they were perfectedee the cue bend. or corrupted
on I W at rr.'

0- \Ve perceive by the preteee thIt the work he hed threegheet the eeperlnteedeeee of the very
leeiued Amhlnehop Wheuly."--bt'terery Gentle.

PALMER'B TREATIBE ON THE OHUROH.
A Tenet" on T]! Cituectt or Cunt-r. Dung-ed chiefly (<<the eeeet Stedeete in heelegy

By the Rev. Willi-Ii Pelt-er. K. A.. e! Worceeter College. (hfertl. Edited. with Netee. by the
Right Ree. W. R. Whlttlnghen, D.D.. Biehep o! the PreteetIIt w Chueh II the Diane.
el' Meryl-ad. 3 vole. 8m hemleoIely printed on flee pp>>.

"The treetiee of Mr. Pet-er ie the beet eepeeitlee end viedleetlee at cm 'thetwe
hue ever reed; excelling tau-team treItieee in depth of MI. all eolidity What I
lulu-h II it excell older treeueee e- the like In in IdeptetleI to the wIIte Ind thite at the eye.
t)! he influence in England, where it he "Jason'h two edition. we hne not the lieIIe to for.
e- titanium; but we believe thet in thie not: it bee Iheedy. em before he reprint. done more h
More the eoutul tone at Ceiliolie pried end eeling theIer ethereeeworh of thee". The eether'e
IeImIiu: and power: at combination eet. greet II they oheiouely Ire. ere bee re-Irheb.
then the sterling "on! ten-e. the vixoreee eolid judgment. which te enriwhere mailed lI the
"retina. Ind fluifen "It It ite ill-tincture excellence. The etyle at the eether diette'eiehed i'er di
nity end mau'ulme energy. while hie tone II everywhere netttr'Il 3 on pope! m, "Neuter;
rout nlwnyl. en {er me we remember. InfideItly endlietery.

" To our may and intelligent leity who dedre to eee the Church inetly dieeriielneted from Renee.
lllu nn Ilw mm hand. and dmeetiegdemintlue u the other. we <<ready commend PeuII'I
'l'ittmsi: on em: t7uuecn."--- . . om '

HARE'S PAROOH IAL SERMONS.
Srrmulll to I ('ountry (fainting-tine. lly Auxuettte Willi-in Here, AJL lie Fellow of New Cohen.
Ind Rector uf Alton Berlin. 1 Vol. man the.
" Any .me wlm run he planned with tlrtllt'lt'y of thought expreeeal in the meet. eintple lIn Inge-
nny one who nun fuel the chem of "Mill!" irecticel tlutlee elucideted Ind W by e veried

ill-tellntiuul-will Ito <<Ir-lighted with this v ttllo, which preeettl. III with the machine I DWI" m
highly-sifted mmd."---QIC/rlC/rly rum.VALUABLE PUBLICATIONS. I

MAOEE ON ATONEMENT AND SACRIFICE.
Mammmummmmmdlmmm.m.mm
cupsl Argonauts nomad. sud tbs Mods ol Its-seeing snploysd by tho Opponent-of than dos-
tnnes. us hold by tho Bluhluhsd Church. By the lots "at R". Willia- II'OO. 111)., Archbishop
at Dublin. 1 vols. royal tlvo.. beautifully pustul-

"Ttus is cos of tlrs sblsst critical sud ionic-l works of WI. ti-ss. Archls'sliop "use I
truly I sauna ber-diatom. He is so ores lent scholar. In acute res-nor. sad is possessed or s most
utonsrvs unit-intact>> with tbs aids Ilold of moment to which his volurnss Ire dovetail--tbs pro-
found Brbhrnl reformat-um on a "not of topic which tbs Amhhiobop lump {om-rd. loot seller
Ins nuns to all tom'- of Christa-ml}. -Ors|C/.

DEVOTIONAL LIBRARY.

The greatest curoistsken in seloctingthoworbofvvhich thiscollectioniscon-
posed. Etch volume is printed on the finest paper. elegantly ornamented. and
bound in a superior manner. and uniform in size. Bishop Dosne says of tlr'l
collection. " I write to express my thanks to you {or leprintl of the Oxford
Books; tint. {or such books. and secondly. in such I style. I sincerely hope
you may be encouraged to go on, and give them sll to us. You will dignity the
art of printing. and you will do great service to the best interest of the country.
In a. letter received "on Bishop Whittinghun, he says. "I had forgotten to
state my very great satisfaction at your commencement of e series of Devo.
tional Works, lately republished in Oxford." The publishers beg to state while
In so short a time this library has inert-used to so may volumes. thoyure encou-
raged to make yet lnrgcr additions, mid earnestly hope it my receive all the
oneourogomcnt it descrvm.

The following volumes lave 0112me appeared:

THE EARLY ENGLISH CHURCH.
orcmnsu III at England in only British. Saxon. sod Nor-In Tunes. Byths Rev. Blind
ChMMJ. ithsl'vo'losbyths Right Bonn-shop Ives. lvdlfinsls'utlyonnnsntod

LEARN TO DIE.

Discs Mari. Lem to Dis: sRnliyious Disc-runs. uov svsry Christan an to sour into s saloo-
Rsnsnbnuos of his End. 8, Christopher Sutton. .D.. lots Pretend of Westminster. I vol.

16:313., 4-qude Maud.
SAORA PRIVATA :
' ' ' m' of". ' . . ' . . ., '
"30:32.; 'L'Inflmu'm gnome dfioznlvzl. mysl m,maym2t?d. M am .'
MEDITATIONS ON THE SACRAMENT-

OdI lvditstlons u the most Holy Seer-molt of tho Lord's Sonar. Chrutdp' hot 3am,
D.I).. Ins hob-Mpg? Westminster. 1 vol. mysl rm. slop-u, Mazd-

H EART'S EASE;

Orsksnsdysnlustsll'honhlos.
\VITH A CONSOLATORY DISCOURSB,
Psrtloulsrly Mutt-ass who hon lost "friends sad amniotic-s. BySMPstrick,
Museuothsladnushopoffily. immimnmuymmt

A DISOOURSE CONCERNING PRAYER
' Ddl Pnblil'n hue-m ..seustms' ' .
"53%!me swim, nil..mummwu:PSoxm. 1:334 "3." ""33.
gently mud.
THOUGHTS IN PAST YEARS.
Absuhfnl oolloetioi of P323. chiefly Donna-1. By the Author or "m Culrsdnl.' t d.
roysIIO-mnlsnstlypm . -
0.. Mules-atom "followed byotllsrsofequliupnuu.
80H LEGEL'S PHILOSOPHY O F HISTORY.
. l'he Philosophy of History, in a course at Lecturee delivered at Vienna. by Penance veil Sent>>
on. tnnelnted from the German, with allentoirol' the Author, by J. B. Benn-soil. Randomly

printed on fine paper. 2 role. 12m.

"A masterly reduction--written in that flowing. elegant style. no characteristic of the German
wliuol. In fact. siligeut investigation, occur-re discernment. sound judgment and elegant taste. will
not found employed in every page. Our readers may rely upon our word that a perusal of theee peg-
wtll yield them an ample hamet of pleasure and Idvnnte'e."-- Quarterly Ravine.

THE LIFE OF ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
"Whyulwmlohno.nmnton. ivola. ruyttlfiro.

" We cordially recommend the perusal and diligent study of theee roluntce, exhibiting. ae they do.
much valuable matter relative to the Revolution. the embliahinent or the Pedernl Coo-titutiott, and
other iinptutatit evente in the annals ot our country."--Nete- York Review.

THE METROPOLITAN PU LPIT;
0r Sketches of the lost Popular Preacher- iu button. By the author of Random Reeolleotioae. The
Glut Metropolis, etc. to. I wL lznw.

CARLYLE ON HISTORY AND HEROES.
Ila llemee, Hero-Worship, and the Heroic in History. Six Lectures. reported with Escalation- and
Additions. by Thomas Carlyle, Author of the French Revolution, Setter Rosanna, ac. Elegantly
pniited in] vol. flout.

" A masterly pteduction.--Eren the single lecture to which we shall confine our 060e, ie, we feel.
A greater theme than can be suflciently illustrated at our hands. We have elsewhere noticed a new
L'IIIIIUII of Sartor Rosanna, by the annu- author. It II ii very remarkable work, though we taunt cott-
'i'ee untiewhnt ton Gennau end Innocenilrntal (at our taste. \\'e rojoico to say that we find no such
.lill'ii'ultiea ltesettinx us in theae disquisttiuns on hen-es. They are in truth thilneophical enough,
ilmipt Eltou'Il' tcnit enough ; but "If" plitloaophy is clt-itr. diutnct. and intoIIigibIo ; their abrupt-
urea is the Vigor oI'I mathenet: IIIt'lr touring the note of a giant who has a Wildeniese to burst
through and open to the rut of nienlttnd."--LttC/rory Gentle.

OUIZOT'S HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION.

General History of Civiliutiun in Butt-pe. from the Full of the Rotnan Empire to the French Revo-
lution. 'I'i'nnslated from the French ol' M. Guizot. I'mfraeor of History to In Fuultb dee Len-tee
of Paris, end hlitiinter of Public Inetruction. 2d American, front the last London edition. I vol.
litre.

" \Ve hail with pleasure the republication of thie able work. It is torso and full. and adverte to
the int-at intereetin; topic in the sociitl rulett'ons of mankind, the prugreeaire improvement of the Eu-
mpean uatioue from the orenhrnw of the Roman Empire by the Goths, and lions. and Vandals, in the
Filth Century."--N. Y. Americas.

SOUTH EY'S POETIOAL WORKS.

The Cornpleu Poetic-xi! \Votlsol' Robert Southey, Esq. LLB. The ten volume London edition I
one olegant royal Svo. rolunie, with a fine portrait and vignette.

'.' This cditmn, which the author has arranged and revised with the ante care as if it were In-
tended for puatlilltuoul publication. includee tnnny pieces which either have never before been collect-
ed. or have hitherto remained uzgubliahrd.

Preliminary notices are nfl'tx to the Iona [Knuth--the whole of the not" "telnet--Ind loch
attentional ones incorporated as the author, aince the first publication, has seen occasion to ineert

Contents:
Joni or line. 'l'iil Cues: or Karma.
Juvssiu arm Minor Petite. Ronntca TIIB urt- or run Got-its
THALABA nit Dan-tier". Tn: l'orr's l'itoituuos re Wntxlboo.
Manoc. Ln or run Lauexars.
Butane arm Manic". Tans. Vision or JUDGMENT. etc.

"At the age of sixty-three I have undertaken to collect and edit my poetical works, with the la.
com-cums that I can expect to bestow upon them. The have obtained a te utation equal totny
wishes... . . .Tliue to collect and reuse them is n duty win" I owe to that part 0 the public by when
they have Its-en nus 'ciousl received. and to thoee who will take a lively concern in my good name
when I shall have eputedt"--Ermfron Author" Preface.

" The antic It" little to do but to pom out the existence of the work. the heeut er the type and
embellllhlncllu, tuid the cheapnm ot' the cost : the public has long ago acknowl god ite merit and
enabltaltcd its tetititntionun-o'l'ho author of the 'Life of Nelson' must live es long as our history
and language endure. There is no man to whom the latter owes a greater obligation~no man who
hair done more for literntum b his genius, hie labours. and his lire."~ ' .

" We are very glad to see I 19 works of a poet. for when we have alwaye felt the turnout Idliin
don. collected. and in a shade which will ensure their popularity."--biterory Guam.

" Southey'e prlnoipel patted teeth have been long betbre the world, exteaeively read and highly
don! nfoignod ooonro to thooo who on deg noniod to immoral vom.' "--10-"...
"Thohoontiooot o'opootrynroonchthotthio oditioneonhordlyhtltodndnploooin
no library of any not: {and olopht "Mann--Me Rnt'oto.

SCRIPTU RE AN 0 GEOLOGY.
0n tho Rolotron' hotvoon tho Holy Scriptnroo old oorno mono o! Ooologtal' Solo-co. By Jon-
Pu San-u. D.D.. author of tho Scriptnro Tootinony of tho Mooninh, ac. Ge. 1 vol. "no.
"Tho volume col-iot- of oight loetnroo, tovhich on Ippondotl norenty not of onpplonontnry
iota. Tho Ilrot loctttro lo Introductory ; tho mud in ociontracnlly donnptiro of tho 'ltta'poltoptn
of [collegial ode-co ; tho thin! inclndoo nrooonrnh Into tho motion of onr globe : tho onrthud Nth
loctuml comprise on oxoninotion ol' tho dolngo; tho oixth diocn-ooo tho npporont damnom hotwoon
tho docioaono of [Odom-to, nod tho htthorto roooivod interprotouon of Scripture. with on odditiottnl
orpaonion of tho dilnnol thoovy; tho oomth io dovotod to mutation at tho method to intorprot the
Scriptunl. oo thot they any homanioo with tho (ll-corona of goals"; tho uyhth io tho pororotwn
of tho wholo dioqnioition-" '

TOUR THROUGH TURKEY AN D PERSIA.
Nuntiro of n Tun: through Lintonio. Knulilton. Potoin, Ind loonputunin. with on Introduction Ind
(loco-30ml Oboorvotiono upon tho Condition of Mohonmodoniunond Chrilionity in than nonunion
By tlio Rov. Holn'lo Somono, My of tho America Bpiocupol Church. 2 vols. "no"
plates.

" An oxcootlingly intorootittg hoot of trnvolo which lo- vendor will ho vo likely to lny byfor (nod
till he hot oeon tho ottd of it. lt cont-ins o vo'ot uncut of infanotinn. to in>>: "MI gourd, Ind in
writun In n otylo of porfootoooo and simplicity. lt dooomo, and two dwht not will pin, on oxtonniro
u'rcnlotion."--Albaty AW.

SCOTLAND AND THE SOOTOH.

Or tho Wooten Guilt.
Dy Cnnnrn Smcuxn, onthorof "adorn Accomplishments, laden: Socioty. to. to. 1 vol. Ibo

SH ETLAN D AN O TH E 8H ETLAN DERS.
cu- tho lot-thou Ghana.
By CA'I'IIIIII Snot-tn, onthor at Soul-ad ml tho Scotch, Raid" Emu. co. to. 1 "Lion
" Ni- Sincloir hooohoodyprwod honolfto hoolody of high ulcnt utd lichcnltivotod nrind. Sho
think: with prociim Ind "not, on! rho M the qnnlity of ooixing the ohjocu of her thonghto in
tho right ploco nnd nt tho tinto, and of mounting thorn to tho rnirnl'o oyo oI' hor rootloro in tho

hoot door Ind aptinting Ii t. Her otylo io chu'netoriotin at her mind. tron-punt, unt. nod
linly. yot onuoinod by pnro, thorn! ond roligiono {collar--Norm>>! Ann-icon. PM

LIMITATIONS OF HUMAN RESPONSIBILITY.
"MWMDD. IdodltlonJNLIM

THE FLAG amp;

0: o Voyogo round tho World,
lntho Unitod Stuart-into Colnnthio. nttondodhy hor Manama WorJohnMo-o. and

hooriltgtho brood ponnnntofConnodoro (Boom C. Rood. By Pm: W. Thrmmchoploin totho

Squadron. 8 vols. Ibo>>. plotoo.

"Thin work ho. hooooo-o tinto hofon tho public; but" hoaooqnonco ofottrltto ootieo, itoltnll
monitonny rondortho vorygrontplounroond profit-hich itopornool :Smnqwomonroho
onll think it hottor Into thou nonr. Tho toomlo oi"- voyogo omnd tho , Iodo by n nun. who.
in ninxlrng with tho miono on! wondorfnl Icons: it must prooont. hos hod his oyoo upon. could out
foil to ho innovating. M on] rool oecnrroneoo. on thing: <<(which F" nowrgrn' woory. Brit
this work hot "or higher oloin to tog-rd. lto l-tonry char-cur humanly very mpcctahk, and tho
hencvolont spirit nod Chri'inn intorut nith which the vuiod incidonu of I visit to nlntoot error, no-
tion on the gloho worn reg-Mod. giro the hook on unwound rolno. Tho ohilility to rant] tho own!
upocto of tho would, in n nollhnomn or which tho for grootor of tronllerl oro nttorly deflciont.
My oineo tho vnln ionmolof'l'yomon. ndnonnott, t to ho: hoon no othovr ooo hbrhod
which oxhibiu to amt-cm I viowof tho Chriotion niooiono of tho world or thio. Wo think t odoptod
to inmoot ito rondon not only. but "only toiutrna thorn. ond upoca'olly to owokon o doop Ind
livoly lynpothy for tho non! rant: on] moonoo of tho molar--Mu.

WORKS BY ISAAC TAYLOR.

HOME EDUCATION.

By lilac Taylor, onthor of " Nolan] libs: int Buthnrinn,' cc. to. Second edition.
I' . IDO-

th vol tho mrnl 'nci In of Education. to applicable to prit-nto fontilioo nod to null
$92" mood "pl-ind"; lush methods of ttnntmont, otpocinlly, being onggntod. no on hot

"Swot-d. 'l'hoir gunnin- in I not nod nnil'onn odition. with tho Gaol emoticon dthonnthoo
w
r. South" I". 3'7'

6 D. APPLETON O. 0038

uiud wthooimm of Icountq widow; at than. duo, hints or. Mdlflnd to ho
uvulablo under any cmumunru for <<min; on tho onlturo of those of the inulloetul moo- th'
an the <<that dovolqml. and on the duo exp-mm of which the {mo and oflldouyoftlnnum

mad downd. ' - _
' A vary "lightened, jolt. ind Chnmur now of u most important "mu--4m N. hp.

SPIRITUAL CHRISTIANITY.
Locum. oa Spiritual Cliriuinnity. By luuo lelor. "that of " Spiritual baptism," to. ac.
1 vol. law.

"TN. want in the production of on. of the roost (mod and mph-had minds of tho mount on.
"norm of In- fonuor pruluruum may bun born thought ohuucton'ud by too much of Manny-bod
nl-tmtnon' and III mun "atone". by unoculntwm of dwblful mporuuco. tho pro-out Volum u, we
tluuh. In on donn- lint-lo tulhu ultjot'llun. It In unload diltenauulwd fordroptlmught and mount.
dnrmmuntmn; and wln-n-vor \vmlld read it to natural-go. mull tull III! farultiol in I much hi III" do-
uyw than m u-mlmg unlnn-ry huh; and yfl n animal nothing which an ordin- dqm Intelli-
xu-nm Ind nmnllmtwn III-y nut n-allll cumpu-hond. _Th<< View which it awe: of C rminnity. hath:-
a ayutrm of truth and n nan-m of u my. in In tho hmhnt degree rutmctuo; and ill tandem-Ion an
nut low to quu tum lire Inlcllrnlual {nu-ulna, Ila-n Iu (llfl'cl Iml rlrvalo tIno mot-l urunlnlluol. W.
lmu- no duutit that it will ho run! with [not inwu-fl by than who rad to find maternal; for thought,
and that u u- :Iutinml In "on a ram Impunnnt Influome. mmci-lly on tha- mm Intellectual chaos.
to tho advancrmeuv. of the ratoruu of truth and plety."-Albny Burma; Journal.

PHYSICAL THEORY OF ANOTHER LIFE.

By law Tutor, author of "Now Elston of Ramada-In." Th1!!! odltlon.
1 vol. Iho.

MINIATURE CLASSICAL LIBRARY.

Grunt pains ham boon Iron-towed in the selection of this unique Library; it will
comprise the butt worlur of our venerated authors. published in an elegant font,
with a bountiful frontiqriooo. tastefully ornamented. Tho following are now
ready;

(BOW--Bony; By Other Goldmdth.
GOM.--The Viol: of Wlhflold. By Ollvot Goldmlth

JOHNSON--Tho Bhtory of Banks, Prim of Mandala, a Talc. By Sunni
John-on, LLB.

oom.--nunbem; or, tho Exile- of 89min. By Madam. Oottln.
Tho calcium pramlanty of this little talc in well known.

mm of Motion. Do. of Pdondlhlp. no.0! Rmmbnnoo.
Bach volnno waist- of appwptiuo [nautical uuncu {mu thgbou writorlol dud-y.

PURE 001.!) ton: the hint! of thom--A collection of wort utmtl on Rcllgtou
ouwflutln oIdor vmten. III-hop "all. Sherlock. 31mm. Paley. Jenny Taylor. at).

8T. man-ramuavm Prom MMon.nEDoSt.Mn.
5' Thou volume- will In followed by <<then of nuanced merit.

EVENINGS WITH THE CHRONICLERS)

0r, Uncle Rupert'- Taloo of Ohlnlry.
By R. M. Evan. With myilluntntiou. I ml. Mun, <<logontly bound.

" This Would have born a vnlmno nfur our own henru, \vhila- we wont ymmuor. and it in xamly
It. oumvw when wr aro mnuwlrnt uldrr. ll dim-mm. ul' tIm-o thing: wlm-h rlmrnml all of In in
early yuulh. Tl... slum: <<II-<<In uf tlw Knlulllu and Squlru uf feudal wart'aro. The true union III
0w "Cl-my Chum." the uphill of tho uluul and Mailman \Vnmunn of England. Scutlnml and Gor-
mxuu'. In a word. II III mt uttmt'ln'n- hunk. ltml much-rm! nmro no In ymmc n-mlolu by a noun uf wood
runnvmgn. IranhI'I-lly cxn'lrlnl. rllmlmlmg lho [HIM-pm" dorm-tumult. Thorn In Il'Vt'nIN'I 0'
than plum m Ilm anumr. nml lln- wlu-Ic- hunk in nu rlrrllomly punk-d, Ind upon Inch (00d paper,
that II in in all turn-II ralnnlslt."-(.'uuner .y Enquirer.
APPLETON'B TALES FOR THE PEOPLE AND
THEIR CHILDREN.

The greatest cum in tekcn in eolecting the verb of which the collection in com.
posed, no that nothing either mediocre in talent, or immoral in tendency. in ad
mitted. Each volume in printed on the finect pepcr, in illuntretod with en clo-
gnnt frontiephce. end in bound in n cuperior mnnner. tentefully ornenented.

Tho following hnve nlrcndy uwd, uniform in nine end ntyle:

m "m3 08072)

OnLIttle endhintlnel Deniernin. mac evttherd"3eely m." n
to. to. l '0 . idea, beeuttgnl [Iona-piece." M, p.

" An eteellent little ctory thin. cheering how enund venue. honeet principles. end intelligent indno
try. not onl enhance their pennant. hut. In in the race of Uncle Benjamin the gnrdener, eneble hit:
to hen-me t e benefcctor, guide, end [need of reletiuuc out down flout e Iottier ephere III life. end,
but for him. without recenrce.

" It in e tnle for youth olell clencee. thnt cannot be rend without peoflt."--N.Y. American.

mm! W.
By Kn. Copley. lvol. Itlrno.. pint-c.

deg' A .chnrinin; little book thin for young girle--1wdcouenel conveyed in the lenceege of election,
ad with nil the eureotoon of en intereuinx ctory. it in e come of ulmniuette chout thegirlieh friend-
.hlvielleod et cchcnl--ccrneuneee co injndieionn. often no influentinl in the lbr-etieu ct cheruter.'
--_ . . m

m TWO DEFAULTBBS;
Or, ePlenrreot mm... Byhlrn. Grind; (anemia-I.)
"A sent interectin; little vole-e. not excelled byenyeneot' the novice."

mm READY:

k theWreckcIthePectflc. WrittentorYeung Perncnc, "(new lvethe.
t'rontuptcec.

" We heve never once eny thing free: the an pen we like en well on this. The Ocptein hed
lined hie children townte e ctory for thorn. end undertook in concequence to continue the Swine
hinnon Crunue : but on epplicntten to the wart, coon diecnvered it would be eenier end more ueeful I)
tho-c forwheuihcevectvri' . to ctn'he nutintoeneetirelynevvetory. He henchmen-eunuc-
ecenfully. It in ctill the tele chipivrneh end deeolnte iniend, end Mecternen Reedy ie the pennan-
cetion ofell the 'eel telentc end evnileble ehll'te which rnuch leech: ebeutin the world teechec
to rune-not el -Incn. There in, moreover. nueh end concrete mimosmm three hcet.
cenuuniceted in c trey to he both intelligible end ettreetive to youthful at end we eennot'bcuee
conclude our notice of it. then by repecti the eeclentntiee of e clever boy, en he fininhed the booty-
'Well, I nin no [led it in to be continued' ~N-Y. A-en'ecn.

mmmmm
nymm lvolJtino.

"The vernntile telent offline Mertineen hen been employed of lete in reverie: t'crthe steeple end
their children n Inent inviting little htntery o! Louie Sinteenth enrl hie {e-ily. Here. in e ctyle even
more I'elnrlier then Scott'e Telec o! n Grendfnther, vre heve e mphio epitome cl my [note connected
'ith the den of the ' Revolution.' which will eclipee en of the tlmtittouc tnlce new in vogue. keyi-
city in net before the young mind in e unclear which In" l Include en ferthcr Iiceoeeentionn ac to
the cruinlnt of hnmnneel dintnheted between the 'Prince end the ' eccent,' end the odort of the
nether to nor-urn in early life the maiden oftbe reflective end rune-in; newer- ever the innate.
ticn,vrtll. we doubt not, be mace-tel." .Y. M.

THE SETTLBRI AT HOME.
"mm ltuLlOinn.

" The circumncec under which thin little volume. for the enucenent of children. he been pro
diced. give en ndtlttiottll chem to its truth. nintplicit end feeling. The role. though in one pee-nee
eornmt'ul enough to written many I pcir of eyee. ic fit of interest and nherecter. The letternee nun
wild, in on much n minted by children en the former: end they mil tnhc en lively an interest in Ai
eun'n ignorant en nnneltinh fidelity end her ntelwert ernin. end in Rainer Red urn the gipcy buy'n
same of better neturv. en in the development or the ruin incident of the book. ernentdierutmun

which cprend devnctntiou over the lele nt' Axholrne two hundred you-c Igor--Athena"

W30 SHALL BB GREATEST?
A Tele. By Mary Hewitt. lIol. lento..- plntee.
" The greet more] lemu inculcated by thin boot in indiceted by it! title; end while it in put-teed
enouh through the whole volume, it course not at the eleee with ntest ism-ire efl'set. We nod
not say it is a lesson which every human being islho wieerand the betterfor learning. Weeotdially
recommend the worktoallwhowonld deeirntot'orm aeoberendretional eotiniatoot thewodd'sen-
leytnents."--Albony Eminent].

sownto AND name;
Or, What will come out 2 By Mary Hewitt. 1 vol. 18".. plates.
"We commenced it with the intention of just looking it over for the purpose of writing a cursory

notice; butwe begutoreed,endsowe wentontoths nuis. ltis very interesting tit-characte-
are full of indiridnality."-Nes Redford Mercury.
swarm AND m:
A Tale. By Mary Hewitt. 1 vol. 18m, plates.
"The mere announcement of the name of the enthmse. will doubtless bring an of her productions
to the immediate notice ofthe public; but State and Thrive is not e book for chi ten only, but can he
tend With pleasure and advantage by thoao of a more mature no. It full curtains the reputation of

its mlccessors. The style is easy and lowing. the language chests and utii'nl. and the incidents
of the tele calculated tokeep up the interest to the end ."-N.Y. Courier e Enquirer.

HOPE ON, HOPE EVER;
Or, the Boyhood of Polk Law. By Mary 301ml. 1 vol. 18m.

" A very neat volume with the shore title, and the (author annnndation that it may he called Tribe
(hr the People end their Children. has been written 12qu Hewitt, whose name is so favourably
known to the reading community.

" This volume. like all others that emanate from the pen of thie lady is extremely interesting: the

chemist: are natnrall drawn while the feeling and pension di n 've the work a hi her tank
than is usually W to nursery tales."--Cosuurcrhl Advertise?! M' '1 '

m MERGE" FOR m m;

Or, Intellectual Mirror, being an el t collection of the most do tlnl little stories and
Interestingtaleozchle malatod thatmnchadmlredworkbamldeelnfam;vith
nnmetotu wood outs. twentieth edition. ! vol. lSmo.

"he storm here collected ore of a most interesti character, since virtneis constantly represented
as the fountain of pincer, and vice as the source 0 every evil: as a useful and instructive luckier
glen. we rumor-tee it for the instruction of eve youth, whether Mien orMester; it is a liner that
will not flatter then: or lead them into error; it displays the follies and improoer pnrsnite of youthful
hearts, points out the dangerous paths they sometimes trend. and clean the", to the testyle of

WWI".
DINING- OUT.

Togthelrvz'm'lsgonfedonldam ByMrLBllll, mof"Wm "England,"
. . o.

"The tendency ofthis littlehooh is one of the hettand noblest. The scenes and characters are, It
Is believed, portraits, suiting. as it doea, at the correction of a tooprevalent vice. It is expected that ii
will command. among the serious and thinking port of the community. asoxteosiro apopnlarity ,-

'Nicholas Nickleby,' in its peculiar circle."
80W BALL. To vhlohlaadded, RISING TIDE.
By Mn. Ellis. 1 vol. 18mm

' This little book has much to recommend itself. It eontainssn interestingand lemon-teething tab,
Ihioh cannot fail to impress its prominent (<<tons on many a breast."

'.' It is intended to include in this notice some of the best works in our language.

 

A GIFT FROM FAIRY LAND.
By J. K. Ponlding, Esq. illustrated with one hundred nniqne original plate-by Chairman: am

bound. lvol.l3nto.
PAST DAYS:

A Story for Children. By Esther Whitloch. Square lame.

" It is a delightful. instructive little book; and it' the child, when she closesthe volume. find her
eyes 'rodvrith weeping) let her not be ashamed; oneold enough Kobe hergnedfether, caught the
some disease from the same mater--Philadelphia Unilrd States Goran.

SPRING AND SUMMER.
J nil NW; Willi. 1h 0 . B .EEW- been"
mingzwgthai'tyelegugplates. Tvdfeqmmg; ho?" A

AUTUMN AND WINTER.

ll'he Juvenile Naturalist: er Walks In the Country. the Rev. B. H. Draper. A W
volume. with many plates, uniform with " Spring on Summer."VALUA'BLE mnucxnons. 9

THE YOUNG NATURALIST'S JOURNEY;
OnMofAmHmndhclm mmmmmwm
THE OLD OAK TREE.

Amos": mama mm WM
my W W youth; "I,

WORKS BY REV. ROBT. PHILIP.

THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JOHN BUNYAN,
mammmm synommup. watch-man. lnIJb.

'l'HE LIFE AND OPINIONS OF DR. MILNE,

. Ill-lam to Ghana.

mm by 33(2ngth Annals of Ali-ac Minions, from Primtin Proust-ht Tina; ind-dod-

OGM to [Henry Spirit. By Rohon Philip. lvol. Ibo.

" The run. of Philip hain thin coon as well u ia'Grnt Brium,' homo - m to bl.
favour. Thoughtho maid of this mgr-n, not b. amended wiIh tho an. upland"! "unman-
II wu that of the memoir of Baum, you it It on. of very (rm intend; ad to tho Chriuian mum,

- Mow-lbw the. who no deeply mutated in II>> can. of missions, it will MI, hear heap
prison wilh um um have gum hell?" it. The war! is executed with m skill, and calming
I m mater v missionary inulllgenoe, beside: a rich variety of penal! inddnh. uh"
to past, an only tho ninmry or the Christin, but tho man "and ruder."--AlbC/ny Ah.

YOUNG MAN'S CLOSET LIBRARY.
37me mnIMyMyhan.Alhu-Im IvoLlh.

mvnormmrr MmhbWou-h: gammhm wann-
magmas>>. lulu>>. -

mmoxnmmnam 80mm was Inv-
max-mummmm 3mm gamma: n

Mwhl'orplond. Mouth. . '
Do do Devotional. Do do Continuum.
Do do W Do do Who.

LADY'S OLOSET LIBRARY.
A! FOLLOW:

mm"; wWyomebKoflnm "EDWIN" lvoLlho.
MW302VWOIPMM. "mm lvol.l&no.
mnmmnx-Wdrmom. snowman; 1701.1"

The HATERNAL 3311133 of the M popular LI'hlI-ry in "may, <<Iliad
m mm; orM-mnalhhmofflou. Bynobmrhlnp. Ivol. 1800.

"Th. mumrofthil workhhm Iotho Micron" Iho "prolificwrlun offlnday. and
ml any writer in the clap-runes: which mp6", has mail-d no exam" Ind wclI-mrlud
I u unity. The proton: voluno, u in Iitla down. I. domd to ya sum of the jhfluono
"wetland: Ihciroou: and the III ' in mad with tho-no origunli and bounty which chu>>
COM-in the nthw'uothcr works. I will ho found to ho I "blunts had-Inf" ocnpuion ip
the unwary. had In inhale. an hudl full :9 ho Mt: Inc, In ' III' tho Inn of respond!>>
"Until ofnothen: undue", Bfmw'hodnncw Ihnrisihggmwuhugm
Mud hulllpm Ind vim"--Dv-g .

WORKS BY THE REV. JOHN A. JAMES.

- , rmmmnnm _
Dyan. Schwinn. WIIhanoOhymBn.Wm.Adm nous-n

"We ' mun bliahmofthisvolmnhdommnualeulnion thoylahollod
M'WW Adam's--mw;fonhqmmxthoohm alum mun... hm
nhighlyhmflmd Chriuiu wciocyfimthomhlohpmlhd rich! <<mamndotur. 9""
MmMflmhmefiudN-wflm. Iroofcndunnthlyopptl.
brumhdxmlninnuhw.udmlhmnfidnd:' mudllohu-offioChunhfiW10 D. Al'l'LE'I'ON 6:. CO.'8

cm? at Mild; Ila-"III -Mmdalnm: Annunc- o! How; Pun-tied Boliva- an In only thin :
A l mfitlblo Sgt-huh; (.hmII-n Ul-hgallmu; Life of Faith : Influence at old" Chrimuu; Spam <<l
Pu," ; l'mrno Play". and Salt-Ex I nntlon.' "~0th Intelligent".

" Simple In It"!!! filth. and cvuuur u .'l m llwu mint. than lulu-m embody Ina-l ul' tlwu- dum-
nblo ulttucnwl whu-h I u-lmn I'M Wuhan tn Dt'fl <<In-nun" lawn his poopln, um] they an much In
<<aunt {ml In In- M gm" puu'lu-al III, m ull wlm wnll hvuuw upon them I unou- and thoughtful
Quantum. 'l'lw IIIIhIItII'tI-m i. In; Ihn Rm; "'Illuun AIIIIIII.M Now~Yoth Ind ilot' null' dune. nui-
irwnt gunnnlro ul'tlw mtnunu'. quality of tho mldlmu, numpm' u on" that! VIII"! Ind mum.-

uu."---lluuou 'l'vwcn'pl.

 

    

m YOUNG MAN PROM noun.
In I "no: of Lotte", upoctnny situated for the Mont Adv-mat of Youth. Dy lb

Rev. John Angeli Jamel. l-'nl'lh edit-mu. l ml- Itl-w.

" This must. [mm um um!>> um] pmlaflc pan of Mr. Jam. It not inhrior '1'. think. tn unyd'iu [nt-
drrenun. ll ruutnnplalu I yuung mm II [he mat rnlqu penal ol'hfo. Ind u-m- him At "my
,am an n gllnlv m Ilw pull" of vmuc, u: gun-n! [m Ih- coat-noun tuna-mot new. Bur young
gm. whmlrmn u. lnnu n \'llluuul Ilil' Iuwl'ul rhunclrv. ahuuhl pot-run hu-ult of this mnnbb
walk ; aml ru-ry Elma"... Immnt, wh-u wnu In loam-lg the paternal mutton {at "other ho...
Ihoulal l-Iu- un- um lhry any away vmh them than nch tnmry at (3th counsel tad tum>>

Uuu."--A "my Advcrhnr

m CHRISTIAN P3013803

Addnucd In I nor-tn of 04mm!- nnd Caution: to tho W of 0mm Ohmhu. 8'

Raw. John An'ou Jun". I ml. lflmn.

" Thou-1mm Inn-III m Ihu excellent vulumo: ' Wlllll' I look iutn thc Now Tatum", Ind "id
whu u ('Iunllan should hr. mu! than luuk tutu tllo shun-h of Cal. and use what Chum-u- m. I In
pun-full) ulliwlnl Ig- aim-um: Ihu clmuuulanly ; Ind In my palm" {or "II' tumour of the (thrintlah
pmfnumn. Imvn umlu- tlu- rnhlt. |I'lhl|l n In": um, um! I'onniu y can animu- "no. to trunn- an

Non-ultra, lu wuuw Il- unwilnl lw-uty. um! Ihm mung Ill "mutation!
" ' II II nut my mu-ulmn to rulrr mtu llw q-umnlumtlun of "(iv-to, ulmnmonml. or doctrinal Nb

'3)... In umrlu u mlu Ill [uncut-u! pultl; mu! tu mntenpluu t obeliovor rather II I Mm, thin I
shun-u. m at lrml, Ialhrr In a Chum-n m n-luuou u: the wadd. than m hi. int-lingual <<luau, a
In In- wtln-uu-nt.'

" 'l'ln- livllowmx am the tllvtllllllll umlnr which he Imall hil mh vm: WM 1h. Christina pn-
fuuuu mug-um; Ilu Uhllgntmu mul Dung": tho Dung-m uf Sal -Dooo in: th- You. PM:
In Ilium-t Inn-lulum tlm pu-wnl gunrmtum 0f l'ml'rmun with other! I at h". M than; tho
Iotrnuty um] mun-name ut' I'wfruun lmUltlitlg anti-tied With low dam: of Plat], Ind ofthmt ml-
1.." 1.. numu "Nam"... ; nu- am)- "f I'mfi-uoll tulvnul (he uppunnc. of evil; on Canton-III" to
th- \\'mld ; nu tho thnndurtnl' l'mfrsmn III refmnnw' tu l'nlitlcl; on llmthuty Inn: the humane.
of I'lufrnun; thmr t'nmlurl luqu-ln Human-find Roll-twat; tha Unwanted mem: thl Pl".
lot In t'unpvnu- -. m Azlwmty -. the ('umlnm uf l'ml'nwn away (tom Home: the Mahdi Pro
foo-m ; all um um <<my at [In Italy Spmt'o Influoucolo nu-uuu the Chmuan Prefab-mu; tho 1N
onl'ru-w."~.\'cu- t'mk "burn".

m ANXIOUS BNQUIRBR AFTER SALVATION

Directed and Encouraged. 131 Rev. John Angel! Janos. 1 101.180".

Tun-m,- nuuuunul rulnn ur Hun nxmllont limo wlunm hum already loo-l told, what: fully nu-
.I hmh untmmllun the work luu ultnim-d With the religious (mun-unity. .

HAPPINESS. ITS NATURE AND SOURCES.
By Ruv. John Angel! James. 1 vol. 82m>>.

"Thu. n wnu-n in tho rh'vllrut uuthnr'u but vain. Ila tan. with munching fl-tolitymxpoud tho
bar-lynx cxgu'llwnln h - <<hi: I- llw nntuml hull! took- no umn III. [MS 0.11 lid Ii- 0'
. um! w m gum-ll" and t uu-hmg uxluommom "HM (I to tho ncmfnilin 0mm:- of
1"qu rug ~ muvlr in uncut-mm- ur thoorin. Tho mum Hunted
m,- u! m-Il-ulu uh cl "pvt-Hm. um nmyod. in the light of which thn In>> up,
rv u lrmly man. It ll ulu-llmutly and pointedly written. A honor book '0 have not u:

I long tune u~vn."~b'mgrlial.

  
 

     

 

THBWIDOW DIRECTED

To the Willow's God. By the Rev. John Angel! Janos. 2 vol. 18w.

" Ifanv Hung mum we" urrrxuvy In givn llm hunk run-may with tho Chtiltiu community Illa
tho um- <<I m- nullwr. we Ihnulnl lmvu II m llm In-q'nlnuly hunter Ind intending mum of tho "MRI
un whn h ha wutrs. Ha ha: wnu ' y ' "I Inn-ls. uml ll" tat-lung to the name "null 01m: Old
thungh mum of them an: m-uc gr ' I In than thin, at In mom. lit-than. It" be amount-
cd is mum uhlful huml. or n num- lr - nt upml. o trunk ll worthy to b0 [and by othm
hunt" the rum fur wlm h it unpu-mlly dolluunl; and we doubt not that it in dominance-o II I
{mmny nun-no "any n hon-loo! muumlug. qul u I huh" Min to any - woundod hurtf-an

mun".WORKS BY THE REV. DR. SPRAGUE.

w me. an nun m rm RELIGION.
n MODEM "~00 Tm 0 ll. .l
Wm 3- "Pills". an. l ml. 12......" deg "'1' m r and mm. mm 3,
W on navrvm m mom>>.
37 w. 3. 8pm, DD. wmt an Introductory Bun! by Leonard Woods, DD. 1 vol. 1:...

1.8111288 '10 A DAUGHTER,
On Practical "Moots. By W. 3. 8mm, DJ). fourth odltlon, uvlud and onlarxod.

I "II. lane.
LECTURES 1'0 YOUNG PEOPLE.

MW. 3. Br! .D.D. Wlth Ill lamb Add"... Samuel Mlllor DD. earth
odltlon. <<532...... :1 3' ' 1'

Thu writing: of Dr. Sputum In [no wall kanwn, uul tuo highly "tin-tad by tho Clu'minn co.-
uuttuy generally. to "mum my 0th" rmumum than tu (anti-had by thou um: tuvrttl; (at tlu- mn-
ooa It to thought "Him In Ifllt'ulu thu t'umurubla tutummu hum to then tat-my and ctr-l-

lone. by the whula otwloot tho [mulled mm of tluu rwntr . and the fact that tlwy have cut-It
[nu-l WW." aural stimuli In England. tum-nay naut- t manta: III which tltcy m hold

IbnuL

 

W's mommy m.
A Nut-nun or Mluloury Smart>>. and Memph- ln the Souths"- with Remark- upon

_. the Nam-1 Elston-y of tho um, Wu. mun m d..." or m. Imu-
tnu. By the Rev. John Williams, of tho mutton" eoctoty.
Nun-emu. plum. I vol. lam limo.

" We It". butt :mnly doliqltml with thin wort. And if Inked why? 'we lit-war. luau" it
[brat-bu the wt ull mt! ntn-t'nctoty mount of Polyunu. the ale. of thc Pat-nae. w. luv- any
whit-I mt nth. 2. It "luau factl. momma. and Inculouu. of which the "that ww- oy. mt! on
wit-ea. a. It imult-utly [Ivan :\ full-lungth pom-It. of the mint-nutty chanctor ot'tln lwmnt ut- ; I
ponnlt thn orcu Satan Itltll Duluth. tho-uh ' human Ian: I. It rum, dovolopu tho mu Iptn!
of thc Christa alum and tho ' plot on which thy In <<mentally c-mductod. 5. ll "mum
tlu mutt: [~on ut'tho (up: in tha tm-furmtwn ottha rum: alt-Md elm orb-smut hymn>>
I. It omen t Intel-unlit: lellull botwun Ultruttlanuty Ind nnl-uttum; between the pupal n-
<<ind, all Inn's mutt ha 'Icu. 7. It Illustmn th- no. uttiul,utllwl|yqltn the mumphnt
donut ot' Inuit-u umvam. . It um the Immune. Wtclotlltnn ot' thou who Int-upturn: th-
<<tut utl womb"- nt' Chitin mm. 9. It dot-count.- thus the ' ill. of th- m' u. vuultl'
{era'- luv. and that Gul'l til-o hu who for their convenient. It). It nun mortally tu greatly
<<lug-d 0M fut the ' hut-dut- cmnctputmu' at all tho Iluu of Satan rm tho bond-p of thou-

ulu at u.

u .13." tlwu. we might nut. any <<that mm for our hi m with etu- tunntlum
vdluo. it in writh- II I Itylotal' [tut unpttcity, Ill I Ipint gnu when. u: l tone or random!
and annuity, that munch nlnln. It cunnyl no null mu ot' nlubh plus-II ml got-lo-
tic-l infant-two : lunch of it now to no, and pmbably to nth-n. It i.- uploto 'It Mud "fault-o-
to tho 5nd of Dwiu Punish-co. and \uth throat reflection. thu "ml" it uluhlo. cm a an - and
"than: It in thatch-t highly ant-emu fur the nn'otyul m nan-v. for th- f-imeu u! m
mil disc-mint on w.- 'MW of umul hnwxy. ac" for the l: ht it throw- on a...
want onulttiutt at tltlonlt tub. of am ml their inullootml char-cur. for tho cont-nutty

of the whole way. . . '
" 0th.! ninth ml not!>> lift" lth our own. Buttftlu patented "all" of Well Ind Wu

lid. tha churn-o! ' working I: waterfall; to withdraw bu tat-d {mm 9" thing: mud him. a
In luv. found the chum! of that. "thunk: ' inlan- Eutupnou' wurkm; neural '0 won-
tlor not a hi0 attachment to than. humour "jam 0 It may b0. All" one. sauna. fly into
thapin'tolth- nan-live. it bluntly 'lo four to main of A manual thuen 'lot It '9'

1|" It shall have hoot ' demand! "- ' t.

mommy's FAREWELL
By tho I". John "Ill-Inn, atlathtir g": handout-y Battalion," to.
V0 . .
me man MISSIONARIES.

of the R". Sumo! Manson and the Rev. Henry Lyman kt. Ill-donation to tho
":31: mm, with the Journal of their Exploring Tour: By the Rev. Wllltm

Thoma-on. I mt. l'zmu.

13180003833 ON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.

84!th Discount>> on the functions of tho Nervous System. in opposltlon to Phenom",
Matorhlllm and Atho'mu: to which Ln pntlxt-d .1 Lecture on tho Dlvoultiu of the Human
Character, mists; lion: Physiological rim???" By John Augustine Smlth, ED.
'0 In"1! D. APPLETON & OQ'S'P'UBLICATIONS.

mammals. . '
mummw: <<mmammm
MMGon-mdwuoumhoom ot'hohnlool'l'mnhowhdom

omptotoumflbnhofiufloolm. ill-{ova-
, Ivol.luC/o8m, hound. '3'.

mo "mm .um um mum-10x. .
I'hoModomfioottoootluk--ooooondwom oxpldnodfinl
oofloo or no. Dyna-{ova mum Willa-noun Hm to: 0m
'1 Villas. Plat". I vol. I!" 8w.

none: on m maria.

manna-Enchant "MWMHMMdImw I
out (I'LIIWI) utml-ooomodonond Nutshell; ngoho't;
omnpumh Mammwoodomto. 87M .03.

lvoLfohoot'plotoo, local-punks").

"The Murro- vollnu {uni-Mo o mmhouivo hw' d tho ionofloi Ind tho "won't.-
mom-nu which hon boon undo in tho Ital-own. to. I out!" you'd to tho pro-out lino.
moth" with ouch Meal nloo old oxpluotiouo no no loco-Ivy tom-No tho Ioohonic to doom-
.ndcoutmonoohanoduy roquuod pow" Indofthonmtim mod font. iotouyof the humor
coo opplmtion at noon. For tho purpooo of tendon tho to mono {Into tho Iolhhp'en m a.

ouo moan-loot. tho ounvod mm on I in 1 upon" Vela-to. in tho folm font.

hooo toooroolldnwntooogtuoocdmond tho inoooiuooofovoqputuoyho tong-ml no-
ohmot unit from uy of tho dunno. ,

"Tho mt roe-n: nu! oppmod mdthoirmek--oowocbhm hoooool
had. with {out nuptials oul . on III of mm. mum>>. ondunuvoloont. 'l'ho volono
gal-too, to I work of tho on o mowing. {mo coo o! tho-cot oyloodnd mono that ho- ovor follo-

continuum-1h. Page." tho "they d'thh: =1.on around mum. io. Hm ho
Redhead Inn-tor Mn WI. u ty whach, hum ' ' boo.
My MW 4 m. '

m W O!' 13mm

wmxn.r.u to. looondodi <<mm It.
a'ohnLOwoot. 1mm ' M 3!

hhwknmlnmwimwdmmuwwmdmomouy.

whowon "Moth-t it ohonldhobmchtwnhmthonoohol ma... notified-on. towhaoo

otu-fiuitoflonmdumutholotootlldhodmuthon udoohoiuooloolotodoo

3| 11:3" iothonodicdhhnry, thouiotooooot' which. hilhono, hoolpoonllydnitlod.'
ll .

mommmoxmrrooooxm
wwdetMMM.WMMU~dm "no.
lvol.l&o..hol!huod.
WWW
mmmmmmm sync-noun.
Coat-immon'nvhp. .
"IOI'IWAL
mammamnmmw-hnguawmawmum
fiMWNOWbUh WWW.

 

1 vol. 18.9.
It! buxom>>: MANUAL. .
curbing o Sunny Viowol'Po-olo 8Moo.Acoouplhhnoou.ond We!" Do.-
omtmwoeo. lvol. 19m. -
mu v 3

Ortholnly'rw. Momentum tutu>>. ' ,
"Homflmnononlooa'lo-ol'oho-m"--Inkoy.

03mm OONOORDANOI.
Ont-blag oll tho Ward- who found in the hue \Voth "hunt to tho Now Toot-moot.
1 vol. lSmo.

TE] POLYMIORIAN NEW TEBTAMENT.
Numomu References, Mopo, h. I vol 18w).