jF rentifiyiece.THE
. LIFE
fibbzntttres

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE; "
0F YORK, MARINER.

"'\"\'"""

THIRD EDITION.

m"\\~\""

' DUBLIN: __  :

'rnm'rsn BY L. TUTE, 9, ED'EN-QUAY'.THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES
' - .

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

, I WAS born at York, in, the year 1632, ofa
reputable family. My father was a'native of
Bremen, who, by merchandizing at Hull for
some time, gained a very plentiful fortune.
He married my mother at York. who received
her first breath in that country: and as her
niaiden name was Robinson, 1* 'was called
Robinson Kreutznaer, which not being easily
pronounced in the English tongue, we are
commdnly known'by the name of Crusoe.

I was the youngest of three brothers. The ,
eldest was a lieutenant-colonel in Lockhart's
regiment, but slain by the Spaniards; what
became of the other I could never learn. .

No charge nor pains were wanting in my
education. My father designed me for the
jaw, yet nothing could serve me but I must go

gto sea, both against the will of my father, the6

tears of my mother, and the. intrcaties ol' my
friends. One morning, my father expostulnled
very warmly with me. What reason, says he,
have you to leave your native country, where
there must be a more certain prospect of cow
tent and happiness, to enter into a wandering
condition of uneasiness and uncertainty? He
recommended to me Agur's wish, Neither In
desire poverty, nor ridges ,- that a middle state
ot'lit'e was the most happy; and that the high
towering thoughts of raising our condition by
wandering abroad, were surrounded with uni-
sery and danger, and often ended with confu-
sion and disappointment. Ientreat you, nay,
~ I command you, (sayshe,) to desist from these
intentions. It' you will go, (added he) my
prayers shall however be offered for your pre-
servation; but a time may come, when, deso-
late, oppressed, or forsaken, you may wish
you had taken your poor despised father's
counsel. He pronounced those words with
such a moving and paternal eloquence, whi'e
floods of tears ran down his aged checks, that
it seemed to stem the torrent ot'my resolutions.
But this soon were off, and a little after, 1 in-
formed my mother thatl could not settle at
any business, my resolution was so strong to
see the world, and begged she would gain my
father's consent only to go one voyage; which
if it did not. prove prosperous, I would never
attempta second. But my desire 'as as vain
as my follyin asking. M y mother paSsionately
expressed her dislike of this proposal, telling7

me. T hot as she saw I was bent on my own
destruction, contrary t2 their will and my duty,
size would say no more, but leave me to mysel ,

to do whatsoever I pleased.

I was then. 1- think, nineteen years old,
when one time heinir at Hull, 1 met a school-
fellow of mine going along with his father. Who
was master of a bship, to Loondon, and acquaint-
inn him with mywanderinv desires. he assured
me of a free passage, and a plentilul slIarI: ol
what was necessary. 'l'hIIs, without imploIiIIg
a blessing, or taking farewell of my parents, 1
took shipping on the first of September 165! .

Upon the sixth day we came to an anchor in
Harwich road, where we lay wind-hound with
some Newcastle ships; and there being a good
anchorage. and our cables sound, the seamen
forgot their late toil and danger, and spent
the time as merrily as it' they had been on
shore. But an the eighth day, there arose a
brisk gale of wind. which prevented our
tiding it up the Iiver; and it still Increasing,
our ship rode lorecastle In, and shipped se-
veral latge seas.

It was not long before horror seized the
seamen themselves, and [heard the master
express this melancholy ejaculation, Lord have
om :y upon us, III: shall be all lost and undone. '
For my part, sick unto death, I kept my cabin,
till the uIIiveIsal and terribb: dreadful appIe-
hensions of our speedy fate made me get upon
deck, and there 1 was alfIiahted indeed. 'lhe
sea went mountains high: I could see nothing

A 4-8

but distress around us : two ships had cut
away their masts, and another had thundered :
two more that had lost their anchors, were
forced out to the mercy of the ocean: and, to
save our lives, w e' were forced to cut our fore-
lnast and mainmast quite away.

Who 15 the r1. so ionorant as not to judge of
my dreadlul condition? I '11 as but a flesh
water sailor, and therefore seemed more tero
rilied. Our ship was very good, but over-
}oaded; which made the sailors often cry out,
18/: c will fimnder : words I then was innorant
oi. All this 11hile, the storm continuing, and
rather increasing ,the master and the more
sober part of the men went to prayers, ex-
pecting death every 1noment.W1n the middle
of the ninht, one cried out, 'e/md sprung a
lea/r. another, [hot there was few flat water
221 the ho!1l.I was just ready to exoire with
te1,1r when immediately all hands were called
to the pump; and the men forced me also 111
that extremity to sha:e with them 111 their 1a..
hour. While thus employed, themaster eSpy.
in". some colliers, fired a <<run as a signal of dis-
tress; and] not understanding what it meant,
and thinking that either thee ship broke, or
some dreadful thing happened, fell into a
swoon. Even in that condition at we, no.
body minded me, exceptinw to thrust me aside
with their leet, thinkincv me dead; and I was
a great while before 1 recovered.

Happy 11 was for. us, when, upon the signal

given, they ventured out their boat to save our9

lives. All our pumping had been in vain, and
vain had all our attempts been, had they not
come to our ship's side, and our men cast
them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it,
which after great difficulty they caught hold of,
and we hauling them to us got into their boat,
and left our ship, which we perceived sink
within less than a quarter of an hour : and
thus Iilearned what was meant by foundering
at sea. And now the men incessantly la-
boured to recover their own ship; but the
sea ran so high, and the wind blew so hard,
that they thought it convenient to haul in
shore, which with great difficulty and danger
at last we happily effected, landing at a place
called Cromer, not far from Winterton light-
house; from whence we all walked to Yar-
mouth, where, as objects of pity. many good
people furnished us with the necessaries to
carry us either to Hull or London.

Strange! that after all this, like thepro-
digal son, I did not return to my Father; who,
hearing of the ship's calamity, for along time
thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt
but I should have shared in hisfizlted coy; as
the Scripture expresseth it; but my wayward
. disposition still pushed me on, in spite of the
powerful convictions of reason and conscience.

When we had been at Yarmouth three days,
I met my old companion who had given me
the invitation to go on board along with his
father. His behaviour and speech was altered,

A 5IO

and, in a melancholy manner, he ashrd me how
I did? telling his father who I was, and how I
had made this voyage for a trial only to pro-
ceed farther abroad. Upon which the old
gentleman turning to me, said, Young man, I
recommend you. to chase anotlzer line. qflgfi: ; the
sea is an uncertain element to trust to, and you
have lately experienced some oft/cc bards/zips to
which sailors are exposed. Sir, answered I,
will you tale the same resolution .9. It is a dif-
jerenl case, said he, it is my calling, and, con-
sequently my duty to remain contented will: it ,-
but as you leave made tlzis voyage for a trial
merely, and have every other line open to you,
I think you might clzuse One less liable to hard-
slzip and reverses. But pray what are you, and
on what account did you go to sea. Upon which
I very freely declared my whole story; at the
end of which he said, in a tone of seriousness,
which I shall never forget, Young man, you
ought to than]: God, that you did not perish
whilst you were committing tlzis act of disobedi-
ence to your Father; [and I lmown tlzese cir-
cumstances, you may be assured I never should
lzave sufler'ea' you to sail along with us ; thank
God, however, that you may still atone fir the
past. Return to your Parents, tlzey will fir-
give you, but 9" you do not, recollect your Iv'a-
ther's words, and beware lest his warning slz ould

be realized. And so we parted.
I thought at first to return home; but shame

apposed that good notion, as thinking I should'll

he laughed athy my neighbours and acquaint-
ances. So strange is the nature of youth, who
are not ashamed to sin, but yet ashamed to re-
pent; and so far from being ashamed of those
actions for which they may be accounted fools,
they think it folly to return to their duty, which
is the principal mark of wisdom. In short, I
travelled up to London, resolving upon a
voyage, and a voyage I soon heard of, by my
acquaintance with a captain who took a fancy
to me, to go to the coast of Guinea. Having
some money, and appearing like a gentleman,
I went on board, not as a common sailor or
forcmast-man; nay, the connnander agreed I
should go that voyage with him without any
expense; that I should be his messmate and
companion, and that I was welcome to carry
anything withme, and make the best mer-
chandise I could.

I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly
thanked my captain for his offer, and acquaint-
ing my friends in Yorkshire, l'orty pounds were
sent me, the greatest part of which, my dear
father and mother contributed, with which I
bought toys and trifles, as the captain directed
me. My captain also taught me navigation,
.so that I soon knew how to keep an account
of the ship's course, and to take an observa-'
tion, and also became acquainted with several
useful branches of [the mathematics. Anal
indeed this voyag made me both a sailor and
a merchant; for I taught home five pounds
nine Ounces of gold dust, for my adventure,12

which produced, ,at my return to London, al-
most three hundred pounds; but in this voyage
I was extremely sick, being thrown into a very
violent fever through excessive heat, trading
upon the coast from the latitude of fifteen de-
grees north, even to the line itself.

But, alas! my dear friend the captain dc-
parted this life soon after his arrival. This was
a sensible grief to me; yet I resolved to go
another voyage with his mate, who had now
got command of the ship. This )rovcd a
very unsuccessful one; for though i did not
carry a hundred pounds of my late acquired
wealth, (so that I had two hundred pounds
lef t, which I reposcd with the Captain's widow,
who was an honest gentlewoman,) yet my mis~
fortunes in this voyage were very great. For
our ship sailing towards the Canary Islands,
we were chased by aSalce rover; and in spite
of all the haste we could make, by crowding:r
as much canvas as our yards could spread, or
our masts carry, the pirate gained upon us,
so that we prepared ourselves to fight. They
had eighteen guns, and we had but twelve.
About three in the afternoon, there was a des:
per-ate engagement, wherein many were killed
and wounded on both sides: but finding our-
selves overpowered with numbers, our ship
disabled, and ourselves too impotent to have
the least hopes of success, we were forced to
surrender; and accordingly we were all carried
prisoners into the port of Salee. ()ur men
were sent to the Emperor's court to be sold13

there, but the pirate captain taking notice of
me, l:ept me to be his own slave.

In this condition, I th'ouOht myself the most
miserable creature on cart If and the warning
of mv father came afresh into my thoughts.
However, my condition was better than I
thought it to he, as will soon appear. Some
hopes, indeed, I had that my new patron would
go to sea again, where he might be taken by a
Spanish or I'mtuguese man at am, and then
I should be set at bliberty. But In this I was
mistaken; for he never took me with him, but
left me to look after his little garden, and do
the drudgery of his house, and when. he re-
turned from sea, would make me lie in the

cabin, and look after the ship. I had no one
that I could communicate my thoughts to,
whit: h were continually meditating my escape
No, Englisliman,~ Irishman, or "Scotchman,
amongst his slaves but myself; and for two
years I Could see nothing practicable, but only
pleased myself with devising plans which I
was always obliged to relinquish.

After some length of time, my patron, as I
tound, grew so poor, that he could not fit out
his ship, as usual; and then he used constanly
once or twice a week, if the weathet was fair,
to go out a fishing, taking me and a young
Moorish boy to row the boat; and so much
pleased was he with me for' my dexterity in
catching the fish, that he would often "send me
with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and
the youth before-mentioned, to catch a dish
of fish for him.11-

One morning, as we were fishing, there
arose such a thick fog, that we lost sight of the
shore; and rowing, we knew not which way,
we laboured all the night, and in the morning
we found ourselves in the ocean, two leagues
from land. However, we attained there at
length, and made the greatest haste, because
our stomachs were exceedingly sharp and hun-
gry. In order to prevent such disasters for
the future, my patron ordered a carpenter to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle
of the long boat, with a place behind it to
steer and haul home the main sheet, with other
conveniences to keep him from the weather,
as also lockers to put in all manner of provi-
sions; with a handsome shoulder-of-muttou
sail, gibing over the cabin.

In this, he frequently took as out a-fishing;
and one time, inviting two or three persons of
distinction to go with him, laid in provisions
extraordinary; providing also three fusces,
with powder and shot, that they might kill
some sea fowl along the coast. The next.
morning, the boat was made clean, her ancients
and pendants out, and every thing ready: but
their minds altering, my patron ordered us to
go a-fishing, forthat his guests would certainly
sup with him that night.

And now I began to think of my deliverance
indeed. In order to this, I persuaded the
Moor to get some provisions on board, and to
procure some powder and shot, pretending to
kill sea-curlews, which he innocently and rea-15

6in agreed to. In short, being provided with
all things necessary, we sailed out.

When we had passed the castle, we fell to
fishing; but though I knew there was abitc, I
dissembled the matter, in order to put farther
out to sea. Accordingly we ran a league far-
ther, when, giving the boy the helm, aodpre-
tending to stoop lbrsomething,l seized Moldy
by surprize, and threw him overboard. As
he was an excellent swimmer, he soon arose,
and made towards the boat; upon which I
took out a fusee, and presented it at him:
" Muley," said I, " I never yet designed to
" do you any harm, and seek nothing new but
" my freedom. I know you are able enough
" to swim to shore, and save yourlil'e; but if
" you are resolved to follow me to the en-
" dangering of mine, the very moment you
" proceed, I will shoot you through thehead."
The harmless creature, at these words, turned
himself from me, and, I make no doubt, got
safe to land Then turning to the boy Xury,
I perceived he trembled at the action; but I
put him out of all fear, telling him, that if
he would be true and faithful to me, I would
do well by him, and not hurt him.

W e then pursued our voyage, I kept to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast; but
in the dark ot'the evening I changed my course,
that I might keep near the shore; and having
afresh gale of wind, with every pleasant
smooth sea, by three o'clock next day, I was

150 miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco'slti

dominions. I continued sailing for five days
successively, tiil such time as the wind shitt-
ing to the southward, made me conclude, that
it'any vessel was in chace of me, they would
proceed no further.

Alter so much fatigue and thought, I an-
chored at the mouth of a little rivet, I knew
not what, or where, neither did I then see any
pconle. What I principally wanted was fresh
water; and I was resolved about the dusk ot'
the evening to swim ashore: but no sotmcr
did the gloomy clouds of night begin to sue-
ceed the declining day, than we he trd
such barking, roaring, and howling of wild
creatures, that one might have thought
the very strongest monsters of nature had
their residence there. Poor Xury, who was
almost dead with fear, entreated me not to go
on shore that night. " Sup )ose Idon' t, Kory."
said I," and m the morning we should see
" men whoare worse than those we fear, what
" then?" " O den we may give dem de shoot
" gun," said he, laughing, " and de gun
" make dem all run away." The wit, and
broken English which the boy had learned
from myself, for we had passed a great deal
of our time together, pleased me entirely,
and made me still fonder of him than be-
fore. We could get but little sleep all the
night for the terrible howlings they made;
and indeed we were very much afl'righted.

The next morning, I was resolved, to go on
shore to get in fresh water, and venture DIV-
salt among the beasts or savages should either17

attacl' \ me. Xury said he would take one of the
jars, and bring me some. I asked him why 11c

would go and: not I? The poor boy answered,

" If wild mans come, they eat me, you go
" away " This, indeeed increased my affec-
tion for the child. " Well, dear Xury," said I,
" we will both go ashore, both kill wild mans,
" and they shall eat neither of us." ' So giving

Xury apiece of bread to eat, we waded ashore,
carrying nothing with us but our arms, and two

jars for water. I did not go out of s1ght of thc
boat, as dreading the savages coming down the

river in their canoes: but the boy seeing a low
descent or vale about a mile 111 the country, he
wandered to it; and then runniri g back to me,
with great precipitation, I thought he was pur-
sued by some 'savages or wild beasts; upon
which 1 approached, resolving to perish, or
protect him from danger. As he came nearer
to me, [saw something hanomo met his shoul-
ders, which was a creature "he had shot likea
hare, but difi'etent 1n colour, and with longer
legs; however, we wereglad of it, for 1t proved
wholesome and nourishing meat; but what
added to our joy was, my boy assured me

there was plenty of water, and that he " saw
" no wild mans." And greater stil! was our

comfort, when we found fresh water in the
creek where we were, when the tide was out,
without going so tar up into the country.

In this place I began to hope that I should
meet some of the E11 glisll trading vessels, who
would relieve and take us in.IS

The placeI was in was, no doubt, that wild
country, inhabited only by a few, that lies
between the Emperor of Morocco's dominions
and the negroes. It is filled with wild beasts,
and the Moors use it for hunting chiefly.
From this place, I thought] saw the tap of the
mountain Tenerill'e in the Canaries, which
made me ny twice to attain it, but as often
was I driven back, and so f'orcul to pursue
my fortune along shore.

Early one morning we came to an anchor
under a little point of land, but pretty high ;
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay ready
to go further in; butXury, whose youthful and
penetrating eyes were sharper than mine, in a
soft tone, desired me to keep far from land,
lest we should be devoured; " For look yon.
" der, maystcr, and see de dreadful monster
" fast asleep on de side of de hill." .-\ ceord-
ingly looking where he pointed, I espied a
fearful monster indeed. It was a terrible great
lion that lay on shore, covered as it were by a
shade of a piece of the hill. " Know" said I,
" you shall go on shore and kill him." But
the boy looked amazed." Me kill him!" says
he, " he eat me atone mouth." meaning one
mouthful. Upon which I bid him he still, and
charging my bingest gun with two sluus, and
a good charge of powder, and pulling inshore
till we had come within musket shot of the
place where he lay, I took the best aim I
could to shoot him through the head, but his
leg lying over his nose, the slug broke his
knee-bone. The lion awaking- with the pain,19

got up, but soon fell down, giving the most
hideous groan I ever heard; but taking my
second piece, I shot him through the head,
and then he lay struggling for life. Upon this
Xury took heart, and desired my leave to go
on shore. " Go then," said I. Upon which,
taking a little gun in one hand, he swam to
shore with the other, and coming close to the
lion, put a period to his life, by shooting him
again through the head.

But this was spending our ammunition in
vain, the flesh not being good to eat. Xury
was like a champion, and comes on board for
a hatchet to cut oil' the head of his enemy;
but wanting strength to perform it, he cut off
and brought me a foot. I bethought me, how-
ever, that his skin would be of use. This cost
Katy and me a whole day: when spreading it
on the tap ol'our cabin, the hot beams of the
sun effectually dried it in two days time, and
it afterwards served me for a bed to lie on.

And now' we sailed southerly, living spar-
ingly on our provisions, and went no oi'tener
on shore than we were obliged for fresh water,
in hepes to meet some European ship. If
Providence did not favour me, "my next course
was to seek for the islands, or lose my life
among the negroes; in a word, either, I must
. meet with some ship, or certainly perish.

One day as we were sailing along, we saw
people stand on the shore looking at us ; we
could also perceive they were black, and stark
naked. 1 was inclined to go on shore; but'20

Xu-ry cried, No, no; however, i approached
nearer, and I found they ran along the shore
by me a long way. They had no weapons in
their hands, except one, who held a long
stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with
which they could lcill at a great distance. I
talked to them by signs, and made them sen.
sible I wanted something to eat; they beckon.
ed to me to stop my boat, while two of them
ran Up into the country, and in less than half
an hour came back, and brought with tlwm
two pieces of dry flesh, and some corn, which
we kindly accepted; and to prevent any fears
on either side, they brought the food to the
shore, laid it down, then went and stood a
great way ofi", till we fetched it on board, and
then came close to us again.

But while we were returning thanks to
them, being all we could afford, two mighty
creatures came from the mountains, one as it
were pursuing the other withgreat l'ury. which
we were the ratherinclined to believe, as they
seldom appear but in the night, and both these
swiftly passing by the negroes, jumped into
the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though
the diversion of the waters had put a step to
their fiereeness. At last one of them coming
nearer to my boat than 1 ex pected,'or desired,
1 shot him directly through the head, Upon
which he sunk immediately, yet rising again,
he would have willingly made to the shore,
but between the wound and the struggling of
the water, he died before he could reach it.'$21

It is impossible to express the consternation
the poor negrocs were in at the firing of my
gun; much less can I mention their surprise,
when they perceived the creature to be slain by
it. I made signs to them to draw it near with
a rope, and then gave it to them to haul on
shore. It wasa beautiful leopard,which made
me desire its skin; and the negroes seeming
to covet the carcase, I freely gave it to them.
As For the other leapard, it made to shore,
and ran with a prodigious swii'tness out of
sight. The negroes having kindly furnished
me with water, and with what roots and grains
their country ailorded, I took my leave, and
inter eleven days sail, came in sight of the
Cape dc Verd. But the great distance I was
from it, and fearing contrary winds would
prevent my reaching them, I began to grow
melancholy and <<Medal, when upon asudden,
any cried out, " Master, master," looking as
ail'righted as if it was his master's ship sent in
search of us. But I soon discovered she was
a Portuguese ship. Upon which I strove for
We to come up to them. But in vain had it
been, if through theirperspective glasses, they
had not perceived us, and shortened their sail
to let us come in. . Encouraged at this, I set
up my patron's ancient, and fired a gun, both,
as signals of distress; upon which they very
kindlylay to',so that in three hours time I came
up with them. They Spoke to me in Portu-
guese. Spanish, and French, but none of these
did I understand, till at length a Scots sailor

--

I'22
called. and then I told him I was an English-
man, who had escaped from the Moors at-
Salec, 'upon which they took me kindly on
board, with all my efi'ects.

Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils,
we arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos,
or, All Saints Bay, in twentyctwo days after.
And here I cannot forget the generous treat-
ment of the captain. He would take nothing
for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for
the leopard'sskin, and thirty for the lion's.
Every thing he caused -to be delivered, and
what I would sell he bought. In short, I
made 220 pieces of my cargo, and with this
stock I entered once more, as I may say,
into the scene of life.

To be brief, I bought a settlement next
door to an honest and kind neighbour, born
at Lisbon, of English parents, whose planta-
tion joining to mine, we improved very ami-
cably together. Both our stocks were low;
and for two years we planted only for food;
but the third year we planted some tobacco,
and each of us dressed a large piece of ground,
the ensuing year, for planting sugar-canes.

I was in some measure settled, before the
captain who took me Up departed from the Bra-
zi ls. One dayI went to him, and told him what
stock I had in London, desiring his assistance
in getting it sent out to me; to which the good
gentleman readily consented, but would only
haye me send for half my money, lest it should
miscarry, which, if it did,I might still'have the'23
/
remainder to support me; and so taking let.
ters of' procuration from me, bid me trouble
myself no further about it.

And indeed, he not only procured the
money I had drawn for upon my captain's
widow, but sent me over a servant, with a
cargo proportionable to my condition. He
also sent me over tools of all sorts, iron work
and utensils necessary for my plantation.

Wealth now'increasing on me, and uncom-
mon success crowning my prosperous labours,
I might. have rested happy in that middle state
of life my father so often recommended ; yet
nothing would content me. ' Having lived four
years in Brazil, 1 had not only learned the
language, but contracted acquaintance with
the most eminent planters, and even with the
merchants of St. Salvadore, three of whom
came one morning to me, saying they had
a secret proposal to make. After enjoining
me to secrecy, they told me they had a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea, in order to
stock the plantation with negroes, which, as
they could not beapuhlicly sold, they would
divide among them; and if I would go their
supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading
part, I should have an equal share of the
negroes, without providing any stock. The
thing indeed was fair enough, had I been in
another condition: however, I could not re-

sist the proposal, but accepted the offer,
ppnn condition of . their looking after my plan-
tatlon.24-

The ship being fitted out, and all things
ready, we set sail the first of September 1659.
"'e sailed northward upon the 'coast, from
whence going farther into the ocean out of the
sight of 121an we steered as though we were
bound for the island Fernand de Norenba,
leaving the islands on the east, and then it
was we met with a terrible tempest, which
continued for twelve days successively, so
that the winds carried us wheresoever they
pleased. In this perplexity, one of our men
died, and a man and a boy were washed over-
hoard. When the weather cleared up a little,
we found ourselves upon the coast of Guiana.
Upon this the captain gatie reasons for return.
ing, which I opposed, counselling him to
stand away for Barbadoes, which, as I sup-
posed, might be attained in fifteen days. So
altering our course, we sailed north-west and
by west, in order to reach the Leeward
Islands; buta second storm succeeding, drove
us to the westward, so that we were justly
afraid of falling into the hands of cruel sa-
vages, or the paws of devouring beasts of prey.

to this great distress, one of the men, early in
the morning, cried out, Land! Land! which
he had no sooner said, than our ship struck
upon a sand bank, and, in a moment, the sea
broke over her in such a manner that 'we ex-
pected we should perish immediately. "We
knew not where we were, or upon what land
we were driven, whether it was an island or

the main, inhabited or not inhabited, and we23

could not so much as hope, that the ship
would hold out many minutes, without b1eak-
ing in pieces, unless the wind by a miracle
should turn about immediately. While we.
stood looking at one another, expecting death
every moment, the mate lays hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest got her flung
over the ship' s side; in this we zDal] got, being
eleven 1n number and committed ourselves to
God's mercy, and the wild sea. And now we.
saw that this last ell'ort would not be a suffi-'
cieut protection from death; so high did the'
sea rise, that it was impossible the boat should.
live. As to making a sail we' had none, nei-

ther if we had, could we make use of an So
that when we had rowed, or rather were driven
about a league and a half, a raging wave, like
a lofty mountain, came rolling a-stern of us,
and tool: us with such fury, that at once it'
overset the boat. Thus being swallowed up
in a moment, we had only time to call upon
the awful name of God, and to implore, in:
dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy_ to re-
ceive our departing souls.

Men are generally counted insensible, when;
struggling 1n the pangs of death; but while I'
was overwhelmed with water, I had. the most.
dreadful apprehenSions imaginable, for the.
thoughts of every thing which I had done-
amiss came crowding to my mind. 1 had dis-s
obeyed my parents,I had slighted their 3dr.

'vice, I had left them to follow my. own way-

ward inclination, and I was now about to ap~
. 3 . .g to, the .rocks._

in

mg

N Cause): of

SO

7
5

R013127

pear before that Being whom I had offended.
I was going I thought I knew not whither, in a
dismalgulph unknown, and as yet unp'erceived,
never to behold my friends, nor the light of this
world any more ! I strove however to the last
extremity, while all my companions were over-
powered and entombed in the deep; and it was
with great difficulty I kept my breath till the
wave spent itself, and, retiring back, left me
on the shore half dead with the water I had
taken in. As soon as I got on my feet, I ran
as fast as I could, lest another wave should
pursue me, and carry me back again. But for
all the haste I made, I could not avoid it, for
the sea came after me like a high mountain, or
a furious enemy; so that my bUSiness was to
hold my breath, and by raising'myself on the
water, to save myselfby swimming. The next
dreadful wave buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep, but, at the same time, carried
me with a mighty force and swiftness towards
the shore, when raising myself, I held out as
well as possible, till, at length, the water, hav-
ing spentitself, began to return, at which I
struck forward, and feeling ground again with
my feet, I took to my heels. Thus being
served twice more,I was at last dashed against
a piece of rock, in such a manner, as left me
senseless, but recovering a little before the re--
turn of the wave, which no doubt would then
overwhelm me, Iheld fast by the rock till those
succeeding waves abated; and then fetching
another run. was overtaken by a small wave, '

B 2 '28

which was soon conquered. But before any
more could overtake me, I reached the main,
land, where clambering up the cliffs of the
shore. tired and almost spent, I sat down on
the grass, free from the danger of the foam--
ing ocean.

No tongue can express the transports that
my soul felt at this happy deliverance. I was
wrapt up in contemplation, and often lifted up
my hands, with the profoundest humility, to
the divine power for saving my life; when the
rest of my companions were all drowned. And
now I began to cast my eyes around, and 'to
behold what place I was in, and what I had
next to do. I could see no house nor people;
I was wet, yet had no clothes to shift me;
hungry and thirsty, yet had nothing to eat or
drink, no weapon to destroy any creature for
my sustenance, nor defend myself against dc-
vouring beasts; in short I had nothing but a
knife, a tobacco pipe, and a box half filled
with tobacco. The darksomc night coming
upon me, increased my fears of beingdevour-
ed by wild creatures, my mind was plunged
in despair, and having no prospect, as I
thought, of life before me, I prepared for ano-
ther kind of death than what I had lately es-
caped. I walked about a furlong to see if I
could find any fresh water, which Idid to my
great joy; and taking a quid of tobacco to
prevent hunger, I got up into a thick bushy
tree, and seating myself so that I could not
fall, a deep sleep overtook me, and for that
night, buried my sorrows in quiet repose.29

It was broad day, the next morning, ' before I
awoke, when Inot only perceived the tempest
was ceased, but saw the ship driven almost as
far as the rock betore mentioned, which was
about a mile from the place where I was.--
When I came down from my apartment in the -
tree, .I perceived the ship's boat two miles dis-
taut on my right hand, lying on shore as the
waves had cast her. I thought to have got to
her; but there being an inlet of water about
halt2 a mile' s breadth between it and me, I re~
turned again towatds the ship, as hoping to
find something lor my more immediate subsist-
ence. About noon, when the sea was so calm
that I could come within a quarter 'ot' a mile of
her, it was to my grief I perceived, that if we
had kept 011 hoard, all our lives would have
been saved. These thoughts and my solitude
drew, tears from my eyes, though all in vain.
So resolving to get to the ship, I stripped and
waded as far as I could find depth; after which,
swiumiing round her, I was afraid I could not'
get any thing to lay hold of; but it was my good
tortune to espy a small piece of rope hanging
down so low, that, by the help of it, though
with great difficulty,- I got into the ship. Here
I found that the sh1p was bilged, and had a great
deal of water in her, her stern was lifted up
against a bank, and her head almost in the
water. All her quarter, and what was there,
were free and dry. The provisions I found 111

good order, and, losing no time, ate while I
was doing other things. I also found some

3 330

rum, of which I took a little; and now I
wanted for nothing except a boat,which indeed
was all, to carry away what was needful for me.

Necessity occasions a quickness of thought.
We had several spare yards, a Spare top mast
or two, and two or three large Spars of wood.
With these I fell to work, and slung as many
of them over board as I could manage, tying
every one ot' them with a rape that they might
not drive away. This done, I went down the
ship's side, and tied four of them fast together
at both ends, in form ofa raft, and layingtwo
or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found it would bear me, but not any
considerable weight. Upon which I went to
work again, cutting a spare top-mast into three
lengths, adding them to my raft, with a great
deal of labour and pains. I then, first laying
upon it all the planks and boards I could get,
next lowered down three of the seamen's chests,
after I had filled them with bread, rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats flesh,
and some Ear0pean corn, what little the rats
had spared; and for liquors, I found several
cases of bottles, in which were some cordial
waters, and four or five gallons of arrack. By
this time, the tide beginning to flow, I per-
ceived my coat, waistcoat, and shirt swim
away, which I had left on shore; as for my
linen breeches and stockings, Iswam with them
to the ship; but I soon found clothes enough,
though I took no more than I wanted for the

present. My eyes were chiefly on tools to'31

work with, and after a long scarch,1 found out
the carpenter's chest, which I got safe down
on my raft. I then looked f or arms and ammu-
nition, and in the great cabin, found two good
fowling pieces, two pistols, several powder ,
horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two rusty
swords. I likewise found three barrels of pow-
der, two of which were godd, but the third
had taken water, also two or three broken oars,
two saws, an axe, and a hammer. I then put
to sea, and in getting to shore had three ad-
vantages in my favour. l. A smooth calm sea.
2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore.
8. The little wind there was, blowing towards
land. After I had sailed about a mile, I found
the raft driving a little distance from the place
where I first landed, and then I perceived an
opening of the land, with a strong current of
the tide running into it, upon which I kept the
middle of the stream. But great was my con.-
cern, when on a sudden, the forepart of my
raft ran aground. But after some time the ris-
ing of the water caused the raft to float again,
and coming up a little river, with land on both
sides, I landed in a little care, as near the
mouth as possible, the better to discover a sail,
if any such providentially passed that wag.

Not far off, I espied a hill'ol' stupen ous
height, surrounded with smaller hills about it,
and thither I was resolved to go and view the
country, that I might see what part was best
to fix my habitation in. Accordingly, arming
myself with a pistol, a fowling piece, powder,32

and ball, I ascended the mountain. ThereI
perceived l was in an island, encompassed by
the sea, no distant lands to be seen, but scab
ter i 11g rocle's that lay to thew est; that it seemed
to be a barren place, and as I thought; only
inhabited by wild beasts. I perceived abund-
a: we of tools, but was ignorant of what kind,
0: whether good for nourishment. I shot one
o~ them at 111yretu1'n, which occasioned a con-
fused se1eaming among the other birds, and I
lound it, by its colou t21nd beak, to be a kind
of' l1:111-k,but its flesh was perfect carrion.
When I came to my 1at't, I b1ougl1t my
1 li'ects 011 shore, which 11' 01k Spent that0 (layer)-
1i1el1, and fearing that some cruel be 11st
m ght dewm me in the night t1111e wl11le I slept,
1 made a kind of but, or barricade, with the
chests and boards I bad brought 011 shore.
That night, I slept vely'eomlbrtably; and the
1 x1 numbing; my thonvhts were employed to
<<1-. he a fmtber attempt tothc ship,an 1d brintr
, .. 111 M. :11 necesmnies I could find, before ano-
r' .~r s1111111~l1o11l1'1l11e11l1l1e1 111 p eces. Acc01d-
11 l5 , 1 <<int 1111b11111d as betmc, and prepared :1
<1 1-11: 1 I 11111 llu mow nice than the 111st upon
Alz' :tb, I biought 111111ythe carpentet '5 stores,
Two or three bags full of nails, :1 great jack-
screw, :1 dozen or two ol'batchets, and a grind-
stone. I also took two or three iron crows,
111-11 barrels of musket bullets, another fowling
piece, a small quantity of powder, and a large
bag full of small shot. Besides these, Itook
all the mens clothes I could find,_a spare fore-o. u

'
.
.. . n .
.. . .
V AC"
4 g
. 4%.".
V . . V
' r. ..
. .
.

3

- 'u 5:.

Raft.

IS

SON CRUSOE on 1)

Beam

.. x . wwstwuwthWR.

-K'vfiw 2 N .34:

top- -sail, ahammock, and somchedding; and
thus completing my second cargo, I made all
the haste to show I could, tearing same.- wild'
beast mit'llt destroy what I had there already.
But I only found a little wild cat sitting on
one of the .ehests, who not seeming to liar
me, or the gun that I presented at her, I-
threw ha a piece of biscuit, which she i:.-.
stantly eat and departed. '.
_ \\ hen I had got these effects on shore. I
went to work in 0Ider to make me a little tent
with the sail and some poles, which 1 had cut
foI that purpose, and having finished it, what
things might be damaged by the weather, I
brought III, piling all the empty chests and
casks sin a ciIcle, the better to fortifyit '
against any sudden attempt of man or beast.
After this ,1 blocked up the doors with some
boards, and an empty chest turned the long
way out. I then charged myg cum and pistol,
and laying my bed on the ground, slept as .
comfortably till the next morning as though I
had been In a. christian country.

Now, though I had enough to subsist me along
time, yet despairing ot a 1"sudden deliverance,
and fear IIIg that both amm unItIon and provision
might be spent before such a thing happened,
I saved as much as I could, and so long as the
ship remainedin that condition, [daily brought
away one necessary or other; particularly the
rigging, sails, and coxdage; some twine, a bar-
rela of? wet. powder, some sugar, a .barrel of'
meal, three casks of rum, and indeed what3 5

was most welcome to "10,3 whole hogsheatl
ot bread.

. The next time I went. 'I cut the cables In
pieces, carried elf a hawser whole, with a great:
deal of iron work, and made another raft;
but this being so unwieldy, by the too heavy
burden upon it, and I not being able so dexte.
ronsly to guide it as the tbrmenboth my cargo
and myself were overturned. For my part, all
the damage I sustained was awet skin : and at
low water, after much labour in diving, I got
IIpIIIost of the cables, and some piecesof iron.

Fifteen days had I now been on the island,
and elevenetiInes on board, bringing away all
thatwaspossible. As I was going the twelfth
time, the wind began to rise; however I ven-
tu'red at low water, and rummaging the cabin,
inaloeker, I- found several razors, seissars, and
some dozens of knives and fork; and in ano-
ther, thirty-six pounds In pieces of eiuht, silver
and gold. I wrapt the monev up in a piece of
canvas, and began to think of making another
raft; but I soon perceived the wind beginning
to rise, a fresh gale blowing from the shore,
and the sky overcast with clouds and daI kness.
So thinking a raft to be in vain, I let myself
into the water with what things I had about
me; and it was with great difficulty I got
ashore, when soon after it blew a fearful storm.

That night I slept very contentedly In my
littletent, surrounded WItlI all my effects; but '
when I looked outin the warning, no more ship
was to be seen. This much surprised me for'36

the present; yet, when I considered that I
had lost no time, abated no pains, and had
got every thing useful out of her, I coni-
forted myself in the best manner, and entirely
submitted to Divine Providence.

My next thoughts were, how I should de-
fend and secure myself from savages and wild
beasts, if any such were in the island.

When I considered the ground where I was,
that it was marshy, and had no fresh water
near it, my resolutions were to search for a
soil healthy and well watered, where I might
not only be sheltered from the sun's scorching;
heat, but be more conveniently situated, as
well to be secured from wild men, and beasts
of prey, as more easily to discover any dis-
tant sail, should it ever so happen.

And indeed it was not long beforeI had my
desire. Ifound a little plain near a rising
hill, the front towards which, being as steep
as a house side, at thing could descend on me
from the top.

On the side of this rock was a little hollow
place, resembling the entrance or door of a
cave. Just before this place, on the circle of
the green, I resolved my tent should stand.
This plain did not much exceed a hundred
yards broad, and about twice as long, like a
delightful green before my door, with apleas-
ing, though irregular descent every way to the
low grounds by the sea side, sheltered from the
excessive heat of the sun. After this I drewa
semicircle, twenty feet in diameter, driving3': 3
down two rows of strong stakes not six inches
from each other. Then, with the pieces of
cable which I hadcut on boa rd, I regularly laid
them in a circle between the piies, up to their
tops, which were more than five feet out of the
earth, and then drove another row of pile's
looking within side against them, between two
or three feet high, which made me conclude it
a little castle impregnable by men and beasts.
And for my better security, I would have no
door, but entered in and came out by the help
of a ladder, which I also made.

Here was my fence and fortress, into which
I carried all my riches,ammunition,and stores.
After which, working on the rock, what with
the dirt and stones I dug out, I not only raised
my ground two feet, but made a little cellarto '
my mansion-house; and this cost me many days
labour and pains. One day, in particular, a
shower of rain falling, thunder and lightning
ensued, which put me in terror lest my powder
should take fire, and not only hinder my neces-
sary subsistence, by killing my food, but even
blow Up me and my habitation. To prevei-t
which, I fell to making boxes and bags, in
order to separate it, having by me near 150").
weight. And thus being established as king of
the island, every day I went out. with my gun,
to see what I could kill that was fit to eat. I
soon perceived numbers of goats, but very shy;
yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing I
could better shoot them ntl' the rocks, than when.

0
in the low grounds, I happened to shoot a she-
guat welding a young kid; which, not think.
ing its dam slain, stood by her unconcerned;
and when I took the dead creature up, the
young one followed me even to the enclosure.
I lifted the kid over the pales, and would will-
ineg have kept it alive, but finding it could
not be brought to eat, I was forced to slay it
also ("or my subsistence.

'l'hus, entered upon a life of solitude, I had
most melancholy apprehensions concerning my
deplorable condition; and many times, the tears
would plentifully run down my face, when I
Cullslclm'ed how I was debarred from all com-
inunication with human kind. Yet while these
ilespomling thoughts would seem to make me
accuse Providence, other good thoughts would
interpose and rcprove me after this manner :
" Well, supposing you are desolate, is it not
" better to be so than totally perish? Why
" should you complain, when not only your
" life was preserved, but the ship driven into
" your reach, in order to take what was ne-
" cessary out of her for a subsistence?" But
to proceed: It was, by the account I kept, the
Sainh of September, when Ifirst landed on this
island. About twelve days after, fearing lest
I should lose my reckoning of time, nay even
forget the sabbath days, for want of pen, ink,
and paper, I carved with a knife upon a large
post, in great letters, I came on shore, Sept.
30, 1659, and set it up in the similitude of a
cross, on the sea shore where Ilanded. Every
(1th I cut a notch with my knife on the sides of
the square post, and that on the Sabbath was
as long again as the rest, and every first day
of' ilk-3 month, as long again as that long one.
In this manner, I kept my calendar, weekly,
monthly, or yearly reckoning 0? time. But
had 1 made a more strict search (as I did af-
t-zrwards,) I need not have set up this mark.
l'or among the parcels belonging to the gun-
nor. carpenter, and captain's mate, I found
those very things I wanted; particularly pens,
ink, and paper; also I found two_ or three
Compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspective glasses, books of navigation,
thrre English bibles, and several other good
books, whichI carefully put up. Here I can.
not but call to mind our having a dog and two
cats on board, whom I made inhabitants with
me in my castle. Though one might think I
had all the necessaries that were desirable, yet.
still I found several things wantinv. My ink
was daily wasting: I wanted needles, pins, and
thread to mend or keep my clothes together:
and particularly a Spade, pick-axe, or shovel,
to remove the earth. It was a year before I
finished my little bulwark; and having some-
intervals of relaxation, after my daily wander-
ing abroad for provision, I drew up this plan
alternately, as creditor and debtor, to remind
me of the miseries and blessings of my life,

under so many various circumstances.
0 24O

EVIL.

I am cast upon a
desolate island, having
no prospect. of a wel-
come deliverance.

How miserable am I,
singled out from the
enjoyment or company
of all mankind.

Like a hermit (ra-
ther should I say a
lonely anchoret) am
I forced from human
conversation.

My clothes, after
some time, will be
worn out, and then I
shall have none to

cover me.

When my ammuni-
tion is wasted, then
shall I remain without
any defence against
wild men and beasts.

I have no creature,
no soul to speak to;
none to beg assistance

GOOD.

But yet I am pre-
served while my com-
panions have perished
in the raging sea.

Yet set apart to

be spared from death.
And He, who .has so
preserved me, can de-
liver me from this con-
dition.

However, I have
food to eat, and even
a happy prospect of
subsistence whilst life
endures.

At present, Ienjoy
what is absolutely
needful; and the cli-
mate is so hot, that
had I ever so many,
I should hardly wear
them. .

Yet even thus, I see
no danger of any to
hurt me, as in Africa;
and what if I had been
cast away upon that
coast?

Is there not God to
converse with, and is
not he able to deliver41

from. Some comfort thee Palread y has he af-
would it. be to resound forded thee sustenance,
my woes where I am and put itin thy power
understood, and beg to provide for thyself,
assistance where I till he sends thee a de-
might hope for relief. liverance.

And now, easing my mind a little by these

reflections, I began to render my life as easy
as possible.

I must here add to the description I have,
given of my habitation, that having raised a
turf wall against the outside of it, I thatched it
so close as might keep it from the inclemency
of the weather; I also improved itwithin, en-
larged my cave, and made a passage and a
door in the rock, which came out beyond the
pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study
such mechanical arts as seemed to me practi-
cable. When I wanted a plank or a board, I
hewed down a tree with my hatchet, making it
as thin with my axe as possible, and then
smooth enough with an adze, to answer my de-
signs; yet though I could make no more this
way than one board out of a tree, in length .of
time I got boards enough to shelter all my
stores, every thing being regularly placed, and
my guns securely hanging against the side of a
rock. This made it a very pleasant sight to
me, being the result of vast labour and great
diligence; which leaving fora while, and me
tqthe enjoyment of it, I shall give the reader an42

account of sonic parts of my journal from the
day of my landing, till the settling of my ha-
bitation, as heretofore shewn.

W

SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659, I, Robinson

Crusoe, having sui'l'ertd shipwreck, was driven
on this (lese'.ite island, which 1 "allied the
Desolate Island of Despair, the rest of my
companions being swallewul up in the tem-
pestuous ocean. That day I spent in considv-
ration of my unhappy circumstances, having
no prOSpect but of death, either to be atfll'VL'd
with hunger, or devoured by wild beasts or
merciless savages.

Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfin't, I
beheld the ship driven ashore. Some hopes I
had, that when the storm was abated, I might
be able to get some food and necessaries out of
her; which I conceived were not damagul,
because the ship remained upright. At this
time, I lamented the less of my companions,
and our misfortune in leaving the vessel. When
I perceived the ship, as it were. to lie dry, I
waded through the sands, as Far as I could find
depth, then swam aboard, the weather being
very rainy, and with scarcely any wind.

Oct. 5. My raft, and all the goods thereon
were overset; yet 1 recovered most again at
low water.

To the ch of this month, my time was em-
ployed in making voyages every tide, getting
what I could out of the ship. The weather very
wet and uncertain.

Oct. 15. It blew hard, and rained night and
day, when the ship went to pieces, so that no-
thing was seen of her but the wreck at low
water. _This day I secured my goods ti om the
inclemency of the weather.

Oct. 16. I wandered to see where I could
find a place convenient for my abode: I fixed
upon a rock in the evening, marked out a half
moon, intending to erect a wall fortified with
piles, lined within with pieces of cables, and
covered with turf.

Nov. 3. I shot two wild-fowl, resembling
ducks, which were good to eat, and in the at'-
ternoon began to make me a table.

Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the
morning, I allowed myself two or three hours
to walk out with my gun; I then worked till
near eleven o'clock; and afterwards refreshed
myself with what I had to eat. Front twelve
to two, I would lie down to sleep. lixtrcme
sultry weather. In the evening go to work
again.

Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog,
shot a wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh
was good for nothing. The skins of those
killed I preserved. In my return, I perceived
many wrld birds, and was terrified by some
seals which made all to sea.

Nov. 6. Completed my table.

Nov. 7. Fair weather. I worked to the
12th, but omitted the llth, which according
to my calculation, I supposed to be Sunday.4.4.

Nov. 1 (1 l be" 111 to digr m the rock, wt was
obliged to 111111531111 want 01 a pick-11x0, shovel
and 11 heel-111111.011 Iron crows I used to sup-
ply the piacc of the first, but with all my art I
could not make a wheel-barrow.

Nov. 19 It was a great hanpincss to me to
fi11 1d 11 1.1 resunhling what the Btaziliuns call
1111 hon nee. I had like to spoil my axe with
cutting.1 it, it being very hard, and exceedingly
heavy; yet with much labour and industry I
made 11. sort of spade out of it.

Nov. 1-3.';'-. These tools being made, I daily
carried on my business; eighteen days Iallow-
ed for enlaiging my care, that it might Serve
1111?, 1'1ot1111lyl'o1-a111111101180 l)11tl<itcl111.11,pur-
lour, and cello. . I commonly lav in no 111111,
unless the weather was so Iainy that I coultl
not he 1l11;. So wet would It be at cc1tain sea-
sons, that I "as oblived to co1-cr all "ithin
tho 112110.1vitl1 long poles, in the fotm o1 rafters,
loani .1153; against the rock, 111111 load 1111111 \1 11h
flags and large leaves of trees resembling a
thatch.

D1211. 10. No sooner ditli ' think mv habita-
tion finished, but suddenlya 1:111:11 1l11al ol the
top hmkc in, so that it was 11 1111.111')1 1 was not
hurled in the ruins. This occasioned a great
13ml 1111111111- and trouble to 1111', before Icould
make it 131111 anui (lttl'ztbltf.

i). ;.l'1'. l 1111111,;1'1 111115111111.- shelves, :1111l1lrovc
1111.31'11: 11.111} Hupics in the wall and posts, to hang
1.11.1113" 11:1 1111; 111' the way.

i)1c.11'1'_.l I <<it every thing into its place,
then 111;:1l1 11. 1:911 01 diesscr, 111111 11111111111'111blc.
Dec. '37. I chanced to light on some goats,
shot one, wounded another; I led it home in a
String, bound up its leg, and cured it in a little
time; at length, it became so tame and familiar
as to feed before the door, and follow me where
I pleased. This put me in mind to bring up
tame creatures, in order to supply me with
food after my ammunition was spent.

Dec. 28, 29, 30. The weather being exces-
sivcly hot, with little air, obliged me for the
most part, to keep within doors.

Jan. 3, to 1-4.. My employment this time
was to finish the wall before described, and
search the island. I discovered a kind of pi-
geons, like our house pigeons, in a nest among
the rocks. I brought them home, nursed them
till they could fly, and then they left me. ' Af-
ter this, 5 shot some, which proved excellent
food. Some time I Spent vainly contriving to
make a cask. I may well say it was in vain,
because I could neither joint the staves, nor
fix the heads, so as to make it tight: so leav-
ing that, I took some goat's tallow I had by
me, and a little oakum for the wick, and pro-
vided myself with a lamp, which served inswad
of candles.

But now a very strange event happened. For
being in the height of my search, what should
come into my hand, but a bag which was used
to hold corn (as I supposed) for the fowls; so
immediately resolving to put- gunpowder into it,
I shook all the husks and dirt upon one side of
a rock, little expecting what the consequence

c 5" 6
'I
.

would he. The rain had lallcn plrntil'ully a
few days before; and about a month alter, to
my great amazement, something began to look
out Very green and flourishing; and when I
came to view it more nicely, every day as it
grew, I found about ten or twelve ears of
green barley of the very same shape and make
as that in England. .

I can scarcely express the agitation of my
mind at this sight. Hitherto ] had been used,
like too many in the world, to look with indif-
ference upon the marks of God's goodness,
which are every where visible. Indeed so
ignorant was I, that I had even thought health,
and food, and clothing to be the mere result
of our own labour and care, and foresight,
without ever reflecting, that the Almighty is
the bestower of every good and perfect gilt,
and that it is his blessing alone upon our
efforts which makes them to prOSper. Th *ap-
pearance of the barley flourishing so unexpect-
edly in a barren soil, and my ignorance of the
manner in which it came there, led me into a
singular opinion. I concluded that miracles
were not ceased, and that God had appointed
the barley to grow there without any'seed,
purely for my sustenance in this miserable and
desolate island. And indeed such great effect
had this upon me, that it often made me melt
into tears through a grateful sense of God's
mercies; and the greater still was my thankful-
ness, when I perceived about this little field of
barley, some rice stalks, also wonderfully
flourishing.
While thus pleased in mind, I concluded
there must be some more corn in the island;
and therefore made a diligent search narrouly
among the rocks; but not being able to find
any, on a sudden it came into my mind, how I
had shaken the husks of corn out of the bag,
and then so blind was my understanding, that
my admiration ceased, and with it my grati-
tude to the Divine Being, as Ilainkuur H was
but natural, and not to be conceived a mira-
cle: though even the mannet at its preserva-
tion might have made me own it as a wonder-
ful event of God's kind providence.

It was about the latter end of lune when the
ears of this corn ripened, which i laid up very
carefully, together with 20 or :50 stalks ut
rice: expecting one day I should reap the fruit
ot my labour . yet tour years were t'Xplt'etl be-
fore I could altow lllySt'lf to eat any barley
bread, and mach longer time, before I had any
rice. After this, with indefatigable pains and
industry for three or four months, at last I finish-
ed my house, having no way to go into it, but
by a ladder against the wall.

April 16. I finished my ladder, and accent]-
ed it; afterwards pulled it up, then let it down
on the other side, and descended into my new
habitation, where I had space enough, and so
fortified, that nothing could attack me without
scaling the walls.

But what does all human art and industry
avail, if the blessing of- God does not crown
our labours? Or who can stand before the Al-

'\

mighty, when he stretcheth forth his arm 9 A or,
one timc'as I was at the entrance of' my care,
there haunt-11ml such a dreadful earthquake, that
not only the roof of the cave came tumbling
about my ears, but the poets: seemed to crack
terribly at the? some time. This put me in a
great amazwnent; and running to the ladder
and getting over the wall, I then plainly knew
it Was an earthquake, the place I stood on sus-
taining three terrible shocks in less than three
minutes. But judge of my terror when I saw
the top of at great. rock roll into the sea: I
then expected the island would be swallowed
up every moment: and what made the some
still inure dremll'ul, was to see the sea thrown
'nto the niost violent: agitations and disorders
by this trezmnulous convulsion of Nature.

For my part, I exPectt-d every moment
to be swallowed up. At the moving of the
earth, Iwns, as it were, sea-tick; and very
much afraid let-t the rock, under which was
my knee and habitation, should overwhelm.
no and it in a lasting tomb.

It was only the day after, when a horrible
tempest arose, at the some time attended with a
hurricane of wind. Three hours did this storm
continue: and in so violent a manne ' as to tear
the very trees up by the roots, which was suc-
ceeded by ohlmdaneeof rain. 'When the tem-
pest was over, I went to my tent; but the rain
coming on in a furious manner, I was obliged
to take dweller in the cave, where I was forced
to cut a Channel through my fortification, to
let the water out. It continued raining all that
night, and some time the next day. These ac-
cidents made me resolve, as soon as the wea-
ther cleared up, to build mealittle hut in some
open place, walled round to defend me from
wild creatures and savages; not doubting, but,
at the. next earthquake, the mountain would
fall on my habitation and me, and swallow up
all in its bowels; but to resume the thread of
my 1'1arration which this mention of the storm
has interrupted.

April 16--20. These daysl spent, in con-
triving how and in what manner I should fix
my place of abode. All this while, I was
under the most dreadful apprehensions. When
I looked round my habitation, every thing I
found in its preper place. I had several de-
bates Whether I should move or not; but at
length resolved to stay where I was, till I
found out a convenient place where I might
pitch my tent.

April 22. When I began to put my resolu-
tions in practice, I was stopped for want of
tools and instruments to work with. Most of
my axes and hatchets were useless, occasioned
by cutting the hard timber that grew on the
island. It tool: me up a full week to make my
grindstone of use to me; and at last I found
out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string.

April 30. My bread falling short, I allowed
myself but one biscuit a day.

May 1. Asl walked along the sea shore, I
found a barrel of gunpowder, and several

pieces of the week which the sea had flung
up. Having secured these, I made to the ship,
whose stern was torn off, and washed a great
distance ashore; but the rest lay in the sands.
This, I suppose, "as occasioned by the earth-
quake. 1 non resolved to keep my old place
of abode: and also to get to the ship that day,
but found it impossible.

May :5. This day I went on board the
wreck, which still remained upon its bed of
rock, though the waves had carried away all
its upper works, and lull: nothing standing but
the part. between decks, and with my saw
sawed elf one of the beams, which kept her
quarter-deck. I then cleared the sand till flood.

May 4-. i cauwht some fish, but they were
not wholesome. 'lhe same day, 1 also cauuht
a young dolphin.

May 5. This day also I repaired to the
wreck, and sawed another piece of timber;
and when the flood came, I made a float of
three great planks, which were driven ashore
by the tide.

May 6--9. These days, I brought off the
iron bolts, opened the deck with the iron
crow, and carried two planks to land, having
made a way into the very middle of the wreck.

May 10--1 !-. All this timelspent in bring-
ing off great quantities of iron and timber.

May 15. Took with me two hatchets on
purpose to cut oil some lead from the roll,
but all in vain, let it lay too law under water.

May'za. '1' 0 this day, I worked on the wreck,
and with great difficulty loosened some things
so much with the crew, that at the first blowing
tide, several casks floated out, and several of
the seamen's chests; yet that day nothing came
to land but pieces of timber, and a hogshead
which had some pork in it. I continued work-
ing to the 15th of .a'une, (except necessary
times for food and rest) and had I known howto
build a boat, I had timber and planks enough;
I had also nearly 100 weight of sheet lead.

June 16. As 1 was wandering towards the
sea-side, I found a large tortoise or turtle,
being the first I had seen on the island, though,
as I afterwards found, there were many on the
Other side of it. '

June 17. This day I Spent in cooking it, found
in her three score eggs, and her flesh the most.
savoury and pleasant I ever tasted in my life.

.nune 18. I staid within this day, there
being a continual rain: and it was somewhat
more chilly and cold than usual.

June 19. Exceedingly ill, taken with a
trembling and shivering.

June 20. Awake all night, my head racked
with pain, and feverish.

June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with
dismal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed
to God more frequently, but very confusedly.

June 22. Something better, but still uneasy
_in my mind.

June 23. Again relapsed much as before.

June 24. Mended a second time.

June 25. A violent ague for seven hours,
cold and hot fits, succeeded {by faint sweats.

J une 26. Better, but very weak; yet .1
scrambled out, shot a she goat, brought It

I
home, and broiled some of it: I would wil-
lingly have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no pot.

June 27. Ail this day I was afflicted with
an'ague; thirsty, yet could not help myself to
water: prayed to God in these words: Lord
in pity, look upon me: Lord leave mercy upon
me! have mercy upon me! Alter this I fell
asleep, which, when I awaked, I found had
much refreshed me.

I rose up in a pensive manner, being so
thoughtful thatI could not go to sleep; and
fearing the dreadful return of my distemper,
it caused me to remember, that the Brazilians
use tobacco for almost all diseases. I then
went to my chest, in order to find some,
where it was my happiness to find a cure,
both for soul and body; for there I found one
of the bibles, which, till this time, I had nei-
ther leisure nor inclination to look into; I
took both the tobacco and that out of my chest,
and laid them on the table. Several eXperi-
ments did I try with the tobacco: First, I took
a piece of leaf, and chewed it; but it being
very green and strong, almost stupified me:
Next, I steeped it in some rum an hour or two,
resolving when I went to bed to take a dose of
it: and, in the third place, I burnt some over
a pan of fire, holding my nose over it so long
as I could endure it without suffocation.

In the intervals of this operation, though my
head was giddy and disturbed by the tobacco,
I took up the bible to read. No sooner did I
open it, but there appeared to me these words,
Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorg'fl/ me.

At first, this sentence made a very deep im-
pression on my heart: but it soon were off again,
when I considered that the word deliver was
foreign to me. And as the children of Israel
said, when they were promised flesh to eat,
Can God spread a table in the wilderness? In
the like manner I began to say, Can God him-
self deliver me from this desolate island? How-
ever, the words would still return to my mind,
and afterwards made a greater impression upon
me. As it now was very late, and the tobacco
had dozed my head, I was inclined to sleep;
but before I would lie down, I fell on my
knees, and implored the promise that God had
made to me in the holy Scriptures, that y" I
called on him in the day of trouble, 'he would
deliver me. With much difficulty, I afterwards
drank the rum, wherein I had steeped the to-
bacco, which flying into my head, threw me into
such a profound sleep, that it was three o'clock
the next. day before I awoke; or, rather, I
believe, I slept two days, having certainly lost.
a day in myaecount, as I afterwards discovered,
and I could never tell any other way. When
I got up, my spirits were lively and cheerful;
my stomach much better, being very hungry;
and, in short, no fit returned the next day,
which was the 29th, but I found myself much
alttrcd for the better.

July 3. The fit quite left me, but I was very
weak. In this condition, I often thought of
these words, I will deliver thee .~ and while at'1

times I would think of the impossibility of
it, other thoughts would reprehend me, for
disregarding the deliverances 1 had received,
even from the most forlorn and distressed con-
dition. Iasked myself, what regard have I
had to God For his abundant mercies? Have I
done my part? He has delivered me, but I have
not glorified him,- as if I had said, I had not
owned and been thankful for these as deli-
verances, and how could I expect greater?
So much did this sensibly touch my heart,
that I gave God thanks for my recovery from
sickness in the most humble posture.

July 4. This morning, I began seriously to
ponder on what is written in the New Testa-
ment, resolving to read a chapter every morn-
ing and night, as long,r as my thoughts would
engage me. As soon as I set about this work
seriously, I found my heart deeply affected
with the impietv ot' mt p .tst life. After this I
begged of God to assist me with his holy Spir It
in returninu to my duty One day, in perus-
ing the Scripture, I came to these words, Him
[mt/t God exalted with his rig/2t hand to be a
Prince and a Saviour jbr to, give repentance,
and flirt-(tenets of 82m. Immediately I laid
dowix the hook, and, with uplifted hands to
Heaven, lo IdiV cried, 0 blessed Jesus, t/wza
son 0/ David! Jesus, that: exalted Prince and
Savf our. gzt'e me repentance. And, now indeed,
I prayedo wi h a tr ue esense ol my condition, and
a more certain hope, lounded on the word at
God. Now I had a different sense oi these
words, Call on :18, am! I will deliver t/zee,
that is, from the dreadful load of guilt, which
oppressed my sinful soul, and not from a soli-
tary life: in a word, I came to this conclusion,
that a deliverance from sin was a much greater
blessing than a deliverance from affliction.

" To the 14th oi'July, I walked about with my
gun, little and little at a time, having been re-
duced to the greatest extremity of weakness.
The applications and experiments I used were
perfectly new: neither could I recommend
them to any one's practice. For though it car-
ried off the fit, it very much 'weakened me; and
I had frequently convulsions in my nerves and
limbs for some time. From hence I learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially
when it was attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind, was most pernicious to health.
I had now been above nine months in the
island; and asI had never seen any of the hu-
man kind, I therefore acco'nnted myself as sole
monarch: and as I grew better, having se-
cured my habitation to mymind, I resolved
to makea tour mund my kingdom, in order to
make new discoveries.

The 15th of July I began my journey ; I first
went to the creek where I had brought my
rafts on shore, and travelling farther, found
the tide went no higher than two miles up,
where there was a little brook of running water,
on the bank of which were many pleasant sa-
vannahs or meadows, smooth, plain and covered
with grass. ()n the rising parts, where] sup-
posed the water did not reach, 1 perceived a
great deal ot'tobacco growing to a very strong
stalk. Several other plants I likewise Found,
the virtues of which I did not understand. I
searched a long time for theCassava root, which
I knew the Indians in that climate made their
bread of; but all in vain. There were several
plants ofaloes, though at that time I knew not:
what they were; likewise I saw several sugar-
canes, but imperfect for want of cultivation.
With these few discoveries, I came back that
night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.

The next day, being the 16th, going the
same way, but further than the day before, I
found the country more adorned with woods
and trees. Here I perceived difl'erent fruits in
great abundance. Melons in plenty lay on the
ground, and clusters of grapes, ripe and very
rich spread over the trees. You may imagine
I was glad of this discovery, yet ate very Spar-
ingly, lest I should throw myself into a flux or
lover. The grapes I found of excellent use;
for when I dried them in the sun, which pre-
served them as dried raisins are kept, they
proved very wholesome and . ourishing, and
served me in those seasons when no grapes
were to be had.

The night drawing on apace, I ascended
a tree, and slept very comfortably, though
it. was the first time I had slept out of my ha-
bitation. And when the morning came, 1pm-
Ceeded with great pleasure on my way, travel-
ling.r about four miles, as I imagined, by the
length of the valley. At the end ol'this valley,
I came to an opening, where the countrywho
0'

seemed to descend to the west; there I found
aspring of fresh water, proceeding out of the
side ofthe hill, with its crystal streams running
directly east. And indeed here my senses
were charmed with the most beautiful land-
scape nature could afford ; for the country up.
pearcd so flourishing, green and delightful,
that to me it seemed like a planted garden. I
then descended on the side of that delicious
vale, when I found abundance ot'cocoa, orange,
lemon, and citron trees, but very wild and
barren at that time. As for the limes, they
were delightful and wholesome, the juice of
which I afterwards used to mix in water, which
made it very cool and refreshing. And now I
Was resolved, to carry home and lay up a store
of grapes, limes and lemons, against the ap-
proaching wet season. So laying them up in
separate parcels. and then taking a few of each
with me, I returned to my little castle, after
having spent three days in this journey. Bea
fore lgot home, the grapes were so bruised
that they were utterly spoiled; the limes in-
deed were good, but of those, I could bring
only a feat.

July 19. Having prepared two bags, _I re-
turned thither again, but"to my great surprise,
found all the grapes Spread about, trodden to
pieces, and abundance eaten, which made me
conclude there were wild beasts thereabouts.
To prevent this happening again, I gathered
a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them
upon the out branches of the tree, both to
keep them unhurt, and that they might cure
and dry in the sun: and having well loaded
tnysdt' with limes and lemons, I returned
once more to my old place of residence.

And now, reflecting on the li'uitl'ulness of
this valley, the pleasantness of its situation, its
security from storms, and the delightfulness of
the adjacent woods, I concluded I was settled-
in the worst part of the country, and there-
fore was thinking to remove my habitation.

But when I considered again, that though
it was pleasant, it was oil' from the sea-side,
where there was a possibility, some time or
other, a ship might either be driven or sail by ;
and that to inclose myself among hills and
woods must certainly put an end to my hopes
of deliverance; I resolved to let my castle re-
main where Providence had first placed it.
Yet, so delighted was Iwith this place, that I
made me a little kind of bower, surrounding it
with a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked and filled with bulrushes: and
having spent a greatpart ot' the month of July,
I think it was the 1st of August before I
began to enjoy my labour.

Aug. 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I
took them from the trees, and they proved ex-
cellent good raisins of the sun: the most of
which I carried to my cave; and happy for me
I did so, by which I saved the best part of my
winter food.

Aug. 14. This day it began to rain; and
though I had made me a tent like the other,
yet having no shelter ofa hill to keep me from
storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat to, I
was obliged to return to my old castle; the
rain continued more or less every day, till the
middle of October, and sometimes so violentlv
that 1 could not Stir out of my cave for several
day s. This season I found my family to in--
crease; 'for one of my cats that had run away
from me, and which I thought had been dead,
returned about August, with three kittens at
her heels, like herself; from these cats pro-
ceeded such numbers, that I was forced to kill
and destroy them as I would do wild beasts or
vermin.

To the 28th of this month, I could not stir
out, it rained incessantly: when beginning to
want food, I was compelled to venture twice,
the first of which times, I shot a goat, and
afterwards found a very large tortoise. The
manner of regulating my food was thus: a
bunch of raisins served me for my breakfast :
a piece of goat's flesh or turtle boiled for my
dinner, and two or three turtle eggs for my
supper. While the rain lasted, I daily worked
two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and
by degrees worked it on towards one side of
the hill, and made a door or way out, which
came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came
in and out this way. But after I had done
this, I was troubled to see myself thus ex-
posed; though I could not perceive any thing
to fear, a goat being the biggest creature I
had seen upon- this Island.

Sept. 30. Casting up the notches on my
post. they amounted to 365, I concluded this
to be the anniv ezsa15 of my landmO, and there-
fore, humhi5 pmsttating myself on theg around,
confessing my sins, acknowledging God' 5 tigh-
teous judgment upon me, and p1a5ing to him
to have merc5 upon me th1ougl1 Jesus Christ,
I fasted for twelve hours till the going down of
the sun; and then eating a biscuit and a bunch
of grapes, laid me 011 a bed, and with great
comfort took my night's repose. Till this
time, though ] had always put a larger notch
than ordinary for each sabbath day, to my
shameI confess it, Ihad seldom observed it
in any other way. My ink failing soon after, I
omitted in my daily memorandum, things of an
indifferent nature, and contented myself to
write down only the most remarkable events
of my life. The rainy and dry seasons appeared
now regular to me, and experience taught me
how to provide for them: yet in one thing I
am going to relate, my experience very much
failed me. You may call to mind, what I
have mentioned of some barley and rice which
I had saved; about thirty stalks of the former,
and twenty of the latter; and, at that time, the
sun '5 hein<r 1n its sonthein position, going from.
me, together with the rains, made me con-

clude it a very proper season to sow it. Ac-
cordingly I dug up a piece of ground, with my
wooden spade, and (litiding it in two parts,
sowed about two thirds of my seeds, preserving
by me a handful of each. And happy it was
1 did so; for no rains falling, it was choked
up, and never appeared above the earth till the
wet season came again, and then part of it
grew, as if it had been newly sown.

I was resolved still to make another trial;
and seeking for a moister piece of "round near
my hon er, l"I thele sowed the rest v'ot my seed
in 1' e111 uary, which, by having the rainy months
of March and Ap1il to water it, yielded a no-
ble c10p, and sprung up very pleasantly. I
had Still saved part of the seed, not daring to
1e111u1e all; and by the time I found out the
ptopei seasons to sow it in, and that I might
expect every year two seed times and two bar-
vests, my stock amounted to above halt a peck
of each sort of grain.

No sooner were the rains over, but the stakes
which 1 had cut from the trees, shot out like
willm 's, the first year after lopping their heads.
I was ignorant of'the tree I cut them from; but
they grew so regulary beautiful, that they
made a most lively appearance and so
flourished in three years time, that I resolved
to cut more of them; and these soon grow-
imr made a glorious fence, as afterwards I shall
observe.

And now I perceived that the seasons of the
year might geneially be divided, not into sum-
mer and winte1, as in Europe, but into wet
and thy seasons, as in this manner .--

From F e61 ttar J, 15, Rainy, sun coming neat
To Apr'zl 15, the Eguinox, 2 months. .
D
From April 15, Dry, szm getting north
To August 15, from the line, 4 months.-
From August 15, Wet, the sun being then
To October 15, come back, 2 mantles.

From 'OCtolzer 15, Dry, sun running south

To February 15, of the line, 4 months.

The wet seasons would continue longer or
shorter, as the wind continued or ceased to blow.
But having found the ill consequences of being
abroad in the rain, I took care before hand to
furnish myself with provisions: and, during
the wet months, sat within doors as much as
possible. At this time, I contrived to make
many handy things that I wanted, though it
cost me much labour and pains, before I could
accomplish them. The first I tried was to
make a basket, but all the twigs I could get,
proved so brittle, that I could not then per-
form it. It now proved of great use to me,
that when a boy I took great delight in stand-
ing at a basket-maker's, in the same town
where my father lived, to view them at work :
like other boys, being curious to see the manner
ot'their working these things, and very ollicious
to assist, I perfectly learned the method of it,
and wanted nothing but the tools. And it
coming into my mind, that the twigs of that
tree of which I made my stakes, might be as
tough as a sallow willow, or osiers growing in
England, I resolved to make an experiment,
and went the next day to my country seat,
and found some fit for my turn; and after cut-
ting down a quantity with my hatchet, I dried
them in my pale, and, when fit to work with,
carried them to my cave, where I employed
myself in making several sorts of baskets, in-
somuch that I could put in whatsoever I pleased.

It is true they were not"""'cleverly--made,--yet-- """"""
they served my turn on all occasions.

' But still I wanted two necessary things. I
had no cask to hold my liquor, except two, al-
most i'ull of rum, a few bottles of an ordinary
size, and some square case bottles; neither had
I a pot to boil any thing in, only a large kettle,
unfit to make broth, or stew a bit of meat: I
wanted likewise at the beginning of this dry
season a tobacco-pipe; but for this I afterwards
found an expedient.

I kept myself employed in planting my se-
cond row of snakes. But remembering that
when I travelled up to the brook I had a mind
to see the whole island, I now resumed my in-
tention, and taking my dog, gun, hatchet, two
biscuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins, with a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
I began my journey. Having passed the vale
where my bower stand, I came within view of
the sea lying to the west; when, it being a
clear day, I fairly descried land, extending
from the W. to the S.W. about 10 or 15 leagues,
as I concluded; but could not say whether it
was an island or a continent. Neither could I
tell what this place might be ; only thought it
was part of America, and where I might have
been in a miserable condition had I landed.

D 2
Again I considered, that if this was the Spa-v
nish coast, certainly, one time or the other, I
should see some ships pass by, and if it was
not, then it must be the savage coast between
the Spanish country and Brazil, which abounds
with cannibals or man-eaters.

As I proceeded forward, I found this side of
the island much more pleasant than mine; the
fields fragrant, adorned with sweet flowers and
verdant grass, together with several very fine
woods. There were parrots in plenty, which
made me long for one to be my companion;
but it was with great difficulty I could knock
one down with my stick; and I kept him at
home some years, before I could get him to call
me by my name. '

In the low grounds, I found various sorts of
hares and foxes, as I took them to'be, but much
different from those in England. Several of
these I killed, but never ate them; neither in-
deed had I any occasion: for abounding with
goats, pigeons, turtle, and grapes, I could defy
any market to furnish me a better table. In
this journey, I did not travel above two miles a
day, because I took several turns and wind-
ings, to see what discoveries I could make, re-
turning weary enough to the place wnere I de-
signed to rest all night, which was either in a
tree, or to a place which I surrounded with
stakes, that no wild creature might suddenly
sun-prize me. When I came to the sea-shore, I
was amazed to see the splendour ofit. Its strand
was covered with shells of the-most beautiful
fish, and constantly abounding with innumera-
ble turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called penguins.
I might have shot as many as l pleased, but
was sparing of my ammunition, rather ohms.
ing to kill a she-goat, which I did with much
difficulty, on account of the flatness of the
country,

Now, though this journey produced the most
pleasing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so
much to my liking, that Idid not repine at my
being seated on the worst part of the island.
I continued my journey, travellingabout twelve
miles further towards the east, where I set a
great pile on the shore for a mark, concluding
that my next journey should bring me to the
other side of the island, east from my castle,
and so round till I came to my post again.
As I had a constant view of the country, I
thought I could not miss my way; but scarcely
had I travelled three miles, when I descended
into a very large valley, so surrounded with
hills covered with wood, that having no guide
but the sun, and to add to my misfortune, the
weather proving very hazy, I was obliged to
return to my past by the sea side, and so back-
wards the same way I came. In this journey,
, my dog surprised a'kid, and would have killed
it, had I not prevented him. As I had often
been thinking of getting a kid or two, and so
raising a breed of tame goats to supply me,
after my ammunition was spent, I took this
Opportunity of beginning; and, havmgmade
acollar for this little creature, with a string
made ol' rope yarn, I hrOUght it to my bower,
and there inciosed and left him; and having
spent a month in this journey, at length I re-
turned to my old habitation.

Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when
I returned to my little castle, and reposed my-
self in my hammock. After my journey I
rested myself a week, which time Icmployed
in making a cage for my pretty poll. I now
began to recollect the poor Lid I had left in
the bower, and immediately went to fetch it
home. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food,
and tied it as belore; 'out there was no occa-
sion, for it. followed me like a dog; and as I
constantly fed it, it becameso loving, gentle,
and fond, that it commenced one, ot'iny do-
mestics, and would never leave me.

' 'he rainy season of the autumnal equinox
being now come, I kept the 50th of Septem.
her in the most solemn manner, as usual, it
being the second year ot'my abode in the island.
.spent' the whole day in acknowledging God's
mercies, in giving thanks for making this soli-
tary life as agreeable, and less sinful, than that
of human society; and for the communication
of his grace to my soul, in supporting, comfort-
ing, and encouraging me to depend upon his
Providence, and hope for his eternal presence
in the world to come.

Indeed, I often did consider how much more

happy I was, in this state. of life, than in that
manner of living} fornteriy used; sometimes
however when hunting, or viewing the counn-y,'
the anguish of my soul would break out upon
me, and my very heart would sink within me,
to think of the woods, the mountains, the
deserts I was in; and how I was a prisoner,
locked up within the eternal bars and bolts
of the ocean, in an uninhabited country, with-
out a hope of escape. In this condition I
would often wring my hands, and weep like
a child: and even sometimes in the middle of
my work, this fit of melancholy would often
take me ; and then I would sit down and sigh,
looking on the ground for an hour or two
tOgether, till such time as my griel'got vent
in a flood of tears.

One morning, as. I was fully employed in
this manner, I opened my bible, and began
to read that chapter in which God promises to
Joshua, I will not fail t/zcc, 7:07'f22-,sr1A'c Ilwc!
Surely, if God does not forsake me, what
matters it, since he can make me more
happy in this state of life, than if i enjoyed
the greatest splendour in the world? And
wheneverI opened or shut the bible, I blest
kind Providence, that directed my good friend
in England to send it among my goods without
'my order, and for assisting me to save it from
the power of the raging ocean.

And now beginning my third year, my se-
veral daily employments were these: First,
31y duty to Heaven, and diligently reading the
holy Scriptures, which I did twice or thrice
every day. ; Secondly, Seeking provisions with
my gun, which commonly took me up, when
it did not rain, three hours every morning;
T hirdlg, The ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed, or catched for my
supply, which took me up a great part of the
day; for in the middle of the day, the sun
being in its height, it was so hot, that I could
not stir out: so that I had but four hours in
the evening to work in : and then the want of
tools, of assistance, and skill, spent a great
deal of time to little purpose, I was no less
than two and forty days, making a board fit for
a long shelf, which two sawyers with their tools
and saw-pit, would have cut out of the same
tree in halt'a day. It was of a large tree, as
my board was to be broad. I was three days
in cutting it down, and two more in lopping
off the boughs, and reducing it to a piece of
timber. T has I hacked and hewed of? each
side, till it became light to move; then I turned
it, m ((10 one side of it smooth and flat as a,
board from end to end, then turned it down-
ward, cutting the other side, till I brought the
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth
on both sides. Any body may judge my great
labour and fatigue in such a piece of work;
but this I went through with patience, as also
man y other things, that my circumstances made
neceSs-ary for me to do.

The harvest months, November and Decem-
ber, were now at hand, in which I had the
pleasing prospect ol' 3 very good crop. But
here I met with a new misfortune, for the goats
and hares, having tasted of the sweetness of
the blade, kept it so short, that it had no
Strength to shoot up into a stalk. To prevent
this, Ienclosed it with a hedge, and by day
shot some of its devourers; and my dog, which
I had tied to the field gate, keeping barking all
night, so frightened these creatures that I got
entirely rid ofthetn.

But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than
other enemies appeared, to wit whole flocks of
several sorts of birds, who only waited till my
back was turned, to ruin me. So much did
this provoke me, that I let fly, and killed three
of the malefactors; and afterwards served them
as they do notorious thieves in England and
Ireland, hung them up in chains as a terror to
others. And indeed, so good an effect had
this, that they not only forsook the corn, but
all that part of the island, so long as these
criminals bung there. -

M y corn having ripened apace, the latter end
of December, which was my second harvest, I
reaped it with a scythe made of one of my
broad swords. I had no fatigue in cutting down
my first crap, it was so slender. The cars I
carried home in a basket, rubbing the grain out
with my hands, instead of threshing it; and
when my harvest was over. found my halt'peelt
ot'sced had produced nearly two bushels of rice
and two bushels and a half of barley. And
now I plainly foresaw, that, by God's good-
0625, I should be furnished with bread; but
yet I was, concerned, because I knew not how
to grind or make meal of my corn, neither
knew I how to bake it into bread. I would
not, however, taste any of the crop, butiresolved
to preserve it against next season, and, in the
mean while, use my best endeavours to provide
myself with other food.

But where were my labours to end ? the want
of a plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to
dig it, I conquered by making me a wooden
Spade. The want of a barrow I supplied
by dragging over the com a great bough of
a tree. When it was growing, I was forced
to fence it; when ripe, to mow it, carry it
home, thresh it, part it from the chaff, and
save it. And, after all,, I wanted a mill to
grind it, a sieve to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it.
This set my brains to work, to find some expe-
dient for every one of these necessaries, against
the next harvest.

And now having more seed, my first care was
to prepare me more land. I pitched upon two
large flat pieces of ground, near my castle, for
that purpose, in which I sowed my seed, and
fenced it with a good hedge. This took me up
three months; by which time, the wet season
coming on, and the rain keeping me within
doors, I found several occasions to employ my-
self; and, while at work, used to divert myself
with talking to my parrot, teaching him to know
and speak his own name Poll, the first welcome
word I had ever heard spoken in the island. I
had been a long time contriring, how to make
earthen vessels, which I wanted extremelv ;
and when I considered the heat. of the climate,
I did not doubt but, if I could find any such
clay, I might batch up a pot, strong enough,
when dried in the sun, to bear handling, and
to hold any thing that was dry, as corn, meal,
and other things.

To be short, the clay I found; but it would
occasion the most serious person to smile, to
see what awkward ways I took, and what ugly
misshapen things I made; how many either fell
out or cracked, by the violent heat of the sun,
and fell in pieces when they were removed; so
that I think it was two months before I could
perfect any thing; and even then, but two
clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars.-
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker
baskets, made, on purpose for them, and be-
tween the pot and the baskets, stuffed it full of
rice and barley straw; and these I presumed
would hold my dried corn, and perhaps the
meal, when the corn 'was bruised. As for the
smaller ,things, I made them with better sue.
cess'; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking them
very hard,

Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely neces-
sary, and that was an earthen pot, not only to

hold my liquid, but also to bear the fire, which
none of these could do. It once happened,

that as I was putting out my fire, 1 found
therein a broken piece of one of "my vessels
burnt hard as a rock, and red as a tile, this
made me think of hunting some pots; and
having no notion of a kiln, or of glazing them
with lead, I fixed three large pipkins, and two
or three pots in a pile one upon another. The
tire I piled round the outside, and dry wood on
the trip, till I saw the pots in the inside red-
hot, and found that they did not crack at all:
and when I perceived them perfectly red, I
let them stand in the fire about five or six
hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of
the heat, and would have run to glass had I
saith-red it ; upon which, ' I slacked my fire by
degrees, till the redness abated; and watching
lltcm till the morning, I found I had three very
good pipkins, and two earthen pots, as well
burnt and tit for my turn as I could desire.

The first use to which I turned my pipkins,
was to make some salt, which I had long
wanted. For this purpose, I filled them with
St'u-Wztiel', and kept it slowly boiling over the
tire, till the whole of the water had boiled
away in steam, leaving, at the bottom of the
Vessel, a thin crust of salt, which I found very
{:ond for giving a relish to my food.

The nextconcern I had, was to get me astone--
mortar to beat some com in, instead of a mill
to grind it. Here, indeed, I was at a greatloss,
as not being fit for a stone-cutter; and many
days [spent to find out a great stone big enough
to cut hollow and make it fit for a mortar, and
strong enough to bear the weight of a pestle; '
that would break the corn without filling it with
\'I

sand. But all the stones of the island being
at a moulde1ing nature, rendered my search
fiuitless; and then I resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood; which having found,

1 formed it by my axe and hammer, and then,
with infinite labour, made a hollow 111 it, just as
the Indians of Brazil make their canoes. When
I had finished this, I made a gieat pestle of
ironwood, and then laid them up against my
succeeding harvest.

My next business was to make me asieve, to ..
sift my meal and part it from the b1 an and husk.
Having no fine thin canvass to search the ineal
through, Icould not tell what SSto 'd'o.' \Vl1at_
linen I had was reduced to rags , I had goat' s _
hair enouwh, but neither tools to work it, nor' '
did I know how to 8p"? 11.' At length, I re<<-'
membered 1 had some 11er cloths ol' calico or
muslin, of the sailo1s, which I hadhrought out
of the ship, and with these, I made three small .
sieves proper enough foi the wo1k. '

I come now toD considz; r the halting part.
The want of an oven I supplied by making '
some earthen pans, very b1oad but not deep.
When I had a mind to bake, I made a great
fire upon my hearth the tiles of whieh, I had
made myself, and when the wood was burnt
into live eoals, I spread. them over it, till it be-
came very hot; then sweeping {hem away I
set down my loaves, andw elming dmn the
ea1then pots upon them, 1ew the ashes and
coals all mound the ohtisides of the pots to 0011'
tinue the heat; and 1n this manner, I baked my

11:
baz-ley loaves, as well as if I had been a com-
pletepastry-cook, and also made of the rice,
several cakes and, uddings.

It is no wonder! at ail'these things took me
up the best part of the year, since what inter-
mediate time I had, was bestowed in managing
my new harvest and husbandry; for in the
proper s'ensonti reaped my corn, carried it
home, and laid it up in the ear, in my large
baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of
threshing it. And now indeed, my corn en.
created so much, that it produced me. twmty
bushels of barley, and as much of rice, so that
i not only began to use it freely, but was think-
ing how to enlarge my barns, and resolved to
sow as much at a time as would be sufficient for
a whole year.

All this while, the prospect ofland, which I
had seen from the other side of the island, ran
in my mind. 1 still meditated a deliverance
from this place, though the fear ofgreatcr mis-
fortunes might have deterred me from it, For,
allowing that I had attained that place, I ran
the hazard of being killed and eaten by the
devouring cannibals; and if they were not so,
yet I'mi'ght be slain, as other Europeans had
been, who fell into their hands. Notwith-.
standing all this, my thoughts ran continually
Upon that shore. I now wished for the long
boat with the shoulder of mutton sail. I went.
to the ship's beat, that had been cast a great
way on the shore, in the late storm. She was.
removed .but a little; but her bottom being
turned up by the impetuosity and surge of the
waves and wind, I fell to work with all the.
strength I had, and with levers and rollers which

I had cut from the wood, to turn her, and repair ~
the damages she had sustained. This work
took me up three or four weeks, when finding
my little strength all in vain, I fell to under-
mining it, by digging away the sand, and so to
make it fall down, setting pieces of )vood to
thrust and guide it in the fall. But after this
was done, I was still unable to stir it up, or to

get under it, much less to move it forwards
towards the water, and so I was forced to give
it over.

This disappointment, however; did not
frighten me. I began to think, whether it
was not possible for me to make a canoe or
Perigua, such as the Indians make of the
trunk of a tree. But here I lay under particular
inconveniences; want of tools to make it, and
want of hands to more it into the water when
it was made. However, to work [went upon it,
stopping all the. enquiries I could make, with
this very simple'answer I made to myself, let's
first make it, I'll warrant I'll find some way or
other to get it along when it is done.

I first cut down a cedar-tree, which was five
feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a space, and then parted into.
branches. Twenty days was I hacking and
bewing it at the bottom, fourteen more in

n 2
cutting OFF the branches and limbs, and a
whole month in shapinu it like the bottom of
a boat. As for the inside, I was three weeks
with a mallet and chissel, clearing it in such
a manner, as that it was big enough to carry
26 men, much bigger than any canoe I- ever
saw in my life, and consequently sufficient to
transport me and all my effects to that wished-
for shore I so ardently desired.

Nothing remained now, but, indeed, the
greatest difficulty, to get it into the water, it
lying about lOOyards from it. To remedy the
first inconvenience, which was a rising hill be-
tween this boat and the creek, with wonderful
pains and labour I dug into the surface of the
earth, and made a declivity. But when this
was done, all the strength 1 had was as in-
suflicient to move it, as it was when I first:
made the attempt. 1 then proceeded to mea.
sure the distance at ground, resolving to make
a canal, in order to bring the water to the ca-
noe, since I could not bring the canoe to the
water. But as this seemed to be impracticable
to myself alone. under the space of eleren or
twelve years, it brought me into some sort of
consideration, so that I concluded this also to
be impossible, and the attempt vain. I now
saw, and not before, what Stupidity it is to
begin work before we reckon its costs, or

judge rightly our own abilities to go through
with its performance.

111 the height ofthis 110111, my fourth 3931' ex- '
pired from the time I was cast on this PS31111 1!.77'

At this time i did not forget my anniversary;
but kept it with rather greater devotion than
before. For now my hopes-being frustrated, I
looked upon this world as athing I had no-
thing to do with; and very well might I say,
as father Abraham said' unto Dives, Between
me and time there is a gulph'fixed. And indeed
I was separated from its wickedness too, having
neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the
eye, nor the pride of life; Ihad nothing to
covet, being lord, king and emperor over the
whole country I had in possession, without
dispute and without controul; I had loadings
of corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abun-
dance, and grapes above-measure. What was
all the rest to me? the money I'had, lay-shyn
me as despicable dross, which I wouldfreely
have given for a gross of tobacco pipes, or a
hand-mill to grind my corn: in a word, the
nature-and experience of these things dictated
to me this just reflection. That the good
things of this worldvare. no further good. to us,
than'as. they are for our. use; and that what-
ever we may heap up, we can butenjoyeas
much as we use, and no more. .

These thoughts rendered my mind more easy-
than usual. Every time Ilsat>>down tomcat, I-
did it with thankfulness, admiring the provi.
dential hand of God, who in this wilderness
had spread a table to me. Andmowl con'
sidered what I enjoyed, rather than what L
wanted; compared my present condition with-
what I at first expebted it should he; hour- I

E78 '

should have done, if I had got nothing out of
the ship; that I must have perished before I
had caught fish or turtles; or lived, had I
found them, like a mere savage, by eating
them raw, andpulling them to pieces with my
claws, like a beast. I next compared my sta-
tion to that which I deserved; how undutiful
I had been to my parents; how destitute of
the fear of God; how void of every thing that
was good; and how ungrateful for those
abundant mercies I had received from heaven,
being fed, as it were, by a miracle, even as
great as Elijab's being fed by ravens; and
cast on a place where there are no venomous
creatures to poison or devour me; in short,
making God's tender mercies matter of great
consolation, I relinquished all sadness, and
gave way to contentment.

As long as my ink continued, which with
water I made last as long as I could, I used
to minute down the days of the month on which
any remarkable thing happened.

The next thing that wasted after my ink,
was the biscuit, which I had brought out of
the ship; and though I allowed myself but one
cake a day {or above a twelvemonth, yet I
was quite out of bread for nearly a year,
before I got any corn of my own.

In the next place, my clothes began to
decay, and my linen had been gone long before.
However, 1 had preserved about three dozen
of the sailors' chequered shirts, which proved a

_ great refreshment to me, when the violent
beams of the sun would not suffer me to bear
'any of the seamen's heavy watch-coats; which
made me turn tailor, and. after at miserable
botching manner, convert them tojnckets. To
preserve my head, I madea cup of goatskins,
nith the hair outwards to'keep out the rain;
which indeed served me so weli, that after-
wards I, made a waistcoat and open kneed
brooches of the same: And then Iconttived
a sort of umbrella, covering it with skins.
which not. only kept out the heat of the sun,
but the rain also. Thus being easy and settled
in my mind, my chief happiness was to con-
verse with God, in most heavenly and com.
fortubh: ejaculations.

For five years after this, I cannot say any ex-
traordinary thing occurred tome. My chief
employment Was to cure my raisins, and plant
my barley and rice, of both which I had a
year's provision before-hand. But though I
was disappointed in my first canoe, I made it.
at intermediate times, my business to make a
second of much inferior size: and it was two
years before I had finished it. But as I per-
ceived it would in no wise answer my design of
sailing to the other shore, my thoughts were
confined to take a tour round the island, to see
what further discoveries I could make. To.
this intent, after having moved heme the wa--
ter, and tried how she would soil, 1 fitted up
a little must to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's Soils that lay by me. I then made lock-
ers or boxes at the end ol' it, to put in neces-

t~. '1-
sa1ies, provision 'and ammunition, which would

_preserve them thy either from the rain, or the

_. spray of the sea, deg and in the inside of the
boat, I cut me a long hollow place to lay my
gun, and to keep it dry, made a cover for
it. My umbrella, I fixed ina step in the
stern, like a mast, to keep oil the heat of the
sun. And now resolving to see- the circum.
terence oi my little kingdom, I victualled my
ship lor the voyzwc, putting in two dozen of
my barley bread loaves, an earthen pot full at
parched 1icc, a little bottle of rum, halfa
coat powdm and shot, and two watch-coats.
It was the 6th of November r, in the 6th year
of my 1civrn, or captivity, that I set out on this
Voyage; which "as much longer than I ex-
pected, being obliged to put farther out, by
reason of the rocks 1hat lay a great way in the
$83!.

And indeed, so much did these rocks sur-
prise me, that I was for putting back, fearing

' that il'I ventured farther, it would be out of my
power to return: .in this uncertainty 1- came to
anchor just oll' the shore, to which I waded
with my 11111 on my shoulder, and then climb-
i111r up a bill, which over-looked that point, I
saw the full extent ofit, and so resolved to. run
all hazards; ' _ '

I11 this pmspect from the hill, I perceived a
violent current running to the east, coming
very close to theyoint; which I the more care~
{oily observed, thinking it dangerous, and that
when i came to it, I might be d1iven into the
sea by its force, and not able to return to the
island: and certainly it must have been 8o,
had I not made this observation; for on the
other side was the like current, with this dif-
ference, that it set 03' at a greater distance;
and I perceived there was a strong eddy under
the land: so that my chief business was to
work out of the first current. and conveniently
get into the eddy. Two days I staid here.
the wind blowing very briskly E. S E. which
being contrary to the current, leaves a great
breach of the sea upon the point; so it was
neither fit for me to keep too near the shore,
on account of the breach; nor stand at too
great a distance for fear of the streams. That
night the wind abating, it grew so calm, that
I ventured out : and here I may be a mono.
ment-to all rash and ignorant pilots: for I
was no sooner come to the point, and not
above the boat's length from slmre, but I was
got into a deep water, with a current like a
mill-race, which drove my boat along so-vio-
lently, that it was impossible for me to keep
near the edge of it, being forced more and
more out from the eddy to the left ol'me ; and
all I could do with my paddles was useless,
therevbeiog no wind to help me.

Now I began to look upon myself as quite
lost, since, as the current ran on both sides of
the island, I was very certain they must join
again, and then I had no hopes but of perish.
ing for want in the sea, after what provision 'I

E 5
had was spent, or before, if a storm should
happen to arise.

Who can conceive the present anguish of
my mind at this calamity? with: longing eyes
did I look'upon my little kingdom, and thought
the island the pleasantest place in the uni-
verse. Happy, thrice happy desert, said I,
shall I never see thee more? Wretched creaq
ture! whither am I going? Why did I mur-
mur at my lonesome condition, when new I
would <<rive the whole wo1ld to be thither
again?b While I was thus complaining, I
found myself to be driven about two leagues
into the sea: however, I laboured till 1111'
st1 ennth 11 as far spent, to keep my boat as far
no1tl1 as possibly 1 could, to that side of the
current where the eddy,lay. About noon
I perceived a little breeze of wind spring up
from the S. S. E, which overjoyed my heart:
and I was still more elated, when, in about
half an hour, it blew a gentle fine gale. Had
any thick weather sprung up, I had been lost
another way . for ha1~i11g no compass on board,
I should never have found the way to steer
towards the island, if once it had disappeared;
but it p1o1ing the contrary, I set up my mast
again, spread my sail, and stood away north-
mud, as much as 1 could, to get rid of the
cunent. And no sooner did the boat begin
to stretch away, but I perceived, by the clear-
ness, of the water, a change of the cur-rent was
near; for, where it was strong,- the water was
foul ; and where it was clear, the, current
abated.

Those who ,have been in the like calamities
with my own, may guess my present excess of'
joy, how heartily I ran my boat in the stream
of this eddy, and how joyfully I spread my sail-
to the refreshing wind, standing cheerfully be-
fore it, with a smart tide under foot. By 'the
assistance. of this eddy, I was carried above
a league home again, when, being in the wake
of the island, betwixt the two currents, I.
found the water to be in a sort of a stand.
About four o'clock in the afternoon. I reached
within a league of the island, and perceived
the points of the rock, which caused this dis-
aster, stretching out; as I observed before, to
the southward, which throwing off the cur-
rent more southerly, had occasioned another
eddy to the north. But having a fair brisk
gale, I stretched across this eddy, and. in an
hour, came within a mile of the shore, where I
soon landed, to my unspeakable comfort: and
after an humble prostration, thanking God for-
my deliverance, with a resolution to lay all
thoughts of escaping aside; I brought my boat-
sat'e to a little cove, and laid me down to take
a welcome repose. When I awoke, I" wanna--
sidering how I-might get my boat. home; and
wasting along the shore, I came to agood bay,
which ran up to-a, rivulet or brook,.where,
finding a harbour, I stowed her as. safe as
if-she had been in a. dry dock, made on [purpose
for her.
I now perceived myself not far from the
place. where before I had travelled on foot ; so
taking nothing with me, except my gun and
umbrella, I began my journey, and in the
evening came to my bower, where I again laid
me down to rest. I had not slept long before
I wakened in great surprize, by a strange
voice that called me several times, Robin,
Robin, Robinson Crusoe, poor Robin! Where
are you, Robinson Crusoe ? W lzere are you .'

W lzere have you been .9
. So first was I asleep, that at first I did not

awake thoroughly; but half asleep and half
awake, I thought I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me. But as the voice repeated,
Robinson Crusoe, several times, being terribly
frightened, I started up in the utmost confusion ;
and, no sooner were my eyes fully open,

but I beheld my pretty Poll sitting on the
top of the hedge, and soon knew that it

was he that called me: for just in such be-
wailing language, I used to talk and teach
him; which he so exactly learned, that he
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill
close to my face, and cry, Poor Robinson
Crusoe, where are you .9 where have you been. ?
Izow came you here ? and such like prattle I
had constantly taught him. But even though
lknew it to be the parrot, it was a long time
before I could adjust myself: being amazed
how the creature, got thither, and that he
should fix about that place, and no where else.
But now, being assured it could be no other
than my honest Poll, my wonder ceased, and
reaching out my hand, arid calling Poll, the
creature came to me familiarly, and perched
upon my thumb, as he was wont, constantly
prating to me with Poor Robinson Crusoe, and
bow did I came here, and where had I been?

as if the bird was overjoyed to see me; and
so I tool; him home along with me. I was
now pretty well. cured, of rambling to sea;
yet I could wish my boat, which had cost me
so much trouble and pains, on this side the
island once more, but this, indeed, was im-
practicable. I therefore began to lead a very
retired life, living nearly a twelvemonth in a -
very contented manner, wanting for nothing
but conversation. As to mechanic labours,
which my necessities obliged me to, l fancied I
could, upon occasion, make a tolerable carpen-
ter, were the poor tools I had to work 'withal, but
good. Besides, as 1 improved in my earthen
Ware, 1 contrived to make them with a wheel, -
which [found much easier and better, making
my work shapely, which before was rude and
ugly. But, I think I never was so elevated
with my, own performance or project, as when
able to make a tobacco pipe, which, though
it proved an awkward clumsy thing, yet it was
very sound, and carried the smoke perfectly
well, to my great satisfaction. '

lalso improved my wicker ware, made me
abandance of necessary baskets, which, though
not very handsome, were very handy and con-
venient to fetch things home in, as also for bold-
in 3 my stores, barley, rice, and other provisions.
-My powder beginning to fail, made me
examine alter what manner 3 should kill the
goats or birds, to live on, alter it was all gone.
Upon which, Icontrived many ways to ensnare
the goats, and see ifl could catch thein alive,
particularly a she-goat with young. '

At last I had my desire; for, making pit-
falls and traps, baited with barlty and rice, I
found, one morning, in one of them, an old
liq-goat, and in the other, three kids, one
male, the other two, females.

So boisterous was the old one, that I could
not bring him away. But I forgot the old
proverb, T/mt hunger will tame a lion: For,
had I kept him three or four days without
provisions, and then given him some water,
with a little corn, he would have been as tame
as a young kid. The other creatures I bound
with strings together; but I had great diffi-
culty before I could bring them to my habi-
tation. It was some time before they would
feed; but, throwing them swe'efcoru, it so
much tempted them, that they began to be
tamer.' From hence I concluded, that if I
designed to furnish myself with goat's flesh,
when my ammunition was spe'nt', the tainely
breeding them up, like a flock of sheep, about
my settlement, was the only method 'I could
take. I concluded also I' must separate the
wild from the tame, or else they would always
run wild as they grew up; and the best'way
for this, was to have some enclosed piece of
ground, :well fenced, either with a hedge or
pale, to keep them so effectually, that" those
within might not break out, nor those wntitho
break in. Such an undertaking was very
great for one pair of hands ; but as there was
an absolute necessity for doing it, my first
care was to find a convenient piece of ground,
'where there was likely to be herbage for them
to eat, water to drink, and cover to keep them
1er the sun.

Here again, I gave another instance of my
ignorance and inexpeIience, pitching upon a
piece of meadow-land so large, that had I
enclosed it, the hedge 01 palemust have been
at least two miles about. This thought came
into my head, aftet I had caIried it on, I
believe, about filty yards: I therefore altered
my scheme, and resolved to enclose a piece of
ground, about 150 yards In length, and 100m
breadth, large enough for as many as would
maintain me, till such time ,as my flock in-
creased, and thenl could add more ground.
I now vigmously. prosecuted my work, and it.
took me about three months in hedging the
first piece , in which time, I tethered the thIee
kids in the best part of it; feeding them as
near me as passible, to make them. familiar;
and, indeed, I very often would carry some
cars of barley, or a handful of ric.e,>>and,feed
them out of my hand; by which they grew so
tame, that when my enclosure was finished,
and I had let them loose, they would run after
me for a handful of corn. 'lhis indeed an-
swered my end: and in a year and a half's
time, 1 had a flock of about twelve, goats, kids
and all, and In two years after, they camounted
to forty-three, hrsides what I had taken and
killed for my sustenance.

After whicli._l inclosed five several pieces of
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them
into, that I might take them asI had occasion.

In this project I likewise found additional
blessings; for I not only had plenty of goat's
flesh, but mill: too, which in the beginning, I
did not so much as think of. And, indeed,
though I had never milked a cow, much less
a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, yet,
after some essays and miscarriages, I made me
both, and never afterwards wanted.

How mercifully can the Almighty comfort
his creatures, even in the midst of their greatest
calamities ? How can he sweeten the bitterest
evils, and give us reason to magnify him in dun-
geons and prisons; what a bounteous table was
here spread in a wilderness for me, where I ex-
pected nothing at first, but to perish for hunger.

Certainly any one would have smiled to see
me at dinner. There sat my royal majesty,
an absolute prince and ruler of my kingdom,
attended by my dutiful subjects, whom, if I
pleased, I could either punish or reward,
give them liberty, or take it away. When I
dined, I. seemed a king, eating alone, none
daring to presume to do so till I had done.
Poll, as if he had been my principal court
favourite, was the only person permitted to talk
with me. My old but faithful dog, now grown
exceedingly crazy, continually sat on my right
hand; while my two cats sat on each side of
the table, expecting a bit from my hand, as a

\
principal mark of my royal favour. These were-
not the cats I had brought from the ship; they
had been dead long before, and interred near
my habitation by mine own hand. But a couple
oftheir young I had made tame; the rest ran
wild into the woods, and in time grew so
impudent, as to return andplunder me ofmy
stores, till such time as I shot a. great many,
and the rest left me without troubling me any
more. .In this plentiful manner did-I live,
wanting for nothing but, conversation. One
thing indeed concerned me, the want of my
boat; I knew not which way to get her round
the island. one time I resolved to go along
the shore by land to her; but had any one at
home met such a figure, it would either have
afl'righted them, or made them burst into
laughter; nay, I could not but smile myself
at my habit, which I think in this place will
be very proper to describe. '

The cap I wore upon my head, was great,
high, and shapeless, made of a goat's skin,
with a flap or pent-house hanging down he-
hind, not only to keep the sun from me, but.
to shoot the rain off from running into my
neck, nothing being more pernicious than the
rain falling upon the flesh in these climates.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, whose hair
hung dow'n such a length on each side,.that it
reached down to the calves of my legs. As
for slices and stockings, I had none, but made
a resemblanceol'sometliing,.l knew not what
to call them; they were made like buskins,
and laced on the side like Spatterdashes, bar.
barously shaped, like the rest of my habit. I
had a broad belt of goat's skin dried. ,girt
round me with a couple of thongs, instead of
buckles; on each of which, to supply the
deficienCy of sword and dagger, hung my
hatchet and saw. I had another belt, not so
broad, yet fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder, and at the end of it,
under my left arm, hung two pouches, made
of goat's skin, to hold my powder and shot.
My basket I carried on my back, and my gun
on my shoulder; and over my head, a great
clumsy Ugly goat's skin umbrella, which, how.
ever, next to my gun, was the most necessary
thing about me. As for my face, the Colour
Was not so swarthy as the Mulattoes, or as
might have been expected from one who took
so little care of it, in a climate within nine or
ten degrees of the Line. At one time, my
beard grew so long that it hung down above
a quarter ol'a yard : but as I had both razors
and scissats in store, I cut it all 06', and suf~
feted none to grow, except a large pair of
whiskers, the like of whichl had seen worn by
some Turks at Salee. not long enough indeed
to hang a hat upon, but of such a- monstrous
size, as cmupletely to alter my appearance.
But all this was of no consequence here.
there being none to observe my behaviour or
habit. And so, without fear and without con-
troul, I proceeded on my journey, the prosecu-
tion of which took me up live or six days. l
travelled along the sea shore, directly to
the plate where I first brought myboat to an
anchor, to get upon the rocks; but now hav-
ing no boat to take care of, I went, over-land,
a nearer way to the same height-that I was
before upon; when looking forward to the
point of the rock, which lay out, and which I
was forced to double with my boat. I was
amazed to-see the sea so smooth and quiet,
there being no rippling motion, nor current,
any more than in other places. And now I
was convinced, that by observing the ebb and
flow of the tide. I might easily bring my boat
roundthe island again. But when I began to
think of putting it. in practice, the remem>>
brance of the late danger, struck me with
such horror, that I took another resolution,
though more laborious; and this was to make
a second canoe, and. so havevone for one side
of the island, and one for the other.

I had now two plantationsin the island; the
first, my little-fortification, fort, or castle, with
many large and spacious improvements: for
by this time, I had enlarged the cave behind
me with several. little caves, one within ano-
ther, to hold my baskets, corn, and straw.
The piles with which I made my wall were
grown so lofty and great, as to obscure myhabi-
ration. And near this commodious and plea.
sant settlement, lay my well cultivated and
improved corn fields, which kindly yielded me
their fruit in the proper season. My second
plantation Was that near my country'seat, or
little bower, where my grapes flourished, and
where, having planted my stakes, I made in-
closures For my goats, so strongly fortified by
labour and time,'that it was much stronger
than a wally and, consequently, impossible for
them to break through. As for my'bower
itself, I kept it constantly in repair, and cut
the trees in such a manner, as made them
grow wild, and t'orr'n a most delightful shade.
In the centre of this, stood my tent, thus
erected. I had driven l'our piles in the ground,
spreading over it a piece of the ship's sail;
beneath which, I made me a sort of couch
with the skins of . the creatures I had slain,
and other things; and having laid thereon one
of the sailor's blankets, which I had saved
from the wreck of the ship. and covering my-
self with a greatwatch coat, I took up this
place for my country retreat. '

.Very frequently, - from this settlement,'did I
use to visit my boat. and keep her in very good
order. And, sometimes, would I venture in her
a cast or two from shore, but no lat-"them But
now, I entreat your attention, whilst 1' pro-
seed to inform .you of a new, hot most'sur-
prising scene of life which here bel'el me.

You may easily suppose, that, after having
been here so long, nothing could be more
amazing than to see a human creature; One
day it happened, that going to my boat, I saw
the print of a man's naked foot on the shore,
very evident on the sand, as the toes, heels,
and every part of it. Had I seen a monster of
the most frightful shape, I could not have been
more confounded. My willing ears gave the
smctest attention. I cast my eyes around, buta
- ' ' ' l . I .
u
1 { a. .s
u 3 '.c uqq" ;
... . A
. x
. ' \\
|

l
.'
I'.
n
. _.
' i .-.
'I'.
.
, ,
.-'v .'
.4.
.
.' ...

1"
..

 

Romxsox Cacsoa startled at the prmt of a
man} but in the sand. -
could satisfy neither the one nor the other,
'1 proceeded alternately to every part oi' the
shore, but with equal effect; neither could I
see any other mark, though the sand about it
was as susceptible to take impression, as that
which was so plainly stamped. Thus, struck
with confusion and horror, I returned to my
habitation, frightened at every bush and tree,
taking every thing for men; and possessed with
the "wildest ideas! That night my eyes never
closed. 1 formed nothing but the most dismal
imaginations. In a word, all my religious
hopes. vanished, as though I thought God
would not now protect me by his power, who
had wonderfully preserved me so long.

What various chains of events are there in
the life of man? How changeable are our affec-
tions, according to difi'erent circunwtancts?
_ We love to day, what we hate to-morrow: we
shun one hour what we seek the next. This
was evident in me in the most conspicuous
manner: for I, who before had so much la-
mented my condition, in being banished from
all human kind, was now ready to expire, when
I considered thata man had set his foot on this
desolate island. But when I-considered my
station of life, the t it was allotted to me by the
infinitely wise and good providence of God,
that I ought not to dispute my Creator's so-
vereignty, who had an undoubted right to
'. "govern and dis-pose of his creatures as he thinks
convenient; and .that his justice and mercy
could either punish or deliver me: I say,
when I considered all this, I comfortably
found it my duty to trust sincerely in him,
pray arden'tly to him, and humbly resign my-
self to his divine will.

One morning, lying on my bed, these words
of the sacred writinrs came into my mind,'
Cull upon me in the fog of trouble, and I will
(leiir'c'r thee, and thou shalt glorify me. Upon '
this sentence, rising more cheerfully frommy
llt'tl, I ofi'ered up my prayers in the most de- .
vout manner: and when I had done, taking
up my bible to read, these words appeared
in my sight: lVait on the Lord, and be of
good clu'er, and he shall strengthen thy heart:
Wait, I say, on the Lord. Such divine Com-
t'ort did this give me, as to remove all cause
of sadness upon that occasion.

. Thus, after a world of apprehensions and
fears, for three days and nights, I at last ven-
tured out of my castle, and milked my goats,
one of which was almost spoiled for want of
it. I next, (though in great fear,.) visited my
bower, andmdked my flocks there also: when,
growing holder, 1 went down to the shore
again, and measuring the print of the foot to
mine, to see perhaps whether I myself had not
occasioned that mark, I found it much supe-
rior in largeness; and so returned home, _
absolutely convinced,that either some men had
been ashore, or that the island must be inha-
bited; and the-refute thatl might be surprised
before I was aware.

I now began to think of providing for my
security, and revolved in my mind many dif-
tiarentschemes l'orthat purpose. I first pro-
posed to cut down my enclosures, andturn my
tame cattle mild into the woods, that the
enemv 111iwl1t not find them, and frequent the
island in hopes of killing the s:.1n1e Secondly,
I "as lor digging up my corn fields for the
very same reason. And, lastly, I concluded
to demolish my bower, lest, seeing a phice of
human contrivance, they might come farther,
and find out, and attack me in my castle.
Sleep was ah utter stranger to my eyes that.
night; yet natn're, spent and tired, submitted
to a silent repose the next morning, and then
joining reason with fear, I conmdcred, that
this delightful and pleasant island might not be.
so entirely forsaken as I mi<rht think; but that l
the inhabitants from the Other shore 111i0ht sail,
either with design, orf'iom 11eCessity, by cross
winds , and, it the latter circumstance, I had
reason to believe, they would depart the first
opportunity. However, my fear "inade me
think of a place of retreat upon .an attack.
I now repented that I had made my door to '
come out beyond my toitifictition; to remedy
which, I resolved to make me a second one;
1 tell to work, tl1er"el01e, and diove betwixt
that double rowof trees, which I planted above
twelve yca'irs before, several strong piles, thick- ,.
ening it with pieces of tiz-nher and old cables,
and strengthenng the-foot of it with earth
which I dug out of my. cave; i also made me
seven holes, wherein I planted my muskets
like cannon, fitting them into t'rames resembling-
carriages. This being finished with indefati-
gable industry, for a great way every where,
I planted sticks of osier like a wood, about
twenty thousand of them, leaving a large space
between them and my wall, that I might have
room to see an enemy. and that they might
not be sheltered among- the young trees, if
they oil'ered to approach the outer wall. And
indeed, scarcely two years. had passed over my?
head, when there appeared a lovely shady
grove, andin six years, it became a thick wood,
pet-l'cctly impassable. for my safety, I left no
avenue to go in or out; instead of which, I set
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which.
was low, and then broke in, leaving room to
place another ladder upon that; so that when

I took those down, it was impossible for any

man to descend without hurting himself; and

it' they ha I, they would still be at the outside
of my outer wall. But while I took all these
measures of human prudence for my own pre-
servation, I was not altogether. unmindl'ul of
other aflitirs. To preserve my stock of- tame.
_ goats, that the enemy should not: take all a);

once, limited outlet-the. most refiwdpartoi-
the island, which was the place,>> whac] had,-
lost myself} beforementioned. andjherefinding
a clear piece of land, containing three acres,
surrounded with thick woods. I,- ntrought' so
hard, that in. less-than amonth's time, I (booed.-
it so well round, that: myfiocks were very well.
3 V
scoured 111 it, and I put therein two he-goat's,
and ten she oncs.

All this labour was occasioned purely by
featiul apprel1cnstons,on account oi seeirw the
print of a man s foot. And not contented yet
with what I had done, I se a1ched for another
place towa1 (is the west part of the island,
where I might also 1etain another flock.'1he1i
wandering on this errand more to the west 01
the island than eVer I had yet done, and cast-
ing my eyes towards the sea, methought I per-
ceived a boat at a great distance; but could
not possibly tell what it was for want of my
spy-glass. I considered then, it was no
strano'e thing to see the p1int of a man '5 foot ;
and, concluding them cannibals, blessed 'God
for beimr cast on the other side of the island,
11 here mine of the savages, as I thounht, ever
came. But when I came down the hill to the
sl1u1e, which 11 as the S. W. point of the island,
I was soon confirmed 1n my opinion; not can
any one desmibe my horror and amazement,
when I saw the "round spread with sculls,
hands, feet, and bones of human bodies; and
pa1tibularly, I pe1ce1ved a space like acircle,
in the midst of which had been a fire,- about
'11l1icl1 I conjectured those wretches sat,1 1and

unnatura'lly sacrificed and devoured their fellow
Cteatures.

The honor and loathsomeness of this dread-
ful Spectacle, both confounded my senses, and
made me discharge from my stomach in an ex-

cessive manner. 1 then returned towards my
habitation; and in my way thither, shedding
floods of tears, and falling down on my bended
knees, gave God thanks for making my nature
contrary to those wretches, and delivering me.
so long out of their hands. '

_ .Thou'gh reason andmy long residence her'e
'had'assured me, that the Savages never came
up to the thick woody part' of the country,
and that I had no reason to be apprehensive of
a dismvery, yet. such an abhorrence did I still
retain, that, for. two years after, I confined
niyself'o'nly to _my three plantations; I mean
my castle, country seat, and enclasure in the
Woods, though in process of time, my dread-,-
l'ul apprehensions began to wear away.

Thus my Circumstances for some time remain-
Cd very calm and undisturbed: though indeed,
the terror which the savages had put me in,
spoiled some inventions for 'my own conveni--
ence. One of my projectswas to brew me
Some beer; a very whimsical one indeed, when
it is considered, that I had neither casks suf-
ficient, nor could I make any to preserve it in ;
neither had l ho'ps to make it keep; yeast to
make it work, nor a copper or kettleto make
it boil. Perhaps, indeed, "after'some years, I
"might bring this to bear, as I had done other
things." But. 'now my inventions 'wei'e'placul
anotherway :and 'day' and night I could think
"of'n'othing but;how_l might destroy some of
these 'can'nibals, when proceeding to their
' bloody entertainments: and so saving a victim

52'
v' -.100

from being sacrificed, that ilC' might afterwards
hccome- my servant. Many were my contri-
vances for this purpose, and many more ohjcc-
tions occurred, al'ter I had hatchedthem. I onec
contrived to dig a hole under the place where
they made. their fire, and put therein five or six
pounds of gunpowder, which would conSe-
quently blow up all those that were near it;
but then I was loth to spend so much upon
'2": them, lest it should not do that certain EUR31'Ctl~
tion I desired, and only afl'right and not
kill them. Haring laid this design aside.
i. I again proposed to mysell' to lie pii 'ately in
ambush in some convenient place. with my
three guns double loaded, and let fly at them
'in the midst of" their dreadful ceremony : and
having kih'ed two or three of them at every
shot, fall upon the rest suddenly with my three
pistols, and let not one of them escape. This
plan appeared to me so practicable that I
used to dream of it in the night time. To
put my design in execution, I was not long
seeking for a place convenient for my purpose.
where. unseen I might behold every action of
the savages. Here I placed my two muskets,
each of u hich was loaded with a brace ol'slugs.
and four or five smaller huilcts about the size
oi'pistol bullets; the t'owling piece wasehargt d
with nearly a handful ot'the largest swan shot,,
and in every pistol about four hullets. And
thus all things being prepared. no sooner did
the Welcome light spread over the element. but,
I would issue forth from my castle, and from
a lofty hill, three miles distant, try if I could
see any invaders approach unlawfully to my
'kirrwdom. But having waited in vain two or
three months, it grew very tiresome to me.

_ I now a'rtrued with myself, it was better for
'_me never to oattaek, but to remain undiscovered
as long" as I possihlv could; that an opposite
conduct would certainly prove destructive, .
for as it was scarcely to be supposed I could
kill them all, I might either be Overpovrered
hy the remaininrr, or that some escapimr might
bring thousands to my certain destruction.
And, indeed, religion took their 'part so much
as to convince me how cOntt'aI'y it was to my
dutv, to' be guilty of slred'dinrr human blood,
innocent blood, innocent as to me in particular,
Irlratever they are to one another; that I had
nothing to do with it, but leave it to the God
of all power and dominion, as I said before, to
do therein what seemed convenient to his hea-
'veniy wisdom. And, therefore, on my knees
'I thanked the Almighty for delivering me from
blood-<<iruiltiness, and begged his protection
that I might never fall into their hands.

'Ihus givinrr over an attempt Ivhich Ihad
rashly he: on, 1 never ascended the hill on that
oe e-Irsinn alter wards I only removed my boat,
which lay on the other side of the island, and
every tlI' .Ing that helOnged to her, towards the
cast, into a little cove, that there might not
he the le ist shadow of any boat near, or lIahi-
tIItiIIII upon the isl:.urd My castle then he-
came my cell, kerpin;I always retired in it,

I: :5 ' '
except when I went out to milk my she-goats,
or my little flock' in the wood, which was
quite out of danger : for sure. I was, that these
savages never came here with expectation
to find any thing, and conseqne..tly never
wandered from the coast; however, as they
might have several times been on shore, as
well before as after my dreadful apprehensions,
I looked back with horror to think in what
state I might have been, had I suddenly met.
them, slenderly armed, with one gun only
loaded with small shot; and how great would
have been my amazement; it', instead of seeing
the print. ot' on'e man's foot, I had perceived
fifteen or twenty snvnges, who, having once
set their eyes upon me, by the swiftness of
their feet, would have left me no possibility
ol'escapingi' These thoughts would sink my
very soul, so that I would fall into a deep me-
lancholy, till such time as the consideration of
my gratitude to the divine Being moved it
from my heart. I then fell into a contempla-
tion of the secret springs of Providence :and
how wonderfully we are delivered, when insen.
sible of it; and when in uncertain mazes or
lnbyrinths of doubt or hesitation, what secret
hint directs us in the right way, when we in-
tended to go out of it: nay, perhaps contrary
to our business, sense, or inclination.
Anxieties of mind, and the care of my pre-
servation, put a period to all future inventions
and contrivances, either for accommodation,
or convenience. [now cared not to drive a

I
nail, chop a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire,
lest either the noise should he heard, or the
smoke discover me. And on this account I
used to burn my earthen <<are privately in a
cave, which I found in the wood, and which I
made convenient for that purpose; the princi-
pal cause that hrouoht me here was to make
charcoal, so that 1 mith bake and dress my
bread arid meat without any danger.

At that time, 2 our ions accident happened to
me, which I shall now relate.

While Iwas cutting down Some w,ood for
making my charcoal, I perceived a cavity he-
hind a vet y thick branch of underw ood. Cu-
rious to look into it, I attained its mouth, and
perceived it sufficient for me to stand up-
right in.

But when I had entered, having crept, upon
my hands and feet through this strait, I found
the roof higher up. I think about twenty feet.
But surely never had I seen such a glorious
sight before: the root and walls of this care
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from
my two candles, as though they were indented
with shining gold, precious stones, or spark-
ling diamonds. And indeed it was the most
delightful cavity or, grotto of its kind that could
he desired, though entirely dark. The floor
was dry and level, and had a kind of gravel
upon it; no nauseous venomous creatures t0
be seen there, neither any damp or wet aiIouo t
it. I could find no fault but in the enhance,
and I began to think, that even this might be
very necessary for my defence, and therefore
resolved to make it my principal magazine. I
brought hither two fooling pieces and three
muskets, l aving only five pieces at my castle,
pl: 11. ted in the nature of cannon. In a barrel
of 3.:1111- pnwdet, which I took out oftho sea, I
brou: :l. t away about sixty pounds of good pow-
der, 11lm..1 was not damaged; and this, With a
grin-at quantity of lead for bullets, I removed
from my castle to this retreat, now fortified
both by. art and nature.

1 limcitd myself now like one oftltc giants

of old, who were said to live in caves and holes

"anon gtho'roeks, inaccessible to any but them-

:ir, :, or, at ltitifl, 111- -,st dangerous to attempt.
Ami 11.1w 1 defied both the cunning and
:11~t~11;:rl1 ot' the savages, either to find me out.
or to hurt 1110.

I think 1 was now in the twenty--third year
of 111_;s:'ei;:11, and my thoughts much easier
th: 11 formerly, having contrived several pretty
anntxetttents and diversions to pass away the
tinu in :1 nitasz'tnt tttanner. By this time, my
pretty l'oli' had lCtltHQd tospeak English, and
pronounce his" welds very articulately and
plain; so that for many hours we used to chat
together .at'u-'ra very familiar manner, and he
lived no loss than tnenty-six years. My dog,

12 hieh was nineteen yeats old, sixteen ot whicli
lv- liwd nith me, had died some time ago, of

met '> old age. As formy cats, they multiplied so
last,l:2:1t { was forced to kill or drive them into

tln; 11 not>>, except two or three which became
my particular favourites. Besides these, I
continually kept two or three household kids.
about me. which I taught to feed out of my
hand. and two more parrots which could talk
imlili'erently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but
not so excellently as the first, by my not tak-
ing so much pains with them. I had also se-
veral sen (owls which I had wounded and cut
their wings; and growing tame, they used "
to breed mnong the low trees about my cas-
tle walls, all of which made my abode very
agreeable. .

But what unforeseen events suddenly deStroy
the enjoyment; of this uncertain state of'lii'e,
when Wt: least expect them! It was now the
month ot' December, and the particular time
in my harvest, which required my attendance
in the fields; when going out pretty early in
the morning, before it was daylight, there ap-
peared to me l'rcm the set} shore, a flaming
light, about two miles from me utthe east end
of the island, where I had observed some
savages had been hefnre, not on the other side,
but to my great affliction it was on my side of
the island.

Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual
amirehensious. that the savages would perceive
my iuiprtwemcnts, I returned directly to my
ewle, pulled the ladder after me, making all
things look as wild and natural as I possibly
Could. In the next place, I put myself in a
posture of defence, loaded tny muskets and
piattxlc', and committing myself to God's pro-
tection, I resolved to defend myself till my
last breath. Two hours after, impatient for
intelligence, _ I set my ladder up to the side of
the hill, where there was a flat plaCe,and then
pulling the ladder after me, ascended to the
top, where laying myself on my belly, with my
perspective glass 1 perceived no less than nine
nakt d savages, sitting round a small fire, eat-
ing as I supposed, human flesh, with their two

fcanoes hauled on shore, waiting fit the Hood

to carry them ofl' again. i The consternation I
was in at this sight, especially seeing them
near me, was ver great; but when I perceived
their coming must be always with the current
ol'the ebb, I hecamemore easy in my thoughts,
being fully convinced, that l mightgo abmad

. with security allthe time of the flood, ifthey were

not before landed. And, indeed, this proved

- just asI imagined; for no sooner did they all

take boat and paddle away, but the tide made
N. W. When I saw them gone. I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and placing a coople
of pistols in my belt, with avgreat sword hang-

'lng-hy my side, I went to the hill, where at

first I made a discovery of thesecannibals, and
then saw there had been three canoes more
olithe savages on shore at that place, which
with .the rest, were making. over to the'main
land. . . e _ .1

lint nothing could he more horrid to me,
.when going to the place of sacrifice, the blood,
the bones, and other mangled parts of human
bodies appeared in my 5 ght; and so tired was
I With indignation, that I was Fully resolved to
use my fire arms in endeavouring to check their
cruel practices, though I lost my life in the
execution; It then appeared to me, that'the
visits 'which they'make to this isiand are .not
very frequent; it being" tifteenmonths before
they: came again: but still I was very uneasy,
by reason of the dismal apprehensions of their
surprising me unawarcs; nor dared I ofl'er to
tire a-'gun on that side of the island where
tliey'used to appear, lest taking.the'alarm,
they might return with many hundred canoes,
and then God only' knows in' what manner
[should have made my end. Thus was I a
year or more, before I saw any of these de-
vouring Cannibals again. _ .

But to wave this, the following accident,
which demands attention, for a while dirertcd
my thoughts t'ronrthcse cannibals. -

0n the 16th of May. (according to ' my
wooden' calendar) the wind blew exceedingly
hard, accompanied with abundance of thunder
and lightning all day, and succeeded by a very
stormy night. I had gone to bed at my usual
time, butfinding it impossibleto sleep, I arose,
and having stirred up the embers of my fire,
"sat down to my' Bible. Whilst I was seriously
pondering upon it, I was suddenly alarmed
With the noise of'a. gun, which I conjectured
was fired upon the ocean. '- .Such anzunusual
surprise made me start up: in -a minute;
- when, with my ladder ascending the mountain
as'"befdre, that very moment, a flasheof fire
prcsaged the report of another gun, which I
presently heard, and found it was from the
part of the sea where the current drove me
awuyfl could not but then think, that this must.
be a ship in distress, and that these were the
melancholy signals for a, speedy deliverance.
Great, indeed, was my sorrow upon this occa-
sion : hut my labours to assist them must have
proved altogether -. vain and fruitless. How-
ever, = brought together all the dry wood that.
was at hand, and making a pretty large pile,
set it on fire on the hill. 1 was certain they
plainly perceived it, by their firing another
gun as soon as it began to blaze, and after that,
several more from the same quarter. All night
long, I kept up my fire: and when the air
cleared up, I perceived something a great way
at sea, directly E. but could not distinguish
what it was, even with my glass, the weather
being so very foggy out at sea. However,
keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it, and
PL'l'CL'lVillg it did not stir, [presently concluded
it must he a ship at anchor, and so very hasty
was Ito be satisfied, that, taking my gun, I
Went to the S. W. part. of the island, to the
some rocks where I had been formerly driven
away by the current; in which time the_wea-
ther' being perfectly cleared up,.to my great.
sorrow, I perceived the wreck of a ship cast
away upon those hidden rocks 1 had found
when I was out with myboat; and which, by
making a kind of an eddy, were the occasion
of my preservation.

When I considered seriously every thing
concerning this wreck, and c0uld'_ perceive no
room to suppose any of them saved, I cannot
explain, by any possible force of words, what
iongings my soul felt on this occasion, often
breaking out in this manner. 0 that there
had been but two or three, nay, even one per-
son saved, that we might have lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another!
and so much were my desires moved, that
when I repeated these words, " Oh! that
"there had been but one!" my hands would
so clench together, and my fingers press the
palms of my hands so Clo: e, that, had any
sntt thing been between, they would ban. c amt-h:
"'1 it Wh'le my teeth "Cilia strike together,

and set a'Jaffig't each other so strong, that it
IB't'tiicd some time for me to part them.
'lill the last year of my being on this island,

I never knew whether or not any one had been
saved out of this ship. I had the affliction,
some time after, to see the corpse ot'a drowned
buy come on shure, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck; there was no-
thing on him but a seaman 's waistcoat, a pair
at open-kneed linen drawers and a blue linen
shirt, but no particular mark to guess what
nation he was of. In his pocket were two-
pieces of eight, and a tobacco pipe, the last
of which I preferred much more than I did the
first. And now the calmness of the sea tempted
me to venture out in my boat to this wreck,

not only to get something necessary out of the
ship, but perhaps, seine living creature might
be On board, whose life i might preserve. This

G
had such an influence upon my mind, that ima
mediatcly I went home, and prepared every
thing necessary for the voyage, carrying on
board my boat, protrisions of all sorts, with
some fresh water, and a compass;so putting
off. 1 paddled the canoe along the shore, till I
came to the N. E. part of the island, from
whence I was to launch into the ocean;but
here the current ran so violently, and appeared
so terrible, that my heart began to fail me:
forcseeing, that it I was driven into any of
these currents, I might be carried not only out
of me. reach or sight of the island, but even
inevitably lost in the surges ol the ocean.

So oppres ed was I at these two ales, that I
gave over my enterprise, sailing to a little
Creek on theishorc, where, stepping out, I sat
me down on a rising hill, very pensive and
thoughtful. I then perceived that the tide
was turned, and the flood come on, which made
it impracticable for me to go out for so many
hours. .
That night, I reposcd myself in my canoe,
covered with my watch-coatinstead of a blanket,
the heavens being my tester. The next morning
I set out with the first of the tide full north, till
I an the benefit of the current, which carried
me at a great Iate eastward, yet not. with such
impetuosity as before, as to take from me all
gorernmeut of my canoe; so that at two hours
I came up to the n'vck, which appeared to
me a rn st melancholy sight. It seemed to be
a Spanish vessel by its building, stuck fast be-
tween two rocks; her stern and quarters beaten_' '
to pieces by the sea: her main-mast and force

mast were brought oi? by the board ; that is,

broken short of. As I approached nearer, I

perceived a dog on board, who, seeing me

coming, _yelped and cried: and no sooner did V
I call him, but the poor creature jumped into"

the sea, out of' which 1 took him up almost

famislted with hunger and thirst; so that when.
1 gave him a cake of bread, no ravenous wolf

could devour it more greedily ; and he drank

to .that degree of fresh water, that he would

have burst himself hadI suffered him.

The first sight I Met with, in the ship, were
two men drowned in the cock-room or fore-
castle, inclcsed in one another's arms: hence I,
very probably supposed, that when the vessel
struck in the storm, so high and incessantly did

. the waters break in and over her, that the men
not being able to bear it, were strangled by the
constant rushing of the waves. There were
several casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy
I could not be positive, which lay in the lower
hold, as were plainly perceptible by the ebbing
out of thetwater, yet were too large for me to
pretend to meddle with: likewise I perceived
several chests, which 3 supposed belonged to
the seamen, two of which I got into my boat,
without examining what was in them. What
became of the rest of the sailors I could not.
certainly tell; and all 'her riches signified no-

thing at that time to any body.

' Searching farther, I found a cask, containing

G 2
about twenty gallons full of liquor, which with
some labour 1 got into my boat; in a cabin
were several muskvts, which I let remain there;
but took away with me a great powder horn,
ivith about four pounds of powder in it. I
took also a fire shovel and tongs, with two
kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and
a grid-iron, all which I thought must prove
highly useful to me, especially the fire shovel
and tongs. And so with this cargo, accompanied
by my dog, I came away, the tide serving
for that purpose; and the same evening, about
an hour within night, I attained the island,
after the greatest toil and fatigue imaginable.
That night I reposed my weary limbs in
the boat, resolving the next morning to har-
bour what I had gotten, in my new found
under-ground grotto ; and not carry my cargo
home to my ancient castle. Having refreshed
myself, and got all my eli'ects on shore, I next
proceeded to examine the particulars; and so
tapping the cask, I found the liquor to be a
kind of rum, but not like what we had at the
' Brazils, nor indeed near so good. At the
Opening of the chests, several things appeared
very useful to me; for instance, I found in
one, a very fine case of bottles, containing the
finest and best sort of cordial waters; each
bottle held about three pints, curiously tipt
with silver. I found also two pots fuil'of the
choicest sweetmeats, and two more which the
water had utterly spoiled. There were likewise
several good shirts, exceedingly welcome tome
and about one dozen and a half of'white line-n
handkerchiets, and coloured neckcloths, the
former of which was useful for wiping my face
in a hot day ; and in the till, I found three bags
of money, in one of ultich, decently wrapt up
in a piece of paper, were six doubloons of gold;
and some small bars and wedges of the same
metal, which I believe might weigh near a
pound. In the other chest, I only found some
clothes, of very little value, and about two
pounds of fine glazed powder, in three flat-ks,
keptas Iheliere t'orcharging their fowling piece;
on any occasion, so that, on the whole,l made
very little of this voyage. The money was in-
deed as mere dirt to the, useless and unprofit.
ahle, all which I would have freely parted
with for two or three pair of English shoes and
stockings, things that for many yearsI had not
worn, except those which 1 had lately taken off
the feet ot'the unfortunate men I found drowned
in the wreck, yet not so good as English shoes,
either for ease or service. I found no gold in
the second chest ; so concluded that what Itook
from the first belonged to an officer, the latter
appearing to have a much inferior person for
its owner. However, as despicable as the mo~
ney scented, l likewise logged it to tny cave,
laying it up Stcurely, as I did the rest of my
cargo, and intending to seek out, and return it.
to the family ot'the unfortunate owner, if ever
1 should return to Europe: and after I had
done all this, as there "as nothing more aboard
which 1 could remove, I returned back to my
a 3
boat, rowing or paddling her along till I came
to my old harbour, where I carefully laid her
up, and so made the best of my way to my
castle. When I arrived there, every thing
seemed safe and quiet; so that now, my only
business was to repose myself after my wonted
manner, and take care of my domestic afiairs.
But though I might have lived very easy, as
wanting for nothing absolutely neediul; yet
still 1 was more vigilant than usual, upon
account of the savages, never going much
abroad; or, it I did, it was to the east part ot
the island, where I was well assured that the
savages never came, and where I might not
be troubled to carry such a heavy load of wea-
pons for my defence, as I thought necessary
to do if I went the other way.

'lwo years did I live in this anxious condi-
tion, in all which time, contrary to my former
resolutions, my head was filled with nothing
but projects and designs how I might escape
t'1om this island; and so much were my Watt-
dering thoughts bent upon a ramblino expe di-
tion, that had I had the same boat that I utnt
from Salee in,.I should have ventured once
more to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.

Having retired to my castle, after my late
voyage to the ship, my boat laid up and se-
cured, as usual, and my condition the same
as before, except being richel, thoughl had
as little occasion for 1ichcs as the Indians of
Pe1u had fm gold, befme the Spaniards came
among them: one night in March, being the
rainy season, in the four and twentieth year of
my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very well in
health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon
uneasiness either of hotly or mind; yet not-
withstanding, I could not compose myself to
sleep all the night long. All this tedious while,
it is impossible to express \'L hat innumerable
thoughts came into my head I traced quite
mm, the whole histoty of my life In miniature,
from my utmost rcmemlnanee of things till I
came to this island, and then prOC' ceded to
examine every action and passmre that had
occurred since I had taken possession of my
kingdom. In my reflections upon the latter, I
was comparing the happy posture of my afl'airs
in the beginning of my reiun, to this lite of
anxiety, tear, and concern, since I had disco-
vered the print of a foot in the sand; and that
while I continued without apprehension, I was
incapable of feeling the dread and terror I now
suffered. How thankful Iathei ought I to have
been for the knowleduc of my danuer. since
the greatest happiness a man can he possessed
of, is to have sufficient time to provide against
it? How stupendous Is the goodness of Provi-
dence, which sets such naIIow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, that
while men walk in the midst of so many dan-
gers, they are kept serene and calm, by having
the events of thinus hid from their eyes, and
knowing nothing of those many dangers that
surround them, till perhaps they are dissipated
and'vanished away.
. n 4'
About a year and a half after, one morning
early, I was very much surprized by seeing no
less than five canoes all on shore together, on
my side of the island, and the savages that be-
longed to them all landed, and out of my sight.
Upon which, much dispirited and perplexed, I
lay still in my castle; which, however, I put
in a proper posture for an attack; and, having
formerly provided all that was necessary, was
soon ready to enter upon an engagement, should
they attempt it. Having waited for some time,
'my impatient temper would let me hear it no
longer; I set my guns at. the foot of my ladder,
and, as usual, ascended up to the top ofthc
hill 'lt two stages, standing, however, in such
a manner, that my head did not appear above
the hill, so that they could not easily perceive
me: and here, by the assistance of my per~
spective glass, Iobserved no less than thirty in
number around a tire, feasting upon what meat
they had dressed: how they cooked it, or what
it was, l could not then perfectly tell; but they
were all dancing and capering about the flames,
using many frightful and barbarous gestures.

But while, with a curious eye, I was behold.-
ing these wretches, my spirits sunk within me,
when I perceived them drag two miserable crea-
tures from the boats, to act afresh the dread~
ful tragedy, as I supposed they had done be-
fore. lt. was not long before one of them iell
upon the ground. knocked down, as I suppose,
with a club 0r wooden sword, for that was their
manner; while two or three others went immeo
diately to work, cutting him open for their
cookery, and then fell to devour him as they
had done the former: while the List unhappy
'captive was left by himself, till such time as
they were ready for him. The poor creature
looked round him with a sorrowful eye. trem-
bling at the thoughts of death; yet, seeing
himself a little at liberty, nature, that very mo-
. ment, as it were, inspired him with hOpes of life:
He started away from them, and ran. with in-
credible swiftness, along the sands, directly to.
that part of the Coast where my ancient and
venerable castle stood. '

You may well imagine, I was dreadfully ar-
frighted upon this occasion, when. as I thought,
they pursued him in a whole body, all running
towards my palace. And now, indeed, lex-
pected, that he would certainly fly to my grove

' for protection. However, my Spirits beginning

to recover, I still kept upon my guard; and I
-now plainly perceived, there were but three
men out of the number that pursued him. I
was infinitely pleased at the swit'tness with
which the poor creature ran from his pursuers,
gaining so much ground upon them, that I .
plainly perceived, could he thus hold it out for
balt'an hour, there was not the least doubt but
he would save his life from the power of his
enemies. '

Between them and my castle, there was a
creek, the very same which I sailed into with
all my efi'eets from the wreck of the ship, on
the steep banks of which I very much feared
the poor victim would be taken, if hecould

GU"118

not swim for his escape: But soon wasI out of
'pain for him, when I perceived he made no--
thi .g of it, though at full tide, but, with an
intrepid courage, spurred on by the sense of
danger, he plunged into the flood, swimming
over in about thirty strokes, and then landing,
ran with the some incredible strength and
swit'rnrss as before. When the three pursue-rs
came to the creek, two of them, who I per-
ceived could not swim, happily for themselves,
returned to their company, while the other,
with an equal courage, but much less swiftness,
attained the other side, as though he was re-
solved never to give over the pursuit. And
now or never, l thought, was the time for me to
procure me a servant, companion or assistant :
and earnestly did 1 hope that Providence might
permit me to be the instrument to save this poor
creature's lil'e. Iimmediately descended my
two ladders with the greatest expedition; I tool:
up my two guns, which I said before were at
the bottom of them : and, getting up again with
the same haste towards the hill, I made nearer
the sea. In a word, taking a short cut down the
hill, I intt-rposed between the pursuer and pur.
sued, hallooing aloud to the latter, who ventur-
ing to look back, was, no doubt, as much terri-
fied at me as at the enemy from whom he fled.
1 beckoned to him with my hand to return back,
and in the mean time, advanced towards the
pursuer. l was very unwilling to fire, lest the
rest should hear, though, at that distance, I

questioned whether they could or no; and,
nil/y ..

4.:

.nm .- 1 .v i

a

ha .11. u t

g

.b.

I I
u\l..\;
'V

14,3!"

 

ROBINSON Cnuson rescuing FRIDAY.
being out of sight ol'lhc smoke, they could not
easily have known what. to make of'it. The
savage stopped as if he had been amazed:
when, advancing towards him, I could per-
coive him take his bow from his back, and,
after fiiting an arrow to it, preparimr to shoot
at me, and, without dispute, he minht have
lodged it in my breast; but in this necessary

.case for self-preservation, I immediately fi1ed,

and shot him dead, just as his hand was going
to draw the fatal string. All this while, the
savage who had fled before, stood still, and had
the satisfaction to see --l1is enemykilled, as he
thought, who designed to take away his life :
so afi'righted was he with the fire , and noise of
my piece, that he .stood as it were like Lm's
wife,fixed and immoveable, without either sense
or motion. This obliged me to halloo to him
again, makingthe plaiuest signsl could to him
to draw nearer. I perceived he understood
these tokens, by his approaching to me 'a little
wav, when, as if afraid I should kill him too,

he stopped again. Sevei al times did he advance,
and as often stop in this manner, till, Lumina-
more to my view, I perceived him trembling,
as if he was to undergo the same fate. Upon
which, I looked upon him with a smiling coun-
tenance, and still beckonintr to. him; at lenoth
he came close to me, and 'kneeled doWo, kissed
the ground,- laid his head upon it, and taking
. me by the foot, set it upon his head; which as
I understood afterwards, was a token of Near-
ing to be my slave for ever. I took him up,
andfmaliing much of him, encouraged him in
the best manner I could.

The greatest astonishment that my new zero
vant conceived, was at the manner of killing
the savage at such a distance, without a bow
and arrow': and such was his longing desire to
know it, that he first pointed to the dead car-
case, and then made signs to me to grant him
leave to go to it. Upon which I bid .him go,
and as well as I' could, made him sensible I
granted his request; But when he came there,
how wonderfully was he struck with'amazeo
ment! First, he turned it on one side, then on'
another, wondering he could perceive no quan-
tity ofblood, he bleeding inwardly ;. and after
sufficiently admiring the wound the bullet had
made in the breast, he took up his'bow and
arrows, and came back again; upon which I
turned to go away, making signs to him to
follow, lest the rest missing their companion,
might come in pursuit of him, and thisl found
he understood. very well, by making me to
understand that his design was to bury it, that
it might not be seen; and which by signs again.
I made'him sensible I very much approved ofi
Immediately, he fell to work, and never. was
grave-digger more dexterous'in' the world than
he was; for in an instant, as I mightsay, he.
scraped a lar e hole in the sands with his hands,
sufficient to ury it in; there he dragged It,
<<and, without any ceremony, covered it over.
I then called him away, and instead of carry.
ing him directly to my castle at first, I con-
veyed him to my cave on the farther part of
the island. -

Weary and faint, hungry and thirsty, un-
doubtedly must this poor creature be, sep-
ported chiefly by the vivacity of spirit, and
uncommon transports of joy that his d-eliVer-
ance occasioned. Here I gave him bread and a
bunch of raisins to eat, and water to drink, on
which he fed very cheerfully, to his exceeding
refreshment. l then made him a convenient
bed, with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket
upon it, (abed which I used myselfsometimes)
and then pointing to it, made signs for him to
lie down to sleep, upon. which the poor crea-
ture went to take a welcome repose.

Indeed he was a very comely, handsome,
young fellow, extremely well made, with
straight long limbs, not too large, tall, and
well shaped, and, as near as I could reckon,
about twenty-six years of age. His Counte-
nance had nothing in it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and
especially when he smiled, he had all the'
sweetness of an European. His hair was not
curled like wool, as many of the blacks are,
but long and black, with the most beautiful,
yet careless, tresses spreading over his shoul-
ders. He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in
his eyes. His skin was not so tawny as that,
of the Americans; but rather of a light dun,
olive colour, that had something agreeable in
it, though not very easy to give a description
of. His face was round and plump, with a
small nose, very different from the flatness of
the negroes, a pretty small month, thin lips,
fine teeth, very well set, and white as the
driven snow. In a word, such handsome fea-
tures. and exact symmetry in every part, made,
me consider, that I had saved the life of an
Indian prince, for a person of less dignity as
I thought, could not possess such grace and
accomplishments.

He had not, I think, slept above an hour,
when he awakened again, and while I was
milking my goats hard by, out he runs from
the cave towards me in my enclosure, and lay-
ing himself down on the ground in the lowest
prostration, made all the antic gestures ima-
ginable, to eXpress his tltanltfulness to me for
being his deiiverer. He laid down his head
again upon the ground, close to my foot, and
set my other that upon his head, as he had
done before, making all the signs of subjection,
servitude, and submission imaginable, to let
me understand he would serve me as long as
his life endured. As I understood him in
many things, I made him sensible I was very
well pleased with him; and, in "a little time, I
began to speak to him, and teach him how to
talk to me again. '

1n the first place, I made him understand
his name was to be Friday, because it was upon
that day I saved his life; I then taught him to
say Master, which I made him sensible was to
be my name; I likewise tanght him to say yes
' and no, and to know what they meant. I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, making him
view me while I drank it before him, and
soaked my bread in it; I gave him a cake of
bread, and caused him to soak it likewise, to
which he readily consented, making signs of the
greatest satisfaction imaginable.

All that night did I keep him there ; but no
sooner did the morning light appear, than I
ordered him to arise and come along with me,
with certain tokens thatI would give him some
clothes like mine, at which he seemed very
glad, being stark naked, without the least
covering whatever. As we passed by the place
where the man had been interred, my man
pointed directly to his grave, showing me the
marks that he had made to find it again, giving
me to understand, by signs, that we should
dig him up, and devour him. At this I ap-
peared extremely displeased, expressed my ut-
most abhorrence, as if I would vomit at the
apprehensions of it, beckoning with my hand
to come away, which he did with the greatest
reverence and submission. After this, I con-
ducted him to the tap of the hill, to view if the
rest of the savages were yet remaining there;
but when I looked through my perspective
glass, I could see noappearance of them, nor
of their canoes; so that it was very evident
they never minded their deceased companion
whom we had slain ; which if they had, they
would surely have searched for, or left one
boat behind for him to follow, after he returned
from his pursuit.

Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, ani-
mating me with courage to See this scene of
barbarity, I took my man Friday with me to the
place of their bloody entertainment. But when
I came there,I was struck with the utmost
horror at so dreadful a spectacle, whilst Friday
was no way concerned about it, being no doubt
in his turn, one of these devourers. Here lay
several human bones, there several pieces of
mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorch-
ed, together with quantities of blood, which the
sun and wind had dried up. As I was musing
on this dreadful sight, Friday took all the pains
he could, by particular signs, to make me un-
derstand, that they had brought over four pri-
soners to feast upon, three of whom they had
eaten up, and that he was the fourth, pointing
to himself; that there having been a bloody
battle between them and his great king, in
the just defence of whom he was taken pris-
soner, with many others; all of these were car-
ried off to different places to be devoured by
their conquerors; and that it was his fortune
to be brought hither by these wretches for the
very same purpose. '

After I was made sensible of these things. I
caused Friday to gather those horrid remains,
and lay them together upon a heap, which I
ordered to be set on fire, and burnt them to
ashes; my man, however, still retained the na-
ture of a cannibal, having a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh ; but such an extreme
abhorrence did I express at the least appear-
ance ol'it, that he durst not but conceal it: for
I made him very sensible, that if he attempted
any such thing. I would certainly shoot him.

This being done, Icarried my man with me,
to my castle, and gave him a pair of linen
drawers, whichl had taken out of the poor
gunncr's chest before mentioned; and which,
with a little alteration, fitted him very well; in
the next place [made him a jerkin of goat
skin, such as my skill was able to manage, and
indeed I thought myself then a tolerably good
tailor. I gave him also a cap, which I made
ol'a hare's skin, very convenient and fashion-
able. Thus being clothed tolerahly well, my
man was no less proud of his habit, than I was
at Seeing him in it. Indeed he went very awk-
wardly at iirst, but by use, at length he took to
them very well.

My text concern was, where I should lodge
him; and that Imight do well by him, and yet
be perfectly easy myself, 1 erected a tent for
him in the vacant place between my two l'orti.
fications, in the inside of the last, and the out-
side of the first ;and as there was an entrance
or door into my cave, I made a formal framed
door-case, and a door to Open on the inside; I
barred it up in the night time, taking in my
ladders too, so that, was my man to prove
treacherous, there could be no way to come at
me in the inside of my innermost wall, without
making so much noise in getting over, that it
must needs waken me; for my first wall had
now a complete roof over it of long poles,
spreading over my tent, and leaning up to the
lside of the mountain, which was again laid
across with smaller sticks instead of laths, and
thatched over to a great thickness with the rice
straw, which was as strong as reeds; and at the
'hole of_ the place, left on purpose to go in or
"out by the ladder, I had" placed a kind of a
'trap deer, which, if it had been attempted on
the outside, would not have opened at all, but
have fallen down, and made a great noise; and
as tomy weapons, every night I took them all
to my bed side.

But there was no occasion for this precau-
tion; for surely never master had a more sin-
cere, faithful and loving servant than Friday
proved to me. Without passion, sullenncss,
,or design, perfectly obliging and engaging, his
afictions, were as much tied to me, as those of
achild to his parents; and I might venture to
say,'he would have laid down his life for the
saving of mine, upon any occasion whatsoever.
And, indeed, the many testimonies he gave me
of this, sufficiently convinced me that 1 had no
occasion to use all these precautions,

I had not been above two or three days re-
turned do my castle, but my chief design was,"
how I should bring Friday of? from his horrid
way of feeding; and, to take from him that. in--
human relish he by habit had been accustomed
to, I thought it my duty to let him taste other
flesh, which might the rather tempt him to the
same abhorrence, I so often expressed against
their cruel way of living. Upon which, one
morning I took him out with me, with an in-
tention to kill a kid out of the flock, and

bring it home, and dress it. As I was going.
I perceived a she-goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. Imme-
diately I catched hold of my man Friday, and
bidding him stand still, and not stir, I pre-
sented my piece and shot one of the kids.
My poor servant, who had at a distance per-
ceived me kill his adversary, and yet. did not:
know by what means, or how it was done.
stood trembling and surprized, and looked so
amazed, thatI thought he would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I
aimed at, or behold I had killed it, but rippt <<I
up his waistcoat to see if he was not wounded,
thinking my resolution was to kill him; for
coming to me, he fell on his knees, earnestly
pronouncing many things which I did not
understand the meaning of; which at length
I perceived was, that I would not take away'
his life.

Indeed so much compassion had I for this
Creature, that it was with difficulty I refrained
from tears. But, however, as another sort of
countenance was necessary, and to convince
him that I would do him no harm, I took him,
smiling, by the hand, then laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had slain, made
signs to him to fetch it, which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how
the creature was killed, than he was before in
beholding the Indian; which, while he was ad-
miring, I charged my gun again, and presently
perceiveda great fowl- like a hawk, perching
upon a tree within shot; and, therefore, to let
Friday understand what I was going to do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,
which I found; to be a parrot. I made him un-
derstand that I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordingly I fired, and bade him look, when
immediately he saw the parrot fall down.
Again he stood like one amazed, notwithstand-
ing all I had said to him: and the more con-
founded he was, because he did not perceive
me put any thing in my gun. As for it in
particular, he would not so much as touch it
for several days after; but would come and
communicate his thoughts to it, and talk to
it, as if the senseless piece had understood
and answered him; all this I could'perceive
him to do, when he thought my back was-
turned, the chief intent of which was, to desire
it not to kill him, as I afterwards came to
understand.

I never strove to prevent his admiration,
nor hinder him from the comical gestures he
used on such occasions; but when his asto-
nishment was a little over, I made tokens to-
him to run; and fetch the parrot that I; had
shot; which accordingly he did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason that the bird
not being quite dead, had fluttered some way
farther from the place where she fell. In=the
mean time, as he was looking for her, I took
the advantage of charging my gun again, that
so I might be ready for any other mark that
offered; but nothing more occurred at the
time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided
the carcase as well as I could. Part of the
flesh, I stewed and boiled, in a put I had for
this purpose. And then, spreading my table,
I sat down, giving my man some of it to cat,
who was wonderfully pleased, and seemed to
like it very well: but what was the most sur-
prising to him was to see we eat salt with it:
upon which he made me understand, that the
salt was very bad for me; when, putting a little
into his mouth, he seemed to nauseale it in
such a manner, as to spit and sputter at it,
and then washed his mouth with fresh water :
but 'to shew him how contrary his opinion was
to mine, I put some meat into my mouth with-
out salt, and feigned to spit and sputter as
much for want of it, as he had done at it;
yet all this proved of no signification to Friday;
and it was a long while before he could endure
any salt in his meat or broth, and even then
but a small quantity. _

Thus, having fed him sufficiently with boiled
meat and broth at that time, the next day I
was resolved to feast him with a roasted piece
of the kid. And having no spit to fasten it,
nor jack to turn it, I made use of that com-
mon "artifice which many of the pe0ple of
England have, that is, to set two poles upon
each side of the fire, and one across on the top,
hanging the meat thereon with a string, and.
so turning it round continually, till it was
sufficiently roasted. This practice caused great
admiration in my man Friday, being quite
another way than that to which the savages
were accustomed. But when he came to taste
the sweetness and tenderness of the flesh, he
expressed his entire satisfaction in many dif-
ferent ways. AsI could not but understand
his meaning, you may be sure I was -as won-
derfully. pleased, especially when he made it
also very plain to me, that he would never,
while he lived, eat man's flesh more.

It was new high time I should set my new
servant to work; so next day I put him to
beat out some corn, and sift it in the same
manner as I had done before. And really the
fellow was very quick and handy in the execuu '
tion of any thing I ordered him to go about.
I made him understand that it was to make
bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him.
see me bake it. In short, he did every thing
as I ordered him in a little time as well as I
could perform it myself.

But now, considering that I had two months
to feed instead of one, it was necessary that I
should provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I
commonly used to do; upon which I marked
out a larger piece of land, fencing it in the
same manner as I had done before; in the
eXecution of which I must give Friday this
good word, that no man could work more
handily, or with better will than he did; and
when I made him sensible that it was for
bread to serve him as well as me, he then very
passionately made me understand, that he
thought I had much more labour on his ac-
count, than I had for myself; and that no
pains or diligence should be wanting in him,
if I would but direct him in those works
wherein he might proceed.

I must certainly own, that this was the most
pleasant year I ever had in the island; for
after some time, Friday began to talk pretty
well, and understood the names of those things
which I was wont to call for, and the places
wherel used to send him. So that my long
silent tongue, which had been so many years
unused, except when praying to God, or con-
versing with my Poll, now began to he 'occu-
pied, in teaching, and talking to my man
Friday; for indeed I had such a singular satis-
faction in the fellow himself, so innocent did his
simple and unfeigned honesty appear more and
more every day, that I really began entirely
to love him; and for his part I believe there

was no love lost, and that his nature had been
more charmed by my exceeding kindness,
and his affections more placed upon me, than

any other object whatsoever among his own
countrymen.

I once had a great desire to try if he '
had any hankering inclination to his own
country again: and by this time, having taught
him English so well, that he could give me
tolerable answers to any question which I de-
manded, I asked him, whether that nation to-
which he belonged ever conquered in battle?
This question made Friday smile, and to which
he answered, yes yes, we alwayefight the better,-
as much as to say, they always got the better
in fight. You say, saidI, that you always
fight the better; why then, Friday, how came
you to be taken prisoner?

Friday. But for all that, my nation beat
much.

Blaster. How, say you, beat! if your na-
tion beat them, how came you to be taken ?

Friday. They more many mans than my
nation in the place where me was, they take
one, two, three, and me; my nation .much
overheat them in the yonder placewhere me
no was, there my nation mans beat one, two,
three, great many. ,

Master. Then why did not your men re-
cover you from the hands of your enemies ?-

Friday. They run one, two, or three,' and-
me; they make all go into the canoe; my na-
tion have no canoe that time.

Master. 'Tis very well, Friday; but what

H .
does your nation do with the prisoners they
take? Do they carry them away and eat
them as they have done?
Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too,
eat up all. ,
Illaflster To what place do they carry them
to be devoured?

Frida3/. Go to other nations where they
think.

AIaster. Do they bring them hither P

Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over
other place.

AIaster And have you been with them
here, lriday?

Friday, Yes, me been here, (pointing to the
northwest of the zsland, being the side where
they used to land.)

Thus having gotten what account I could
from my man, I plainly understood, that he
had been as bad as any of the rest of the cans
nibals, having been formerly among the sac
vages who used to come on shore on the
farthest part of the island, upon the same
bloody occasions as he was brought hither for :
and some time after, I carried him to that place
where he pointed; and no sooner did he come
there, but he presently knew the ground, sig-
nifying to me that he was once there when
they ate up twenty men, two women and a
young child; but as he could. not explain the
number in English, he did it by so many
stones in a row, making a sign to me to count
them.
My next question was, how far it was from

the island to the shore, and whether canoes
were not often lost in the ocean ? to which he
answered, there was no danger; that no ca-
noes were ever lost;but that after a little
way out to the sea, there was a strong cur
rent, and a wind always one way, in the after-
noon. This I thought at first to be no more
than the sets of tide, of going out or coming
in ; but I afterwards understood it was occa-
sioned by the great draught and reflux, of the
mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulph
ot'which, I imagined my kingdom lay; and
that the land which I perceived to the W. and
N. W. must be the great island Trinidad, on
the north of the river.
' Well, you may be sure, this knowledge,
which the imperfect information of my man
had led me to, was very comfortable to me,
and made me so curious as to ask him, how I
might depart from this island, and get amongst
those white men? He told me, Yes, Yes, I
might go in two canoes. In two canoes, thought
-I, what does my man mean ? And, indeed it
was a long time beforel understand his mean-
ing, which was, that it must be a large boat,
as big as two canoes, able to bear with "the
waves, and not so liable to be overwhelmed as
one-must be.

I believe there is no state of life but what
may be happy, if people would but endeavour
for their part to make it so. He is not the
happiest man that has the most riches, but be

it '2.
that is content with what he hath. Before I
had my servant, I thought myself miserable
till I had him ; and now that I had enjoyed the
happy benefits of him, I still complained, and
begged a deliverance from a place of retire-
ment, ease, and plenty, where Providence in
such a signal manner had blessed me. In a
word, from this time I entertained some hopes,
that one time or other I might find an oppor.
tunity to make my escape from this island,
and that this poor savage might be a great
furtherance thereto.

I now began to instruct my servant, in the
saving knowledge of the true Deity. in which
the directions of God's holy Spirit assisted me.

Friday, said i. you must know, that before
this world was made, there was an Almighty
Power existing, by whose power, all things
were made, and whose majesty shall have no
end. To be glorified and adored by beings of
a heavenly nature, he created angels and arch-
angels, that is, glorified spirits resembling him-
self to encompass his throne, eternally sing-
in; forth his praise, in the most heavenly
sounds and divine harmony.

I found it easy enough to imprint the right
notions in his mind of (End: for nature assisted
me in all my arguments, to shew him plainly
the necessity of a great and overruling, go-
verning power. of a secret directing provi-
den'e, and of the equity and reasonableness
of paying adoration to our creator.I then entered into a long discourse with
him, upon the subject of the world's redemp-
tion by the Saviour of it, and the doctrine of
repentance preached from heaven, together
with an holy faith in our blessed Redeemer
Jesus Christ.

By the constant. application I made of the
Scriptures, as I read them to my man Friday,
learnestly endeavoured to make him under-
stand every part of them as much as lay in my
power. He also, on the other hand, by its
very serious questions and enquiries, made me
a much better proficient in scripture know-
ledge, than I should have been by my own
private reading' and study.

You may well suppose, that, by the frequent
discourse we had together, my man and I
became mast intimately acquainted, and that.
there was very little that I could say, but
what Friday understood; and indeed', he spoke
very fluently, thou'sh it was but broken Eng-
lish. I now took a particular pleasure in re-
lilting all my adventures, especially those that
occurred since my being cast on this island.
Imade him understand that wonderful mys-
tery, as he conceived, of gunpowder and
bullet, and taught him how to shoot. Ialso
presented to him a knife, which pleased him
exceedingly, making him a belt, with a frog
hanging thereto, like those in which we wear
hangers in England; and, instead of a hanger
to put in the frog, l'gave him a hatchet, which

H 3
was-not only as good, but even a better wea-
pun upon many occasions.

1 next <<rave him a very particular descrip.
tion oi my misfortune in being shipwrecked;
showimIr him, as neat as I could, the place
where the ship lay, which had been gene long
before; but I brought him to the ruins of my
boat, which, before, my whole strength could
not'muve, but now was almost rotten and
fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday to
view this boat with an uncommon curiosity;
which when he had done, he stood pondering
II gtent while, and said nothing. At last, said
I. Friday, what makes you ponder so much?
ll e rt. plied, 0 master , me see like boat come to
place at my nation.

It was some time, indeed, before I under-
stood what my man meant; but examining
strictly into it, I plainly found, that such
another boat, resembling mine, had come to
the country where he dwelt; that is to say, by
his farther exIIlanaIion, that the boat was
driven there through stress of weather.

Indeed Friday answeIed my demands very
well, making every thing plain to my under-
standinw; but beyond measure was I satisfied
when he told me, with great warmth and ar-
dour, 0 master, we save white mans from drown ,-
IIpon which I immediately asked him, if there
" ere any whzte mans, as he called them, In the
boat, Yes, yes, said he, the boat fitll very III!
of white mans. How many, Friday, said I.
Hereupon he numbered his fingers, and counted
seventeen. And when I asked him what he-
came of them all, and whether they lived or
not? he replied, Yes, master, they all live,
they be live among my nation. This information
put fresh thoughts into my head, that these
must be the very men who before I concluded
had been swallowed up in the ocean,at'ter they
had left their ship, that had struck upon the
rocks of my kingdom, and after escaping the
fury of the deep, landed upon the wild shore,
and committed themselves to the fury of the
devouring Indians.

The manner of their cruelties to one an.
other, which consequently, as I thought, must.
be acted with greater barbarity to strangers,
created in me a great anxiety, and made me
still more curious to ask Friday concerning
them. He told me, he was sure they still lived
there, having resided among them above four
vears, and that the savages gave them victual:
io live upon. But pray, Friday, said I, whence
proceeded all this good nature and generosity?
How came it to pass that they did not kill
and eat them, to please their devouring appe-
tites; and occasion so splendid an entertain-
ment among them ? No, no, said Friday, they
not kill 'em, they make brother with 'em ; by
which I understood there was a truce between
them. And then I had a more favourable
opinion of the Indians, upon Friday's uttering
the words: My nation t'ctlzer nation no eat
man's but when mans make war fight.- as
mough he had said, that neither those of his
kingdom, nor any other nations that he knew
of, ever ate their. fellow-creatures, but such
as their law of arms allowed to be devoured :
that is, those miserable captives, whose mis-
fortune it should be to be made prisoners of
war.

Some considerable time after, upon a very
pleasant d: uy, in most serene weather, my man
and I stood upon the top of a hill, on the
island, whence I had once before beheld the
continent ol'America. I could not tell imme-
diately n hat was the matter: for suddenly
Ftiday lell a jumping and dancing, as if he
hit! been mad; and upon my demanding the
reason ol his behaviour, ()joy, said he, Oglad'
the/e see my country, there my nation, there
ttliti mansgel/ter. And indeed such a raptu-
rous sense of pleasure appeared in his coun-
tenance, that his eyes had an uncommon
sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
eagerness, as if he had a longing desire to be
in his own country again. This made me not
so well satisfied with my man Friday as be-
fore; for y this appearance, I made no dis-
pute, but that if he could get back thither
aunin, he would not only be unmindful of
what teligi ton 1 had taught him, but likewise
of the gteat obligation Che owed me (or his
wondetl'ul deliverance: nay, that he.would
not only inform his countrymen of me, but
accompany hundreds of them to my kingdom,
and make me a miserable sacrifice, like those
. unhappy wretches taken in battle.
indeed I was very much to blame to have
these cruel, and unjust suspicious, and must
freely own I wronged the poor creature very
much, who was of a quite contrary temper.
And had hehad that discerning acuteness
which many Europeans have, he would cer-
tainly have perceived my coldness and indif-
ference, and also have been very much con.
cerued open that account.

As we were walking up the same hill
another day, when the weather was so
hazy at sea, that I could not perceive the
continent, Friday, said I, don't you wish
yourself to be in your own country, among
your old friends and acquaintances? Yes,
said he, me much 0 glad to be at my own
nation. And what would you do there Fri-
day ? Would you turn wild again, eat man's
flesh, and he a savage as you were formerly?
Ao, no. (answered he, full of concern, and
shaking his head) Friday now tell them to live
good, tell them pray God, tell them to eat corn,
bread, cattle, flesh, mil/r, no eat may again. .3ut
surely, replied I, if you should olfer to do all
this, they will kill you; and to manifest their
contempt ol'such instruction, eat you up when
they have (lane. He then put on a grave, yet
innocent and smooth countenance, saying, No,
they no kill me, they willing love learn .- that is,
that they would be very willing to learn: add;
'ing withal, that they had learned very much of
the bearded man's that came in the boot. W'ill
you, said 1, go back again, Friday? He
smiled at that, and told me that he could not
swim so far. But said I, I will make a canoe
for you : Yes, master, said he, me go g'f you go,
me no go {f you stay. I go, Friday! why
would you have them eat me up, and devour
your kind master? No, no, said be, me make
.them no eat master, and me make them much love
you; that is, he-would tell them how I had
slain his enemies, and thereby saved his life,
for which reason he would make them love me ;
and then be related to me, as well as he was
able, how exceedingly kind those of his nation
were to the white or bearded men, as hecalled
them, who in their great calamity, were driven
into their country. '

It was from this time, indeed, I had strong
inclinations to venture over, and use my utmost
efforts, if possible, to join with these white
' bearded men, who undoubtedly were Spaniards
or Portuguese; for, thought I, it must he
certainly a better and safer way, to' escape
when there is a good company, than for me
alone, from an island forty miles ofi' the shore,
and without any assistance. Some days after,
l'riday and I being at work, as usual, at the
same time diverting ourselves with various
disenttrses, I told him I had a boat which
I would bestow upon him, whenever he
pleased to return to his own nation: and to
convince him of the truth of what I said,
I took him with me to the other side of
the island, where my frigate lay, and then
taking it from under water (for I always kept.
it sunk for fear of a discovery) we both went
into it to see how it would manage such an
expedition. ,

And really never could any one be more
dexterous in rowing than my faithful servant,
making the boat go as fast again as I Could.
\Vell, now, Friday, said I,' shall we now go to
your much desired nation? But, instead of
meeting with that cheerfulness I expected, he
looked very dull and melancholy at my saying
so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he
made me sensible,- that his canoern was about
the boat's being too small- to go so far'a voy-i
age. Upon which, I let him understand I had
a much bigger; and, accordingly, the next
day went to the place, where the first boat
lay, which I had made, when all the strength
I had, or art 1 could use, failed me in my
attempt to get it into the water: but now it
having lain in the sun two and twenty years,
and no care being taken of it all that while, it
became in a manner rotten. My man told me,
that such a boat would do very well for the
purpose, suflicient to carry enough cittle, dring,'
bread, for that was his manner of talking. In
short, my mind being strongly fixed, upon my
design of goingover with him to the C(Hltl"
nent, I very plainly told him, that we would
both go and make a boat .full as big, and more
p'roportionable than that, wherein he might
safely retUrn to his own nation: for it occurred
to me, that most probably his great wish l'vr a
larger boat was altogether selfish, and that,
providcd he could himself return to his own
country, he cared but little what became ofme.

Go your way, added I, since you desire it,
and leave me alone by myself, as I was before
1 saved your life.

Never was any creature more thunderstruck
than Friday was at these words. Go me away,
leave master away, said he, after a long silence,
_ no, no, F riday die, Ffiday live not master gone;
as though he had said, I neither can nor will
live, if my masrer sends me from him. Friday
felt towards me the greatest gratitude, and the
m0st sincere love; he found me not only his
deliverer, but his preserver and comforter; not
a severe and cruel tyrant, but a kind, loving,
and affable friend. He wanted for no manner
ot'sustenance; and when he was ill, or out of
order, I was his physician, not only for his
body, but his soul; and therefore no wonder
was it, that such an innocent creature, long
since divested of his former natural cruelty,
should have an uncommon concern at so cruel
a separation from me, which pierced him to the
very soul, and made him desire even to die,
rather than live without me.

After I had told Friday, in a very careless
manner, that he should be at his liberty as
soon as the boat was made, the language of
his eyes expressed all imaginable confusion;
when, immediately running to one of his
hatchets, which he used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with aheart
so full, that he could scarcely speak. Friday,
said I, what 15 it you mean? l'l hat must I do
with this? 0013/ Ail! F Inlay, said be, Friday
care not live long. But what must. I kill vou
~'for. '9 replied I again. Al'z, dear maxier, what
made you Friday so: e from eat a me up, so- -/teep
long Frzdrt3/, make 1 "ridm/ love God, and now

Fudoy send away, Izezer see Friday mom.
And while he Spoke thus, the tears .Ian down

his cheeks in such a plentiful manner, tlIatI
had much ado to Iefrain liom weeping also,
when I beheld the poor CIeaIure' s affection: so
that I was fmced to comfmt him In the best
manner I could, which I did, by.- telling, him,
if he was content to abide Ivithme, I should be
ever willing to keep him.
After Friday' 5 grief was sonIeIIhat abated,

more fully to convince me of his affection, he

said, 0 master, me not care to be w my nation
leave you here, me desiae Imtzon. learn good,
that s all; meaning ,tllat his desire was for. the
conversion of that barbarous people; and that
he wished me to go with him. _ And indeed,
I began to desue to go also, from my late
discouise with Friday, about these seventeen
white bearded men, that had been driVen upon
the barbarian coast; whom I designed to join,
as the only means to. further our t2escape. To
which intent, my man and I went to search for
a proper tree to fell, "hereof we might make
a perigua or. canoe, to undertake the voyage ,
and,~ indeed, we were not long In finding one
fit for our purpoSe, there being enough of
wood III the island to have built a fleet of large
I
\'CSSeis, but the thing we principally wanted,
was, to get one so near the water, that we might.
launch it after it was finished, and not com-
mit so great a mistake as I had done once
before. _

Well, after a great search for what was best
and most convenient, Friday, at last, whose
judgment in such affairs was much superior to
mine, pitches upon a kind of wood the most
fitting for it. But though my man exceeded
me in the knowledge of the most proper tree,
yet I shewed him a much better and cleaner
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before:
{or he was for burning the hollow or cavity of
the tree, in order to make this boat; but I then
told him how we might do it with tools, teach-
ing him at. the same time how to use them,
which indeed he did very dexterously; so that
in a month's time, we finished it, making it
veryhandsome, by cutting the outside in the
true shape of a boat. After this, it took us a'
full fortnight before we could get her into the
water, which we did, as it were, inch by inch,
upon great rollers: but when she was'in, she
would have carried twenty men, with all the
case imaginable.

As I was very well pleased, you may he
sure. at the launching of this man of war of
mine, I was no less amazed to behold With what'
dexterity my man could manage her, tum
her. and paddle her almw. Well, Friday,
said 1, what 'do you think of it now ? Do
you think this will carry us over? Yes, master,
said he, we genture over well, thougkgreat 610w
wind. But my design was yet farther, which
he was insensihle 0f; and that to make, a mast
and a sail, and provide her with an anchor
and cable. As to a mast, that was no diflicult
thing at all to procure: so fixing upon a
straight young cedar tree, 'which I found near
the plaCe, great plenty of it abounding in the
island; and setting Friday to cut it down, I
gave him particular directions how to shape
and order it; but as to the sail, thatI managed
myself. I very well knew I had some old ones,
or pieces of sails enough, .which had lain six
and twenty years. by me; but not being careful
to preserve them, as thinking I should have no
occasion to use them any more, when I came
to look over them, I found them almost all
rotten, except two; and with these I went to
work, and after a great deal of , pains and awk-
ward tedious stitching for want of needles, at
length I finished a three-cornered ugly thing,
like that we call in England, a shoulder of
mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and
a small sprit at the top, like these which our
long-boats use, and which I very Well knew
how to manage; especially since it was like
that which "I had in my patron's fishing boat,
when with my boy Xury, I made my escape
from the barbarian shore.

It was nearly two months, I think, before I
completed this work, that is, the rigging, and
fitting m'y mast and sails; and indeed they
were nicely done, having made a small stay,

1 2
and a sail, or foresail to it, to assist,}if we
should turn to the windward : and, Which was
still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her,
to steer with; and thongh I was but a very
inditl'erent shipwright, yet, as l was sensible
ot'lthe great usefulness and absolute necessity
ot'a' thing like this, .l applied myself to it with
'such a constant application, that at lastl ac-
complished my design; but what with the many
doll cootrivancesl had about it, and the failure
of many things, it cost me as much pains in
ordering, as in "making the boat. Besides,
when all this was done, 1 [had myjynanj to
teach 'what belonged to its navigation} for
though he very well understood 'how'tb'paddle
a canoe alone, he was an uttert'strangc'r'to a
sail :and a rudder, and was named when he
saw me work the boat to and again in the sea,
by them, and how the sail jibbed and filled
this way or that way, as the course we sailed
.changed. 'Al'ter some time, and a little use,
I made all these things very familiar to him,
so that he became an expert sailor, except in
relation to the compass, and that I could make
him understand but little of. But as it hap-
pened, there was seldom occasion for it, there
being but little cloudy weather, and scarcely
any fog in those parts; the stars were always
visible in the night, and the shore by-day, ex-
cept in the rainy season, which confined ewery
one to his habitation. Thus entered into the
seven-and twentieth year 0:" my reign or cap.Bonleox Cuusoa teaching his man FRIDAY to work the Boat.
tivity, which you pleaser (theilast-gthree of
which, blessed with the eohrpany..gf=gmy man
Friday, ought not to .be reckoned)! kept the
anniversary of my'landing here withthe same
thankfulness to God for his tender mettles,
as I did before; and certainly, as I had. great
cause for thankful acknoyrledgment for my
deliverance at first, I had much greater now
for such singular-and additional testimonies of
the care of Providence over. me, in 'al'lmy dis-
tresses of both body and mind, and-{the great.
hopes I. had of: being effectually and speedily
delivered; for .I had a strong hope, that I
should not be another year in this island. But,
howitzer, I still continued on' with my hus-
bandry," digging, planting, and fencing, as
usual: gathering and curing my.,grapes, and
doing all other things that were necessary.

And now the rainy seasonhbeginning to
come on, obliged me to keep'thezionger within
doors: but before this, I brought-my new ves-
sel into the creek, where I. had'l'anded my
rafts from the ship, so we waited for the months
of November and December, in which I de-
signed to venture over the ocean.

No sooner did the seasonabie weather begin
to draw near, but so much was I elevated
with this. new designed adventure, that I daily
prepared for the voyage. Vibe first thing I
thought on was to lay by a certain quantity of
provisions, as a sufficient store for such an
czpedition, intending in a week or a forts
night's time to open the dock, and launch-out
the boat for that purpose. But one morning
as I was'very busy upon somethingmeCessary
for this occasion, I called Friday to me, and
bid him to go to the sea shore, and see if he
could find a turtle or tortoi'se, a thing which
we commonly had once a week, as much upon
account of the eggs, as for. the sake oii the
flesh. He had not been long gone, but he
came running back, as though he was pur-
sued for life, and as it were flew over my
outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or steps he set his feet on; before I'
had time to enquire the reason of his precipi--
tation, he cries out, 0 dear master, 0 sorrow. '
sorrow! Bad! 0 60d. ' W' lty what 8 the matter.
Friday? said-I. 0 yonder, yonder, said he,
there be one, into, the: canoes !'two,' three.

Surely (thought. I) there must be six, by my
man '8 way oPS Izeckoning: but on a stricter en-.

quiry, I found there were but three. Well
Friday, said I, don't be terrified. I warrant
you we will defend ourselves against them.
But though I comforted him in the best man-
ner I could, the poor creature trembled so,
that I scarcely knew what to do with. him: 0,
master, said he, they come loo/9' Friday, cut
pieces, F I <<la J, cut (I me up.

"1 ll}, Friday, said I, they will eat me up as
well as mu, and my danger is as great as
WW :1. but since it is so, we must resolve to
ii"llt tor our lives. \\ hat say you? Can you

I .4-
light, Friday? Yes, said he very faintly, me
skoot, me [till what I can, but there come great
man 3 number. T hats no matter, said I again, '
our guns 11111 terrify those that we do not kill;
I am very willing to stand by you to the last
diop of my blood.

Now, tell me, if you will do the like by me,
and obey my o1de1's 111 whatsoever I command '1'
Friday then answered, 011zaster, me lose l'ife
fiar you, me die when you bzd die. Thus c011,

eluding all questions concerning his fidelity,
I orde1 ed him to take the two fowling pieces,

which we always carried, and load them with
large swan shot, as big-as small pistol bullets ;
then I took four muskets and loaded them with
two slugs, and five small bullets each ; charging
my two pistols each with a brace, I hung my
gieat sword, as customary, naked to my side,

and gave Friday his hatchet, as a most excel-
lent weapon for defence.

Thus p1epared, I tool: my perspective glass,
and went. up to the side of the hill, to see what
I could discover; and I perceived very sobn
by my glass, that there were one and twenty
savages, three prisoners, and tlnee canoes, and
their chief concern seemed to he the trinme
phant banquet upon the three poor human
bodies, a. thing which by this time I had ob-.-
served was ve1y common nith them. Upon
which _I called to Friday: and shewing him a

great tree, that was just at the corner b'ot the
wood, new <<high they were, I ordered him to '
repair thither. and bring me w'ord, if he could
plainly perceive their actions; accordingly, he
did as I commanded him, and came back with
this tuelancholy'flory, that they were all about
their fire, eating the flesh of one of their pri-
soners' ; and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little distant from them, whom they de-
signed for their next sacrifice; and this he
told me, was not one of their nation, but one
of those very bearded men, who was driven by
a storm into their country, and whom he had
so often spoken to me about. You may be
sure, that, upon hearing this, 'my soul Was
teady to sink within me: when ascending up
into a tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white
man, who lay upon the "beach ofth sea, with
his hands tied with flags or things resembling
rushes, being covered with clothes, and seem-
ing to he an Em'o'ean. From the tree where I
toot. this'prospect, I perceived another tree,
and a thicket beyond it, about titty yards
nearer to them than where I was, . which, by
taking a small circle round, I might come at
undiscovered, and then I shOuld be within half
a shot of these devourers. I therefore got
behind some bushes, which held all the way
till I came to the other tree;and then I as-
cended to a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance, and there I had a full
view of these creatures, and could perceive all
their actions.

Such a sight did then appear, as ohliged

t .5LU")

me not to lose a moment's. time. No less than
nineteen of these cuIel wretches sat ~upon
the ground, close huddled together, express-
iug all the d: Ight lmagimzbleb at so barbarous
an acute Ituinowut; and they had just sent the
other too to murder this poor unhappy Chris-
tian, and minIr h' Inn limb by limb to theil lire;
{In tlII.3. "ere then just goin" to untie the
bands 1'; om hi: Ie It. Hereupun, iIIImediattly
turning to my 11121", Now, .1"r5(1(ly, said I,
mind Itlmtl my, full in nothing, but do e7:-.-
actly as you see me do, All which he pro,
misiug; to perform, 1 set down one of my mus-
kcts, and the l3;III-liIIg~piIece upon the ground,
and 1");III2'.-',' (litl ,Il;c same by his; and with
the otlIeI I. II>l.'et It 00!: my aim at one of the
savages, lIiIlI'QII-r l:- IIII to do the lIl'..e deg Are you
readv, said I; }EURS,Iu(15PS('l, said he, \IlIy then
fire III tlH'lll said I- , and at that I'ver moment
1 Ituvo me ll' 'Iowia' e.

Let I III U 0 I13? 'ItlL'i' suppose that I did this
without euucun. Shocked at the harbarity of
thus eating their l'cllow-creatures, 1 still re-
flected that it was owing to the darkness of
their minds, and that any execution I and my
man Irid a; made among them, was sending
human Souls to eternity; at the same time!
could not conceal from myself, that it was
necessaI-v ,, not only for our safety, but for the
act-omplishment of my object, to shew them
the effect of our fire- turns, and thus to certify
tlIeIII hum Icsistttut c.
I onlywounded one mortally; but my man
Friday, taking his aim nnzeh better than i had,
killed-two. You may he sure they were in a
dreadful consternation, at such an unexpected
disaster; and those-who had yet escaped our
penetrating shot, immediately jumped upon
their feet, but were in such a confusion, that
they knew not which way to run or look; not
knowing from whence their destruction came.
Now, Friday, ,said I, lay down your piete, and
take up the musket and follow me. He did
so, with great courage, when, shewing our-
selves to the savages, we gave. a, great shoot,
and made directly to the poor victim, who.
would have been sacrificed, had not our'first,
fire obliged the butchers, with all the others,
whom our shot had not disabled, to jlllllpdnit)
one of their canoes. By my order, Friday
fired at them, in order to complete their con-
sternation; and, for a moment, I tlm'ught he
had killed them all, for they instantly l'ell'to
the bottom of their boat: they soon, howeVL-t',
with the exception ot'him whom the hall struck,
stood up, and used their paddles. with such
effect, that they were soon out of our reach.
In the mean time, I cut the flags that tied the
hands and feet or the poor creature, and lifting
him up, asked him, in the Portuguese tongue,
What lie was ? he answered me in Latin,
Christimms: but so very weak and taint, ' that
he could scarcely stand or speak. A ml 11th
asked him, what countryman he was? He.
said Esparziola, and then uttered all the {hauli-
f'ulness imaginable for his deliverance. Signior
(said I, with as much Spanish as I was master
of) let us talk afterwards, but fight now ; here,
take this sword and pistol and do what you
can; for at this time I thought the savages
would return. I ordered Friday to run for
the guns we had left at the tree, (fortunately
however there was no occasion to use them,)
which he brought to me with grcat swiftncss,
and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded
the rest.

The savages in the canoe worked very hard
to get out of our reach, and Friday was as
eager in pursuing them; and, indeed, I was
no less anxious about their escape, lest, alter
the news had been carried to their people,
they should return in multitudes, and destroy
us. So being resolved to pursue them, I
jumped into one oftheir canoes, and bid Fri-
day'i'ollow me; but no sooner was I in, than,
to my surprise, I found another poor creature,
bound hand and foot for the slaughter. just
as the Spaniard had been, with very little life
in him. Immediately I unbound him, and
would have helped him up; but hecould nei-
ther stand nor speak, but groaned so piteously,
as thinking he was unbound in order to be
slain. Hereupon I bid Friday speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; when pulling
out my bottle, I made the poor wretch drink
a little, which, with the joyful news he had
received, so revived his heart,.that he sat up
in the boat. As soon as Friday'began to hear
him speak, and look more fully in his face, it
would have moved any one to tears to perceive
his uncommon transports of joy; for he kissed,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung, then
cried again, wrung his hands, beat his face
and head, then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature: so that it was a
great while before I could make him speak to
"'8. or tell me what was the matter' withhim;

but when he came to the liberty of his speech,
at last. he told me it was his father.

Here indeedl was infinitely moved to see
that dutiful and tender affection this poor
savage had to his aged parent. He would sit
down by him in the boat, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom, half
an hour together, to Cherish him: then he
took his arms and ankles, which were still and
numbed, with binding, and chafed and rubbed
them with his hands; by which means, per:
ceiving what the case was, I gave him some
rum. which proved of great benefit tohim.

While we were busy in this action, the
savages had gotten almost out of sight; and
happy it was we did not pursue them: for
there arose from the northwest, which con.
tinued all'night long, such aviolent storm, that
I could not suppose otherwise but that they
were all drowned. After this, I called Friday

I
to me, and asked him, if he had given his
father any bread? He shook his head, and said,
None, not one bit, me eat a It]; all; so I gave him
a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carIied
for this end. I likewise gave him two or "nose
bunches of raisins for his father.

Away he then runs out of the. boat as if he
was bewitched, with such an extraordinary
swiftness, that he was out of sight, as it were,
in an instant; but, at his return, I perceived
him slacken his pace, because he had some-
thing in his hand. And this I found to be, as
he approached nearer, an earthen jug with
some water for his father, with two more cakes
of bIead, which he delivered into my hands.

Being very thirsty myself, I drank some of the
water, of which when his father had drank

sulliciently, it more revived his spiIits than all
the rum I had given him.

i I then called Friday to me, and ordered him
to carry the Spaniard one of the cakes, and
some water, who was reposinq himself upon a
<<'reen place undeI the shade oi a tree, but so
weak, that though he exerted himself, he could
not stand upon his feet. Upon which, I orIleIeIl
l'riday to rub and bathe his ankles with rum,
as he did his father's. But every minute he
was employed in this, he would cast his eyes .
towards the boat, where he left his father
sitting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew
like lightnino to him, and finding he only laid
himself down to ease his limbs, he returned
back to me presently, and then I spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him, and led him
to the boat in order to be conveyed toumy
dwelling, where I would take care of him...
Upon which, Friday took him upon his back,
and so carried him to the canoe, setting him
close by his father; and presently stepping out
again, launched the boat Off, and paddled it
along the shore faster than I could walk, though
the wind blew very hard too; and having
brought them safe to the creek, away he runs
to fetch the other canoe, which he brought to
the creek almost as soon as I. got to it by land;
then wafting' me over, he took our new guests
out of the boat; but so weak were they, that
l was forced to make a kind ofa hand-barrow ;
and when I came to my castle, not being wil:
ling to make an'entrance into my wall, we
made them a handsome tent, covered with old
sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rice straw, ,with blankets to lie upon
and cover them. Thus, like an absolute king"
over subjects who owed their lives to me, If
thought'inyself very considerable. '_ .
To get provisions for my poOr weak subjects,
I ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goat;
which when he had done, I cut'ofl' the binder
quarters, and chopping it into small pieces,_
boiled and stewed it, putting barley and rice
into the broth, This I carried into their tent,
set a table, dined'with them myself, and em,
conraged them. Friday'was my interpreter to.
his father, and indeed to the Spaniard too,
who spoke the language ol' the savages pretty
well. After dinner, I ordered Friday to fetch
home all our arms from the field of battle. and
the next day to bury the dead bodies, which
he did accordingly.

And now I made Friday enquire of his
father, whether he thought those savages had
escaped the late storm in their command if
so, whether they would not return with a force
too great for us to resist? He answered, that
he thought it impossible they could outlive the
storm: or if they were driven southwardly,
they would come to a land where they would
as certainly be devoured, as if they were
drowned in the sea. And suppose they had
attained their own country. the strangeness of
their fatal and bloody attack, would make them
tell their people, that the rest ol' them were
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man, but by two heavenly spirits
(meaning Friday and me) who were sent from
above to destroy them. And this, he said,
he knew, because he heard them say the same
to one another. And indeed he was in the
right on't; for I have heard since, that these
very men gave out, that whoever went to that
inchanted island, would be destroyed by fire
from the gods.

No canoes appearing some time after, as I
expected, my apprehensions ceased,- inswad
of which my former thoughts ot'a voyage took
place, especially when Friday' s father assured
me I should have good usage in his nation. As _.
to the Spaniard, he told me that sixteen mere. -
of his countrymen, and Portuguese, who had
been shipwrecked, made their escape thither;
that though they were in union with the
savages, yet they wete very miserable for want.
of provisions and other necessaries. When I
asked him about the particulais of his voyage,
he answered, that their ship was bound from
Rio de la Plata to the Havannali, that when
the ship was lost, only five men perished 1n the
ocean; the rest having saved themselves 1n the
boat, we1e new landed on the main continent.
And what do they intend to do there? said 1.
lie replied, they have concerted measures to
escape by building a vessel. but that they had
neither tools nor provisions, so that all their
designs came to nothing. Supposing (said I)
I should make a proposal, and invite them
here, would they not carry me prisoner to

em Spain? He answered no; for he. knew them
to be such honest men, as would scorn to act- .
with such inhuman baseness to their deliverer, -
that if I pleased, he and the old savage would
go over to them, talk with them about it, and
bring the an answer: that they should all swear
fidelity to me as their leader, upon the holy
sac1ament , and, fo1 his part, he Would not only
do the same, but stand by me to the last drop
or his blood, should there be occasion.

These solemn assurances made me resolve to
grant them relief, and to send these two over
for that purpose; but when every thing was
ready, the Spaniard raised an objection, which
' carried a great deal of weight in it: Yen know,
Sir, said he, that having been some time will:
you, I cannot but be sensible If your stock of
rice and com, "Went, perhaps, jbr us at pre-
sent, but notfir them, should they come over

fresently; much less to oictual a oesseljor an
intended voyage. And therefore, my advice is,
to wait aaotlzer harvest, and in the meantime,
cultivate and improve some more land, whereby
we may have plenty of provisions, in order to
execute our design.

This advice of the Spaniard's I approved
extremely ; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity,
that I esteemed him ever after. And thus
we all four went to work upon some more
land, and against seed-time, we had gotten so
much cured and trimmed up, sufficient to sow
'22 bushels of barley on, and, )6 jars of rice,
which was in short all the seed we had to spare.
As we were four in number, and by this time
all in good health, we feared not an hundred
of Indians, should they venture to attack us ;,
and while the corn was growing, I pitched
upon some trees, fit to buiid us a large vessel,
in case the Spaniard's came over: which being
marked, I ordered Friday and his father to cut.
them down, appointing the Spaniard, who was
now my priVy counsellor, tooversee and direct
the work. I Iikewise increased my flocks of
goats, by shooting the wild dams, and bring-
ing Home their kids to my enclosure ; nor did
I neglect the grape season, but cured them as
'usual, though I had such a'quantity now, as
would have filled 80 barrels with raisins.

And thus all of us being employed, they in
working, and I in providing for them, till har-
vest came. God Almighty blessed the increase
of it so much, that from twenty-two bushels
of barley, we threshed out mo hundred and
twenty, and the like quantity of rice, sufficient
-to victual a ship fit to carry me and all the
Bpaniardst--'o any part of America.

Thusthe principal objectidn- being answered,
by a sumcient stock of provisions. I sent my
two ambassadors over to the main land, with a
regal authority to administer the oaths of allee
giance and fidelity, and have an instrument
signed under their hands, though I never asked
whether they had pen, ink, or paper; when
giving eachof them a musket with eight charges
ol'potvder and ball, and provisions enough for
eight days, they sailed away with a fair. gale,
on-a day when the moon was at full.

Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my
head, but impatient for their return, I laid me
down to sleep one morning, "when a strange
accident happened, which was ushered in'by
my man's coming running to rue, and calling
aloud, Master, master, they are come, they are
come. <<Upon which, not dreaming of any danv
ger, out I jumped from my bed, put' on my'
clothes, and hurried through my little grove;
when looking towards the sea, I perceived a
boat, about a league and a half distant", stand-
ing in for the shore, with the wind fair. I
beheld they did not come from the side where
the land lay on, but from the southernmost
end of the island. So these being none of
the people we wanted, I ordered Friday to
lie still, till such time as I came down from
the, mountain, which, with my ladder I now
ascended, in order to discover, more fully what
they were; and now, with-the help of my
perSpectivc glass, I plainly perceived an Eng-
lish, ship, which I concluded it to be, by the
fashion of its long-boat ; andwhich filled me
with such uncommon tranSports of joy, that I
cannot. tell how to describe them; and yet
some apprehension was mingled with my joy,
lest any thing should occur, to make this
(want different from what I hoped. I resolved
therefore to be on my guard.

Not long it was, before I perceived the boat
to approach the shore, as though they looked
for a place where they might conveniently land;
and at last they ran their boat on the shore
upon the beach, about half a mile distance;
which proved so much the happier for me, since,
had they come into the creek, they had landed
just at my door, and might not only have
forced me out of my castle, but plundered me
of alll had in the world. Now I was fully
convinced they were all Englishmen, three of
whom were Unarmed and bound: when imme-
diately, the first four or five leaped on shore,
and took those three out of' the boat as pri-
soners;_one of whom I could perceive, used
the most passionate gestures or entreaty, afilic-
tion and despair, while the others in a lesser
degree, shewed abundance of concern.

Not knowing the meaning of this, I beckoned
to Friday, who was below, to ascend the
mountain, and likewise view this sight. Omar>>w
ter, said he to me, you see English mans eat
prisoners as well as Savage mans. And do you
think they will eat them, Friday? said 1. P's,
said Friday, they eat a all up. No, no, said 1,
Friday, I am much more concerned lest they
murder them; but as for eating them up, that
I am sure they will never do. '

And now I not only lamented my misfortune
in not having the Spaniard and Savage with
me, but also that I could not come within shot:
of them unperceived, (they having no lire-arms
aziiong them) and save-these three men, whom
I thought they were going to kill with their
swords. But some comfort it was to me, that.
] perceivedthey were set at liberty to go Where
they pleased, the rascally seamen scattering
about as though they had a mind to see the
place: and so long did they negligently ramble,
that the tide had ebbed so low, as to leave
the boat aground. Nor were the two men
that were in her more circumspect: for having
drmak a little too much liquor, they fell fast
asleep; but one of them waking before the
other, and perceiving the boat too fast aground
for his strength to move it, he ltallooed out to
the rest, who made all possible expedition to
come to him; but, as Pro ridence ordered it,
all their force was ineffectual to launch her,
when I could hear them speak to one another,
Wlty, let Izertzlone, Jack, can't ye, she'llfloat
next title: by which words I was fully cong-
vineed they were my own countrymen. During
this time I never stirred from my concealment,
being t'ully sensible it could be no less than
ten hours before the boat would be afloat, and
then it would be so dark, that they could not
easily perceive me, by which means I should
be at more liberty to hear their talk, and ob-
serve all their motions; not. but that I prepared
for my defence: yet as I had another sort of
enemy to combat with, I acted with more
caution. I took two l'usees on my shoulder,
and gave Friday three masks-ts; besides my
formidable goat. skin, and monstrous cap, made
me look both fierce and terrible, espeCially
when two pistols were stuck in my belt, and
my naked sword was hanging by my side.

The three poor distressed creatures, too
anxious to get any repose, were, however,
seated under the shade of a great tree, about
a quarter ofa mile from me. '

Upon which, without any more ado, I ap-
proached towards them, with my man follow-
ing behind me, and, before I was perccited, I1.67 '

called aloud to them in Spdnisla, trim! areye
gen tlemen .9

At these words they started up in great eon-
fusion, when they beheld the strange figure I
made; they returned no answer, but seemed
as it' they would fly from me: Gentlemen, (said-
I in English) don't be afraid, perhaps you have
a friend nearer than you expect. He must be
from. Heaven, said one oftlzem, gravely pulling
of Iris hat, for we are past all help in this
world. All help is from Heaven, said I, but Sir,
as I have perceived every action between you and
these brutes since your landing, only in arm me
how to assist you, and I will do it to tire utmost"
ofmy power.

Am I talking with God or man? said he, in .
melting tears. Are you of human kind, or an
angel ? Sir, said I, my poor habit will tell you
I am a man, and an Englishman, willing to
assist you, having but this servant only: lzere
are arms and ammunition: tell freely your
condition, can we save you .9 The story, said
he, is too long to relate, since our butchers are
so near: but, Sir, Iwas master of that ship,
my men have inutinied, and it is as a favour
they have put my mate. this passenger, and me,
on shore without murdering us, though we ex-
pect nothing but perishing here. Are your
enemies gone? said I. No, replied he, (point-
ing to a thicket,) there they lie, while my
heart tremblcs, lest, having seen and heard. us,
they should murder us all. Have they fire-
ar?ms said I. 'lhev have but two pieces, said
he, one of which 15 left in the boat. He also
told me, there uerc two enormous villains
amongst them, that were the'authors of this
mutiny, who, if they new killed or seized,
might induce the rest to return to their obe-
(lience.

When he had given me all the satisfaction I
could desire, I gave him and his two compa-
nions each oi them a gun, with powder and
ball suflicient, and firing myself, killed one of
the Captain's enemies, and wounded the other,
who eagerly called for assistance; but the
Captain (who had reserved his piece) coming
up to him, Sirm/z, said he, 'tz's too late to call

jbr assistance, you should father my to God to
pardon your villaing: and so knocked him
down with the stock of his gon: three others
were also slightly wounded, who, at my'ap-
preach, cried out for mercy. This the Captain
granted, upon condition that they would swear
to be true to him in recovering the ship, which
they solemnly did: however I obliged the
Captain to keep them bound. After which
I sent Friday and the Captain's mate to secure
the boat and bring away the oars and sail;
when the men, seeing their late distressed Cap-
tain, now their conqueror, Submitted to be
bound also. And then it was, that having
more liberty, I related the adventures of my
whole life, which he heard with a serious at.
tention. After this, I carried-him and his two
companions into my little fortified castle, shew.
ed them all my conveniences, and, when this
was over, we began to consider about regain-
ing the ship : he said that there were twenty-
six hands on board, who knowing their lives
were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy and
mutiny, were so very hardened, that it would
be dangerous for our small company to attach
them. This was a reasonable inference, it>>
deed; but something we must resolve on, and
immediately put in execution: we therefore
heaved the boat upon the beach so high that
she could not shoot 01? at high water mark,and
broke a hole in her not easy to he stopped; so
that all the signals they gave for the boat to
come on board were in vain. This. obliged
them to send another boat ashore, with ten
men armed, whose faces the captain plainly
descried, the boatswain being the chief ott-
cer; but he said there were three honest lads
among them, who were forced into the conspi-
racy. Hereupon, I gavebim fresh courage,
(for 1 had perceived he was in concern) in the
mean while securing our prisoners, except two,
whom we took to our assistance, we thought
ourselves able enough to endure a battle.
When the sailors landed, and beheld their
boat in that condition, they not only hallooed,
but fired, for their companions to hear, yet
they received no answer. This struck them
with horror and -amazement,lthinking their
companions were murdered, they made as if
- K
thcy would return to the ship. I could per.
ceive the Captain's countenance change at this,
till, of a sudden, three men were ordered to
look after the boat, while the other seven leap:
on shore, in order to search for their compa.
nions; and, indeed, they came to the brow of
the hill, near my ancient castle, from whence
they could see to a great distance in the woods,
and here shoutimr and halloointr till tired and
weary, day at lenoth seated themselves under
aspreading tr.ee \iy opinion was, that no--
thing could be done till night, when I migl t.
use some artifice to get them all out of the
imat; but of a sudden they statted up, and
made touards the sea-side; hereupon I or-
dered Friday and the Captains mate to go
over the creek, and halloo as loud as they
could, and so decaying them into the woods,
come round to me again. And this, indeed,
had good effect; for they followed the noise,
till coming westward to the creek, they called
for their boat to carry them over, and taking
one of the men out of her, left two to look
after her, having fastened her to the stump of
a little tree on- the shore. IIereupon imme-_
diately the Captain and our party passing the.
creek out of their sight, we surprised them
both, by the Captain's knocking down one and
ordering the other to surrender upon pain of
death,'and who being the honestest of them
all, sincerely joined with us. By this time
it was pretty late; when the rest returning to
their boat, which they found aground in tlie
creek, the tide out, and the men gone, they
ran about wringing their hands, crying it was
an enchanted island, and that they should be
all murdered by spirits or devils. .My men
would willingly have fallen upon them, but I
would not agree to hazard any of our party.
But to be more certain, Friday and the Cap-
tain crawled upon their hands and feet, as
near as possible; and, when the boatswain ap-
proached in sight, so eager was the Captain,
that he fired, and killed him on the Spot a:
Friday wounded the next man, and a third ran
away. Hereupon I advanced with my whole
army; and it being dark, I ordered the man
we had surprised in the boat, to call them by
their names, and to parley with them. Accord-
ingly he called out aloud, Tom Smith, Tom
Smith I He answered, -Who's that .- Robinson !
answered the other. For God's sake, Tom, 5m"
render immediately, or you're "all dead men.
Who must we surrender to ? says Smith. To
our Captain and a large force here, who have
when we prisoner, wounded Will Fyre, and
killed the boatszvain. Shall we have quarters
then? said he. Hereupon the Captain calls
out, You Smith, you know my voice, surrender
immediately, and you shall have your lives
granted, except Will Atkins. Hereupon Atkins
cries out, IVhat have I ([0728, Captain, more
than the rest, who have been as badaszme ; but
that was a lie, for he was the person that laid
K 2
hold of him, and bound him. However, he was
ordered to submit to the governor's mercy,
for such was I called. And so laying down
their arms, we bound them all, and seized on
their boat.

After this, the Captain expostulated with
them, telling them that the governor was an
Englishman, who might execute them there;
but he thought they would be sent to England.
Hereupon they implored the Captain to inter-
cede for their lives, and begged they might not
be sent to England._ This answered our pro.
ject for seizing the ship. For, after sending
them, t'ast bound, to the cave, I sent the Cap
tain to treat with them in the governor's name,
offering them pardon if they would swim in
recovering the ship. Upon which, they all
promised to stand by him till the last drop of
their blood; and whoever acted treacherously
should be hanged in chains upon the beach.
They were all released on these assurances:
and then the Captain repaired to the other
boat, making his passenger Captain of her,
and gave him four men well armed; while
himself, his mate, and five more, went in the
other heat. By midnight, they came within
Call of the ship, when the Captain ordered
Robinson to hail her, and tell them that with
great di tculty they had found the men at last.
But, while they were discoursing, the Captain,
his mate, and the rest entered, and knocked
down the second mate, and carpenter, secured
those that were upon the deck, by putting
them under hatches, while the. other boat's
crew entered and secured the forecastle; the
then broke into the round-house, Where the
mate, after some resistance, shot the pirate
Captain through the head, upon which all the
rest yielded themselves prisoners. And thus
the ship being recovered, the joyful signal was
fired,- which I heard with the greatest joy
imaginable: nor was it long before he brought
the ship to an anchor at the creeks month,
where coming to' me-unawares, There, says he,
my dearest friend "and dcliocrcr, there is your
skip, and we are your servants: a comfort so
unspeakable, as made me swoon in his arms,
while, with gratitude to heaven, we were ten-
derly embracing each other.

Nothing new remained, but to consult what
we should do with the prisoners, Whom he
thought it was not safe to take on board.
Hereupon, concerting with the Captain, I
dressed myself in one of his suits, and sending
for them, told them, that as I was going to
leave the island with all my people, if they
would tarry there, their lives should be spared;
il'not, they should be hanged at the first port
they came to. They agreed to stay. Here-
upou I told them my whole story, charging
them to be kind to the Spaniards that were ex-
pected, gave them all my arms, and informing
them of every thing necessary for their subsist-
ence, I and my man Friday went on board.

Ii 3 '
But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Cap-
min to take them on board, though he hanged
them afterwards, complaining mightily how
harbarously the others used them. Upon
which 'I prevailed with the Captain to take
them in; and being severely punished, they
proved more honest for the future. And so I
bid farewell to tlns island, carrying along with
me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat-o
elcin cap; setting sail December 12, 1687.
after twenty-eight years, two months, and
nineteen days residence, and landing in Eng.
land, June 11, 1688, after five and thirty
years absence from my own country, which
tendered me altOgether a stranger there.

1'13" 1 3.
VERSES'

surrosnn To an warns}: BY ALEX. SELKIRK,
DURING ms SOLITARY ABODE IN THE
ISLAND or JUAN FERNANDEZ; m wmcn
ma .uAn LIVED QUITE ALONE, nuama'
UPWARDS on row: mans. '

I.

I AM monarch of all I survey,
My right there 18 none to dispute, -
From the centre all round to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
Oh, Solitude! where are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face ?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Than reign in this horrible place.

II.

I am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech;
I start at the sound of my own.
The beasts, that roam over the plain,
My form with indifference see;
They are so unacquainted with man,
Their tameness is shocking to me.
Society, friendship, and love,
Divinely bestow'd upon man,
0h, had I the wings ofa dove,
' How soon would I taste you again!
My sorrows I then might assuage
In the ways 'of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age,
And be clicer'd by the sallies of youth.

IV.

Religion! what treasure untold
Besides in that heavenly word!
More precious than silver and gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.
But the toll of the summoning bell
These valleys and rocks never heard,
Ne'er sigh'd at the sound of'a knell,
Or smil'd when a sabbath appear'd.

. V.

Ye winds, that haw. mode me your sport,
Convey to this desolate shore,

Some cordial endearing report

_ Ofa land shall visit no more.

My friends, do they new and then send
A wish or a thought after me?

0 tell me I yet have a friend,
Though a friend I am never to see.

<<mhvy(w-,m'~v------"7.1,..v-y--w-w- v.~ - --~--- --- ~-.- .~. . - -

177

, VI.

How fleet is a glance of the mind!

Compal'Vi with the speed of its flight,

The tempest itself lags behind,

And the swift winged arrows of light.

When I think of my own native land,
. In a moment I seem to be there;
But, alas! recollection at hand

Soon hurries me back to despair.

VII.

But the sea-fowl is gone to her meet,
The beast is laid down in his lair,
Ev'n here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair,
There's mercy in every place ;
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a grace,
And reconciles man to his lot.