631} 335039 uuh ghhmtms

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

BY DANIEL DE FOE.

 

E
i
E
E
2

(WWWV

 

fmflulling a PSfitmuir of the (author, mm an 655m an bis Writings.
ILLUSTRATED BY PHIZ.

LONDON:

G. ROUTLEDGE & CO. FARRINGDON STREET;
NEW YORK: 18, BEEKMAN STREET.

1855.PREFACE.

----.--

1! ever the story of any private man's adventures in
the world were worth making public, and were acceptable
when published, the Editor of this account thinks this will
be so.

The wonders of this man's life exceed all that is to be
found extant; the life of one man being scarce capable
of greater variety.

The story is told with modesty, with seriousness, and
with a religious application of events to the uses to which
wise men always apply them; via, to the instruction of
other; by this example, and to justify and honour the
wisdom of Providenw in all the variety of our circumstances,
' let them happen how they will.MEMOIR OF DE FOE.

--.----

Damm. Fon, or, as he subsequently styled himself (though at what
time and on what occasion is not known), De Foe, was born in the
parish of St. Giles's, Cripplegate, London, in the year 1661. The
earliest of his ancestors of whom there is any account, was Daniel
Foe, a yeoman, who farmed his own estate at Elton, in Northampton-
shire. He maintained a pack of hounds; from whence it may be
reasonably inferred that his means were above competency. A custom
of the times in bestowing party names on brutes is thus mentioned by
our author. " I remember," he says, " my grandfather had a hunts-
man that used the same familiarity with his dogs; and he had his
Rnundhead, and his Cavalier, and his Goring, and his Waller, and all
the generals of both armies were hounds in his pack; till the times
tuning, the old gentleman was fain to scatter his pack, and make
them up of more dog-like surnames." It is from his grandfather that
De Foe is supposed to have inherited landed property: for inhis
" Review," a work we shall often have occasion to consult, he says,
"I have both a native and an acquired right of election." Our
author's father, James Foe, followed the trade of butcher, in St. Giles's,
Cripplegate: and these few barren facts are all that is to be gathered
of the ancestors of Daniel De Foe. "He had," says Mr. Wilson, in
his excellent work, " The Life and Times of Daniel De Foe," a work
abounding with the most curious and minute information on the
period of which it treats--" He had some collateral relatives, to whom
he alludes occasionally in his writings, but with too much brevity to
ascertain the degree of kindred."

At an early age, De Foe is said to have shown that vivacity of
humour, and that indomitable spirit of independence, that remained
with him through after life, " making a sunshine in the shady place "
of a prison, and arming him as the champion of truth in humanity in
the most perilous times. An anecdote related by our author is illus-
trative of the discipline that governed the home of his boyhood.
During that part of the reign of Charles II. when the nation feared
the ascen:l dancy of Popery, and it was expected that printed Biblesxenon. 0! DB 1'02.

would become rare, many honest people employed themselves in
copying the Bible into shorthand. To this task, young De Foe applied
himself; and he tells us that "he worked like a horse till he had
written out the whole of the Pentateuch, when he grew so tired that
he was willing to risk the rest." The parents of De Foe were non-
conformists, and his education was consonant to the practice of that
faith. Family religion formed an esential part of its discipline; and
it was made matter of conscience to instruct the children of a family
and its dependents in their social, moral, and religious duties.

Although the enemies of De Foe vainly endeavoured to sink his
reputation by representing him as having been bred a tradesman,
there is ample evidence to prove that he was originally intended for
one of the learned professions.' When he had, therefore, sufliciently
qualified under inferior tutors, he was, at about fourteen years of age,
placed in an academy at Newington Green, under the direction of
"that polite and profound scholar," the Reverend Charles Morton,
who was subsequently defended by his pupil, some aspersions having
been cast upon the character of the master by an ungrateful scholar
who had deserted to the church. De Foe writes, "I must do that
learned gentleman's memory the justice to affirm, that neither in his
system of politics, government, and discipline, nor in any other of
the exercises of that school, was there anything taught or en-
couraged that was antimonarchical or destructive to the constitution
of England."

Of De Foe's progress under Mr. Morton, it is impossible now to
speak with any certainty. He tells us in one of his " Reviews" that
he had been master of five languages, and that he had studied the
mathematics, natural philosophy, logic, geography, and history : he was
one of the few who, in those days, studied politics as a science. He
went through a complete course of theology, and his knowledge of
eoclesiatical history was also considerable. He was, however,
attacked by party malice as " an illiterate person without education."
To this he calmly makes answer :--" Those gentlemen who reproach
my learning to applaud their own, shall have it proved that I have
more learning than either of them--because I have more manners."
He adds, " I think I owe this justice to my excellent father still living
(1705), and in whose behalf I fully testify, that if I am a blockhead,
it is nobody's fault but my own." He proceeds to challenge his
slanderer " to translate with me any Latin, French and Italian author,
and after that to retranslate them crossways, for twenty pounds each
book; and by this he shall have an opportunity to show the world

'1 " It is not mun," says De Foe, in his Review, vi. 341, "that Itrouble you
with any of my divinity; the pulpit is none of my omce. ltwas my disaster
firsttobeaetaparttor,and then to be set apartfrom, thehonourof than-fled
"ploy;1121011 01 DE 10!.

how much De Foe, the hosier, is inferior in learning to Mr. Tutchin,
the gentleman."

At oneand~twenty, De Foe commenced the perilous trade--most
perilous in his day--of author; at the which he laboured through
good and thrOugh evil report, with lasting honour to himself, and
enduring benefit to mankind, for half a century. It is now ascer-
tained that De Foe's first publication m a lampooning answerto
" L'Estrange's Guide to the Inferior Clergy," and bore the following
quaint title :--" Speculum Crape-Gownorum; or, a looking-Glass for
the YoungAcademicks new Foyl'd; with Reflections on some of the late
High Flown Sermons: to which is added, an Essay towards a Sermon of
the Newest Fashion. By a Guide to the Inferiour Clergie. Ridentem
discere Verum Quis Vetat. London: printed for E. Rydal. 1682."
This title De Foe borrowed from the crape gowns then usually worn
by the inferior clergy; and in the book, he fights the fight of the
Dissenters against what he terms the libels of the established clergy.
"The fertility of the subject," says Mr. Wilson, " soon produced a
second part of the 'Speculum ;' in which the author deals more
seriously with the government, and by a practical view of the efl'ect
of persecution, exposed its absurdity."

We have entered more at length into the nature and purpose of
De Fee's first book, than will be permitted to us by our limits to do
with each of the works that now followed, in rapid profusion, from
the pen of our author. All that we purpose to ourselves is, to give
the strongest outlines of his character,--the principal events of his
career: and, avoiding on one hand a jejune brevity, that confines
itself to mere dates, attempt not, on the other side, a minute descrip-
tion of events incompatible with our present object.

When the duke of Monmouth landed at Lyme, De Foe was among
those who joined the standard of the hapless nobleman. " A romantic
kind of invasion," says Welwood, "and scarcely paralleled in his
tory." At the age of four-aud-twenty, we see De Foe, the author of
"Robinson Crusoe," a soldier; as ready with his sword as prompt
with his pen, in the cause of rational liberty. 01' Monmouth, De
Foe seems to have had some previous knowledge, having often seen
him at Aylesbnry races, where the duke rode his own horses, a cir-
cumstance alluded to by our author in his "Tour." De Foe had the
good fortune to escape the vengeance visited upon so many of the
duke's supporters, and returned in safety to London; where, leaving
the stormy region of politics, he now directed his attention to trade.
The nature of his business has been variously represented. In several
publications of the time, he is styled a "hosier;" but, if we may
believe his own account, he was a hose-factor, or, the middle-man
between the manufacturer and the retail-dealer. This agency concern
he urged on for some years, in Freeman's-court, Oornhill; Mr.xenon. or nu ma.

Chalmers says, from 1685 to 1695. On the 26th of January, 1687-8,
having claimed his freedom by birth, he was admitted at liveryman
of London. In the Chamberlain's book, his name was written
"Daniel Foe."

When the Revolution took place, De Foe was a resident in Tooting,
in Surrey, where he was the first person who attempted to form the
Dissenters in the neighbourhood into a regular congregation. De Foe
wm tor many years a resident in this part of Surrey; it is likely that
he had a country-house there during the time that he carried on his
hose-agency in Cornhill. De Foe was one of the most ardent wor-
shippers of the Revolution: he annually commemorated the 4th of
November as a day of deliverance. "A day," says he, "famous on
various accounts, and every one of them dear to Britons who love
their country, value the Protestant interest, or have an aversionto
tyranny and oppression. On this day, he (King William) was born;
on this day, he married the daughter of England; and on this day,
he rescued the nation from a bondage worse than that of Egypt; a
bondage of soul, as well as bodily servitude; a slavery to the ambition
and raging lust of a generation set on fire by pride, avarice, cruelty,
and blood." In order to do honour to the king, and add to the
splendour of the procession, on the royal visit to Guildhall, many of
the citizens volunteered to attend William as a guard of honour on
the occasion. Among these was Daniel De Foe.

The commercial speculations of our author, though at the first
prosperous, were ultimately unsuccessful. That they were of a
various character, is evident from the fact of his having engaged with
partners in the Spanish and Portuguese trade. It is very clear, from
a passage in his " Review," that he had been a merchant-adventurer.
In the number for January 27, 1711, he alludes to an old Spanish
proverb, "which," says he, "I learnt when I was in that country."
It further appears, that while residing there, he made himself a
master of the language. De Foe's losses by shipwreck appear to
have been very considerable. The occupations of trade, however,
according to De Foe's own confession, assert ill with literary feelings.
" Awit turned tradesmen ! " he exclaims; no "apron-strings will hold
him: 'tis in vain to lock him in behind the counter, he's gone in a
momen ." He concludes :--"A statute of bankrupt is his Ezeunt
LOI'iiiIes' and he generally speaks the epilogue in the Fleet Prison or

' t.,,

In allusion to the misfortunes of our author, Mr. Chalmers
observes :--" With the usual imprudeuoe of genius, he was carried
into companies who were gratified by his wit. He spent those hours
with a small society for the cultivation of polite learning, which he
ought to have employed in the calculations of the counting-house;
and, being obliged to abseond from his creditors in 1692, he naturallyNIXOIB 0! I)! 1'03.

attributed those misfortunes to the war, which were probably owing-
to his own misconduct. An angry creditor took out a commission of
bankruptcy, which was soon su perseded, on the petition of those to
whom he was most indebted, who accepted a composition on his
single bond. This he punctually paid, by the eiforts of unwearied
diligence; but some of these creditors, who had been thus satisfied,
falling afterwards into distress themselves, De Foe voluntarily paid
them their whole claim, being then In rising circumstances, in con-
sequence of King William's favour." De Foe, being subsequently
reproached by Lord Haversham for mercenary conduct, he tells him,
in 17 05, that, "with anumerous family, and no help but his own
industry, he had forced his way, with undiscourage d diligence,
through a set of misfortunes, and reduced his debts, exclusive of
composition, from seventeen thousand to less than five thousand
pounds."

It deserves tobe remembered that, in the time of De Foe, our laws
against bankrupts were as inhuman as they were foolish. "The
cruelty of our laws against debtors," says De Foe, " without distinc,
tion of honest or dishonest, is the shame of our nation. I am per-
suaded, the honostest man in F ngland, when by necessity he is com-

pelled to break, will early fly out of the kingdom rather than submit.
To stay here, this is the consequence: as soon as he breaks, he is
proscribed as a criminal, and has thirty to sixty days to surrender
both himself and all that he has to his creditors. If he fails to do it,
he has nothing before him but the gallows, without benefit of clergy;
if he surrenders, he is not sure but he shall be thrown into gaol for
life by the commissioners, only on pretence that they doubt his oath!
What must the man do?" We have reformed a great deal of this
in our days, yet something remains undone, for the bankrupt is
still too much left at the mercy of the malevolent or ignorant
creditor.

It is certain that De Foe, whilst under apprehension from his cre-
ditors, resided some time at Bristol. " A friend of mine in that city,"
says Mr. Wilson, "informs me that one of his ancestors remembered
De Foe, and sometimes saw him walking in the streets of Bristol,
accoutred in the fashion of the times, with a fine flowing wig, lace
ruffles, and a sword by his side: also, that he there obtained the name
of 'the Sunday gentleman,' because, through fear of the bailiffs, he
did not dare to appear in public upon any other day." De Foe was
wont to visit " The Red Lion," kept by one Mark Watkins, who, in
after times, used to entertain his company with an account of a sin-
gular personage, who made his appearance in Bristol, clothed in goat-
skins, in which dress he was in the habit of walking the streets, and
went by the name of Alexander Selkirk, or Robinson Crusoe! It
was during this retreat from London that De Foe wrote his celebrated.

5 ,
" Essay upon Projects," though he did not publish it until nearly five
years afterwards.

It appears that at this time De Foe was invited, by some merchants
of his acquaintance residing in Cadiz, to settle in Spain. with the
offer of a good commission: "but," says our author, "Providenw,
which had other work for me to do, placed a secret aversion in my
mind to quitting England upon any account, and made me refuse the
best ofier of that kind, to be concerned with some eminent persons at
home, in proposing ways and means to the government for raising
money to supply the omion of the war, then newly begun." De
Foe suggested a general assessment of personal property, the amount
to be settled by composition, under the inspection of commissioners
appointed by the king. It was, doubtless, owing to these services,
that De Foe was appointed to the office of accountant to the com-
missioners of the glass duty, in 1695: the commission ceased in 1699.
It was probably about this time that De Foe became secretary to the
tile- kiln and brick- kiln works at Tilbury ,in Essex. Pantilee had
been hitherto a Dutch manufacture, andury were brought in large quan-
tities to England. To' supersede the necessity of their importation,
these works were erected. The speculation proved unsuccessful,
De Foe himself losing by its failure no less than three thousand
pounds. He continued the works, it is believed, until the year 1703,
when, braing deprived of his liberty for a libel, the undertaking came
to an en .

Towards the close of the war, in 16964, De Foe gave to the world
his " Essay upon Projects -," a work "alike admirable for the novelty
of the subjeet, and the cleamess and ingenuity with which it istreated.
The projects of our author may be classed under the heads of politics,
commerce, and benevolence; all having some reference to the public
improvement. The first relates to banks in general, and to the royal
or national bank in particular, which he wishes to be rendered sub-
servient to the relief of the merchant, and the interests of commerce,
as well as to the purposes of the state: his next project relates to
highways; a third, to the improvement of the bankrupt laws; a
fourth, to the plan of friendly societies, formed by mutual assurance,
for the relief of the members in seasons of distress; afifth, for the
establishment of an asylum for " fools," or, more properly, " naturals,"
whom he describes as " a particular rent-charge on the great family
of mankind :" be next suggests the formation of academics, to supply
some neglected branches of education, one of these was for the
improvement of the English tongue, "to polish and refine it; " and
this project combined a reformation of that "foolish vice, " swearing:
the next project of our author was an academy for military studies,
and, under the head of " Academies," he suggested an institution for
the digestion of females. ~--" We reproach the sex every day," says"[013 O! D! 103.

he," with folly and impertinence, while, I am confident, had they the
advantages of education equal to us, they would he guiltyof lease, than

ourselves"

InJanuary,1700-1, appeared DeFoe's oelebratedpoem of "The
Truehoru Englishman." It was com posed in answer to "avile,

abhorred pamphlet in very ill verse, written by one Mr. Tutohin, and
called' The Foreigners,' in which the author--who he then was I

knew not," says Do Foe--"fell personally upon the king and the

Dutch nation." How many thousands familiar with the following

now Bornproverbial lines, knowy not that with them opens "The True-
BornEnglishman!"

" Wherever God erect: a house of prayer,
The devil always builds a chapel there;
And 't will he found upon examination,
Thaiawer has the largest congregation!"

De Foe traces the rise of our ancient families to the Norman
invader, who cantoned out the country to his followers, and " every
soldier was a deuizen." The folly of indulging this_ pride of ancestry
is finely painted in the following lines :--

"Moretheheroeswhodeepiaethenuteh.
And rail at new-come foreigners so much;
Forgetting that themselves are all derived
From the most acoundrei race that ever lived.
A horrid crowd o! rambling thieves and drones,
Who Inns-eked kingdoms and diapeopled towns;
The Plot and painted Briton. treach'rous Soot,
By hunger. then, and rapine hither brought;
Norwegian pirates. huoeaneering Danes,
Whose red-haired (Warring everywhere remains;
Who. joined with Norman-French, compound the breed
From whence your True-Born Englishmen proceed.
And lest by length of time it he pretended
The dimate may the modem race have mended.
Wise Providence, to keep us where we are,
Mixes us daily with exceeding care."

De Foe concludes with the following striking linen :--

" Couldbut our ancestors retrievethelr fate.
Andaeetheir oflaprlngthua degenerate:
Howweeontendlorhirehandnameaunknown;
Aardhulidonthdrpauaefiomntnonrown;
They'deanoelreoords, andtheirtomha deface,
Andthendlaowntheviledegenente race;
Furfameothmilieaiaallacheat.

'Tu nuouu. Harv! on" runs In amt."

"WhenIseethetownfulloflampoo nsaud invectivesagainst
Dutchmen," says Do Foe, in his "Explanatory Preface," "onlynxom OP DB POE.

because they are foreigners, and the king reproached and insulted by
insolent pedants and ballad-making poets, for employing foreigners,
and being a foreigner himself, I confess myself moved by it to remind
our nation of their own original, thereby to let them see what a ban-
ter they put upon themselves; since, speaking of Englishmenab
origine, we are really all foreigners ourselves."

It is to this poem that De Foe was indebted for a personal intro-
duction to King William. He was sent for to the palace by his
Majesty, conversed with him, and had repeated interviews with him
afterwards. The manners and sentiments of De Foe appeared to have
made such a favourable impression on the king, that he ever after
regarded him with kindness; and conceiving that his talents might be
turned to a. beneficial account, he employed him in many secret ser-
vices, to which he alludes occasionally in his writings.

The effect produced upon the country by the satire was most bene-
ficial. De Foe himself, nearly thirty years afterwards, writes,
"National mistakes, vulgar errors, and even a general practice, have
been reformed by a just satire. None of our countrymen have been
known to boast of being True-Born Englishmen, or so much as use
the word as a title or appellation, ever since a late satire upon
mt national folly was published, though almost thirty years

ore."

In 1700-1, on the meeting of the fifth parliament of King William,
we find De Foe strenuously engaged advocating the necessity of set.
tling the succession in the Protestant line; an important object with
William, as the only means of perpetuating the benefits which the
nation had reaped from the Revolution. To this great end, De Foe
devoted all his energies, labouring with unwearied zeal in the cause.
His conduct on the imprisonment of the Kentish gentlemen, whose
names are historically associated with the presentation of the famous
Kentish petition, was marked with all the intrepidity of his character.
The Commons had imprisoned the petitioners, who prayed the house
for the settlement of the Protestant succession, for having presented
a petition "scandalous, insolent, and seditious." On this, De Foe
drew up his celebrated "Legion Paper." In what manner it was .
communicated to the house does not appear upon the journals. It
was reported at the time that De Foe, disguised as a woman, pre-
sented it to the Speaker as he entered the House of Commons. The
"Legion" petition rang like a tocsin throughout the kingdom. As,
however, the author remained concealed, the Commons did not think
fit to pass any particular censure upon it. The Kentish petitioners
were discharged by the prorogation of parliament on the 24th of
June: they were subsequently feasted at Mercers' Hall, where De
Foe attended. "Next the Worthis, " says a pamphlet of the time,
"was 1821.1ch their secretary of state, the author of the 'Legion1311011 0! DB POE.

Paper ;' and one might have read the downfal of parliaments in his
very countenance."

By the death of King William, " more mortally wounded," says De
Foe, "with the pointed rage of parties, and an ungrateful people,
than by the fall from his horse," our author lost a kind friend and
powerful protector. Toward the latter part of this reign, De Foe
took up his abode at Hackney, and resided there many years. Here
some of his children were born and buried. In the parish register is
the following entry :--" Sophia, daughter to Daniel De Foe, by Mary
his wife, was baptised, December 24-, 1701."

The next important work of De Foe--a work that exercised the
greatest influence on his fortunes--was the " Shortest Way with the
Dissenters ; or, Proposals for the Establishment of the Church ; 17 ."
In this work, the author, assuming the character of an Ultra High
Churchman, advocates the adoption of the severest measures against
the Dissenters. "'Tis vain," writes De Foe, " to trifle inthis matter.
The light, foolish handling of them by fines, is their glory and advan-
tage. If the gallows instead of the compter, and the galleys instead
of the fines, were the reward of going to a conventicle, there would
not be so many sufi'erers." These arguments found high favour with
both the Universities. The High Church Party never suspected the
sincerity of their partizan, and charmed and won by the fierce doc-
trines of their champion, were unsuspicious of the satire of their
extravagance. It was, however, De Foe's hard fate to be misunder-
stood by both parties. Whilst the High Churchmen congratulated
themselves on the addition of another advocate, the Dissenters treated
him as a real enemy. The Church Party, however, fell into the trap
laid for them by De Foe; for, by expressing their delight at the fiery
sentiments of the author, they avowed them as their own true feel-
ings on the question. De Foe subsequently taunts the party thus :--
" We have innumerable testimonies," he says, "with which that party
embraced the proposal of sending all the Dissenting ministers to the
gallows and the galleys; of having all their meeting-houses demo-
lished; and being let loose upon the people to plunder and destroy
them." In another place, De Foe characteristically portrays the
common fate of the subtlety of wit, when judged by the multitude.
He says--"All the fault I can find with myself as to these people
(the Dissenters) is, that when I had drawn the picture, I did not, like
the Dutchman with his man and bear, write under them, ' This is the
man,' and 'This is the bear,' lest the people should mistake me; and
havmg in a compliment to their judgment shunned so sharp a reflec-
tion upon their senses, I have left them at liberty to treat me like one
that put a value upon their penetration at the expense of my own."
The first detection of our author is said to have been owing to the
mdustrg of the Earl of Nottingham, one of the secretaries of state;
When the author's name was known, people were at no loss to
decipher his object; and those who had committed themselves by
launching forth in his praises were stung with madness at their own
folly. It was at once rlesolved by the party in power to crush De Foe
by a state prosecution. 1n the height of the storm, our author sought
ooncealment- when a proclamation was issued by the Government,
ofiering PS50 for the discovery of his retreat, and advertised in "The
London Gazette," for January 10, 17023. It was as follows :--

"Whereas, Daniel De Foe, alias De Face, is charged with writing
a scandalous and' seditious pamphlet, entitled, 'The Shortest Way

with the Dissenters.' He is a middle-sized, spare man, about forty
years old; of a brown complexion, and dark brown coloured hair, but
wears a wig- , a hook nose, a sharp chin, grey eyes, and a large mole
near his mouth: was born in London, alid for many years was a hose-
factor in Freeman's Yard, Cornhill: and now is owner of the brick
and pantile works, near 'l'ilbury Fort, in Essex: whoever shall dis-
cover the said Daniel De Foe to one of her Majesty's principal secre-
taries of state, or any of her Majesty's justices of peace, so he may be
apprehended, shall have a reward of 502., which her Majesty has
ordered immediately to he paid upon such discovery."

In the House of Commons, it was resolved that the book " be burnt
by the hands of the common hangman in Palace Yard." The printer
of the work and the bookseller being taken into custody, De Foe
issued forth from his retirement, to brave the storm, resolving, as he
expresses it, " to throw himself upon the favour of government, rather
than that others should be ruined by his mistake." De Foe was
indicted at the Old Bailey sessions, the 24th of February H1703 and
proceeded to trial in the following July. It may be gathered from
his own account of the prosecution, that when hisy enemies had him' in
their power, they were at a loss to know what to do with him. He
was therefore advised to throw himself on the mercy of the Queen,
with a promise of protection; which induced him to quit his defence,
and acknowledge himself as the author of the offensive work. On this,
De Foe was sentenced to pay a fine of 200 marks to the Queen; to
stand lhree times in the pillow; to be imprisoned during the Queen's
pleasure, and to find sureties for his good behaviour for seven
years.

The people, however, were with De Foe. Hence, he was guarded
to the pillory by the populace; and descended from it with the trium-
phant acclamations of the surrounding multitude. De Foe hashim-
self related, that "the people, who were expected to treat him very
ill, on the mntrary, pitied him, and wished those who set him there

were pliiged in his room, and expressed their affections by loud shouts"H0" OF DE 202.

and acclamations when he was taken down." Tradition reports that
the pillory was adorned with garlands, it being in the middle of
summer. The odium intended for De Foe fell upon his persecutors,
and the pillory became to him a place of honour.

A triumphant evidence of the high spirit of De Foe --a spirit
elevated and strengthened by its unconquerable love of truth--is
manifested by the fact, that on the very day of his exhibition to the
people, he published " A Hymn to the Pillory i" This poem, which
successively passed through several editions, being eagerly bought up
by the people, opens nobly as follow. :--

" Hail! hieroglyphiek state machine.
Contrived to punish fancy in;
Allen that are men. in thee can feel no pain,
And all thy insignificants disdain.
Contempt. that false new word for shame,
Is. without crime. an -pty name ;
A shadow to amuse mankind,
But never {rights the wise or well-fixed mind;
Virtue dapisu human scorn,
And scandal: innocence adorn."

De Foe is now presented to us, stripped of his fortunes, and a
prisoner. In consequence of his imprisonment, he could no longer
attend to his pantile works, which produced the chief source of his
revenue, and they were consequently given up. By this afl'air he lost,
as he himself informs us, PS3,500; and he had now a wife and six
children dependent upon him, with no other resource for their sup-
port than the product of his pen. Hence the leisure of De Foe, whilst
in Newgate, was not that of idleness or dissipation. Some of his
subsequent writings leave no doubt that he now stored his mind with
those facts relative to the habits and pursuits of the prisoners, which
he has detailed withso much nature as well as interest. A great part
of his time was devoted to the composition of political works which
our limits will not permit us to dwell upon. It was likewise whilst in
Newgate that be projected his " Review," a periodical work of four
guarto pages, which was published for nine successive years without
intermission; during the greater part of the time, three times a week,
and without having received any assistance whatever in its production.
Throughout this work, he carried on an unsparing warfare against
folly and vice in all their disguises: it pointed the way to the "Tata
lers," " Spectators," and " Guardians," and may be referred to as
containing avast body of matter on subjects of high interest, written
with all the author's characteristic spirit and vigour.

The Tories vainly endeavoured to buy up De Foe: but Newgate
had no terrors of him, and be continued at once their prisoner and
their aslsfilant. Upon the accession of Mr. Harley to cities, his own
politics not being dissimilar to those of De Foe, the minister made a
private communication to our author, with the view of obtaining his
support. No immediate arrangement, however, took place between
them, as De Foe remained a prisoner some months afterwards. Not-
withstanding, it is most likely that the Queen became acquainted with
De Fee's real merits through the medium of the minister, and was
made conscious of the injustice of our author's sufferings, which she
now appeared desirous to mitigate. For this purpose, she sent money
to his wife and family, at the same time transmitting to him a suffi-
cient sum for the payment of his fine, and the expenses attending his
discharge from prison.

On his release from prison, Dc Foe retired to Bury St. Edmunds.
Party clamour, and party malice, however, pursued him there. On
the miserable libels issued at this time against him, he says, "I tried
retirement, and banished myself from the town. I thought, as the
boys used to say, 'twas but fair they should let me alone, while I did
not meddle with them. But neither a country recess, any more than
a stone doublet, can secure a man from the clamour of the pen." In
his elegy on the author of "The True-born Englishman," he alludes to
the report that the Tories had exerted themselves in his favour. He
says, in answer :--

" So I, by Whigs abandoned, bear
The Satyr's unjust lash;
Dye with the scandal of their help.
But. never saw their cash."

It appears that in 1705 De Foe was employed by Harley to execute
some mission of a secret nature, which required his presence upon the
continent. The mission, whatever it was, appears to have been
attended with some danger, and to have required his absence for about
two months. Harley seems to have been so well satisfied, that upon
De Fee's return, he was rewarded with an appointment at home. In
1706, De Foe wrote voluminously on the subject of the union with
Scotland, which measure he advocated with all the strength of his
powers. This advocacy obtained for him a confidential mission to
Scotland, where he was received with great consideration. While in
Edinburgh, he published his "Caledonia," &c., a poem in honour of
Scotland and the Scots nation. Of the union, he says, in his " Review,"
"I have told Scotland of improvement in trade, wealth, and shipping,
that shall accrue to them on the happy conclusion of this afi'air; and
I am pleased doubly with this, that I am likely to he one of the first
men that shall give them the pleasure of the experimen ." In 1708,
De Foe was rewarded with an appointment and a fixed salary. When
the union was comp leted, he published " The Union of Great Britain."
In lflgeDe Foe resided at I)St;olre -Newington, and appears to have
been comfortable in his circumstances. In 1712 was closed the last
volume of the "Review." In a long preface to this volume, De Foe
has a most eloquent defence of this work, and of the mode in which
he had conducted it. Nothing can be finer, more manly, or more
conclusive. In allusion to his sufferings during the progress of the
work, he says, "I have gone through a life of wonders, and am the
subject of a vast variety of providences; I have been fed more by
miracle than Elijah when the ravens were his purveyors. I have
some time ago summed up my life in this distich :--

No man has tasted dim-ring fortunes more,

And thirteen times i have been rich and poor.

In the school of affliction I have learnt more than at the academy, and
more divinity than from the pulpit; in prison, I have learnt to know
Mat liberty does not consist in open doors, and the free egress and
regress of locomotion. I have seen the rough side of the world as
well as the smooth, and have, in km than half a year, tasted the
difference between the closet of a king and the dungeon of Newgate."
This preface may be considered as a review,--a summing up of the
events of De Fee's political life, and as such is of the highest value
for the noble spirit of conscious truth breathing in and animating
every line of it. As a piece of English, it is exquisite for its innate
strength--the beauty of its simplicity. De Foe, however, was again
doomed to taste the dungeon su eets of Newgate, being committed
there upon the foolish charge of writing libels in favour of the
Pretender.

After the death of Queen Anne. De Foe, who had been a political
writer for thirty years, retired from the thorny field to the more plea-
sant paths of instructive fiction. Whilst writing "An Appeal to
Honour and Justice," he was struck with apoplexy; he however
recovered, and in the early part of 1715, committed to the press one
of his most valuable treatises, "The Family Instructor." In1719
appeared the immortal " Robinson Crusoe!" Nearly the whole circle
of booksellers had in vain been canvassed for apublisher. William
Taylor, the fortunate speculator, is said to have cleared a thousand
pounds by the work, which rose into immediate popularity, despite of
the raneorous assaults of the petty, vulgar minds abounding amongst
De Foe' s political enemies. There can be no doubt that the idea of
the work was first suggested to De Foe by the story of Alexander
Selkirk, which had been given to the public seven years before. The
enemies of De Foe charged him with having obtained this man's
journal, and from its contents producing " Robinson Crusoe." The
truth is, De Foe was as much indebted to Selkirk for the materials
used 1n his immortal work, as was Vandyke for his portraits to the
oolourman who furnished him with pigments. In a number of "The

13
Englishman," Sir Richard Steele gave the true and particular history
of Selkirk. The place in which " Robinson Crusoe " was composed
has been variously contested. It seems most probable (says Mr. Wilson)
that De Foe wrote it in his retirement in Stoke-Newington, where he
resided, during the principal part of Queen Anne's reign, in a large
white house, rebuilt by himself, and still standing in Church-street.
The work has been printed in almost every mitten language--has
been the delight of men of all creeds and all distinctions--from the
London apprentice in his garret, to the Arab in his tent.

"Robinson Crusoe" was speedily followed by the "Account of
Dickory Crooke," the " Life and Piracies of Captain Singleton," the
"History of Duncan Campbell," the "Fortunes and Mister-tunes of
Moll Flanders," the "Life of Colonel Jacque," the "Memoirs of a
Cavalier," and that extraordinary work, the " Account of the Plague."
We might possibly have laid before the reader a correct list of the
multifarious productions of our author, many of them, until of late,
most difficult to be obtained, had not the spirit of the times called for
complete editions of De Foe's works, most welcome and valuable
offerings to the reading part of the nation.

The latter years of De Foe's life must have been those of compe~
tence, a most honourable competence, insured to him by his works,
and the rapidity with which editions followed editions. There is,
however, a too miserable proof of his sufferings, inflicted upon him by
the cruelty and undutifulness of his son, who, to quote a letter of De
Foe, written in his anguish, " has both ruined my family and broken
my heart." De Foe adds,--" I depended upon him, I trusted him, I
gave up my two dear unprovided children into his hands; but he has
no compassion, and suffers them and their poor dying mother to beg
their bread at his door, and to crave, as if it were an alms, what he
is bound under hand and seal, besides the most sacred promises, to
supply them with; himself, at the same time, living in a profusion of
plenty. It is too much for me."

For some years before his death, Dc Foe was tormented with those
dreadful maladies, the gout and the stone, occasioned, in part, most
probably by his close application to study, whilst making posterity the
heirs of undying wisdom. De Foe expired on the 24th of April,
1731, when he was about seventy years of age, having been born in
the year 1661. The parish of St. Giles's, Cripplegatc, in which he
drew his first breath, was also destined to receive his last. He was
buried from thence, on the 26th of April, in Tindall's burial-ground,
now most known by the name of Bunhill Fields. His wife died at
the latter end of the following year. De Foe left six children, two
ions and four daughters, whose descendants are living at the present

nne.

The lgharaeter of De Foe was but the practical example of hisMEMO!!! 0? DB 1'02.

noblest writings. As a citizen of the world, his love of truth, and
the patience, the cheerfulness, with which be endured the obloquy and
persecution of his enemies, endear him to us as a great working
benefactor to his race. His memory is enshrined with the memories
of those who make stedfast our faith in the nobility and goodness of
human nature. As a writer, De Foe has bequeathed to us imperish-
able stores of the highest and the most useful wisdom. If he paint
vice, it is to show its hideousness; whilst virtue itself receives a new
attraction at his hands. His poetry is chiefly distinguished for its
fine common sense; it has no flights-it never wraps us by its imagi-
nation, but convinces us by its terseneSs; by the irresistible eloquence
of its truth. De Fee's prose, though occasionally careless, isremark-
able for its simplicity and strength. What he has to say, he says in
the shortest manner, and in the simplest style. He does not--the
vice of our day-hide his thoughts under a glittering mass of words,

but uses words as the pictures of things. It is owing to this happy
facultv, this unforced power, that De Foe occasionally rises, as in
many instances in the golden volume now offered to the reader,

almost to the sublime. In his picture of the despair of Crusoe, we
hax c, in words intelligible even to infancy, a wondrous delineation of
the soul of man in a most trying and most terrible hour. De Foe is,
in the most emphatic sense of the word, an English writer. Cobbett
has been compared to him; and in many of the minor parts of author-
ship there is, certainly, a similitude; but Cobbett was singularly
deficient of imagination, the power which gave a colour and a beauty
to all that De Foe touched, even though of the homcliest and most
unpromising materials.

15LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

----.----

I was born in the year 1632, in the city'of York, of a good family,
though not of that country my father being a foreigner of Breine
whmttled first at Hull: e got a estate by merchandise, an
leaving off his trade, lived afterw_ at York ; from whence he had
married my mother, whose relations were named Robmson, a very
find family in that country, and from whom I was called Robinson

reutznaer; but, by the usual corruption of words in England, we
are now called,--nay we call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe;
and so my com anions always called me. _

I had two e der brothers, one of .whom was lieutenant-colour to
an English regiment of foot in Flanders formerly commanded by
the famous Colonel Lochhart, and was illed at the battle near
Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What became of my second brother
I never knew, any more than my father or mother did know what
was become of me.

Being the third son of the famil , and not bredto any trade, my
head began to be filled yery eary with rambling thoughts: my
father, who was very ancient, hagnfiiven me a competent share of
learning, as far as houseeducatiou a country free-school Igenera"
go, an designed me for the law; but .I would be satis ed Wit
Isltotl'l but}? t t'ofliea; an}? my mcheisatipn hf) 3115 led! me_ at)

rong agains e nay, ecomman omya er,an agains
all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other friends,
that there seemed to be something fatalm that propensity of nature,
tendin directly to the life of misery which was to befal me.

My ather, a wise and 'grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he oresaw was my design. He called me one
mornin into his chamber, where he was confined by the goat, and
expostifiated very warmly With me upon this sub'ect 5 he asked me
what reasons, more than a mere wandering in ' tion, I had for
leavmg my father's house and my native country, where I might be
well In , and had lifpmm of raising my fortune by applica-
tion and industry, With a e of ease and pleasure. Retold me it was
men 0' desperate fortunes on one hand. or of aspiring, superior

1
fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to rise
by enterprise, and make themselves famous 1n undertakin of a
nature out of the common road; that these things were all eit er too
far above me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state
or what might be called the upper station of low life, which be had
found by long experience, was the best state in_ the world the most
suited to human ha piness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships,
the labour and su crings of the mechanic part of mankind, and not
embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the u per
part of mankind. He. told me, I might Judge of the ha .iness 9 this
state by this one thing, Via, that this was the state o to which-all
other people envicd- that kings have fre iicntly lamented the mise-
rahle consequence of being ham to great t nuns, and wished they had
been laced in the middle of the two extremes, between the mean
and tie great- that the wise man gave his testimony to this, as
thiil standard 0 felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty nor
no es.

llc bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the calami-
ties of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind;
but that the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not
exposed to so many vicissitudesas the higher or lower part of man-
kind; nay, they were not sulncctcd to so many distempers, and
uneasiness, either of body or mind, as those were who by Vicious
living, luxury, and extravagances on_one hand, or by hard iabour, want
of necessaries, and mean or iiisuilieient diet on the other hand, bring
distempcrs upon themselves by the natural consequences of their way
of living; that the middle station of life was calculated for all kind of
virtues and all kind of anoyments; that peace and plenty were the
handmaidsof a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness,
health society, all agreeable diversions, and all dcsuahlc pleasures,
were the blessmgs attending the middle station of life; that this way
men went silently and smoothly throu h the world, and comfortably
out of it, not. embarrassed with the la )ours of the hands or of the
head not sold to a life of slavery for daily bread, or harassed with
perplexed circumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and the body
of rest ', nor enraved with the passion of envy, or the secret burning
lust of ambition For great thinvs; but in easy circumstances, sliding
gently throu h the world, and9 sensibly tasting the sweets of living,
without the itter; feeling that they are happy, and learning by every
day's experience to know it more sensibly.

After this, he ressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate
manner, not to p ay the 'oung man, nor to preci itate myself into
miscrics which nature, an the station of life Iwas rn in, seemed to
have rovided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking my
brca 5 that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me
fairly into the station of hfe which he had just been recommending
to me; and that if I was not very eas and happy in the world, it
must be my mere fate or fault that mustliiiider it; and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his dut in want-
ing me against measures which he knew would be to in urt- in a
word, that as he would do very knid things for me it would staynonixsos causes. 11

and settle at home as he directed, so he would not have so much
hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to go
away: and to close all, he told me I had my elder brother for an
example, to whom he had used the same earnest persuaSions to kee
him from going into the. Low_ Country .wars, but could not prcvai ,
his young desires firomptin him to run into the army, where he was
lulled; and thong he said e would not cease to pray for me, yet he
would venture to say to me that if I did take this foolish step, God
would not bless me, and I should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon
havmg neglected his counsel, when there nnght be none to assrst in
my recovery.

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly pro.
fhetic, though I sup ose my father (lid not know it to be so himself;

say, I observed t e tears run down his face vefl' plentitully,
eslpeCially when he spoke of my brother who was k ed; and that
w en he spoke of mv iavm'r leisure to repent, and none to asstst me,
he was so moved that he lhroke off thc discourse, and told me his
heart was so full he could say no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed who could be

otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any more,
but to settle at. home according to my father's desire. But, alas! a
few days wore it all off; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's
further importunitics, in a few weeks afterhl resolved to run quite
away from him. However, I did not act quite so hastily as the first
heat of my resolution prompted. but. I took my mother, at a. time when
I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her that my
thoughts were so entirely bent. u on seeing the world that 1 should
never settle to anything with reso ution enough to go through with it,
and my father had better give me his consent than force me to go
Without 1t; that I was now eichteeu years old, which was too late
to apprentice to a trade, or c erk to an attomey - that I was sure,
11' di , I should never serve out my time, but I should certainly
run own from my master before mv time was out, and go to sea;
and if s e would speak to my father to let me go one voyage
abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it, I would go no
more; and I would promise, by a double diligence, to recover the
time that I had lost. .
. Thisdput my mother into a great passion; she told me she knew
it. wonl he to no purpose to s eak to my father upon any such suh-
Ject; that he knew too well w iat was my interest to give his consent
to anything so mncli fonmy hurt; and that she wondered .how I
could think of any such thing after the discourse I had had with my
father, and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my father
had used to me; and that, In short, if I would ruin nivself, there was
no helpfor me; but I might depend I should never have their con-
sent to it; that for her part, she would not have so much hand in my
destruction; and I should never have it to say that my mother was
willing when my father was not.

Though my mother refused to name it to my father, yet I heard
afterwards that she reported all the discourse to him, and that my
father, after showmg a great concern at it, said to her, With a Sigh:
"That boy might be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born; I
can give no consent to it." _

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose, though,
in the meantime, I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of
settling to business and frequently cxpostulated with my father and
mother about their eing so positively determined against. what they
knew mv inclinations prom led me to. But being one day at Hull,
whitherI went casually, an without any purpose of making an elope-
ment at that time; but, I say, being there, and one of my companions
being going b ' sea to London in his father's ship, and prompting me
to go With tiem, With the common allurement of a seafaring man,
that it should cost me nothing for mv passage, I consulted neither
father nor mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but
leaving them to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows on the lst of September,
1651, I went on board a ship bound for London. Never any oung
adventui'er's misfortunesJ believe, began sooner or continued onger
than mine. The ship was no sooner got out of the Iluniber, than the
wind began to blow and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner;
and, as 1 had never been at sea before, I was most inexpreSSibly sick
in body and terrified in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon
what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of
Heaven for my wicked leaving my father's house, and abandoning my
duty. All the good counsels of my parents, my father's tears and my
mother's entreaties came new fresh into my mind; and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has come
since, rcproaehed me with the contempt of advice, and the breach of
my duty to God and my father. .

All this while the storm increased, and the sea went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor
what. I saw a few days after; but it was enough to affect. me then,
who was but a young sailor, and had never known anything of the
matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us up, and
that. every time the ship fell down, as I thought it did, Ill-the trougli
or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more: in this agony of
mind, I made many vows and resolutions, that if it would please God
to s )are my life in this one voyage if ever I got once my foot upon
dry and again, I would 0 directly home to my father and never set
it into a ship again wh' e I lived; that I would take his advice and
never run myself into such miseries as these any more. _ Now I saw
plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle station
of life, how easy, how comfortably he had lived all his days and
never had been ex iosed to tcmpcsts at sea, or troubles on shore;
and, in short, I reso ved that I would, like a true repenting prodigal,
go home to my father. . _

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm
lasted, and indeed some time after; but the next day the wind
was abated, and the sea calmer, and I began to he_a little inured to it:
however, I was very grave for all that day, being also a little sea-.nomxsox cursor. 13

sick still; but towards night the weather cleared up, the wind was

uite over, and a. charming fine evening followed; the sun went
down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and haying
little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight
was, as I thought the most delightful that ever I saw.

1 had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but:
verv cheerful looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough
and terrible t ie da before, and could be so calm and sopleasaiit in
so little a time afl'er. And now, lest in good resolutions should
continue. my companion, who had entice me away, comes to me:
" Well, Bob," says he, clapping me upon the shoulder, " how do you
do after it? Iwarrant you were friglitcd, wcr'n't you last night
when it blew but a capful of wind?" -- "A capfui d'yon cali
it?" said I; " 'twas a terrible storm."--" A storm, you fool you,"
replies he; "do you call that a storm? why, it was nothing at all;
give us but a good ship and sea-room, and we think nothing.r of such
a squall of wind as that; but you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob.
Come, let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that ; d'ye
see what chamiing weather 'tis now?" To make short this sad
part of my story, we went the way of all sailors; the punch was
made, and I was made half-drunk with it ; and in that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon my
past conduct, all my resolutions for the future. In a word, as the
sea was returned to its smoothness of stuface and settled calmness
by the abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my thoughts being
over, my fears and a prehciisions of being swallowed up by the sea
being forgotten, an the current of my former desires returned, I
entirely forgot the vows and promises that I made in my distress. I
found, indeed, some intervals of reflection; and the serious thoughts
did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes; but I shook
them off, and reused myself from them as it were from a distemper,
and appl mg myself to drinking and company, soon mastered the
return 0 those fits--for so I called them; and I had in five or six
days got as complete a victory over my conscience, as any young
fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it could desire. But I
was to have another trial for it still; and ProVidcnce, as in such
cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely without excuse;
for if would not take this for a deliverance the next was to be such
a one as the worst and most hardened wretch among uswould confess
both the danger and the mercy of.

The Sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yamouth Roads;
the wind having been contrary, and the weather calm, we had made
but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to
an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at
south-west, for seven or eight days, during which time a great many
ships from hewcastle came into the same roads, as the common har-
bour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river.

. We hadnot, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided
it.up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh, and, after we had
lain four or five days, blew very hard. However the roads bein

reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our grouii -14 nosmsox censor.

tackle very stro , our men were unconcerned, and not in_ the least
afiprehensive of anger, but spent the time_ in rest and mirth, after
t e manner of the sea; but the eighth day, in the morning, the Wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our to masts, and
make everything snug and close, that the ship mi lit 11 e as easy as

SSlble. By noon the sea went very high indee and our ship rid

oreeastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice our

anchor had come home; upon which our master ordered out the
sheet-anchor, so that we rode with two anchors a-head, and the cables
veered out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to
see terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves.
The master, though vi ant in the business of preserving the ship,
yet as he went in an out of his cabin b me, I could hear him
softl to himself say several times, " Lor , be merciful to us! we
shal be all lost; we shall be all_undoneSS" and the like. During
these first hurries I was stupidblying still in m cabin,.whi'ch was in
the steerage, and cannot descri e my temper: {could ill resume the
first penitence which I had so apparently trampled upon, and hard-
ened myself against: I thought the bitterness of death had been
past; and that this would be nothing hke the first 5 but when the
master himself came by me as I said 'ust now, and said we should be
all lost, I was dreadfully .trighted. got up out of my cabin,and
looked .out ; but such a dismal sight I never saw: the sea ran moun-
tains high and broke i'iliion us every three or four minutes; when I
could 1001': about, I co d see nothing but distress round us; two
ships that rid near us we foundhhad cut their masts by the board,
beni deep laden; and our men cried out, that a ship which rid about
a m e a-head of us was foundered. Two more ships, bein driven
from their anchors, were run out of the roads to sea, at adven-
tures, and that not with a mast standing. The light ships fared the
best, as not so much labouring in the sea; but two or three of them
drove, and came close by us, running away with only their spritsail
out before the wind. _

Towards evening the mate and boatswam be: ed the master of
our ship to let them cut away the fore-mast, w ch he was_very
unwrlling to do; but the boatswam protesting to him, that if he
did not, the ship would founder, he consented; and when the
had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so loose, and shoe
the ship so much, they were obliged to cut that away also, and make
a clear deck. . .

Any one must judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who
was but a young sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at
but a httle. But if I can express at this distance the thoughts I had
about me at that time, Iwas in tenfold more horror of mind upon
account of my former convictions, and the having returned from them
to the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was-at death
itself! and these, added to the terror of the storm put me into such
a condition, that I can by no words describe it. But the worst was
not come yet; the storm continued With such fury, that the seamenmamsox caveat. 15

themselves scknowled d the had never seena worse. We had a
good ship, but she was eep la em and wallowed in the sea, so that the
seamen every now and then cried out she would founder. It was my
advantage in one res t that I did not. know what the meant b
founder, till I inqmre However the storm was so via cut, that
saw, what is notoften seen, the master, the boatst and some
others more sensible than. the rest, at their lporayei-s, and expeoting
everg moment when the shi would go to the ttom. In the middle
of t e mg? and under the rest of our distresses, one of the
men that been down to see,_cried out we had sprung a leak; another
said there was four feet water in the hold. Then all hands were called
to the fmmhac At that word, my heart, as I thought, died Within me;
and I ell kwards upon the Slde of in bed where I sat, into the
cabin. However, the men mused me, and told me, that I, that was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another; at which
I stirred up, and went to the pump, and worked very heartily.
While this was doing, the master see' some light eolliers, who, not
able to ride out the storm, were 0in to slip, and run away to the
sea, andwouldoome near us, ordered tofire a gun as a signalof
distress. I, who knew not 0 what they meant, thought the ship
had broke or some dreadfult ' g happened. _In a word, I was so
surprised t t I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time when
every) body had his own hfe to think of, nobody minded me, or what
was eoome of me; but another man stepped up to the pump and
thrusting me aside with his foot let me he, thinking Ihad been dead;
and it was a while before I came to myself.

We work on; but the water increasiu in the hold, it was appa-
rent that the ship would founder; and t ugh the storm began to
abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we might
run into any rt, so the master continued firing guns for help; and
a hght shi w 0 had rid it out Just ahead of us ventured a boat out to
help us. t was With the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but
It was_impo_smble for us to lget on board, or for the boat to lie near
the ship's side, till at last t e men rowing very heartily, and ventur~
mg their hves to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the
stern With a buoy to it, and then veered it out 8 eat le h,
which they, after much labour and hazard, took hold"- of an we
hauled them close under our stern, and got all_ into their boat. It
was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to think
of reaching to their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and only
to pull her in towards shore as much as we could; and our master
promised them, that if the boat was staved upon shore, he would
makehiattgood tto their gait": slotgartl glowing, and pE'rtyhdriEing,
our wen away e no ward, o in owar t e s ore
almost as far as Winterton Ness. p g

_ We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship
till we saw her sink, and then I understood for the first time what
was meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I
had hardlgeyes to look up when the seamen told me she was sinking;
for from e moment that they rather put me into the boat, than that
I might be said to go in, my heart was, as_ it were, dead within in
partly with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts
what was yet before me. . _

While_we were in this condition,--the men yet labouring at the
oar to bring the boat near the shore,-we could see gwhen, our boat
mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore a great many
people running alon the strand to assist us when we should come
near; but we made ut slow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach the shore, till, hemg past the hght-house at Wintertoua
the shore falls off to the westward towards Cromer, and so the lan
broke oh" a little the violence of the Wind. Here we got in, and
though not Without much difficulty got all safe on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, w ere, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by fiparticular merchants and owners of
slugs, and had money given us su cient to carry us either to London
or ack to Hull, as we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull and have gone
home, I had been happy, and my father, as in our blessed Saviour's

arable, had even kil e the fatted calf for me - for hearing the ship
I went away in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was a great
while before he had any assurances that I was not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now With an obstiuacy that nothing
could reswt; and though I had several times loud calls from my rea-
son, and my more composed Judgment, to go home yet I had no power
to do it. know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it is a
secret overruling decree, that hurries us on to he the instruments of
our own destruction, even though. it be before us, and that we rush
upon it with our eyes open._ Certainly, nothing but some such decreed
unavoidable misery, which it was )nlpOsSlhlc for_me to escape, could
have pushed me forward against the calm reasoniugs and persuasions
of mv most retiredthoughts, and against two such naible instructions
as I had met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was
the master's son, was now less forward than I. The first time he 3 Re
to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two ort ree
days for we were separated in the town to several quarters; I sav,
the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered; and, look-
ing ve . melancholy, and shaking his head he asked me how I did,
and te mg his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only
for a trial, in order to go farther abroad: his father turning to me,
with a very grave and concerned tone, " Young man," says he, " you
" ought never. to go to sea any more; you ouilet to take this for a

lain and yiSible token that you are not to a seafaring man."
'Why, Sir," said I, "will you go to sea no more?" " That is ano-
ther case," said he; " it is my calling, and therefore my duty; but as
you made this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has
given fyou of what you are to expect if you persist. Perhaps this has
all be allen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship 0 'I'arshish.
Pray," continues he, "what are you; and on what account did yougo
to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my story; at the end of
which he burst out into a strange kind of assion: "What had I
done " says he, "that such an unha py wretc . should come into my
ahigi I would not set my foot in t e same ship With thee again for
a t ousand unds." This indeed was, as I said, an. excursion of his
spirits, whi were (yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was
farther than he eoul have authority to so. However, he afterwards
talked very gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my father, and
not temifi Prondence to my ruin; telling me I might see a Visible
hand of caven against me. " And, young man," said he, " depend
upon it, if you'do not go back, wherever you go, you Will meet with
nothififiubut disasters and disappomtments, till your father's words
are f ed upon you." _ _

We partedsoon after; for I made him little answer, and I saw him
no more; which way he went I knew not. Asfor me, having some
money in m pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as
well as on t e road, had many struggles wrth myself, what course of
life I should take, and whether I should 0 home or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that ofi'ered to
my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I should he
laughed at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not
my father and mother only, but even everybody else ; from whence I
have since often observe , how incongruous and irrational the com-
mon temper_of mankind is, especially of oath, to that reason which
ought to guide them in such cases, m., t at they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for
which they ought Justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the
returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men.

In this state of hfe, however I remained some time, uncertain
what measures to take, and what course of life to lead. An irre-
sistible reluctance continued to going home; .and as I stayed awhile,
the remembrance of the distress I had been in wore 03'; and as that
abated, the little motion I had in my desires to return wore off with
it, till at last I quite laid made the thoughts of it, and looked out for

a voyage.
That evil influence which carried me first away from my father's

house,--which hurried me into the wild and indigested notion of
raising my fortune; and that im ressed those conceits so forcibly
upon me, as to make me deaf to d advice, and to the entreaties
and even 'the commands of my fat er: I say, the same influence,
whatever it was presented the most unfortunate of all ente rises to
my View; and fwent on board a vessel bound to the coast 0 Africa;

or as our sailors vulgarly called it, a voyage to Guinea _
It was in great_misfortune that in all these adventures I did not
hi myse as a sailor; when, though I might indeed have worked a
litt e harder than ordinary, yet at t e same time I should have learnt
the duty and ofiiee of a fore-mast man; and in time might have qua~
hfied myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a'master. But as it
:2: always my fafietto choose fail' the worse, so lbdulchIre; PS115 :{mng
eymmypoce an goodcot esu nm ac, wo ways
goon board in the habit of a entlemaho; an so I neither had any
umnessintheahipmorlearn todoany. 1
c J
It was my lot first of all to {all into pretty good company in Lon-
don, which does not always hapfien to such loose and misguided young
fellows as I then was; the de generally not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early; but it was not so With me. I first got
mquainted with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of
Guinea; and who, havuig hadwery ood success there, was resolved
to go again: this captain taking a_ aney to my conversation, which
was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me sa I_had a mind
to see the world, told me if I would go the voy e_wit him _I should
he at no expense; I shouldbe his meSSmate an his companion ; and
if I could carry anything With me, I should haveall the advantage of
it that the trade would admit; and perhaps I might meet With some
encouragement. ' . . . .

Iembraced the ofl'er; and entering into a strict friendship With
this captain, who was an honest lplainvdeahii man, I went the voyage
With him and carried a small a venture Wit me, which, by the dis-
interested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very consi-
derably; for I carried about PS40 m such toys and trifles as the captain
directed me to buy. This PS40 I had mustered together. by the assist-
ance of some of my relations whom I corresponded with; and who,
I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to contribute so much
as that to my first adventure. .

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in all
my adventures, which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend
the captain; under whom also I got a_com etent knowledge of the
mathematics and the rules of navigation, earned how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation, and, in short, to
understand some thin that were needful to be understood by a
sailor: for, as he took eliglit to instruct me, I took dehght to learn;
and, in a word, this vrayage made me both a sailor and a merchant:
for I brought home ve pounds mne ounces of gold-dust for in
adventure which yielded me in London, at my return, almost PS3txl,
and this filled me Wltll those aspiring thoughts which have since so
completed my ruin. _ .

Yet even in this voyage I had my nusfortunestoo; particularly,
that I was continually sick being thrown'into a Violent calenture by
the excessive heat of the c imate' our principal trading bein u on
the lcoast, from the latitude of fifteen degrees north even to t e e
itse .

.I was new setup for a Guinea trader - and m friend, to my great
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I reso ved 'to go the same
voyage again an I embarked in the same vessel With one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest vo'yage that ever man made; for
thou h I did not ca. lute PS100 0 my new-gained wealth, so that
I h PS200 left, whic had lodged with my friend's Widow, who
was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes; the first w"
this--our ship makin her course towards the Canary Islands, or
rather between those Islands and the African shore, was surprised in
the grey of the morning by a Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase
to us with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvassasonryardswould s read,orour masts carry to getclear;
but. finding the irate gain upon us, and would certainly come up
with us in a few ours, we prepared to fight; our ship hayinitwelve
guns,_ and the mfiie eighteen. About three in the afternoon e came
up With us, and ringing to, by mistake, tJust athwart our quarter,
instead of athwart our stern, as he intende , we brought eight of our
guns to bear on that side, and poured .In a broadside upon him, which
made him sheer 05338111, after returning our fire and gourmg in also
his small shot from near two hundred men which he 'ad on board.
However, we had not a man touched, all our men keeIping close. Be
prepared to attack us again, and we to defend curse ves; but laying
us on board the next time upon our other quarter, he entered sixty
men upon our decks whoimmediatel fell to cutting and hacking the
sails and ri ' . We plied them wrt small-shot, half-pikes, powder-
chests, an suc like, and cleared our deck of them twice. How-
ever to cut short this melanchiilfllpart of our story, our ship being
disabled, and three of our men_ ed, and eightwonnded, we were
obliged to yield, and were camed all prisoner's into Sallee, a port
belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I apprehended;
nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court, asIthe rest
of our men were, but was he t_by the captain of the rover as his :0 er
grize, and made his shave,- emgl young and nimble, and fit or

usiness. At this surprising c ange of my circumstpees, from a
merchant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhehned; and now
I looked back in n m father's prophetic discourse to me, that I
should be miserable an have none to relieve me, which I thought
was now so efi'ectuallfi brought to pass, that I could not be worse;
for now the hand of eaven had overtaken me, and I was undone
without redemption: but alas! this was but a taste of the misery I
was to go through, as Wlll' appear in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house, so
I was in hopes that he would take me with him when he went to sea
again, behevmg that it would some time or other be his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portugal man-of-war; and that then I should
be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken away deg' for
when he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little
garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house 5 and
when he came home agam from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the
cabin to look after the ship. _

Here I meditated not ' but my escape, and what method I might
take to efi'ect it, but foun no way that had the least probability in
it; nothm presented to make the supposition of it rational; for I
had no y to communicate it to tha would embark With me, no
fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman there but myself;
so that for two years, though I often pleased myself With the imagi-
patiomtyet I never had the least encouraging prospect of putting it
in me ice.

ter about two years, an odd circumstance resented itself, which

put the old thought of m ' some attem t or my liberty again in

my head. My patron lying at cine9 longer usual Without fitting
0
out his ship, which, as I hear was for want of money he used,
constantly, once or tWice awee , sometimes oftener, if the weather
was fair to take the ship's pinnace, and go out into the road a-fishin ;
and, as he always took me and young Maresco With him to row t .e
boat, we made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous in
catching fish- insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a
Moor one of his kiusmen, and the youth--the Maresco, as they
called him, to catch a dish of fish for him. . . '

It happened one time, that gomg a-fishing in a calm morning a
fog rose so thick that, though we were not half a lea ue from t is
shore, we last sight of it; an rowing we knew not whit er or which
way, we laboured all day, and all the next night, and when the'
morning came, we found we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling
in for the shore; and that we were at least two leagues from the
shore. However, we got well in again, though with a great deal of
labour and some danger; for the wuid began to blow pretty fresh
in the morning; but we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more
care of himself for the future; and haying lyiii by him the long-boat
of our English ship that he had taken, he reso ved he would not
a-fishino any more without a compass and some rOVlSlOn; so ie
ordereda the carpenter of his ship, who also was an Eng isli slave _to build
a htile state-room, or cabin, in the middle of the lon -boat, hke that
of a barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer, an haul home the
main-slicet ; and room before for a hand or two to stand and work
the sails. She sailed with what we call a sliOidder-of-iiiutton sail -
and the boom gibed over the top of the cabin, which lay very snug and
low, and hadiii it room for him to lie, With a slave or two, and a table
to eat on, with some small lockers to'put in some bottles of such
liQi'ior as he thought fit to drink; and his bread, rice, and coffee.

Ve went frequently out with this boat a-fisliing, and as I was most
dexterous to catch fish'for him, he never went without me. It hap-
pened that he had apponited to go out in this boat, either for pleasure
or for fish With two or three Moors of some distinction in that place,
and for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and had therefore sent
on board the boat over-night a larger store of proi'isions than ordinary ;
and had ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder and shot,
which were on board his ship, for that they designed some sport of
fowhng as well as fishin . .

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the next
morning With the boat washed clean, her ancient and endants out,
and everythino to accommodate his ests; when by-an -bymy patron
came on board alone and told me is guests had put of gomg, from
some busniess that fell out, and ordered me, With the man and boy,
as usual, to go out with the boat and catch them some fish, for that
his friends were to sup at his house; and commanded that as soon
as I got some fish I should bring it home to his house: all which I
pre'fiared to do. . _ .

is moment, mly former notions of deliverance darted_into my
thoughts for now found I.was likely to have a little ship at m
comman : and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myse ,
not for fishin business, but fora voyage ; though I knew not, neither
did I so muc as consider, whither I should steer,-anywhere to get
out of that place was my desu'e. .

My first oontrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor,
to get something for our subSisteiice on board- or I told him we
must not presume to eat of our tpatron's bread. He said that was true ;
so he brought a large basket 0 rusk or biscuit, and three Jars of fresh
water, into the boat. .I knew where my patron's case of bottles
stood, which it was endent by the make, were taken out of some
English prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was
on shore, as if they had been there before for our master. . I conveyed
also a at lump of bees-wax into the boat, which weighed above
half a undredweight, with aparcel of twme or thread, a hatchet. a
saw, and a hammer, all of which were of great use to us afterwards,
especially the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him,
which he innocently came into also: his name was Ismae , which
they call Muley, or Moely- so I called to him :--"Moely," said I,
"our patron's guns are on board the boat; can you not ta little
powder and shot? It may be we may kill some alcamies a fowl hke
our curlews) for ourselves. for I know he keeps the gunner's stores
in the ship. "Yes," says he, " I'll brim some ;" and accordingly he
brou lit a great leather pouch, whichbheld a pound and a half of
pow er, or rather more; and another with shot, that had five or six
pounds with some bullets, and put all into the boat. At the same
time, I had found some powder of my master's in the great cabin,
with which I filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was
almost em ty, pouring what was in it into another; and thus fur-
nished Wit eyerything needful, we sailed out of the port to fish.
The castle, which is at the enmmce of the port, knew who we were,
and took no notice of _us; and we were not above a mile out of the
Kort before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish. The Wind

lew from the N.N.E., which was contrary to mK desire, for had it
blown southerly, I had been sure to have made t e coast of Spain,
and at least reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone from that horrid place
where I was, and leave the rest to fate. _

After we had fished some time and caught nothino, forwhen I had
fish on myhook I would not pull them up, that he might not see
them, I said to the Moor, " This will not do; our master will not be
thus served- we must stand farther 05." He, thinking no harm
aweed and bemim the head of the boat set the sails ' and, as I had
the heimLI run t e boat out near a league farther, and then brought
her to as if I would fish; when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped
forward to_ where the Moor was, and making as_if I stooped for some-
thing behind him I tool: him by surprise With in arm under his
waist, and tossed liim clear overboard into the sea. e rose immedi-
ately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken
in, told me he would all over the world With me. He swam so
strong after the boat t t he would have reached me very quickly,
there being but little wind ,- upon which I stepped into. the cabin
and fetching one of the fowhng-pieces, I presented it at him, and told
him I had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him
none: "But," said I, " on swim well enough to reach to the shm
and the seaiscalm; in ethe best of {ourwayto shore, and I

do you no harm; but if you come neart e boat, I'll shoot you through
the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty :" so he turned himself
about and swam for the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached
it with ease, for he was an excellent swmmer. _ _

I could have been content to have taken this Moor With me, and
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him.
When hewas ne, I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and
said to him, " ury, if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a
great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me,"
t at is swear by Mahomet and his father's beard, " I must throw you
into the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so inno-
cently, that I could not distrust him, and swore to be faithful to me,
anallfithall over the _world With me. _ .

_ e I was in View of the Moor that was smmming, I stood out
directly to sea with the boat rather stretching to windward, that they
nnght think me gone towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any one
that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do) : for who
would have supposed we were sailed on to the southward to the trulfi
Barbarian coast, where whole nations of Negroes were sure to surroun
us With their canoes, and destroy us; where we could not go on shore
but we should be .devoured by savage beats, or more merciless
savages of humankind?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east,_ bendin my course a little
towards the east that I miight keep in with the s ore: and hayin a
fair, fresh gale ol' Wind an a smooth, met sea, I made such sail t t
I believe by the next day at three o'c ock in the afternoon, when I
first made the land, I could not be less than one hundred and fifty
miles south of Sallee : quite beyond the Emperor of Morooco's domi-
mons, or indeed of any other lung thereabouts, for we saw no peo le.

Yet such was the fri'ght I had taken of the Moors and the fol
apprehenswns I had 0 falling into their hands, that I would not stop
or"? on shore or come to an anchor; the Wind continui ' .fair till I
h sailed in that manner five days 3 and then the wmd s ting to the
southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase
of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to make to the
coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a httle river, I knew
not what, or where; neither what latitude, what country, what
nation, or. what river. I neither saw, or desired to see any. people;
the nnci al thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into this
cree in t e evemn , resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was
dark, and discover t e count ; but as soon as itwas quite dark, we
heard such dreadful neises o the barking, roaring; and howhng of
Wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that t e r be was
ready to die With fear, and beoged of me not to go on s ore t' day.
"Well, Xui'y," said I, " then Iwon't; but it may be we may see men
ill. day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."--" Then we give

cm the shoot gun," says Xury, laughing, "make them run wey."
Such English I spoke by conversing among as slaves. However
Iwasgladtosce heboysocheerful,and I gavehimadram gutof
our. patron's case of bottles) to cheer him up._ After all, s
advice was good, and I took it: we dropped ourhttle anchor, and y
still all night; I say still, for we slept none; for intwo or three hours
we saw vast t creatures we knew not what to call them) of many
sorts, come own to the sea-s ore and run into the water, wallowm
and washing themselves for the pleasure at coohng themselves; an
they made such hideous howhngs and yelhngs, that I never indeed
heard the hke. .

Xury was dreadfully fnghted, and indeed so was I too; but we
were both more frighted when we heard one of these mighty creatures
come swimming towards our boat' we could not see him, but. we
might hear him by_ his blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious
beast. X said it was a hon, and it might be so for ought I know;
but poor-"ring cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away:
" No," says I, ' Xury; we can slip our cable, with the buoy to it, and
go off to sea; the cannot follow us far." I had no_socner said
so, but I . rceive the creature (whatever it was) Within two oais'
length. w ch something surprised me; however, I immediately
stepped to the cabin-door, and taking up m3 gun, fired at him;
upon which he immediater turned about, an swam towards the

shore .
But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises and hideous cries

and howlin , that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher wit in the country, upon the norse or report of the gun, a
thing I have some reason to behave those creatures had never card
before: this convinced me that there was no gomg on shore for us in
the night on that coast, and how to venture on shore in the day was
another question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of
the savages, had been as bad to have fallen into the hands of hons
and tiggars; at least we were equally a prehensive of the danger of it.

Be t t as it would, we were oblige to go on shore somewhere or
other for water for we had not a pint left in the boat; when or where
to. t it, was the point. X said,_if I would let him go on shore
Wit one of the jars, be you! find if there was any water, and bring
some to me. . I asked him why he would go? wliIv1 I should not .go,
and he stay in the boat? The bo answered wit so much alfection,
as made me love him ever after. ys he, " If Wild mans come, thea
eat me, on go wey."--"We_ Xury," said I, "we will both go an
if the d mans come, we lull them, they shall eat neither of us."
So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of our
patron's case of bottles which I mentioned before; and we hauled
the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper, and so waded
on shore; carrying nothing but our arms, and two Jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat fearing the coming:
canoes with sav down the river - but the bog seem a low p
about a mile up t e country, rambled to it and y-and- y I saw him
come running towards me. I. thought he was pursued by some
savage, or hted With some Wild bent, and I ran forwards towards
himtohelp ;butwhenIcamenearertohim,Isawsomething
hangin over his shoulders,_which was a creature that he had shot,
like afiiare but different in colour, and longer legs: however, _we
were very lad of it, and it was very good meat; but the great Joy
that poor ury came With, was to tell me he had found good water,
and seen no wild mans. .

But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for
water, for a little higher up the creek where we were we found the
water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed but a little we up;
so we filled our jars, and feasted on the bare we had lulled, an pre-
pared to go on our way, haying seen no footsteps of any human crea-
ture in that part of the country. _

As I had been one voyageto this coast before, I knew very well
that the islands of the Canaries and the Ca (19 Verd Islands also,
lay not far off from the coast. But as I b no instruments to take
an observation to know what. latitude we were in, and not exactly
knowing, or at least rememberin , what latitude they were in I knew
not where to look for them or w on to stand off to sea towards them;
othermse I mi ht now easd have found some of these islands. But
my hope was, t_at if I stoo alono this coast till I came to that part
u' new the English traded, I shou (1 find some of their vessels upon
their usual dean of trade, that would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was must
be that country which, lyin . between the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions and the Negroes es waste and uninhabited, except by
Wlld. beasts; the Negroes avmo abandoned it, and gone. farther
south, for fear of the Moors: and the Moors. not thinking it worth
inhabiting, b reason of its barrenness: and, indeed, both forsakin"
it because 0 the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions leopards an
other furious creatures which harbour there. so that t e Moors
use it for their hunting only, where they go like an armv, two_ or
three thousand men at a time: and, indeed, for near a hundred miles
together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste linmliabited
coun by day, and heard nothing but howliiigs and roaring of wild
beasts y night . . .

Once _or twice in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of Tene-
rill'e, being the high top of the Mountain Tenerilfe in the Canaries;
and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching. thither;
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary Winds, the
sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue
my first esign, and keep along the shore.

Several times I was oblige to land for fresh water, after we had
left this place; and once in particular, being early in the morning, we
came to an anchor under a little point of land, which was pretty high;
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xu ,
whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were, calls soft y
to me, and tells me that we had best go farther off the shore; " for, '
sa 3 he, " look yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that

look, fast aslee .". I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful
monster indeed, or it was a terrible great hon that lay on the side of
the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung as it were
a httle over him. " Xury," says I, " you shall go on shore and killway-w" _., ..

normsos canon. 25

him." Xury looked fri hted, and said, "Me kill !. he eat me at one
mouth;" one mouthful _e meant. Howeverfll said no more to the
boy, but bade him he still, and I took our biggest gun, which was
almost musket-bore and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and
with two slugs, and laid it down; then loaded another gun with
two bullets- and the third (for we had three ieces I loaded with
five smaller hullets. I took the best am I co d Wit the first pliece
to have shot him in the head, but be In so With his leg raised a "file
above his nose that the slugs hit his eg about theknee, and broke
the bone. He started up, growling at first, but finding his leg broke
fell down again; and then got up upon three legs, and gave the most
hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a httle surprised that I had
not hit him on the head - however, I took "121 the second piece imme-
diately and though he began to move of, red again, and shot him
in the head and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but httle
noise, but lie struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would
have me let him go on shore. " Well, go,'f said I: so the boy
Jumped into the water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to
shore with the other hand, and coming closeto the creature, put the
muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him in the head again, which
des etched him quite. .

his was game indeed to us, but this was no food; and I was
very sorry to lose three eharges of powder and shot upon a creature
that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury said he would
have some of him; so he comes on board,_ and asked me to give
him the hatchet. " For what, X '?" said I. " Me cut ofi' his
head," said he. However, Xu co_ d not _cut 011' his head, but he
cut off a foot, and brought it wit him, and it was a monstrous great
one.

I betliought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him might
one way or other, he of some value to us; and I resolved to_take 0
his skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work with him; but
Xury was much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill how
to do it. Indeed it took us both up the whole day, but at last we
got off the hideaand spreading it on the to? of our cabin, the sun
fifiectually dried it in two days' time, and it a terwards served me to

e u n.

A ter this, we. made on to the southward continually for ten or
twelve days, hvin ve sparingly on our provisions, which began
to abate very muc , an omg no Mama to the shore than we were
ohh ed for resh water. y design in this was, to make the River
Gain in or Sen that is to say anywhere about the Cape de Verd
where I was in 0 es to meet with some European ship; and if I di
not, I knew not w at course I had to take, but to seek for theislands,
01' Perish thue among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, WWSalled either to the coast of Guinea or to Brasnl, or to
the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and, in a word, I
put the'wliole of my fortune upon this single point, either that Imust
meet With some ship, or must perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I
ha"? Bald. I begauto see that the land was inhabited; and, in two or26 ROBINSON causon.

three places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to
look at us; we could also perceive they were quite b ack, and naked.
1 was once mchned to have. one on shore to them; but Xury was
in better counsellor, and sai to me, " No go, no go." However,
I auled in nearer the shore that I might talk to them, and I found they
ran along the shore by me a good way: I observed they had no weap
SSons in their hands, except one, who had a long slender stick, which

ury said was a lance, and that they could throw them a great way
with d aim ; so I kept at _a distance, but talked With them by signs
as we as 1 could; and particularly made Signs for something to eat;
they beckoned to me to stop m boat, and they'wonld fetch me some
meat. Upon this, I lowered t ie top of my sail, and lay b , and two
of them ran up mtothe country, and in less than half an our came
back, and brought with them. two pieces of dry flesh and some corn,
such as is the produce of their country; but we neither knew what
the one or the other was : however, we were willing to accept it, but
how to come at it was our next dispute for I wo d not venture on
shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us: but they took a
safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore and laid it down
and went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and
then came close to us . .

We made Si of t nnks to them, for we had nothing to make
them amends - at an op . rtumty offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfully: for w e. we were lglng by the shore, came two
mighty creatures, one _pursumg the ot er (as we took it) With great
fury from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell an .more than we could tell whether it was usual or
strange, butl be eve it was the latter; because, in the first place,
those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night; and in the
second place, we found the peop e tembly fmfhted, especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart did not .fly from them,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures'ran directly into the
water, they did not alter to fall upon any of the begroes but plunged
themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if t ey had come for
their dwersron: at last one of them began to come nearer our
boat than at first I effected; but I lay 'ready for him, for I had
loaded my with possible expeditio. and bade Xury load
both the ot ersx As soon as he came fair y within my reach, I
fired, and shot him directly in the head: immediately he sank down
into the water, hut rose instantly, and lunged up and down, as
if he was struvghng for hfe, and so indee he was: he immediatel
made to the s ore; but between the wound,.which was in: no
hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died Just before he reached

the shore. _

It is impossmle to express the astonishment of fie poor crea-
tures, at the name and tire of my gun; some of them were even
ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror - but
when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I
made signs to them to come to the shore they took heart and came,
and began to search for the creature. I found him by his blood stem-maniacs cnusos. 27

ing the water: and by the help of a rope, which I slung round him
and gave the Negroes to haul, the dragged him on shore, and fouu
that it was a most curious leosard, sgotted, and fine to an admirable
degree; and the Negroes hel _up t. eir hands with admiration, to
think what it was I had killed him With. .

The other creature, frighted "'1th the flash of fire and the noise
of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains
from whence they came; nor could I, at that distance, know what it
was. I found quickilyi the Negroes Wished to eat the flesh of this
creature, so I was w ng to have them take it asa favour from me;
which, when I made signs to them that the might take him they
were very thankful for. Immediately they ell to work With him;
and thou h they had_ no knife, _'et, With a sharpened piece of wood,
the too of his skin as re y, and much more readily, than we
con d have done with a knife. The ofi'ered .me some of the flesh,
which I declined, pointing out that would give it them; but made
Signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely and brought me
a great deal more of their roviSions, which, though I did not under-
stand, yet I accepted. I t en made Signs to them for some water, and.
held out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom u ward, to show
that it_was empty, and that I wanted to have it fillc . They called
immediately to some of their friends, and there came two women, and
brought_a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I stymsed in the
sun; this they set down to me as before and I sent my on shore
t ith my jars, and filled them all three. The women were as naked as

e men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and
water; and leaving in friendly .Negroes, I made forward for about
eleven days more, wit out otfering to go near the shore, till I saw
the land run out a eat length into the sea, at about the distance of
four or five leagues efore me; and the sea being very calm, I kept
a large ofi'ing to make this pomt. At length, doubling the int, at
about two 1 Irues from the land, I saw plainly land on. the ot er side,
to_seaward: tien I concluded as it was most certain indeed, that
this was the Cape de Verd and those the islands, called, from thence
Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a great distance, an
1 could not well tell what I had _best to do; for if I should be taken
With a fresh of Wind, I nught neither reach one or other.

In this dilemma, as I was ver pensive I stepped into the cabin,
and sat down Xury having the elm 5 w en, on a sudden, the boy
cried out, " Master, master, a ship With asail ! " and the foohsh boy
was frighted out of his Wits, thmkm it must needs be some of his
master's sin 3 seat to pursue us butI knew we were far enough out
of their reae I Jumped out ol' the cabin, and immediatelf saw, not
only the ship, that it was a_ Portuguese ship; and, as thought,
was bound to_ e coast of Guinea, for Negroes. But, when I ob-
served the course she steered, I was soon convinced they were bound
some other way, and' did not design to come any nearer to the shore:
"D011 which 1 stretched out to sea as much as I could, resolving
to s _a.k With them if possible.

ith all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way, but that they would be gone by before I could
make any signal to them : but after I had crowded to the utmost, and
hegan to des air, they it seems, saw by the hel of their glasses, that
it was some uropean boat, which they suppose must belong to some
ship that was lost; so the shortened sail to let me eome up. I was
encouraged With this, an as I had my patron's anoient on board, I
made a wait of it to them, for a signal of distress and fired a gun.
both which they saw; for they told me they saw the smoke, thpuOIi
they did not hear the gun. Upon. these 31 als they very kindly
brought to, and lay by for me; and in about t hours' time I came
up With them. . _

. They asked me what I was, in Portuguese and in Spamsh and
in_French, but I understood none of them; but, at last, a soots
sailor, who was on _board, called to me; and I answered him, and told
him I was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery
from the Moors, at Sallee - they then bade me come on board, and
verv kindly took me in, and all my goods. . _

It was an inexpreSSible Joy to me, which any one will helieve,
that I was thus dehvered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable
and almost hopeless condition as I was _in ; and I immediately
offered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return_ for my
deliverance; but he agenerously told me, he would take nothing from
me, but that all I h should be delivered safe to me, when I came to
the Brasils. "For" says he, "I have saved your life on no other
terms than I would be glad to be saved myself ; and-it may, one time
or'other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition. BeSides,"
said he, " when I carry 3011 to the Brasils, so great a way from iflour
own country, if I shoul take from you what you have, you w be
starved there, and then I only take away that life I have iven. No,
no," says he; "Seignor Inglese" (Mr. Englishman), " Will carry
you thither in charity, and those things Will help to buy your subsist-
ence there, and your assage home again." _

As he was charitab e in this roposal, so he was Just in the per-
formance to.a tittle; for he or ered the seamen, that _none should
touch anythinv that I had: then he too}: everythm into his own
possessxon, and gave me back an exact inventory 0 them, that I
might have them, even to my three earthen Jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he saw, and told
me he would buy it of me for his ship's use; and asked me what_I
would have for it? I told him, he had been sogenerous to me in
everything, that 1 could not offer to make any price of the boat, but
left it entirely to him: upon whieh, he told me he would give me a
note of hand to pay'me eighty icces of eight for it at Brasil; and
when it came there, if any one o. ered to give more, he would make it
up. He offered me also sixty pieces of eight more fa- my boy Xury,
which I was loath to take; not that I was unwillinfixto'letlthe captam
have him, but I wasyery loath to sell the poor y's hberty, who
had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. However, when
I lethim know my reason, e owned it to be Just, and ofi'ered me this
medium, that he would give the boy an obhgation to set him free inWr .-

nomssozi one son. 20

ten years, if he turned Christian: upon this and Xury saying he was
walling to go to him, I let the captain have im. _ .

We had a very good voyage to the Brasds, and I arrived in the
Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bavhin about twenty-two
days after. And now I was once more dehvered from the most
miserable of all conditions of life; and what to do next With myself I
was to consider. _

The lgeanerous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough
remem r: he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me
twenty ducats for the leopaid's shin, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in mv boat, and caused everything I had in the ship to
be punctually delivered to me; and what I was Willing to sell, he
bought of me; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lam of bees'-wax,--for I had made candles of the rest:
in a word, I m e about two hundred and twenty pieces of ex ht of
all my cargo - and with this stock, I went on shore in the Bras 9.

I had not heen long here before I was recommended to the house
of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio as they call it
(that is, a plantation and a sugar-house). I lived With him some
time, and acquainted myself, by that means, With the inannerof lant-
ing and making of sugar; and seem how _well the planters live , and
how they got rich suddenly, I reso ved, if I could get a hcence to
settle there, I would turn planter among them: resolving, in the
mean time, to find out some way to get my money, which had left
in London, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of letter
of naturalization, I purchased as much land that was uncured as my
money would reach, and formed .a PS13" for my plantation and settle-
ment; such a one as might be suita le to the stock which I proposed
to myself to receive from England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but. born of English
parents whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as I
was. Icall him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next to
mine, and we went on very sociably together. i y stock was but low,
as well as his; and we rather planted for food than anything else,
for about two years: However, we began to increase, and our
land began to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some 'tohaeco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for
plantm canes in the rear to come: but we both wanted help' and

gowi ouiid, more than before, I had done wrong in parting With my
or my.

But, alas! for me to do wrong that never did right, was no
great wonder. _I had no remedy but to no on: I had got into an
emplovment quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the
life I dehghted in, and for which I forsook my father's house, and
broke through all his good advice: nay I was coming into the very
middle station, or uppfir degree of low life, which my father advised
me to before, and w 'ch, if I resolved to go on With, I might as
well have staid at home, and never have fatigued in self in the world,
33.1 had done: and I used often to say to myself, could have done
this as well in England, among my friends, as have gone five thousand30 nonissox CRUSOE.

miles off to do it among strangers and savages, in a wilderness, and
at such a distance as never to hear from any part of the world that
had the least knowledge of me. ' . .

In this manner I used to look upon my condition With the utmost
regret. I had nobody to converse With, but now and then this nei h-
bour; no work to be _done . but by the labour of my hands- an I
used to say, I hved ust like aman cast away upon some desolate
island, that had nobo y there but himself. But how Just has it been;
and how should all men reflect, that when they wmpare their resent
conditions with others that are'worse, Heaven may oblige t em to
make .the exchange, and be conVinced of their former felicity by their
ex enence: I say, how ust has it been, that the truly sohtary life I
re ccted on, in an islan of mere_desolation, should be my lot, who
had so often unjustly compared it with the hfe'which I then led,
in which, had I continued, had, in all probability, been exceeding
prosperous and rich. . .

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that took
me up at sea, went back; for the ship remained there, in providing
his lading, and preparing for his voyage, nearly three months. when,
telling him what httle stock I had .left behind me in London, he gave
me this friendly and Sincere advicez--"Seignor Inglese," says he
(for so he always called me), "if 'ou Will give me letters, and a
procuration in form to me, With or era to the person who has your
mom in London, to send your effects to Lisbon to such persons
as I s all direct, and in such goods as are proper or this count , I
will bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my return: gut
since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have you give orders but for one hundred pounds sterlingfiwhich, {10"
say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the t; so 3, at
if it come safe, you ma order the rest the same way; and, if it
miscorry, you may have t e other half to have recourse to for your
su .'

'l'hi'; was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could
not but be convinced it was the best course I could take; so I
accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman With whom I had
getting money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he

esire .

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures; my slaverv, escape,_and how I had met With the Por-
tugal captain at sea, the humanity of his behaViour, and what con-
dition I was now in,.w1th all other necessary directions for m
supply; and when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he foun
means, b some of the English merchants there, to send over. not the
order on y, but a full account of my sto to a merchant at London,
who represented it effectually to her: w ereupon she not only deli-
vcrcd the money, but, out of her own ocket, sent the Portugal
captain a very handsome present for humanity and charity
to me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in English
goods, such as the captain had written for, sent them directly to him
at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me to the 31181151. among
which, without my direction (for I was too young in m business to
think of them), he had taken care to have all sorts of too non work,
and utensils, necessary for my plantation, and which were of great
use to me.

When this cargo. arrived, I thought my fortunes made, for I was
an rised with the Joy of it; and in 'good stewar the captain, had
lai out the five pounds, which my nend had sent for a present
for himself, to purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond for
six years' semce, and would not accept_of any consideration, except
a little tobacco, which I would have him accept, being of my own

to uoe.
p Neither was this all; for my goods .being all-English manufacture'
such as cloths, stuffs, baize, and things particularly valuable an
desuable in the country, I- found means to sell them to a very great
advan ; so that I might say, I had more than four times the
value 0 m first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond mfv poor
neighbour, mean in the advancement of my plantation- or the
first th' I did, I bought me a Ne slave, and an :European
servant so: I mean another beSides t which the captain brought
me from Lisbon. .

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our

'9 greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went on the next year with

 

. great success in my plantation- I raised fifty eat rolls of tobacco on
my own around, more than I had dis ed 0 for necessaries among
my neigh ours; and these fift rolls, eing each of above a hundre
weight,_ were well cured, and _1d .by against the _retum of the fleet
from Lisbon : and now increasing in busmess and in wealth, my head
began to be full of projects and undertakings ebaiegiiid my reach; such
as are, indeed, often the ruin of the best h in business. Had
I continued in the station I was now in, [had room for all the happy
things to have yet befallen me for which in father so earnest y
recommended a quiet, retired hfe, and of whic he had so sensibly
described the middle station of hfe to be full of : but other things
attended me, and I_was still to be the wilful agent of all my own
miseries; and particularly,_ to'increase my fault, and double the
reflections gun myself, which I}! my future sorrows I should have
leisure to m e,.all those miscarriages were procured b my on arent
obstinate adhering to_my foolish inclination of wan ering a road
and 1)"me that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest views 0
domg mysel good in a fair and plain pursmt of those prospects, and
those measures of life, which nature and providence concurred to
present me with, and to make my duty. _

As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my parents,
so I could not be content now but I must go and leave the happy
new I had of being a rich. and thrivin man in my new plantation,
only to pursue a rash and immoderate esire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down again
into the (lee st gulf of human nusery that ever man fell into, or

grasps co d be consistent with life, and a state of health in the
To come, then, by the just degrees, to the particulars of this
of my story :----You may suppose, that having now lived almost m
years in the Brasils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very well
upon my dplantation, I had not on _learned the language but had
contracte acquaintance and friends galamong whife ow-planters, as
well as among the merchants at St. vador, w 'ch was our port;
and that, in my discourses among them, I had frequently 'ven them
an account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea; t e manner
of trading With the Negroes there, and how easy it .was to pur-
chase upon_ the coast for tnfles--sueh as beads, tovs, knives, scissors,
hatchets, bits of glass, and the like--not only gold dust Guinea grains,
elephants' teeth, &c., but Negroes, for the service of, the Brasils, in
great numbers. _

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but especially to that part which related to the buyin Negroes;
which was a trade, at that time not only not far enter into, but,
as far as it was had been carried on by the assientos, or rmissmn
of the kings of spam and Portugal, and engrossed in the pu lic stock;
so that few Negroes were brought, and those excessively dear.

It happened, being in company With some merchants and planters
of m acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three
of t em came to me the next morning and told me they had
been musmg very much upon what I had discoursed With them of
the last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me;
and, after enJoming me secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to
fit out a ship to go_to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well
as I, and were straitened for notliiii so much as servants' that as it
was a trade that could not he cam on, because they wuld not pub-
licly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they desired to make
but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on. shore privately, and divide
them among theirown lantations; and,'in a word, the question was,
whether I would go t eir supercargo in the ship, to manage the
trading part upon the coast 0 Guinea; and they offered me that I
should have my equal share of the Negroes, Without providing any
part of the stock. ,

This was a faig'froposal it must he confessed, had. it been made
to any one that h_ not had a settlement and a plantation of his own
to look after, wluch was in a fair way of coming to be very consi-
derable, and with a good stock upon it. But for me, that was thus
entered and established, and had nothing to do but to go on as I had
begun, for three or four cars more, and to have sent for the other
hundred pounds from ngland; and who in that time, and With
that little addition, could scarce have failed of being worth three or
four thousand pounds sterhng, and that mcreasmg too--for me to
think of such_a voyage was the most. reposterous thing that ever
man in such circumstances could be guillly of. .

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, couldno more resist
the offer, than I could restrain my first rambhng desr , when my
father's good counsel was lost 11 n me. In a wor , I told them
I would go with all m heart, if t ey would undertake to look after
my plantation in my a ence, and would dispose of it to such as IROBINSOX causes. 33

should direct, if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and
entered into writings or covenants to do so; and I made a formal
will, disposing of my lantation and effects in case of in death,
making the captain of t. e shipfthat had saved my hfe, as be ore, my
universal heir, but oblivmg rm to dispose of my effects as 1 had
directed in my willyonefiialf of the produce being to himself, and the
other to be shipped in England. .

In short, I took all possdile caution to preserve my ed'ects, and
to kee up my plantation: had I used half as much prudence to have
looke into my own Interest, and have made a udgment of what I
ought to have done and not to have done, I ad certainly never
gone away from so prosperous an undertaking, leavmg all the pro-

able views of a_thriv1ng circumstance, and gone upon a voya e to
sea, attended With all its commonhazards, to say nothing 0 the
reasons I had to exgect particular misfortunes to myself.

But I was hurrie on, and obeyed blindl the dictates of my fancy
rather than my reason; and, accordingly, t e slup being fitted out,
and the cargo furnished, and all thmggodone, as by ment, by
mv partners in the voyage, I went on ard in an evil our, the 1st
0 September, 1659, being the same da eight years that I went from
my father and mother at Hull, in or er to act the rebel to their
authority, and the fool to m ' own interest.

Our slup was about one undred and twenty tons burden, carried
six ns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself;
we ad on board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as
were fit for our trade With the Negroes, such as beads, hits of glass,
shells, and other tniies, especmlly little looking-glasses, knives, scissors,
hatchets, and the hke.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to the
northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch over for the
African coast when we came about ten or twelve degrees of northern
latitude, who it seems, was the manner of course in those days. We
had very good weather onlyexcesswcly hot, all the way upon our own
coast, till we came to the height of Ca St. Au ustino; from whence,
keeping further off at sea, we lost sig it of lan , and steered as if we
were bound for the .isle Fernando de Noronha, holding our course
NE. by N., and leaving those isles on the east. In this course we
passed the line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our last
observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern latitude,
when a Violent tornado, or humcane, took us quite out of our know-
led . It began from the southeast, came about to the north-west,
an then settled in the north-east; from whence it blew in such a
terrible manner, that_for twelve days together we could do nothing
but drive, and scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever
fate and the fury of the Winds directed; and, during these twelve
days, I need not say that I expected every day to. be. swallowed up;
nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress we had, beSides the terror of the storm one of our
men die of the calenture and one man and the boy washed overboard.
About the twelfth do the weather abating a little, the master made
an observation as w as he could, and found that he was in about

D

2
eleven degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees
of longitude difference west from Cape. St. Augustina; so that
he found he was upon the coast of main, or the north part of
Brasil, beyond the river Amazons, towards that of the river Oroo-
notfiilie, commonly called the Great River- and.began to consult
wit me what course he should take, for the shi was leaky, and
very} milCh disabled, and he was going directly itch to the coast
0 ras .

I was positively against that; and looking over the charts ofthe
sea-coast of America with him, we concluded therewas no inhabited
country for us _to have recourse to, till we came Within the circle of
the Caribbee islands, and. therefore resolved. to stand away for
Barbadoes; which, by keeping _oll' at sea, to avoxd the m-draft of the
bay or :2qu of Menco, we might easdy Perform, aswe ho ed, in
about fifteen days' sail; whereas we coud not possibl ma e our
voyage to the coast of Africa Without some assistance th to our
shifi/gtnd to ourselves.

iih_this design, we changed our course, and steered awa NW.
by W., in order to reach some of our English islands, where hoped
for relief ; but our vovage was otherwise determined; for, being in
the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetuostty westward
and drove us so out of the way of all human commerce, that bad_all
our lives been saved as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being
devoured by savages, than ever returning to our own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing,t ve hard, one of our men
early in the morning cried out, " Land! ' an. we had no sooner run
out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts iii the
world we were, than the ship struc upon a sand, and in a moment,
her motion beinv so stopped the sea broke over her in _such amanner,
that we cxpccte we should all have perished immediately; and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from
the very foam and spray of the sea. . , _ _

It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condition
to dcscnbe_or conceive the consternation of men in such circum-
stances. \\c knew nothing where we were, orupon what land it Was
we were driven; whether an island or the mam--whether inhabited
or not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind was still great, though
rather less than at first, we could not so much as ope to have
the ship hold many minutes without breaking into pieces unless the
winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn immediately about. In a
word, we sat looking upon one another, and. expecting death every
moment, and every man, accordingly, preparin for another world;
for there was little or nothing more for us to o in this; that which
was our present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was that, con-
trary to our expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the
master said the wind began to abate. _ .

.Now, though we thought that the wind did a litlle abate, yet the
ship having thus struck upon thc_sand and stickingtoofast for us
to expect her getting off, we were in _a dreadful condition indeed, and
had nothing to do but to think of savmg our hves as well as we could.
We had a boat at our_stern just .before the storm, but she was first
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and, in the next place,
she broke away, and either sunk, or was driven of to sea- so there
was no hope from her. We had another boat on board, but how to get
her 03' into the sea was a. doubtful .thing; however, there was no
time to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every
minute and some told us she was actually broken already.

In this distress the mate of our vessel laid hold of t ie boat and
with the help of the rest of the men, got her slun over the ship's'
side; and getting all into her, let go, and committe ourselvans, being
eleven in number, to God's mercy and the Wild sea: for though the
storm was abated consideraglly yet the sea _ran dreadfully high upon
the shore, and might be w called den mid zee, as the Dutch call
the sea in a storm. . . .

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw plainly,
that the sea went so high, that the boat could not live, andt at we
should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none, nor,
if we had, could we have done anything With it; so we worked at
the oar towards the land, though with heavy hearts, like men going
to execution; for we all knew that when the boat came nearer the
shorc, she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the
sea. However we committed our souls to God in the mest earnest
manner; and the wind drivmg us towards the shore, we hastened our
iicseruction With our own hands, pulling as well as we could towards

an .

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether. steep or
shoal, we knew not; the _only hope that could rationally give us the
least shadow of expectation, was, if we might find some bay or ulf,
or the mouth of some river, where by fgreat chance we might are
run our boat in, or got under the lee o _the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. But there was nothing hke this appeared 5 but as we
"Fade nearer and nearer the shore, theland looked more frightful than
t in sea.

After we hadrowed or rather driven about a league and a half,
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-hke, came rolling astem
of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word
it toolrus with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once; and
separating us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us
not huge to say, "0 God!" for we were all swallowed up in a
inomen .

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when
I sunk into the water: for though I swam very well yet I could not
deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave
having driven'me, or rather carried me a vast way on towards the
shore, and havmgafpent itself went bac , and left me qun the land
almost dry, but 1 dead With the water I took in. I ad so much
presence of mind as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the
main land than I expectedi I got upon my feet and endeavoured to
make on towards the Ian as fast as I could, hcfore another wave
should return and take me u again; but I soon found _it was impos-
sible to avonl it; for I saw t e sea gome after me as high as a great

D
hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had no means or strength to
centend with: my business was to hold my .breath, and raise myself
upon the water, if I could; and so. by swnniiiing, to preserve my
breathing and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible, my greatest
concern now being, that the sea, as it would carry me a great way
towards the shore when it came on might not carry me back again
with it when it gave back towards t ie sea. .

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once twenty'or
thirty feet deep in its own body, and 1 could feel myself carried With
a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a very great way;
but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with
all my might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath. when,
as I felt myself raising up, so, to my immediate relief, 1 found my
head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water; and
though it was not two seconds of time that I could keep myself 50,
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was
covered again with water a ood while, but not so long but I held it
out; and finding the water iad spent itself, and began to return,_I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground again
with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to recover breath, and
till the waters went from me, and then took to my heels and ran, with
what strength I had, further towards the shore. But neither would
this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after
me again; and twrce more Iwas hl'ted up by the waves and carried
forwards as before, the shore hem" verv flat.

The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me; for
the sea having. hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rather
dashed me, against a iiece of a rock, and that with such force, as it
left me senseless, an . indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for
the blow taking my Side and breast, beat the breath, as it were, (nite
out of my body; and had it returned again immediately, I must have
been stran le in the water: but I recovered a little before the
return of tie waves, and sceinv I should be covered again with the
water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold
my breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now as the waves
were not so high as at first, being nearer land, I held my hold till
the wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me
so near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over me,
yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the
next run I took, I got to the main land; where to my at;
comfort, I elanibered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me own
upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of the reach of the
water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and
thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was, some
minutes before, scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impOSSible
to expresshto the life, what the ecstaeies and transports of the soul
are, when it is so saved as I may say, out of the very grave: and I
do not wonder now at the custom, when a malefactor, who has the
halter about his neck, is tied upi and inst gong to be turned ofi' and

say.

has a reprieve brought to him; do not wonder that they bring
a surgeon with it, to let him blood that very moment they tell him of
it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the heart,
and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands; and my whole
being, as I may say, wrapt up in a contemplation of my deliverance;
making a thouSand gestures and motions, which I cannot describe;
reflecting upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that there
should not be one soul saved but in sell; for, as for them, I never
saw them afterwards, or any Sign of t em, except three of their hats,
one cap, and two shoes that were not follows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the breach and froth
of the sea being so big, 1 could hardlv see it, it. lay so far off; and
considered, Lord! how was it possible I could get on shore?

After I had solaeed my mind with the comfortable part of my
condition, I began to look round me, to see what kind of place I was
in, and what was next to be done: and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that, in a word. I had a dreadful deliverance: for I was
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink,
to comfort me; neither did lhsce any prospect before ml', but that of
perisliing with hunger, or being devouret by wild beasts: and that
which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to dcten
myself azaiiist an other creature that might desire to kill me for
theirs. In a_ war , I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-
):ipe, and a little tobacco in a box. This was all my provision; and
this threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that, for a while, I ran
about like a madman. Light coating upon me, I began, with a heavy
heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were atiy ravenous
beasts in that country, as at night they always come abroad for their
prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at thattime, was to
get up into a thick bushy tree, like a fir but thorny, which grew near
me. and where I resolved to sit all nig it, and constder the next da
whit. death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life.
walked about a furlont'r from the shore, to see if I could find any
fresh water to drink, Iiich I did to my great joy; and having drank,
and put alittle tobacco in my mouth to irevent hunger, I went to the
tree, and getting_u into it, cndeavoure to place myself so as that if I
should sleep I mig t not fall. And having cut me. a short stick, like
a truneheon, for my defence I took up my lodging; and having been
excessu'ely fatigued, I fell ast asleep, and slept as comfortably as, I
believe, few could have done in my condition, and found myself more
refreshed with it than I think 1 ever was on such an oceaswn.

When I indeed it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not race and swell as before; but that
which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted all in the night
from the sand where she lay, b the swelling of the tide, and was
driven up almost as faras the roe ' which I at first mentioned, where
I had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it. This being

2_2
within about smile from the shore where I was and the ship seeming
to stand upright still, I wished myself on board: that at least I might

save some necessary things for my use. .

When I came down from m apartment in the tree, I looked about
me again and the first thing found was the boat, which lay, _as the
wind an seahad tossed her up, upon the land, about two miles on
my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have

ot to her- but found a neck, or inlet, of water between me and the

t, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back for the

present, bein .more intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped
to find somet g for my present subsistence. .

A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide ehbed
so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship.
And here I found a fresh renewmg of my grief, for I saw endently,
that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe: that is to say,
we had all-got safe _on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to
be left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as. I noijas.
This forced tearsto my e 'es again; but as there was httle relief in
that, I resolved, if possib e, to get to the ship; so I pulled off my
clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the water.
But when I came to the ship, in difficulty was still greater to know
how to get on board; for, as _sie lay aground, and igh out of the
water, there was nothing Within my reachfio lay hold of. I swam
round her tWice, and _the second time I spied a small iece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first, hung down byt e fore-chains
so low, that with great difficulty I ot hold of it, and by the help of
that rope I got up into the forecast e of the ship. Here I found that
the ship was bulged and had a great deal of water in her bold; but
that she lay so on the side of a ank of hard sand, or rather earth,
that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low, almost
to the water. By this means all her quarter was free, and all that
was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my first work was to
search and to see what was spoiled and what was free. And first I
found that all the ship's proVISions were dry and untouched by the
water and being very well disposed to eat, I. went to the bread-room,
and filled Inf Rockets with biscuit, and eat it as I went about other
things, for ad no time to lose. I also found some rum _in the
great cabin of whichI took a large drain, and which I had indeed
need enough of to spirit me for what was before me, how I wanted
nothing but a boat, to furmsh myself With many things which I fore-
saw would he very necessary to me.

_It was in _vain to Sit still andmsh for what was not to be had ; and
this extremity; roused my application. We had several spare yards,
and two or t ree large spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or two
in the shi : I resolved to fall to work With these, and _I flung as
many of t ein overboard as I could manage for their weieht, tying
every one with a rope, that they in} ht not drive away. When this
was done, I went down the ship's S] e and pulling them to me 1 tied
four of them together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of
a raft, and laying two or three short pieces of lauk u n them,
cross-ways, I found I could walk upon it very w but t t it was .
not able to hear any great weight, the pieces being too light. So I
went to work, and. with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare togmast
into three lengths, and added them to my raft, With a great eat of
labour and pains. But the hope of furnishini myself With necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what I shoul have been able to have
done upon another occasion. _

My raft was now stron enough _to bear any reasonable weight.
My next care was what to end it With, and how to preserve what I
laid upon it from the surf of the sea: but I was not long conSiderin
this: I first laid all the plan]: or boards upon it that I could get an
havmg conSidered well what I most wanted, I firstgot three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft; the first of these I filled with provmons,
Viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh
(which we lived much u n), and a little remainder of European corn,
which had been laid by or some fowls which we brought to sea with
us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together; but, to my great disapponitment I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spmled it all._ As for liquors, I tound
several cases of bottles belonoing to our skipper, in which were some
cordial waters; and in all, aboutfive or six gallons of rack._ These
I stowed by themse ves, there being no need to put them into the
chest, nor any room for them. While I was dome this, I found the
tide began to flow, though. very calm; and I had the niortification to
see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on the shore, upon
the sand, 5mm away. As for my breeches, which were only linen,
and open-knee'd, I swam on board in them and in stockings.
However, this set me .on nimmafing for clothes, of w ich I found
enough but tool; no more than wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more uponfi--as, first, tools to work
With on shore. And it was after long searching that I found out. the
carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and
muchnmore valuable than a ship-ladin 0 gold would have been at
that time. I_ got it down to my raft, w ole as it was, without losing
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There. were
two veiy good fowling-pjeces in the great cabin, and two pistols.
These secured first, with some ow er-horns and a small a of
shot, and two old-rusty swords. knew there were three barre s of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two- of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. Those two I got to my raft With
the arms. _And now I thought myself pretty well freighted'hand
be. to think how I should get to shore With them, haying neither
sa oar, or rudder; and the east cap-full of wind would have over-
set all my naVigation.

. I had three encouragements: let, a smooth, calm sea; Emily, the
tide rismg, and setting in to the shore - 3rdly, what little wnnd there
was blew me towards the land. And thus, having found two. or three
broken oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which were
in the chest, two saws, an axe, and a hammer : With this cargo I put
to sea. For a mile .or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that
I found it drive a little distant from the place where_I had landed
before; b which I perceived that there was some mdraft of the
water, an conseqLiently, I hoped to find some creek or river there,
which 1 might ma 'e use of as a rt to get to land With my cargo.

As I ima'vined, so it was. 'here appeared before me a little
opening of tlie land, and I found a strong current of .the tide set into
it; so I guided my raft, as well as I could, to keep in the middle of
the stream. . ' _ '

But here Ihad hke to have suffered a second shipwreck, which,
if I had, I think, verily, would have broke my heart; fornknowmg
nothing of the coast, my raft. ran aground at one end of it upon a
shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it wanted but a little
that all my cargo had slipped 05 towards the end that was afloat, and
so fallen into the water. ' did my utmost, by setting my back against
the chests, to keep them in their places, but could not thrust oil' the
raft with all my strength; neither durst I stir from the posture Iwas
in; but holding up the chests with all my might, I stood in that
manner near half an hour, in which time the .rismg of the water
brought me a little more upon _a level; and, a httle after, the water
still rising, my ratt floated again and Ithrust her 011' With the oar
I had into the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length found
myself in the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, and a
strong current or tide running up. I looked on both Sides for a
refer place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven too
iigi up the river: ho ing, in time, to see some slii at sea, and
therefore resolvcd to p ace myself as near the coast as could.

At length I spied a httle cove on the right shore of the creek to
which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided my raft, and at last
got so near, that reaching ground With my car, 1 could thrust her
directly in. But here I had like to have dipped all my cargo into the
sea again; for that shore lvmg pretty steep--that is to say, sloping,
--there was no dplace to land, but where one end of my float, if it ran
on shore, woul he so high, and the other sink lower, as before, that
it wouldeiidaiiger in cargo again. _All that I could do, was to wait
till the tide was at t 9 highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an
anchor to hold the Side of it fast to tlie shore, near a flat piece of
ground, which I expected the water would flow over; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot of
water, I thrust her on upon that flat piece of ground, and there
fastened or moored her, by sticking my two broken oais into the
ground,---one on one Side, near one end, and one on the other side
near the other end; and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and
left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next'work was to View the country, and seek a pro or place
for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure t em from
whatever might ha mm. W here I'was I yet knew not; whether onthe
continent or an is and; whether inhabited or not inhabited; whether
in danger of wild beasts or not. There was a hill not above a mile
from me, which rose .up very steep and high and which seemed to
overtop some other hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, northward.r'I'.

nonixsox censor. 41

I took out one of the fowlin -pieces, and one ofthe pistols, and a horn
of powder- and thus arm I travelled for discovery as. to the top
of that where after I had with great labour and ifiiculty got
to the top, saw my fate, to mv great affliction VIL, that I was in an
island ermroned on every Side by the sea: no land to be seen except
some rocks, which lagoa great way off, and two small islands, less
than this which lay a .ut three leagues to the west.

1 found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw good
reason to beheve, uninhabited exce t by Wild beats, of whom, how-
ever I saw none. Yet I saw abun ancc of fowls but knew not their
kinds, neither, when I killed them, could I tell what was .fit for food
and what not. At my coming back I shot at a great bird, which I
saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a. great wood. _ I believe it was
the first gun that had been fired there Since the creation of the world.
I had no sooner fired, than from all the parts of the wood there arose
an innumerable number of fowls, of many sorts, making a confused
screaming and crying, every one according to his usual note, but
not one of them of unkind that I knew. As for the creature I
killed, I took it to be a " d of a hawk, its colour and beak resembling
it, but it had no talons or claws more than common. Its flesh was
camon, and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and fell to
work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of that
day: what to do With myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where
to rest, _for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but
some Wild beast might devour me, though, as 1 afterwards found,
there was really no need for those fears. _

However as well as I could, I barricaded myself round With the
chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a'kiiid of
hut tor that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way
to supply myse f except that I had seen two or three creatures, like
hares, run out of the wood where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things
out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and articularly some
of the rigging and sails, and such other things as mig t come _to land;
and I resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel, if possi~
ble. And as I knew that the first storm that blew iiiust necessarilv
break her all in Ipieces, I resolved to set all other things apart, till I
had got every t hing out of the Ski that I could get. Then 1 called
a council--that is to say, in my t oughts--whether I should take
back the raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to go
as before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I stri ped
before I went from my but having nothing on but a chequered s ,
a air of hnen drawers and a pair of pumps on my feet.

~got on board the ship as before, and prepared asecond raft ;_ and,
havmg had. experience of the first, I neither made this so unwieldy,
nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things very use-
ful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two or three
bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-Jack, a dozen or two of
hatchets, and, above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone.
All these I secured, together With several things belonging to the
gunner; particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of
musket bullets, seven muskets, and another fowhng-piece, With some
small quantity of owder more; a large bagful of small shot, and a
great roll of sheet- ad; but this last was so heavy I could not heist
it up to get it over. the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I could find,
and a spare fore~top sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and With
this I loaded my second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to
my very great comfort. .

l was under some apprehension during my absence from the land
that at. least my prowsions might be devoured on shore: but when I
came back, I found no sign ot any visitor ; only there sat. a creature
like a Wild eat, _upon one of the chests, which, when 1 came towards
it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still. She sat very com-
posed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a
iiiind_to be acquainted with me. I presented my gun to her, but, as
she did not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor
did she otl'cr to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit,
though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store was not
great: however, I s ared her a hit, I say, and she went to it, smelled
at it, and ate it, and) looked (as if pleased for more; but I thanked
her, and could spare no more: so she mare ed off. _

Having got my second cargo on shore,----though I was obliged to
open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for the were
too heavy, being large casks,---I went to work to make me a litt e tent,
with the sail, and some poles which I cut for that purpose : and into
this tent 1 brought everything that I knew would s oil either with
min or sun; and I piled'all the empty chests and cas '5 up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from
man or beast. .

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent Wltll some
hoards. Within, and an empty chest set up on end Without ;. and
spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
J'lSt at my head, and my gun at len th_hv me, I went to bed tor the
first time, and 510 t very quietly a nioht for I was vcrv wear and
heavy - for the rug it before I had slept little, and had laboure very
liardhall day, to fetch all those things from the ship, and to get them
on s ore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up,
I believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still, for while the
ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get everghai'ifig
out of her that I could: so every day at low water, I Went on
and brought away something or other; but particularly the third
time I went, I brought away as much of the riggingas I could, as
also all the small r0 es and rope twine I could get, With a piece of
spare canvaSS, wine was to mend the sails 12131011 occaswn, and the
barrel of wet gun wder. In aword, I broug t away all. the sails
first and last; 0 y that I was oblived to cut them in pieces, and
bring as much at a time as I could, for they were no more useful to
be sails, but as mere canvass only. _

But that which comforted me more still. was, that last of all, after
I had made five or six such voy <<res as these, and thought I had
nothing more to expect; from the 5 ip that was worth my meddling
with ;--I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, three
large runlets of rum, or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine
flour: this was surprising to me, because I had given over expecting
any more Browstons, excert what was spoiled by the water. I soon
emptied t e hogshead o the .bread. and wrapped it up, parcel by
parcel, in pieces of the 53115, which I cut out; an , in a word, I got. all
this safe on shore also. .

The next day I made another voyage, and now, havmg plundered
the ship of .what was portable and fit to hand out, I began With the
cables, cutting the great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I
got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could
get; and havnig cut down the spritsail~_\'ard, and theiinizlen-yard, and
crerything I could, to make a large raft, I loaded it with all these
heavy goods, and came away; but my good luck began now to leave
me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so ovorladcn, that aftir I was
entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of .my goods, not
being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and
threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for myself, it_ was no
great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was a
great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I expected would have

con of great use to me: however, when the tide was out, I got most
of the ieccs of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with inti-
nite la our; for I had to dip for it into the water, a work which
fatigued me very much. After this, I went every day on board, and
brought away what I could vet. .

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times

on_board the ship, in which time I had brought away all that one
:ur of hands could well be su posed capable to bring; though I
ehcvc verily, had the calm wcat ier held, I should have brought away
the whole sh}p, piece by piece; but preparing the twelfth tune to go
on board. I ound the wind began to rise: however, at low water I
mm on board, and though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so
effectually that nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a
locker wnli drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three razors,
and one pair of lar e scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good knives
and forks: in anot icr I found about thirty-six pounds value in money,
--some European com, some Brasil, some pieces-of-cight, some gold,
and sonic sdrer. _

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money: " 0 drug!" said I
aloud, "what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me --no,
not the taking 011' the ground: one of those knives is worth all this
heap : I have no manner of use for thee; e'cn remain where thou art,
and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth saving."
I'Ion'cyer, 11 ii second thoughts, I took it away; and wrapping all
m '3 Piece 0 canvass, I began to think of making another raft ; but.
while I was pre :m'ng this, [found the sky overcast, and the wind
bcgan to use an in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh _galc trorn
the shore. It presentl occurred to me, that it was in vain to pro-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore; and that it was my buSi-
ness to be gone before the tide of flood began, otherwise I mightnot
be able toreach the shore at all. Accordingly I let myself down into
the water, and swam across thechannel whic lay between the ship
and the sands, and even that With difficulty enough, partly With the
weight of the things I had about me, and. artly from the roughness
of the water; for the Wind rose very hast y, and before it was quite
hi h water it blew a storm. _ _

ut I had got home to my little tent, where 1 1a , With all my
wealth about me very secure. It blew verv hard all t t night, and
in the morning, when I looked out, behold no more slii was to be
seen! I was _a httle surprised but recovered myself Wit this satis-
factory reflection, that I had lost no time, nor abated any dili eiice,
to dget everything out of her that could be useful to me; an that
in eed, there was little left in her that I was able to bring away, if I
had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anythino out
of her, except what might drive on shore from her wreck; as, indeed
divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were of small
use 0 me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself
against either savaves, if any should appear, or Wild beasts, if any were
in the island; and, I had many thoughts of the method how to do
this, and what kind of dwelling to make--whet her I should make me
a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth: and, in short, I resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which, it may not be
unfroper to give an account of. .

soon_ found the place I was in was not fit for my settlement
because it was upon a low. moorisli ground, near the se and I
believed it would not be wholesome, and more particularly ecause
there was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to find amore healthy
and more convenient 3 ct of ground: . _

I consulted several t ings in mv situation, which I found would be
Era or for me: Ist, health and fresh water, I Just now mentioned:

n y, shelter from the heat of the sun: 3rdly, security from raven-
ous creatures, whether men or beasts: 4thly, a View to the sea, that
if God sent any ship in Sight, I might not lose any advantage for my
deliverance, of which I was not wrlhng to banish all my expectation
yet. . . . .

In search of a lace proper for this, I found a httle plain on the Side
of a rising hill, w ose front towards this little plain was steep as a
house-Side, so that nothing could come down upon me from.the top.
On the side of the rock there was a hollow filace, worn a httle way
in, like the entrance or door of a cave; but t ere was not really any
cave, or way into the rock, at all. _

On the flat of the green, Just before this hollow dplace, I resolved
to (pitch my tent. '1' iis plain was not above a bun red yards broad,
an about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door; and,
at the end of it, descended irregularl every way down into the low

round by the seaside. It was on t e N.N.W. side of the hill; so
t at it was sheltered from the heat every day, till 115. came to a W. and
by S. sun, or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is nearthe setting.
Before I set 11 my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow
place, which too in about. ten yards in its semi-diameter, from
thfiirock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and
en 118- . . . .

In this half~circle I. itched two rows of strongustakes, drivmg
them into the ground t they stood very firm like lies, the biggest
end being out of the ground above five feet and a-li f and sharpened
on the top. The two rows did not stand above Six inches from one
not er.

Then I took the pieces of cable which _I had cut in the ship, and
laid them in rows, one upon another, Within the circle, between these
two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing otherstakes in the inSide,
leaning oainst them, about two feet and athalf high, hke a spur to a
post; arid this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could
get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of tune and labour
especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, an
drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door, but by a
short ladder to goover the top; which ladder, when I was in, I lifted
over after me; and so I was com letely fenced in and fortified, as I
> thought, from all the world an consequently slept secure in the
ight, which otherwise I could not have done; though, as it appeared
t, , terwards, there was no need of all this caution from the enemies

that I ap lreheuded danger from. '

Into t [18 fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my
.5. riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have
..' the accountabove; and I made a larve tent, which, to reserve mo
. from the rains, that in one part of the year are very v10 out there, I
~' made double, one smaller tent within, and onehlarger. tent above it -
- and covered the uppermost With a large tarpaulin, which I had save
among the sails. . _

V And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought
on shore but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and
belonged to the mate of the ship. _ ' _

Into this tent I brought all my pror'ismns, and everything that
would sp011 by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my goods, I
made up the entrance which till now I had left open, and so passed
and repassed, as I sai , by a short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock and
bringing all the earth and stones that I_dug down out through my
tent I .laid_ them up within my fence, in the nature of a ten-ace,
so that it raised the ground withm about afoot and a lialf - and thus
I made me a cave, Just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house.

It cost me much_labour and many days before all these things were
brought to erfeetion; and therefore 1 must go back to some other
things whic took :3) some of my thoughts. At the same time it
happened, after I h laid my scheme for the setting up m .tent, and
making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a t ick, dark
cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened and after that, a great
Clap of thunder, as is naturally the cheat of it. I was not so much

.3
surprised with the lightnino, as_Iwas with a thought which darted
into my mind as swi t as t e 11 htning itself: 0 my powder! My
very heart sank Within me when thought that at one blast all my
powder might. be destro ed; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing me food, as thought, entirely depended. I was nothin'
near so anxious about my own danger, though, had the powder took
fire, I should never have known who had hurt me.

Such inipressmn did this make upon menthat after the storm
was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and
ap ilied myself to make bags and boxes, to separate the wder,
an to keep it a httle and a little in a parcel, in ope that w1atever
might come, it mioht not all take fire at once; and to keep it so
apart, that it should not be pOSSible _to make one art fire another.
I finished this work in about a fortnight- and I t 'ik my powder,
which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight was
divided into not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that
had been wet, I did not apprehend any danwer from that; so I
placed it in my new cave, whic , in my fancy, I called my kitchen; and
the rest I hid up and down in holes among the rockshso that no wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was domg, 1 went out once at
least every day with my gun, as well to divert m 'self as to see if I
could kill anything fit for food; and, as near as could to acquaint
myself with what the island produced. The first'tiine Iwent out, I
presently discovered that there were goats in the island which was a
great satisfactionto me; but then it was attended With this misfor.
tune to me, viz., that they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot
that it was the diliicultest thing in the world to come at them; but I
was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now and then
shoot one, as it soon happened; for after I had found their haunts a
little, I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed if they saw me
in the valleys, thoughthey were u on the rocks, they would run
away, as in a terrible fright; but if t ey were feeding in the valleys
and l was upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence
concluded that by the pOSIthll. of their optics, their sight was so
directed downward, that the did not_readilfv see obiects that were
above them; so afterwards, took this met iod,----I always climbed
the l:'ocks first, to get above them, and then had frequently afair
mar .

The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat
which had a little kid by her. which she ve_snck to which grieve
me heartily; for, when the old one fell, t ie kid stood stock still .b
her, till I came and took her up' and not only so but when I came
the old one With me, upon.my shoulders, the kid followed me quite
to my enclosure; upon which, I laid down the dam, and took the kid
in my arms, and carried it over my ale, in hopes to have bred it up
tame; but it would not eat- so was forced to kill it, and ate
it myself. These two suppliedme with flesh a great. while, for I eat
sparingly, and saved my provisions, my bread especially, as much as
possibly 1 could. ' . .

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely necessary to<<'11,. "up "WWI? L'M'M;Iefln' "'

~.w.as-u--;'C/.:Wxxri

 

nosissox causes. 47

rovide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to burn; and what I did
Y=or that, as also how 1 enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I
made, I shall give a full account of in its place; but I must now
give some little account of myself, and of my thoughts about hvmg,
which, it mafiswell be supposed were not. a few.

I had a ' mal prospect of, my condition, for as Iwas not cast
away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a Violent
storm, quite out of the course of our intended voyage, and a great
way, viz., some hundreds of leagues, out of the ordinary course of
the trade of mankind, I.had great reason to consider: it as'a determi-
nation of Heaven, that in'this desolate place, and in this desolate
manner, I should end my life. The tears would run plentifully down
my face when I made these reflections; and sometimes I would
expostulate With myself why Providence should thus completely ruin
its creatures, and rendcr'them so absolutely miserable~ so Without
help, abandoned, so entirely de ressed, that it could hardly be
rational to be thankful for such a fe. .

But something always returned SWlft_ upon me to check these
thoughts, and to regrove iiie- and particularly, one day, walking
with my gun in my and, by the sea-Side, I was very penswe upon
the subject of in present condition, when reason, as it were ex 05-
tulated With me t ie other way, thus: " Well, you are in a cso ate
condition, it is true- but, pray remember where are the rest of you?
Did not you come eleven of you mto the heat? Where are the ten?
Why were not they saved, and you lost ? Why were you singled out?
Is it better to be here or there?" And then I pointed to the sea.
All erils are to be considered with the good that is in them, and with
what worse attends them.

Then it occurred to me again how well I was furnished for my
subsistence, and what would have heen my case if it had not happened
(which was a hundred thousand to one) that the ship floated from
the place where she first struck, and was driven so near to the
shore that I had time to get all these thin out of her; what would
have been my case, if I had been forced to ave lived in the condition
in which I at first came on shore, without necessaries of life or
necessaries to supply and procure them? " Particularly," said I,
aloud (though to_ myself , what should I have done without a gun,
without ammunition, Wit out any tools to make anythin , or to work
with, Without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner 0 covering."
and that now I had all_these to suflieient quantity, and was in a fair
way to prov1de myself in such a manner as to live Without my gun,
when my ammunition was spent: so that Iliad a tolerable view of
subSistin , without any want, as lon as I lived; for I considered,
from the ginnin , how I would provi e for the accidents that might
happen, and for t e time that was to come, even not only after my
ammunition should be spent, but even after my health and strengt
should decay.

I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my ammunition being
destroyed at one blast,--I mean my powder being blown up by hght-
ping and this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me, when
it lightened and thundered, as 1 observed just now.48 3031x5011 causon.

. And_now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of
Silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before,
I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It
was, by in account, the Elm of e tember, when, in the manner as
above sai , I first set foot upon t horrid island; when the sun
bein to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost 'ust over uiy head:
for reckoned myself, by observation, to be in t e latitude of nine
defiees twentv-two minutes north of the line. _ .

ter I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my
thoughts that'I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days; but to
prevent this, I cut with my knife upon a large post, in ca ital
etters; and making it into a ireat cross, I set up on the shore w iere
I first landed, "I came on s
1659." .

Upon the Sides of this square post I cut every day a notch with
my knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as that lon one; and thus
it. kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and year y reckoning of

me.

In the next place, we are to observe that among the many things
which I broug t out of the ship, in the several voyages which as
above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things 0 less value, but
not at all less useful to me, which I omitted settin down before; as,
in particular, ens, ink, and paper; several arce s in the captain's,
mate's, gunner s, and carpenter's keeping; t tea or four com asses,
some mathematical instruments dials, perspectives, charts, an books
of navigation- all which I huddled together, whether I might want
them or no: also I found three very good Bibles, winch came to me
in_my cargo from England, and whic I had packed up amon my
things; some Portuguese books also - and, among them, two or t rec
Popish prayer-books, and several other books,_ all which I carefully
secured. And I must_not forget, that we had in the_ ship a dog, and
two cats, of whose eminont histogol ma have common to say some-
thin in its placc' for Icarried _ th he eats With me; andas for
the 0g he jumped out of the ship of lumself, and swam on shore
to me the day alter I went on shore n'ith m firstcargo, and was :i
trusty servant to me many years- I \vante nothing that he could
fetch me, nor anv company that he could make ii to me; Ionly
wanted to have him talk to me, but that woul not do. As I
observed before, I found ens, ink, and pa r, and I husbanded them
to the utmost; and I 51:11] show that w '19. my ink lasted, Ikfift
things very exact, but after that was gone 1 could not, for I co d.
not make any ink by any means that I could devise. '

And this ut me in mind that I wanted many things, notmthstand-
ing all thatI had amassed together- and of these, ink was one; as
also a spade, pick-axe, and shove , to dig or remove the earth;
needles, pins and thread: as for linen, I soon learned to want that
without much difficulty. _ .

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily; and it
was near a whole year before 1 had entirely finished my little pale, or

ore here on the 30th of September,.i'
.3

 

nonissox causos. 49

surrounded m habitation. The pilesor stakes, which were as heavy
asI could we lift, were a long tune in cutting and preparing in the
woods, and more, by far, in brmging home; so thatI spent some.-
times two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts and
a third day in driving it into the ground; for which purpose, I got
a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last betlionght myself of one.
of the iron crows - which, however, though I found it, made driving
those sts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what,
need have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I had
to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had I any other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee, except
the rai'iiging the island to seek for food, which I did, more or less,
every av. __ .

I nowbegan to consider serious] my condition, and the eircnm-

'. stances I was reduced to; and I rew up the state of my afiairs in

writing, not so much to leave them toany that were to come after
me, for I was likely to have but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts

from daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind: and as my
.' reason began now to master my des ondency, I. began to_comfort
. myself as well as I could, and to set t ie good against the eVil, that I

 

might, have something to distinguish mv case from worse; and I
stated very. impartially, like debtor and creditor,--tlie comforts I
enjoyed against the miseries I suffered, thus :--

Evu. Goon.

I am. cast upon a horrible, de- ButIam alive; and not drowned,
solate island, vaid of all hope of as all my ship's company were.
recovery.

I am singled out and separated, But I am singled out too, from
as it _wcre, from all the world, to all the ship's crew, to he spared
he miserable. from death- and he that miracu-

lously saved me from death, can
. . _ deliver me from this condition.

I am _dmded from mankind,-- . But I am not starved, and pe-
a solitaire; one banished from risking on a barren place, afford-
hnman seeiety. in no sustenance.

I have not clothes to cover . utIaminahot climate,where,
me. if I had clothes, I could hardly

_ wear them.

I am Without any defence, or But I am east on an island
means to resist any Violence of where I see no wild beasts to hurt
man or beast. me as I saw on the coast of Africa:

:tiLid what if Ihad been shipwrecked
ere .

I_ have no soul to speak to, or But God wonderfufly sent the
relieve me. ship in near enough to the shore,

that I have got out as many ne-
cessary things as Will either supply
my wants, or enable me to. supply
myself, even as long as I hve.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there was
scarce any condition in the world so miserable, but there was some-
thing negative, or something positive, to be thankful for in it: and let
this stand as_a direction, from the experience of the most miserable
of all conditions in this world: that we may always find_m it some-
thing to comfort ourselves from, and to set, inthe description of good
and evil, on the credit aide of the account. _ _ ,

Having now brought my mind a little to rehsh my condition, and
given over looking out to sea, to see if I could spya ship,--I say, givm
over these things, I began to apply myself to arrange my way 0
living, and to make things as eas to me as I could.

' I have already described my ha itation, which was a tent under the
side of a rock, surrounded with a strong fale of posts and cables;
but I might now rather call it a wall, for raised a kind of wall up
against it of turfs. about two feet think on the outside: and after
some time I think it was a year and a-half I raised rafters from it,
leaning to t. e rock and thatched or covere it with bouEhs of trees
and such things as I wuld get, to keep out the rain; 17 ich I found
at some times of the year very violent.

I have already observed how I brou lit all my a into this pale,
and into the cave which I had made be d me. at I must observe,
too, that at first this was a confused heap of which, as they
lay in no order, so they took 11 all my place; hadno room to turn
myself: so I set myself to e arge in cave, and work farther into
the earth- for it was a_loose sandy me which 'elded easily to the
labour I bestowed on it: and so when I found was prett safe as
to beasts of prey, I worked Sideways, to the right hand into t e rock;
and then turning to the right ' ' worked quite out, and made me
a door to come out on the outSi e o my pale or fortification.

This gave me not only e and regress, as it w" a back-way
gong tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to store my
And now I began to apply. 11:15:" to make such 11 thin as
I found I most wanted, partic 1y a chair and a table; or wit out '
these I was not able to emoy the few comforts I had in the world; I
could not write, or eat, or do several thi with so much pleasure,
Without a table : so I went to work. And ere I must needs observe,
"12:31:: reason is the snuggling origin of this 1mathematics; so by
s an eve reason, an making 1: e mos
rational judgsi'iient of things, evg. yman may be, in time master of
every mechanic art. 1 hadnever andled a tool in my life; and yet,
in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I found, at last that
I wanted nothing but I could have made it, especially 1; I had had
tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without tools;
and some With no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which
fierhaps were never made that way before, and that with infinite

hour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to
cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either
side with my axe,.till I had bro ht it to be thin as a plank and then
dub it smooth with my adze. t is true, by this method I could
makebutone boardoutof a whole tree; but thisth noremedyRobinson Crusoe, to observe his rcckuuing of time, crccts :1 large cross, and
thereby distinguishes the Sabbaih from his working-days.
for but patience, any more than I had for the rodigious deal of time
and labour which it took me up to make a p ank or board: but my
time or labour was little worth, and so it was as well employed one
way as another. .

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed above in
the first place; and this I did out of the short pieces of boards that
I brought on mv raft from the ship. But when I had wrought out
some boards as above, I made large shelves, of the breadth of a foot
and a half, one overanother all along one Slde of my cave, to lay all
my tools nails, and iron-work on; and, in a word, to separate every-
thin at large into their places, that I nu ht come easily at them. I
knoc ed pieces into the wall of the roe to hang my guns and all
things that would hang up: so that had my cave been to be seen, it
looked like a general magazine of all necessary things; and I had
everything so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to
see all my goods in such order, and especuilly to find my stock of all
necessaries so great. _

And now it was that I began to keep _a Journal of every day's
employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and
not only hurry as to labour, but in too much diseom sure _of mind;
and my journal would have been full of many all things: for
example, I must have said thus, "Sept. 30/11.--After I had got to
shore, and had escaped drowning, instead of being thankful to God
for my deliverance having first vomited With the great quantity of
saltwaterwhich had got into my stomach, and recovering myself a little,
I ran about the shore,wringiu my hands and beating my head and face ;
enclaiming at my misery, an crying out, 'I was undone, undone! '
till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground to repose;
but durst not sleep, for fear of being devoured."

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship, and
got all that I_could out of her, yet l_could not forbear getting up to
the top of a httle mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing
a ship; then fancy, at a vast distance I spied a sail. [ilease myself
with the hopes of it, and then after loolrmg steadily, till. was almost
blind, lose it guite, and Sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly. . .

But havmlg gotten over these things in some measure, and having
settled my ousehold stuff and habitation, made me a table and a
chair, and all as handsome about me as I could, I began tohkeep my
Journal; of which _I shall here give 'ou the cepy.(though in it Will. be
told all these articulars over againl as long as it lasted; for hai'ing
no more ink, was forced to leave it elf.

THE JOURNAL.

SSC/Plcmber 30, 1659.----I, r, miserable Robinson Crusoe being
Shlpwrecked, duringa dreadfiilo storm, in the olfin , came on 5 mm on
this dismal, unfortunate island, which I calle ." The Island of
Despair" all the rest of the ship's company being drowned, and '
myself a 0st dead. '

_ All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at the dismal
circumstances I was brought to, 2via, I had neither food, house,

a
clothes, wea n, nor place to fly to : and, in despair of any relief
saw nothing ut death before me: either that I should be devoure
by wild beasts, murdered b savages, or starved to death for wantof
food. At the a prozieh o mght I slept_in a tree, for fear of wild
creatures; but 5 e t soundly, though it rained all night. _
0clober I.--_In t e morning I saw, to my great surprise, the shi
liad floated With the high tide, and was driven on shore again inuc
nearer the island ;' which as it was some comfort on one_ hand, for
seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped if the wind
abated, I might get on board, and get some food and necessaries out
of her for my relief ; so on the other hand, it renewed my ricf at the
loss of my comrades, w it), I imagined, if we had all staye on board,
might have saved the ship, or, at least, that they would not have been
all drowned, as they were; and that, had the men been saved, we
might perha s have built us a boat, out of the ruins of the ship, to
have carrie us to some .other part of the world. I spent great
part of this day in perpleiun myself on these things; but, at length,
seeing the ship almost dry, went upon the sand as near_as I could,
and I en swam on board. This day also it contniued raining, though
With no wind at all.
_ From the 1st of October to the 24th.--All these davs entirely spent
in many several voyages to. et all I could out of the ship, which I
brought on shore every ti e of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also
mthe days, though With some intervals ot fair weather; but it seems
this was the rainy season.

0ct._20.:--I overset my raft and all the goods I'had got upon it;
but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I reco-
vered many of them when the tide was out. ,

Qet. 25.71t rained all night and all day, with some gusts of wind;
during which time the ship broke in pieces, the wind hlowmg a little
harder than before, and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of
her, and that onlv at low water. I s iit this day in covering and
:ficurmg the goods which I had save , that the rain might not spOil

cin.

Oct. 26.--I walked about the shore almost all day, to find out a
place to fixmy habitation, greatly concerned to secure myself from
any attack in the night, either from Wild beasts or men. Towards
night,_I fixed upon a proper place, under a rock, and marked out a
semicucle for my encampment; which I resolved to strengthen with
a work, wall, or fortification, made of double piles, lined Within With
cables, and Without with turf. ,

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my
goods to my new habitation, though some part of the tune it rained
exceedinglyhard. .

The 3lst in the mormng 'I went out into the island with my gun,
to see for some food, and discover the country; when I killed a she-

oat, and her kid followed me home, which I afterwards killed also
cause it would not feed.

November 1.----I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for the
first night- makoiiefi it as large as I could, With stakes driven in to
swmg my llamm upon.. .v . r--w'm.'vswm--------_'

nonrxsox cnuson. 53

Nov. 2.--I sctrggsall in; chests and boards, and the pieces of timber
which made my , an With them formed a fence round me, a little
within the place I had marked out for m (ortification. _

Nov. 3.--I went out With in gun, an killed two fowls hke ducks,
which wfire very good food. the afternoon went to work to make
me a ta e.

Nov. 4.--This morning I began to order my times of work, of going

out with my Gun, time of sleep, and time of diverswn; viz, eve
morning I walked out With my gim for two_or three hours, if it di
not rain; then employed myself to work till about eleven o'clock;
then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve till two I lay down
to slee , the weather being excesmvel hot; and then, in the evening
to wor again. 'I'he working part 0 this day and of the next were
wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet but a very sorry
workman, though time and_nccessuy made me a complete natural
mechanic soon_atter, as I believe they would do any one else.
' Nov. 5.7This day, went abroad with my gun and in dog and
killed a Wild cat; her skin pretty soft but her flesh (food or nothing;
every creature that I killed I took cite the skins an preserved them.
Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of sea-fowls, which
I did not understand; but was. surprised, and almost frightened, with
two or three seals, which, while I was gazing at, not well knowmg
what they were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.

It'ov. 6.--After my morning walk, I went to work With my table
again, and finished it, though not to my liking; nor was it long before
I learned to mend it. .

lion. 7 .-----Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 8th 9th,
10m, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday), 1 took wholly
up to make me a chair, and With much ado brought it to a tolerable
shape, but never to please me; and even in the making I pulled it in
pieces several times. . , .

hoter-I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting my
mark for them on ma post, I forgot which was which. .

Nov. 13. --This ay it rained, which refreshed me exceedingly,
and cooled the earth - _but it was accompanied with temblc thunder
and lightning, which lriglited me dreadfully, for fear of my powder.
its soon as it was over, I resolved to separate my stock of powder
auto as many little parcels as possible, that it might not be in

an. r.

Jtov. 14 15, 16.--fl'hece_ three days I spent in making little square
chests, or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or two'pounds at
most, of powder; and so, putting the powder in I stowed it in laces
as secure and remote from one another as possible. On one 0 those

three days I. killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not
what to call it.

Nov. 17.--This day I began to dig behind my tent into the rock, to
make room for my further conveniency. _ .

'Note.-Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, "2., a
pickaxe a shovel, an a wheelbarrow, or basket - so I desisted from
my Wor and began to consider how to an ply that want, and make
me some tools. As for the pickue, I m e use of the iron crows,

3.2
which were proper enough, though heavy; but the next thing was a

shovel, or s ade; this was so absolute y necessary, that, indeed, I

gafld do not'liing edectually Without it; but what kind of one to make
new not.

Nov. 18.---The.nex.t day, in. searching the woods, I found a tree
of that wood, or hke it, which, in the Brazils, the call the iron-tree,
for its exceeding hardness; of this, with great abour, and. almost
spoiling my axe I cut a piece, and brought it home, too, With difli-
culty enough, l'or it was exceeding heavy. The excessive hard-
ness of the wood, and my having no other way, made me a Iona
while upon this machine, for I worked it effectually, by little an
little, intothe form of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly shafied
like ours in England, only that the board part having no iron 5 od
upon it at bottom, it would not last me so ong; however, it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to; but
nc'lfiln was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long in
ma 3.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or a wheelbarrow. A
basket I could not make by any means, havinrr no such things as
twigs that would bend to make wicker-ware--at feast, none et ound
out; and as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make al but the
wheel; but that I had no notion of -, neither did I know how to go
about it; besides, I had no posSible way to. make the iron gudgeous
for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in; so I ve it over, and
so, for carrying awa the earth which I dug out of t e cave, I made
me a thing hke a ad, which the labourers . mortar in, when
they serve the bricklayers. This was not so cult to me as
the making the shovel; and gift this and the shovel, and the attempt
winch I made in vain to m e a wheelbarrow, took me up no less
than four days, I mean always excepting my morning walk .w1th my
gun, which I seldom failed, and very sel om failed also bringing home
somethin lit to eat. ,

Nov. 2' .----My other work having now stood still, because of my
makin these tools, when they were finished I went on, and working
every y, as my. strength and time allowed, I spent ei hteen days
entirely in Widemng an deepening my cave, that it mtg t hold my
goods commodiousgfi. . _ _

Note-During this time, I worked to make this room, or .cavc,
spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse, or in me, a
kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar. As for my lodging kept to
the tent; except that sometimes in the wet season of the year,- it
rained so hard, that I could not lreep myself dry, which caused me
afterwards to cover all my place within my pale w'itli long poles, in
the form of rafters leanin . against the rock, and load them with flags
and large leaves of, trees, he a thatch. '

December 10.--I u now to think my cave or vault fimslied,
when'on a sudden it seems I had made it too large) a great

nautity of earth fell down from the top and one si e; so much
t t, in short it fri hted me, and not without reason, too; for if I
had been under it, had never wanted a ve-di r. I had now
agreat deal of work to do over again, for had e loose earth to
carry out; and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling to
pro; up, so that I might be sure no more would come down.

an. 11.--This.day went to work With it accordingly, and got two
shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of boards
across over'each post ;_ this finished the next day- and setting more
posts up With boards, in. about a week more I ha the roof secured -
and Ithe posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions to part off

e ouse.

Dec. 17.----From this day to the 20th I placed shelves, and knocked
up nails on the posts, to hang eveaything _up that could be hung up;
and now I bean to be in some or er Within doors.

Dec. 20.--fiow I carried everything into the cave and began to
furnish my_house, and set up some pieces of boards hire a dresser, to
order my victuals upon; but boards began to be very scarce With me:
also I made me another table. _ .

Dec. 2-'L.----Mu_ch rain all mght and all day: no stirring out.

Dec. 25.--Rain all' day.

Dec. 26.--No rain, and the earth much cooler than before, and
pleasanter. _

_ Dec. 27.7Killed a young goat, and Iamed another so that I caught
it, 9nd led it home in a string; when I had it at home, I bound and
sphntered up its 1 , which was broke. '

N.B.------I took we care of it that it hved and the leg grew well and
as strong as ever; but by m nursm it so long it grew tame, alld fed
ulpon the little green at my . 001', an would not go. away. This was
t e first time that I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame
ereatgires, that I might have food when my powder and shot was all
spcn .

Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31.--Great heats, and no breeze, so that there was
no stirring abroad, except in the evening for food; this time I spent
in utting all m things in_order Within oors. '

anuary l.-- e hot still; .but I went abroad early and late with
my 11, and lay st in the middle of the day. This evening, gain
fart er into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island,
found there were plenty of goats, thou h exceedingly shy, and hard to
come at; however, I resolved to try ' I could not bring my dog to
hunt them down. _

Jazz}. 2.~--Accordingly, the next day I went out With my dog, and
set him u n the goats; but I was mistaken, for they all faced about
uponttfihe cg, and he knew his danger too well, for he would not come
near em.

Jan: 3.---I began my fence, or wall; which, being still jealous of
my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and

stron .

iii--This wall being described before, I purposely omit what was
said in the Journal; it is sufficient to observe that I was no less time
than from the 3rd of January to the l-tth of April working, finishing,
and perfectin this wall, though it was no more than about twenty-
four yards m ength, being a half-circle, from one place in the rock to
another place aboiit eight yards from it, the door of the cave being in
the centre behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many days,
nay sometimes weeks, together; but I thought I_ should neveij be
perfectly secure till this wall was finished ; and it _is scarce credible
what inexpressible labour everythin was done With, as ecially the
brin ' gdpiles out of the woods, an driving them into t e ground;
for Igiha e them much biggler than I needed to have done. _

When this wall was tinis .ed and the outSide double-fenced, With a
turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if any people
were to come on shore there they would not perceive anythin like a
habitation; and it was ve well I did so, as may be observ here-
after, upon a very remarka le occasron. _

During this time I made in; rounds m the woods for_game every
day, when the rain perinitte me, and made frequent discoveries in
these walks of something or other to my advantaggedparticularly I
found a kind of wild pigeons, which build, not as w -pigeons in a
tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and taking
some ouno ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so;
but w en fliey'grew older they flew away, which perhaps was at first
for want of fee 111deg them, forI had nothing to give them; however,
I frequently found, their nests, and got their young ones, which were
verygood meat. And now, in the managing my household affairs,
I found myself wanting in many thinvs, which 1thou lit at. first it
was imposmble for me to make; as, indeed, with some 0 them it was:
foi instance, 1 could never make a cask to be hooped. I had a small
runlet or two, as 1 observed before but I could never arrive at the
capacity of mak ng one by them, though I spent many weeks about
it; I could neither put in the heads, or Join the staves so true to one
another as to make them hold water- so 1 Save that also over. In
the next place, I was at a great loss fhr can les; so that as soon as
ever it was dark, which was generally by seven o'clock I was obliged
to go to'bed. I remembered the lump of becs'-wax with which I made
candles in my African adventure; but 1 had none of that now; the
only remed I_had was, that when I had killed a float I saved the
tallow, an _ With a little dish made of clay, which baked in the
sun, to which Iadded a wick of some oakum 1 madame alam ;
and this gave me h ht, though not a clear stead light like a can e.
In the middle of . my labours it hafipened tiat, rummaging m
things, I found a httle bag, which, as I mted before, had been fille
With corn for the feeding of poultry--not for this voyage but before,
as I suppose when the ship came rom Lisbon. The little remainder
of corn t .at had been in the bag was all devoured With the rats and I
saw nothing in the bag but bush: and dust; and being Willingto
have the _ . for. some other use (I think it was to put powder in,
when I le1 ed it for the fear of the lightning or some such use),
I shook the husks of corn out of it on one Side of my fortification,
under the rock. '

It was. a httle before the great rains Just now mentioned that I
threw this stutl' away, takin 'no notice, and not so much as remem-
bering thatlhad thrown anyt in there, when about a month after, or
thereabouts, I saw some few 5 . .ot' somet green shooting out
of the ground, which I fancied might be some p ant 1 had not seen;
but I was surprised and perfectly astonished, when, after_a little
lonoer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which were

figfih eln barley, of the same kind as our European-may, as our
' ar ey. . .

lgt is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion pt: my
thou lits on this occasion- I had hitherto acted upon no religious
foun ation at all; indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my
head, nor had entertained any sense of anything that had bel'allcn
me, otherwise than as chance, or, as we lightl say, whatpleases
God, without so much as inquiring into the end 0 Prowdence in these
thinws, or his order in governing events for the world. But after I
saw ai-ley grow there in a climate which I'lrnew was not proper for
corn, and especially that I knew not how it came therehit startled
me strangely, and I began to suggest that God had miraculously
caused his grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and that
11-1 was so directed purely for my sustenance on that Wild, miserable
p ace.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes
and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature should
happen upon my account; and this was the_ more strange to me,
because I saw near it still, all along by the Side of the rock, some
other stragglin stalks, which proved to he stalks of rice and
which I knew, cause I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was
ashore there. . _

I not only thought these_the ure productions of Prondence for
my support, but not doubting t iat there was more in the place, I
went al over that part of the island where I had been before, peerin
in every corner, and under every rock, to see for more of it but
could not find an '. At last it occurred to may thouchts, thatI shook
a bag of chickens meat out in that place,.an then I{he wonder began
to cease; and I must contests, my religious thankfulness to God's
providence began to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this was
nothing but what was common; though I ought to have beenas
thankful for so strange and unforseen a providence as if it had been
miraculous; for it was really the work of I'rovidence to me, that
should order or apgoint that ten or twelve as of corn should remain
unspotle when t e rats had destroyed the rest, as if it had been
dro ped rem heaven 5 as also,'that I should throw it out in that par-
ticu_ ar place, where, it being in the shade of a lush rock, it sprang
up immediately; whereas, 1 I had thrown it anywhere else, at that
time, it had been burnt up and destroyed. .

I carefully saved the ears of this on you ma be sure, intheir
season which was about the end .of one; an , laying up every
com, I resolved to sow them all again, hoping, in time, to have. some
guantity, sufficient to sup ly me with bread. But it was not till the

ourth year that I could ow myself the least grain of this corn .to
eat, and even then but sparing , as I shall say afterwards, in _its
order; for I_ lost all that 1 sowe the first season, by not observing
the proper time; for I sowed it just before the dry season, so that it

never came u at at least not as it would have done: of which in
its place. p all,
Besides this barley, there_were, as above, twen or thirty stalks
of rice, which I preserved With the same care and or the same use
or to the same purpose, 'to make me bread, or rather food; for I
found ways to cook it Without baking, though I did that also after
some time.

But to return to.my Journal :--

I worked excesswely hard these three or four months, to get my
wall done; and the 14th of April, I closed it up, contriving to go into
it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there might be
no sign on the outside of my habitation.

April 16,--1 finished the ladder; so I went up the ladder to the
top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down in the inside:
this was a complete mclosure to me; for Within I had room enough,
and nothing could come at me from Without, unless it could first
mount my wall. _

The very next day after this wall was fimshed, I had almost had all
my labour overthrown at. once, and in 'self killed; the case was thus:
--As I was busy in the inside, behind in tent, Just at the entrance
into my cave, I was terribly frighted wit a most dreadful surprising
thing indeed: for, all on a sudden, I found the earth come crumbling
down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my
head, and two of the posts I had set 11 in the cave cracked in a
frightful manner. I was heartily scare ; but thought nothing of
what was really the cause, on] thinking that the to? of my cave was
fallen in, _as some of it had one before: and for ear I should be
buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe
there neither, I t_over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill
which I expecte might roll down upon me. I had no sooner stepped
down upon the firm ground, than I plainly saw it was a terrible earth-
quake; for the ground I stood on shook three times at about eight
minutes' distance with three such shocks as would have overturned
the strongest building that could be supposed to. have stood on the
earth, an a great piece of the to of a rock, which stood about half
a mile from me, next the sea, fell own, With such a terrible noise as
I never heard inlall my life. I erceived also the very sea was put
into Violent motion by it- and believe the shocks were stronger
under the water than on the island.

I was so_ much amazed with the thin itself, having never felt the
like, nor discoursed with any one that , that I was like one dead
or stupified; and the motion of the earth made in stomach sick,
like one that was tossed at sea; but the noise of t e falling of the
rock awaked me as it were, and musing me from the stupitied con-
dition I was i filled me With horror, and I thought of nothing then
but the hill fal ng upon m _tent and all my household goods, and
Burying all at once ; and t sunk my very soul Within me a second
ime.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time,
I began to take courage; and yet I_had not heart enough to go over
my wall again, for fear of bein _buried alive, but sat still upon the
ground greatly cast down and isconsolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while, I had not the least serious rehgious thought; nothingROBINSON 030502. 59

but the common "Lord have mercy upon me!" and when it was over,
that went away too. . .

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and w cloudy, as if
it would rain; soon after that, the wind arose by ttle and httle, so
that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful humcaue: the
sea was, all one sudden, covered over With foam and froth; the shore
was c0vered With thelbreach of the water- the trees were torn up by
the roots - and a temble storm i_t wu. 'Ilhis held about three hours,
and then began .to abate; and in two hours more it was quite calm,
and began to ram very hard. All this while I set upon the ground,
very much terrified and dejected; when on a sudden it came into my
thoughts that these Winds and ram being the consequences of _the
earthquaire, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might
venture into my cave again. _With this thought, in spirits began to
revive; and the rain also helping to persuade me, went in and sat
down in my tent; but. the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready
to be beaten down With it; and I was forced to into my cave,
though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it s ould fall on my
head. This Violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a hole
through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the Water go out,
which would else have flooded my cave. After I had been in my cave
for some time, and found still no more shocks of the earthquake
follownl befianto he more composed. And now to. support my 5 irits,
which mdee wanted it ve much, Iwent to my httle store, an took
a small Six of rum - whic however, I did then and always veil'y
sparingly owing I could have no more when that was gone. t
continue raining all that night, and great art of the next day, so
that I could not stir abroad; but my mind mg more composed, I
began to think of what I had best do; concluding, that .If_ the island
was suhyect to these earthquakes, there .would be no hving for me
in a cave, but I must consider of buildm a little but in an open
place, which I might surround with a w , as I had done here,
and so .make mdyself secure from Wild beasts or men 5 for I con-
eluded. if I; stai where I was, I should certainly, one time or other,
be buried alive.

With these tho hts, I resolved to remove my) tent from the_place
where it now stoo which was ust under the. angin precipice of
the hill; and whic if it shoul be shaken again, woul certainly fall
upon my tent: and spent the two next days, being the 19th and
20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove my habitation.
The fear of bemiswallowed up alive made me that I never sle t in
quiet; and yet t e apprehension of lyin abroad Without any ence
was almost equal to it: but still, when I ooked about and saw how
everything was put_in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, and how
safe from danger, it made me ver loath to remove. In the mean-
time, it occurred to me that it wo d require a vast deal of time for
me to do this, and that I must be contented to venture where I was,
till_I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured it so as to remove
to it. $0 With this resolution I composed myself foroa time; and
resolved that Iwould to work with all s ed to build me a wall
with piles and cables, ., in a circle, as be ore, and set my tent up
in it, _when it wasfiuishcd; but that I would venture to stay where I
was till it was finished, and fit to remove. This was the 213t.

April 22.--Th_e next morning I began to eonSider of means to
put this resolve into execution; but I was at a great loss about my
tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for we
carried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians) but with much
choignng and cutting knottv hardwood, they Were all full of notches
and ull, and though I had a grindstone, I could not turn it and
grind my tools too. This cost me as much thought as a statesman
would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a 'udve u ion
the life and death of .a man. At length, I contrived a w eel, Wit 1 a
istging, to turn it With my foot, that I might have both my hands at
i crty.

Note--I had never seen any such thing in England, or at least
not to take notice how it was done, though smce l have observed it
is very common there ;. beSides that, my grindstone was very large
and heavy. This machine cost me a full week's work to bring it to
perfection.

Apri128, 29._--These two whole davs I took up in grinding my
tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well,

April 3O.--Hav1ng perceived in bread had been low agreat while,
now I took a survey of it, and re uced myself to one biscuit-cake a
day, which made my heart very heavy. _ _ _

Ma l.----In the morning, looking toward the sea-Side, the tide hemg
low, saw somctlung he on the shore bi%ger than ordinary, and it
looked like a cask; when I came to it, I ound a. small barrel, and
two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on
shore by the late hurricane; and lookin towards the wreck itself I
thought it seemed to lie hivlier out of t e water than it used to do.
I examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found it
was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on shore
for the presenttand went on upon the sands, as near as I could to the
wreck of the ship, to look for more. .

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed. The
forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up at least 511:
feet, and the stern which was broke in ieces and parted from the
rest b the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging her, was
tusse as it were, up, and cast on one side; and the san was thrown
so high on that Side next her stern that whereas_tliere was a great
place of water before, so that_I could not come Within a quarter of a
mile of the wreck Without svnmming, I could now walk quite up to
her when the tide was out. I was surprised With this at first, but
soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake; and as b this
violence the slur was more broke 0' en than formerl , so. many t mi:
came daily on s me, which the sea ad loosened, an which them
and water rolled by decrees to the land. . .

This wholly diverted? my thouvhts from the chign of remqvmg my
habitation, and I buSied myself mightily, that day especiallfy, in
searching whether I could make an way into the ship; but I ound
nothing was to be expected of that d, for all the inside of the ship
was choked "f with sand. However, as I had learned not to dcs air
of anything, resolved to pull even'thinw to pieces that I coul of
the ship, concluding that everything I co d get from her would be of
some use or other to rne. .

May 3.-I began With my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through,
which I thought held'some of the up r part or quarter deck together
and when I had cut it .through, I c cared away the sand as well as
could from the stde which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was
obliged to we over for that tune.

Ma 4.-- went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat.
of, t' I was weary of. my srilort; when, just going to leave 09', I
caught a vounhfi dol hm. I ad made me a long hne at some rope-
yarn but I no ooks; yet _I fretetrrently caught fish enough, as
angel: as I cared to eat; all which I led m the sun, and eat them
Ma 5.----Worked on the wreck - out another beam asunder, and
broug t three great fir-planks oil" from the decks, wluch I tied
together, and made to float on shore when the tide of flood came on.

May (tr-Worked on the wreck; got several iron bolts out of her,
and other pieces of ironwork - worked .very hard, and came home
verv much tired, and had thoughts of ginng it over.

Jllay 7 .----Went to the wreck again, not_ with an intent to work, but
found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down, the beams being
cut- that several pieces of the ship seemedto he loose, and the inside
of the hold lay so open that I could see into it, but it was almost
full of water and sand.

May 8.--Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench
up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water or sand. I
wrenched open two planks, and brought them on shore also With the
tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck for next day.

May 9.-Went to the wreck, and With the crow made way into the
body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them with the
crown but could not break them up. I felt alsoa roll of English lead,
and could stir it, but it was too hea to remove.

_May]0----.14-.--Went everyday tot e wreck; and got a great mang
pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and two or three hundrc

weight of non. .

May15.--I carried two hatchets, tot if I could not cut a piece
at? the roll of lead, by placing the edge 0 one hatchet, and driving it
With the other; but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I
could not make andv blow to drive the hatchet.

- .7l[a 16,--It ha blown hard in the mwht, and the wreck appeared
more mken by the force of the waterfbut I stayed so long in the
woods, to get pigeons for food, that the tide prevented my gems to
the wreck that y. .

3101/ J7.--I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a
great distance, near two miles off me, but resolved to see what they
gem, and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to

ma0 away. .

a 24-.--Every day to this day, I worked on the wreck ; and with
hard hour 1 loosened some things so much With the crow, that the
first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's
chests; but the wind blowmg from the shore, notliino came to land
that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which had some Brazil
pork in it, but the salt water and the sand.liad spoiled it. I con-
tinued this work every day to the 15th oi: June, except the time
necessary to get food, which I always appomted, during this part of
my employment, to be when the tide. was up, that I_ might be ready
w en it was ehbed out: and by this time I had got timber, and plank,
and iron-work, enough to have built a good boat, ll: I had known how;
and also_I got, at several times, and in several pieces, near one hun-
dred weight of the sheet-lead. .

June 16.--Going down to the sea-side, I found a large tortOise, or
turtle. This was the first I had seen, which, it seems, was only my
misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity; for bad I ha -
pened to be on the other Side of the island, I might have had liuiidrc
of them ever ' day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear
enough fort em. _ _ _

J1me 17.---I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three score

gs; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury and
p easant that ever I tasted in my life having had no flesh, but of
goats and fowls, since I landed in this iorrid Blace. .

J1me 18,--Rained all day, and I stayed wit u._ I thought, at this
time, the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly; wlueh I knew
was not usual in that latitude. _ _

J1me 19,--Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been cold.

J1me 20.--No rest all night - Violent pains in my head, and feverish.

J1me 21.--Very ill 5 frighted almost to death With the apprehen-
sions of my sad condition,--to bc Sick, and no help: prayed to God
for the first time since the storm ofi' Hull, but scarce lmew what I
said, or why; my thoughts being all confused. '

_ {we 22.--A httle better; but under dreadful apprehensions of
are 'ness.

J11m83.--Very had again; cold and shivering, and then a violent
headache.

J1me 24-.--Much better. .

June 25.--An <<rue very Violent: .the fit held me seven hours; cold
fit, and hot, with aint sweats after it.

June 26.--Better; and havmg no victuals to eat, took my gun, but
found myself very weak: however, I killed _a she-goat, and With much
difficulty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. I would fain
have stewed it and made some broth, but had no pot.

J1me 27.--Tlie agile train so violent that I lay a-bed all day, and
neither ate nor drank. was ready to perish for tlurst; but so weak,
I had not strength .to stand up or to get myself any water to drink.
Prayed to God again but was light-headed; and when I was not, I
was so imorant that I knew not what to say; only I lay and cried,
" Lord, look ugon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me !"
I sup se I di nothing else for two or three hours; till the fit wear-
ing 0 , I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night. When I
awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but .weak, and exceedinv
thirsty; however, as I had no water in my habitation, I was force
to lie till morning and went to sleep again. In this second sleep, I
had this terrible dream: I thought that I was sitting on the ground,
on the outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the
earthquake, and that I saw anion descend from a rent black cloud,
in a bright flame of fire, and light u on the groun : he was all over
as brivht as a flame, so that I can] but Just bear to look towards
him: iis countenance was most mexpressmly dreadful, impossible for
words to describe; when he steppcd'uplon the ground wit 1 his feet, I
thought the earth trembled, ust as it ad done before in the earth-

uake, and all the air looke to my apprehensxon as if it had been
filled with flashes of fire. lle was no sooner landed upon the earth,
but he moved forward towards me, With along spear or weapon in his
hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, at some-dis-
tance, he spoke to me,--or I heard 8 mice so terrible that it is
inipOSSible to_express the terror of it. . All that I can say I under-
stood, was this :---"Sccinw all these things have not brou ht thee to
repentance, now thou shall. die ;" at which words, I thong t he hfted
up the spear that was in his hand. to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account will expect. that I should
be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision. I
mean, that even_while it was a. dream, I even dreamed of those
horrors. Nor is it any more possible to describe the impresswn that
remained upon my mind when I awaked, and found it was but a

dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowled . What I had received by the
good instruction of my father was t en worn out by an uninterrupted
series, for ewht years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant cou-
versation With none but such as were like myself, Wicked and profane
to the last d . I do not remember that I had, in all that time,
one thought t at so much as tended either to looking upwards towards
God. or inwards towards'a reflection upon my own ways; but .a
certain stupidity of soul, Without desue of good, or conscience of evil,
had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all that the most hardened,
unthinking, wicked creature among our common sailors can be sup-

oscd to be: not haying the least sense .either of the fear of God, in
Sanger or of thankfulness to God, in de iverance. _

In the relating what is ahead past of my story, this Will be_the
more easily believed, when 1 sh add, that through all the variety
of miseries, that had to this day befallen me, I never had_so much as
one thought of _it being the hand of God, _or that it was a Just punish-
ment for my Sin. _My rebelhous behaViour against my 'father,---or
my present sins, which were great,-or so muc an a punishment for
the general course of my wicked life. When I was on the desperate
expedition on the desert shores of Africa I never had so much as
one thought _of what would become of me, or one Wish to God. to
direct me whither I should go, or to keep me from the danger which
apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel
sava es: But I was merely thoughtless of a God or a Proi'idencc,
acte like a mere brute, from the JIHDCIDICS of nature, and by the
dictates of common sense only, an , indeed, hardly that. When I
was delivered and taken up at sea by the Portugal captain, well used,
and dealt justly and honpurably witn as well as charitably, I had not
the least tliaiikfulness in my thouvlits. . When, again, was ship-
wrecked, ruined, and iii dapger of drowning, on this island, I was as
far from remorse, or looking on it as a Judgment. I only said to
myself often, that I was an unfortunate og, and born to be always
miserable. _

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found all mv ship's
crew drowned, and myself spared, I was s rised with a. kind of
ccstacy and some transports of soul, which, ad the cc of God
asswted, might have come up to true tliankfulness; ut it ended
where it began, in a mere common flight of Joy, or, as I mav say,
heinc glad I was alive, without _the least reflection upon the distin-
gulslled goodness of the hand which had preserved me and had singled
me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed, or an
inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful unto me. Even Just the
same common sort of joy which seamen generally have, after they
are got safe ashore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all
the rest of my life was like it. Even when I was, afterwards, on due
consrderation, made senSible of my condition, how I was cast on this
dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of
relief, or Bmspect of redemption, as soon as I saw but a prospect of
living, an that} should not starve and perish for hunger, all the
sense of mv afllietion wore off ; and I began to be very easy, ap lied
myself to the works proper for my preservation and sup ly, an was
far enough from being afflicted at my condition, as a ju gment from
Heaven, or as the hand of God against me: these were thoughts
which very seldom entered my head. .

The growing up of the com, as is hinted in my Journal, had,'at
first, some little influence upon me, and began to affect me With
seriousness, as long as I thought it had something miraculous in it;
but as soon as ever that art _of the thought was removed, all the
impression that was raised rom it wore off also, as I have noted already.
Even the earthquake, thou li nothing could be more terrible in _its
nature or more immediate y directing to the invisible power which
alone directs such things, yet no sooner was the first fright over, but
the impression it had made went of also. I had no more sense of
God, or His Judgments--much less of the present afiliction of my
Circumstances being from His hand--than if I had been in the most
prosperous condition of life. But now, when I began to be sick, and
a leisurely View of'the miseries of death came to place itself before
me; when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a strong
distemper, and nature was exhausted with the Violence of the fever;
consc1ence, that had slept so long, began to awake, and I began to
reproach myself With my past life in.which I had so evidently, by
uncommon Wickedness, provoked the Justice of God to .lay me under
uncommon strokes, and to deal With me in so vindictive a manner.
These reflections o pressed me for the second or third da of m
distemper; and in t e violence, as well of the fever as of the dreadf
reproaches of my conscience, extorted some words_from me like
praying to God, though 1 cannot say they were either a prayer
attended with desires or with hopes. It was rather the voice of mere
fright and distress. My thoughts were confused, the_eon7ictions great
upon my mind, and the horror of, dying in such a miserable condition
raised vapours into in head With the mere apprehension; and in
these homes of my so , I knew not what in tongue might express.
But it was rather exclamation, such as, " rd, what a miserable
creature am I 1 If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for want of
help; and what Will become of me?" Then the tears burst out of
my eyes, and I could say no more for a good while. In this interval,
the good adnce of my father came to my_mind, and presently his
prediction .which I mentioned at the beginning of this story, Viz.
that if I did take this foolish step, God would not bless me, and I
would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there mirrht be none to aSSist in my recovery. " Now "
said I, aloud, "my dear father's words are come to pass, God's
justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me. I
rejected the voice of .Providence, which had mercifully put me in a
gesture or station of hfe wherein I might have been liap y and easy ;

ut I would neither see it myself, or learn to know the gessmg o it
from my parents. I left them to mourn over my folly and now I am
left to mourn under the consequences of it. I refused their help and
assistance, who would have htted me in the world, and would have
made everything easy to me. And now I have difficulties to struggle
with, too great for even nature itself to support, and no asswtanec,
no hel , no comfort, no .adi'ice." Then I cried out, "Lord,be my
hel , or I am in great distress." This was the first prayer, if I may
cal it so, that I had made for many years.

But to return to my Journal :- .

Jufle 28.----Havnig been somewhat refreshed With the sleep I had
had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up; and though the fright.
and terror of 113 dream was very great, yet I considered that the fit
of the ague wo d return again the next day and now was in time
to "ct something to refresh and support myself when I should ill:
an the first thing I did I filled a large square case-bottle with water,
and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed; and to take ofi' the
chill or aguish disposrtion of the water,I put about a. quarter of a
pint of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I got me a piece
of the at's flesh and broiled it on the coals, but could eat ver
httle. walked about, but was veryweak and withal very sad an
heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable .condition, dreading the
return of my distemper the next (In . At night, I made my supper
of three ofthe turtle's eggs, which roasted in the ashes and eat,
as we call it, in the shell, and this was the first bit of meat I had eyer
asked God's blessmg to, that I could remember,in my whole life.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak, that I
could hardly party a gun, for I never went out Without that, so I
went but a httleway, and sat down upon the ground, looking out
upon the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and smooth.
As I sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred to me ;--what is
this earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Wlience is it
produced? And what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and

r
tame, human and brutal? thnce are we? Sure we are all made
by some secret power, whoformed the earth and sea, the air and sky.
And who is that? Then it followed most naturally, it is God that
has made all. Well, but then, it came on stranaely, if God has made
all these things, He guides and governs them aIl and all things that
concern them; for the power that could make all things must
certainly have power to guide and direct them. If so, nothing can
happen in the great circuit of His works, either without His know-
le go or appointment. _ _

And if nothing happens without His-knowledwe, He knows that I
am here, and am In t is dreadful condition; and if nothin ha pens
without his appointment, ,He has appomted all this to cf me.
Nothing occurred to my thought, to contradict any of these conclu-
sions, and therefore it rested upon _me with the greater force, that it
must needs be that God had appointed all this to befal me; that I
was brought into tlus miserable circumstance by His directio He
having the sole power not of me onlv, but of everything that ap-
pcncd in the world. Immediately it l'ollowcd,--Why has God _done
this to me? What have I done to be thus used? My conscience
presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed, and
iiiethought it spoke to me hke a voice, " Wreteh! dost [lion ask what
thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful miss out life, and ask
thyself, what thou hast not done? Ask, why is it t iat thou wert not
long ago destroyed? Why wert thou .not drowned in Yarmouth
Roads- killed in the fitrht when the ship was taken by the Sallee
man-o -war; devoured liy the wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or
drowned here, when all the crew perished but th 'sclf? Dost Mou
ask, what have I done 2'" I was struck dumb wit these reflections,
as one astonished, and had not a word to say,---no, not to answer to
myself, but rose up pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and
went up over my wall, as if I had been gouig to ed; but my
thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no iiichnation to sleep; so
I'sat down in my chair, and lit'hted my lamp, for it began to be dark.
IVow, as thc_apprehensiou of the return of my distemper terrified me
very much, it occurred to mv thought, that the Brazdians take. no
physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers, and I had a piece
of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite cured, and
some also that was green, and not uite cured: _

I went, dLrected by Heaven. no (doubt, for in this chest I found a.
cure both for soul and body. I o cried the chest, and found what I
looked for, the tobacco- and as tie. few books I had saved la there
too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before, an which
to this time I had not found leisure or inclmatio to look into. I
say, I took it out, and brour'ht both that and the to acco with me to
the table. What use to male of the tobacco I knew not, in my dis-
temper, or whether it was good for it or no- but I tried several
experiments with it, as if I was resolvcd it _should hit one way or
other. I first took a piece of leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which,
indeed, at first, almost stusified my brain, the tobacco being green
and strong, and that I ha not been much used to. Then I took
some and steeped it an hour or two msomc rum, and resolved to take
a dose of it when I lay down; and, lastly, I burnt some upon a pan
of coals-and held my nose close over the smoke of it as lon as I
could bear ithas well for the heat, as almost for sufi'ocation. n the
interval of this operation .I took up the Bible, and began to read, but
my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading,
at least at that time- only, havmg opened the book casually the first
words that occurred to me were these. "Call on me in the day of
trouble, and I Will dehver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." These
words were very apt to my case, and made some impression upon my
thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much as the

did afterwards; for, as for being delivered, the _word had no sound, as I
may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossrble in my appre-
hension of things, that I began to say, as the children of Israel did

i - when they were promised flesh to eat "Can God .spread atable in

 

the wilderness?" so I began to say, '7' Can God himself deliver me
from this place?" And as it was not for many years that any hopes
appeared, this prevailed 'very often upon my thouOhts: but, however,
the words made a great impression upon me, andFI mused upon them
very often. It w now late, and t ie tobacco had, as I said, doped
my head so muci that I inchned to sleep; so I left my lamp bum"?
in the cave, lest I should want anything in the nivht, and went to be .
But before I lay down, I did what I never had dbnein all my life; I
kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that if
I called upon him in the day of trouble, he would dehver me, After
my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in which
I had steeped the tobacco- which was so stronoiand rank of the
tobacco, that I could scarcely get it down; immediately upon this I
went to bed. I found presently it flew up into mv head Violently;
but I fell into a sound 5 eep, and wakcd no more till, b ' the sun, it
must necessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon t e next day:
nay, to this hour I am partly of o inion, that I slept all the next day
and night and till almost three t c day after; for otherwzse, I know
not how Isliould lose a day out of m reckoning in the days of the
week, as it appeared some years after had done; for if I had lost it
by crossm and rccrossing the Line, I should have lost more than
one day; at certainly I lost a day in my account, and never knew
which way. Be that, however, one way or the other _when I awaked
I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my sEmtshvel and cheer-
ful; when I got up, I was stronger than Iwas t e day be ore, and my
stomach better, for I was hungry; and in short, I had no fit the next
day". but continued much altered for the better. This was the 29th.

'lhe 30th was my well day, of course, and _I went abroad with my
gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a sea-fowl or two,
something like a brand goose, and brought them home; but was not
very forward to eat them . so I eat some more of the turtle's eggs,
which were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine, w rich
I had su posed did me good the day before, the tobacco steeped in
rum; 0! y I did not take so much 3 before, nor did I chew any of
"'8 leaf, or 110111 my head over the smoke; however, I was not so well
the next da , which was the lst of July, as I hoped I should have
been; for I a httle spice of theqeold fit, but it was not much.

1? ~.
July 2.--I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and closed
myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I drank.

i/Il/I 3,--I missed the fit for good and all though I did not recover
my fi 1 strength for some weeks after. While Iwas thus gatherin
strength my thoughts ran exceedinglfv upon this seri ture, " I W1
deliver thee ;" and the imposibilityo my deliverance y much upon
my mind, in bar of my cverhexpecting it; but as I was discouraguig
myself With such thoughts, it occurred.to my mind that I pored so
much upon my deliverancei'rom the main affliction, that I disregarded
the deliverance Iliad received; and I was. as it were, made to ask
myself such questions as these, viz.: Have I not been delivered, and
wonderfully too, from sickness? from the most distressed condition
that could he, and that was so frightful to me? and what notice had
I taken of it? Had I done my part? God had delivered me, but I
had not glorified Him? that is to say, I had not owned and been
thankful for that as a deliverance: and how could I expect greater
deliverance? This touched my heart very much; and immediately I
knle'lt down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recOvery from my
sic ness.

July 4.--In the morning, I took the Bible; and beginning at the
New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed upon my--
self to read awhile every morniiio and every night- not tyiii myself
to the number of chapters, hut asaloug as my thoughts shoul engage
me. It was not long aftcrI set seriously to this work, .till I found
my heait more deeply and Sincerely alfeeted with the wickedness of
my iast life. .The impression of my dream revived; and the words,
" A these things have not brought tlieeto repentance}: ran seriously
in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to give me repent-
ance, when it happened providentially the very day that, reading the
Scripture, I came to these words, "lie is exalted a Prince and a.
Saviour to give repentance and to give remission." I threw down
the book; and with my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven,
in a_kiud of ecstasy of Joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of
David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repent-
anee !" This was the first time I could say, in the true sense of the
words, that I pmved in all my life; for now I prayed with a sense of
my condition, and With a true scripture view of hope, founded on the
encouragement of the word of Go ; and from this time, I may say, I
began to have hope that God would hear me.

how I began to construe the words mentioned above, " Call on me,
and I Wlll deliver thee," in a dill'erent sense from what I had ever
done before; for then I had no notion of anything being called
(Io/irerwlce, but my being delivered from the captivity I was in . for
though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was certainly
a rison to me and that in the worst sense in the world. But now
I earned t_o ta 'e it in another sense: now I looked back upon my
past life With such horror and my sms appeared so dreadful that my
soul sought nothing of God but deliverance from the loa of guilt
thatbore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was
nothing ; I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think
of it; it was all of no consrderation, in comparison to this. And I
add this part here, to hint to whoever shall_ read it that whenever
they come to a true sense of things, they Will find deliverance from
sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from afihction.

But, leavmg this part, I return to my Journal :-- .

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my
ay of living, yet much easier to in mind: and my thoughts being
.-.. irected, by a constant reading the n'fture and rayinlg,r to God, to
1_ hings of a higher nature, I had a great eal of com ort Within, which
lj ill now, I knew nothing of ; also my health and strength returned,
3" estirred myself to furnish myseli with everything that I wanted, and
' make my way of livin as regular as I could. _ .

'7 From the 4th of J y to the lith, I was chiefiy_employed_in walk-
. ug about with my gun in my hand, a little and a httle _at a time, as a
'- ' ian that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness: for it

' hard] ' to be imagiined how low I was, and to what weakness I was
educe . The ap ) cation which I made use of was perfectly new
, iid pcrha s which had never cured an ague before; neither can
, ccomnien it to any one to practise, by this experiment : and though
_ tdid can of the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakenmgme;
t or I had requeiit convulsions in my nerves and limbs for sometune;
" learned from it also this, in particular, that being abroad in the
aiiiy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could
e, espeCiall in those rains which came attended with storms and
urricancs 0 wind; for as the rain which came in the dry season was
most, always accompanied With such storms, so I found that rain
' 'as ilhuch more dangerous than the rain which fell in September and
' t cto er.

-- I .had now been in this unhappy island above ten months; all
ssibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely
.. : 'en from me; and I firmly believed that no human shape had
- 'ery set foot 131% that place. Having now secured my habitation,
: I thought, f y to my mind, I had a great desne to make a more
_rt'ect discovery of the island, and to see what other productions I
ght find, which I yet knew nothing of. '

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular
Irvee' of the island itself. I went u the creek first, where, as I
lite , I brought my rafts on shore. found after I came about two
. iles u , that the tide did not flow any higher- and that it was no
- ore tian a little brook of running water, very fresh and good: but
' is being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some s of
3 at least, not enough to run in anv stream, so as it could per-
ived. 0n tlie_banks of this brook, I found many pleasant savannahs
meadows, plain, smooth and covered with grass - and on the rising
rts of them, next to the higher grounds where the water, as might
. supposed, never overflowed, I foun a great deal of tobacco,
1' en, and grownig to a at and very strong stalk; there were
vers other plants, which .had no notion of or understanding about
.- at might, perha )5, have Virtues of their own, which I could not find
._ .t. Isearched 0." the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that
- - mate, make their bread of, but 1 could find none. I saw large

A

hints of aloes, but did not understand them. I saw several sugar-
470 aomxson meson.

canes but wild, and. for want of cultivation, im'ferl'ect. I contented
myself with these discoveries. for this time, an came back, mus
With myself what course I might take to know the Virtue and -
ness of any of the fruits or lants which I should discover; but could
bring it to no concluSion; or, in short I had made so little observa-
tion whileI was in the Bra 115, that I knew little of the plants in the
field; at least, very httle that might serve me to any purpose now
in my distiess. .

'l'he next day, the 16th, I went u the same we again - and after

gaini sometlung further than I h gone the da fore, Ifound the
too ' and savannahs cease and the country. ecame more woody
than before. In this part, Ifound different fruits, and articularly
found melons upon the und, in cat abundance, an grapes upon
the trees; the vines h spread in eed over the trees and the clusters
of grapes Were Just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was
a surprismg discovery, and I was exceeding glad of them - but I was
warned by my experience to cat s aringly of them, rememhering that
when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several of
our Enghshmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them into fluxes
and fevers. But I found _an excellent use for these grapes; and that
was, _to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes
or raisms are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were,
wholesome and agreeable to eat, when no grapes could he had.- .

I spent all that evemn there, and went not back to my habitat-ion,
which, b the way, was t e first night, as I might say, I had lam from
home. it the night, I took my t contrivance, and (got up into a
tree, where I slept well; and the next morning, procee ed upon my
discovery travel Lug nearly four miles as I might udge b _the lengt
of the valley, keeping still due north, with a n ge of Is on the.
south and north srde of me. At the end of this march, I came to an
openinghwhere the country seemed to descend to the west; ands
little spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the hill by
me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and the country appeared so
fresh, so reen, so flourishino', everything being in a constant verdure
or tlouns of spring, that it looked like aplanted garden. I descended
a_little on the side of that delicious vale, surveying it With a secret
kind of pleasure, thou h mixed with my other afl'licting thoughts, to
think that this was in own; that I was king and lord of all this
country. mdefeasibly, and had a right of possession- and, if Icould
convey it, 1 mi h have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of
a manor in En land . I saw here abundance of cocoa trees, orange,
and lemon, an citron trees; but all wild, and very few bearmf any
fruit, at least, not then. However, the green limes that I tiered
were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome; and mixed
thcir Juice afterwards with water, which made it very wholesome and
ve cool and refreshing. I found now I had business enough to
gat ier and carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as hmes and lemons, to furnish myself for _the wet season,
which I knew was approaching. In order to do this, I gathered a
great heap of gra _es in one place, a lesser heafiwin another place, and
\ great parcel of mes and lemons in another p e; and taking a few
of eachwith me, I travelled homewards: and resolved to come again,
and bnn a bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest
home. ccorduigly, havrng spent three days in this 'ourney, I came
home (so I must now call in tent and. my cave'); ut be ore] got
thither the grapes were spo ed; the richness o the fruit, and the
weight of the Juice, having broken them and bruised them, they were
good for little or nothing: as to the limes, they were good, but I
could bring but a few. .

The next day, heme the 19th I went back havmg made me two
small bags to bring home my harvest; butI was surprised, when
coming to my hea of grapes, which were so rich and line when I

thered them, I ound them all spread about, trod to pieces, and

ged about, some here, some there, and abundance eaten and
devoured. By this I concluded there was some Wild creatures there-
abouts, which had done this; but what they were, I knew not. How-
everhas I found there was no laying them up on heaps, and no
carrying them away in a sack, but that one way the would be
destroyed, and the other way they would be crushed wit i their own
weight, I took another course - for I thered a hit e quantitflaof the
gm , and hung them u on the out ranches of t_ ie trees, t t the
migit cure and dry in t e sun; and as for the hmes and lemons,
carried as many back as I could well stand under. .

When I came home from this Journey, I contem lated With t
pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the p easantness o the
situation; the secth from stems on that Side the water, and the
wood: and conclud that I had pitched upon a place to fix my
abode, which was by far the worst part of the country. U n the
whole, I began to consider of removmg my habitation i and ooking
out for a place equally safe as where now I was Situate, if possible, in
that pleasant fruitful part of the island. .

This thought ran long in my head and I was exceeding fond of it
for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me; but when
I. came to a nearer View of it, I conSidered that I. was now by the sea-
side, where it was at least possible that something "Him hapgien to
my advantage; and, by the same ill fate that broug t me ither
might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place; and
though it was scarce probable that any such "PS133 should ever
happen, et to enclose myself among the hills and w in the centre
of t e ' and, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an
affair not only improbable, but imposmble- and that therefore I on ht
not by any means to remove. However, I was so enamoured of t is
place, that I spent much of in time there for the whole of the
remaining art of the month 0 July; and though, upon second
thoughts, resolved not to remove, yet I_built me a little kind of
a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a stro fence, being a
double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked, an filled between
with brushwood; and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three
nights ther; always going over it with a ladder; so that I _fanc1cd
now I my country house and my sea-coast house; and this work
took me up to the beginning of August. _

I had but newly fimshed my fence, and began to emoy my labour,
when the rains came on, and made me stick close to my first habita-
tion; for though I had made me a tent like the other, With a. iece of a
sail, and sp it very well, yet} had not the shelter of a h lto keep
me from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rams
were extraordinary. _

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my
bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, I found the
grapes I had hung up perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins of the sun; so I began to take them down from the trees
and it was very happy that I did so, for the rains which followe
would have s iled them, and Iliad lost the best part of my winter
food; for I iad above two hundred large bunches of them. No
sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most of them home
to my cave, but _it began to rain; and from hence, which was the
14th of August, it rained, more or less, every da till the middle of
October; and sometimes so Violently, that I coul not stir out of my
cave for_several days. '

In this season, I was much surprised with the increase of my
family; I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats who ran
away from me, or as I thought, had been dead, and I hear no more
tidings of her, til to mv_astorushment, she came home about the end
of August With t ree kittens. . This was the more strange to me,
because though I had_killed amid cat, as I called it, with my gun, 'yet;
I thought it was a quite different kind from our European cats; ut
the young cats were the same kind of house-breed as the old one;
and both my cats being females, 1 thouwht it very strange. But from
these three cats, I afterwards came to so Iliestered with cats, that
I was forced to kill them like vermin, or w' d beasts, and to drive
them from m house as much as possible. '

From the 4th of August to the 26th incessant rain, so that I
could not stir, and was now very carefuf not to be much wet. In
this confinement, I beoan to be straitened for food: but venturing
out tvnce, I one day 'illed a goat; and _the last day, which was
the 26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me, and
my food was regulated thus :---I eat a bunch of raisuis for my break-
fast- a piece of the goat's_flesh, or of the turtle, for in dinner,
broiled; for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to b0i or stew
an thing; and two or three of the turtle's eggs for .my supper. '

urin this confinement in my cover byt e rain, I worked daily
two or t ree hours atenlarging my cave, and by degrees worked it
on towards one Side, till I came to the outside 0 the hill, and made
a door or way out. which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so
open; for, as I had managed in 'self before. I was in a perfect enclo-
sure; whereas now, I thought In exposed, and open for anything
to come in upon me; and yet I cou d not perceive that there was any
hvmg thin to fear, the biggest creature that 1 had yet seen upon
the island mg a goat.

Sept. 30.--I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my
landin . I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had been on
shore t e hundred and Sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn
fast, setting it apart for religious exercise, prostratin myself on
the ground with the most serious humiliation, confesssing in sins
to God, acknowledging his righteous 'udgments upon me, an y-
mg_ to him to have mercy on me t ough Jesus Christ; anmot
having tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the
going down of the sun I then eat a biscuit-cake and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. I had all
this tune observed no Sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of
religion upon my mind, I_ had, after some time, omitted to distin-
gaiush the weeks by making a longer notch than ordinary for the

bbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the days were;
but now, having castup the days as above, I found I had been there
a year so 1 divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day
for a Sabbath; though I found at the end of my account I had lost
a day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my'inlr began to
fail me and so I contented myself to use it more sfimgly, and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my e, Without con-
tinuing a. daily memorandum of other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular
to me, and I learned to divrde them so as to promde for t iem accord-
ingly; but I bought all my experience before _I had it, and this I am
goiaig to relate was one of the most discouraging experiments that I
ma e.

I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice,
which I had so surpnsrngly found spring up, as I thought, of them-
selves, and I beheve there were about thirty stalks of rice, and about
twenty of barley; and now_ I thought it a proper time to sow it, after
the rains, the sun being in its southern pOSition, foinlfi from me.
Accordingly I du up a piecepf ground as well as co d with my
wooden spade, an _dividindeg it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but
as I was' sowmg, it casually occurred to my thoughts that 1 would
not sow it all at first, because I did not know when was .the roper
time for it so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leavmo a ut_a
handful of, each. It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did
so, for not one gram of what I sowed this time came to anything; for
the dry months following, the earth havuig had no rain after the seed
was sown, it had no moisture to assmt its growth, and. never came
up at all till the wet season had come again, and then it grew as if
it had been but newly sown. Finding in first seed did not grow,_which
I easil imagined was by the drought sought for a morster piece of
groan to make another trial in, and I dug up a piece of ground near
my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, ahttle
before the vernal equinox; and this havmg the rainy months of
March and April to water it, sprun up verf' pleasantly, and eldeda
very emf>> but havin part of t e seed . e t only, and not aring to
sow that had, I had Eat a small quantity at last, my whole crop
not amounting to above half a peek of each kind. But by this experi-
ment I was made master of in business, and knew exactly when the
pro r season was to sow, an that I might expect two seed-times,
an two harvests every year. - . .

While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery, wluch wm

[--1
of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over and the
weather began to settle, which was about the month of November,
I made a Visit "E the country to my bower, .where, though I had not
been some mont 9, yet I found all things Just as I left them. The
circle or double hed that 1 had made was not only firm and entire,
but the stakes whic I had cut out of some trees that grew there-
abouts, were all shot out, and grown with long branches, as much as
a willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lo )ping its head. I
could not tell what tree to call it that these sta'es were cut from.
I was sur rised, and yet ver well pleased, to see the y'ouiiv_trees

ow: and) I pruned them, an led them up to grow as much zilike as

could; and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew
into in three years ; so that though the edge made a circle of ahout
twenty--five yards in diameter yet the trees, for such I might now
call them soon covered it, an it was a complete shade, sufficient to
lodge under all the dry season. This made me resolve to cut some
more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in a semi-circle round
my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which I did; and lacing
the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards istance
from my first fence, they grew presently, and were at firstafiiie
cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for a defence also, as
I shall observe in its order. .

I found now that the seasons of the year might generallybe divided,
not into summer and Winter, as in Euro , but into the rainy seasons
and the d seasons, which were genera ly thus :--

Tlie ha] of February, the whole of March. and the half of April-
rainv, the sun beinw then on or near the, equinox.

The half of April: the whole of May, June, and J nlv, and the half of
August--dry, the sun bemg then to the north of the Line.

The half of August, the whole of September, and the half of October
--raiiiy the sunbeing then come bac .

The half of October, the whole of November, December and Janu-
ary, and the half of February--dry, the sun being then to the south of

ie me.

The rainy seasons sometimes held longer or shorter as the winds
lialpnpeiied to blow, but this was the general observation I made. After
I d_found, b experience, the ill consequences of being abroad in
the rain, I too care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand,
that I m' lit not be obliged to go out, and I sat within doors as much
as possib 6 during the wet months. This time I found much employ-
ment, and very slutable also to the time, for I found reat occasion
for many things which I had no way to furnish ni se 1' with but by
hard labour and constant application; particularly tried many ways
to make myself a basket, but all the tWigs I oouldIget for the purpose

roved so brittle that they would do nothing. t proved of excel-
cnt advantage to me_ now, that when I was a boy, I used to take
great dehght in standing at a basket-maker's, in the town where my
ather lived, to see them make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very offieious to help, and a gieat observer of the manner
in wlnch they worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I
had by these means full knowledge of the methods of it, and Iwanted
nothing but the materials, when it came into my mind that the
tWigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that grew might
possibly be as tough as the sallows willows, and osiers in England,
and I resolved to tr . Accordingly, the next day I went to my
count house, as I led it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs,
I foun them to my purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon
I came the next time pre ared With a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I soon found, for t me was great plenty of them. These I set
up to _dr Within my circle or hedge, and when they were fit for use,
I came them _to m cave; and here, during the next season, I eni-
Biored myself in ma 'ing, as well as I could a great many baskets,
th to carr earth or to carry or lay up any! ling, as I had occasion;
and though did not finish them very handsomely, yet 1 made them
sufficient y serviceable for my purpose; and thus, attei-wards, I took
care never to be without them; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I
made more, especially strong deep baskets to place my corn iii, instead
of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of it.
. Having mastered this dittit'ulty, and employed a world of time about
it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to supply two wants. I
had no vessel to hold anything that was liquid, except two runlets,
which were almost full of rum, and some glass hottles,--some of the
common Size, and others which were case~b0ttles, Square, for the
holding of waters, spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot to bail
anytlimg, except a igreat kettle, which I saved out of the sin , and
which was too big or such use as I desired it, rm, to make iotli,
and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing I tain would have
had was atobacco-pipe, but it was impossdile to me to make one-
however, I found a contrivancc for that, too, at last._ I employe
myself in lanting my second rows of stakes or piles and in this wicker-
workingal the summer or dry season, when another business took me
up more time than it could be imagined I could spare. .

I mentioned before that I had a great mind to see the whole island,
and that I had travelled up the brook,_and so on to where 1 built my
bower, and where I had an opening qmte to the sea, on the other side
of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore
on that side; so, taking in gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger
quantit of owder and s at than usual, with two biscuit-cakes and
a great uric of raisins in my uch for my store, lbegan my Journey.
Vthen I had passed the vale w ere my bower stood, as above, I came
within view of the sea to the west, and it being a_ very clear day, I
fairly descried land--whether an island or a continent I could not
tell; but it lay very high, extending from the W. to the W.S.W. at a
very great distance; by my guess, it could not be less than fifteen or
twenty leagues otl'. . _ .

I could not tell what art of the world this might be, othervnse
than that I knew it must e part of America, and asI concluded, by
allmy observations, must be near the Spanish donnmons and per-
haps was all inhabited by savages, where, if I had landed, 'I had
been in a worse condition than 1 was now; and therefore I acquiesced
in the dispositions of Providence, which I began now.to own and to
believe ordered everything for the best; I say 1 quieted my mind
33th this, and left of afliicting myself with fruitless wishes of being
ere.

Besides, after some thought lipon this afl'air I considered that if
this land was the Spanish coast, should certainly, one time or other,
see some vessel pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it
was the savage coast between the Spanish country and Brasds, where
are found the worst of sav ; for they are caumhals, or men-eaters,
and fail not to murder and event all the human bodies that fall into
theirhands. . .

With these considerations, I walked very leisurel forward ; I
found that side of the island where I now was much p easanter than
mine,--the o n or savannah fields sweet, adorned With flowers and

s andf l of very fine woods. _Isaw abundance of parrots, and
sin I would have caught one, if possible, to have kept it _to be tame,
and taught it to s eak to me. I did, after some painstaking, catch a
youn parrot,.for knocked .it down with a stick, and having recovered
it, I rought it home; but it was some years before I coul make him
speak; however, at last,.1 taught him to call me by my name ve_
familiarly: But the accident that followed, though it be a trifle, w
be very diverting in its place.

I was exceeding] diverted with this journey. I found in the low
grounds hares as I'Vthought them to be) and foxes; but the difi'ered
greatly from the other kinds I had met with, nor coul I satisfy
mysell to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to be
venturous, for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good, too, especially these three sorts, Viz., seats, igeons, and turtle, or
tortoise, which, added to my pea, Loade market could not
have furnished a table better t an I, in proportion to the compan ';
and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause or
thankfulness that I was not-driven to any extremities for food, but
had rather pleat , even to daintios. _ _ .

I never trave ed in tlus Journey-above two miles outright in a day,
or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and returns to see what
discoveries I could make that I came weary enough to the lace where
I resolved to sit down all ni ht; and then I either repose. myself in
a tree, or surrounded myse With a row of stakes set upright in the
ground, either from. one tree _to another, or so as no Wlld creature
could come at me Without waking me. _

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I
had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island, for here, indeed,
the shore was covered With innumerable turtles, whereas on the
other Side 1 had found but three in a year _and a half. fiere was
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds, some which I had
seen and some which I had not seen before, and many of them ve
good meat, but such as I knew not the names of, except those calla
penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of m
powder and shot, and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if
could, which I could better feed on; and though there were man
goats here, more than on my side the island, yet it was with much
more difficulty that I could come near them, the country being flat$1131 even, and they saw me much sooner than when I was on the

I confess this side of theeonntry was much pleasanter than mine;
but Iyet} had not the least inclination to remove, for as I was fixed in
my abitation it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while I
was here to be as it were upon a {ourney, and from home. However,
I travelled along the shore of tie sea towards the east,I sup )ose
about twelve miles, and then setting up a great pole upon the s ore
for a mark, I concluded I would go home again,_and that the next
Journey I took should be on the ot ier Side of the island east from my
dwelhnv, and so round till I came to my post again. _ _

I took another way;1 to come back than that I went, thinking I
could easin keep all t e island so much in my view, that I could not
miss finding my first dwelling by Vlerng the country; but I found
myself mistaken, for, being come about two or three miles I found
mfiself descended. into a very large valley, but so surrounded with
hi 3, and those bills. covered \vith wood that I could not see which
was my way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless
I knew very well the position of the sun at that time of the day. It
happened to my further misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for
three or (bur days while I was in the valley, and not being able to see
the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, and at last was obliged
to find the sea-side, look for my post and come back the same we I
went; and then, by easy Journeys, I tumed homeward, the weat ier
being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other
things, very heavy. _ _ _ _

In this Journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it,
and 1, running in to take hold of it, caught it, and saved it alive from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if 1 could, for Ihad
often been musing whether it might not be possible to "et a kid or
two, and so raise a breed of tame ats, which might supply me when
my powder and shot should be spent. I made a collar for this
little creature, and With a string, wliich_I made of some rope-yarn,
which I always carried about me, I led him along, though. With some
difliculty till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed lum and left
him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from whence I had been
absent above a month. . . .

I cannot ex ress what a satisfaction it was to me to come into _my
91d hutch, and, lie down in my hammock-bed. This little wandering
Journey, without settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to
me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settle-
ment to me eomgared to that - and it rendered everything about me
so comfortable, t at I resolved I would never go a great way from it
again, while it should be my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after my
long Journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in the
weighty afi'air of making a cage for my Poll, who beoan now to be a
mere domestic, and to be well acquainted With me. . 'I'hen .I began to
think of the poor kid which I had pennedjn within mv little circle,
and resolvedto and fetch it home or ve. it some food; accord-
ingly I went, found it where I left it, or indeed it could not get
out, but was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut boughs
of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and threw it
over, and havmgfed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but
it was so tame With being hun , that 1 had no need to have tied
it, for it followed me like a 0g; and as I continually fed it, the
creature became so lovmg so gentle. and so fond. that it became
from that time one of my omestics also, and would never leave me
afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and I
kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as before,
being the anniversarv of my landing on the island, having now been
there two years, and no more prospect of being delivered than the
first da came there. I 5 nt the whole day in humble and
thaan acknowledgments of t e many wonderful mercies which my
solita condition was attended With, and without which it might
have een infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and hearty
thanks that God had been pleased to discover to me that it was
possible I might'be more happy in this solitary condition, than I
should have been in the liberty o society, and in all the pleasures of
the world: that he could fully make up to me the deficiencies of my
solitary state, and the want of human society, by his presence, and
the commumcations of his grace to my soul ;_ supporting, comforting,
and encouraging me to depend upon his providence here, and hope for
his eternal presence hereafter. .

It was now that I began senSibly to feel how much more hapfiy
this hfe I now led was, With all its miserable circumstances, than t e
wicked, cursed, abominable hfe I led all the past part of my days;
and now I changed both my sorrows and my 103s; in ve dean-es
altered my affections changed their gusts, an my elig its were
perfectly new from what they were at my first oommg, or, indeed for
the two years ast. _ . . .

Before, as walked about, either on my hunting, or for news;
the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition wouldhreak
out upon me on a sudden, and my verylheart would die_w1thin me,
to think ofthe woods the mountains, t e deserts I ww in, and how
I was a prisoner, locked up. With the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean, in an umnhabited Wilderness, Without redemption. In the
midst of the greatest composure of my mind, this would break out
upon me like a storm, and make me ' my hands and weep like
a child: sometimes it would take me in t e middle of my work, and
I would immediately s1t down and sigh, and look upon the ground for
an hour or two together; and this was still worse to me, for if I could
burst out into tears, or yent myself b words, it would go 06, and the
grief havmg exhausted itself would abate. .

But now I began to exercise myself With new thoughts; I daily
read the word of God, and sighed all the comforts of it to my
present state. One morning, ing very sad, I opened the Bible
upon these words, " IWill never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee :"
immediately it occurred that these words_were to me; why else
should they be directed in such a .manner, Just at the moment when
I was mourning over my condition, as one forsaken of God and
man? "Well, then," said I, "if God does not forsake me of what
ill co uence can it be, or what matters it, though the world should
all to e me, seeinv on the other han if I had all the world,
and should lose the favour and blessing 0 God, there would be no
comparison in the loss?"

From this moment, I be n to conclude in my mind, that it was
possible for me to be more appy in this forsaken, solitary condition,
than it was probable I should ever have been in any other particular
state in the world; and Withthis thought I was gorng to give thanks
to Godfor bnniing me to his place. I know not what it was, but
somethm shoe e my mind at that thought and I durst not speak
the wo s. " How canst thou become such a hypocrite," said I,
even audibly, " to pretend to be thankful for a condition, which,
however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with, thou wouldst
rather pray heartily to be dehvered from?" So I stopped there
but though 1 eoul not saeol thanked God for being here yet I
sincerely gave. thanks to d for opening my eyes, by whatever
afilictin provrdences, to see the former condition of my life, and to
mourn _or my wickedness, and repent. I never opened-theBible,
or shut it but my very soul within me blessed God for directing my
friend inI'Jngland, without any order of mine, to pack it u among
mtytifoodfi, and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of t e wreck
0 re 5 ip

Thus, and in this disposition of mind I began my third year; and
though I have not given the reader the trouble of so particular an
account of my works this year as .the first; yet. in general it may be
observed, that I was very seldom idle, but haVing regularly diVidcd
my time according to the several daily em loyments that were before
me, such as, first, my duty to God, and t e reading the Scriptures,
which '1 constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day; secondly,
the gorng abroad with mygun for food, which generally took me up
three hours in every morning when_it did not rain; thirdly, the order-
ing, cutting, presemng, and cooking, what I had killed .or. caught
for m su'pply]: these took up great art of the day- also, it is'to be
consi ere , t at in the middle of t e day, when the sun was in the
zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that
about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be supgoscd
to work in, with this exception, that sometimes I changed my ours
of_ hunting and working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad
with my gun in the afternoon. .

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added the
exceeding laboriousness of my work - the many hours which for want
of tools, want of help, and want of skill, ever hing I did took up out
of "rilv time: for example, I was full two an forty days in making a
boa for a long shelf, which I wanted in mv cave; whereas, two saw-
yers. With their tools and a saw-pit, would have out six of them out
of the same tree in half a day.

My case was this: it was to be a large tree which was to be cut
down, because my board was to be a broad .one. This tree I was
three days incutting down, and two more cutting 03' the bombs, and
reducing it to a log, or'pieoe of timber. With iiiexpressible hacking
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it .into chips till it began to
be light enough to move - then I turned it, and made one side of: it
smooth and flat as a board_ from end to end; then turning that Side
downward, cut 'the other side, till I brought the plank to be about
three inches thick, and smooth on both Sides. Any one may Judge
the labour of my hands in such a piece of work, but labour and
patience carried me through that, and many other things- I only
observe this in particular, to show the reason why so much of_ my
time went away with so httle work, viz., that what might be a little
to be done with help and tools, was a vast labour and required
a prodigious time to do alone, and by hand. But notwithstanding
tlns, with patience and labour I got through eyerything that my
fiifizumstances made necessary to me to do, as Will appear by what
0 ows.

I was now, in the months of November and December, expecting
my crop of barley and rice. The 9round I had manured and dug up
for them was not great; for, as I 0 served, mv seed of each was not
abore the quantity of half a eck, for I had lost onewhole crop b
sowing in the dry season: ut now my crop lpromised very we ,
when on a sudden I found I was in danger of was it all again by
enemies of several sorts, which it was scarcely possmle to keep from
it; as, first the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as
it came up, and eat it so close, that it could get no time to shoot up
into stalk. >>

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure about it
with ahedge; which I did with a great deal of tell, and the more,
because it required slpeed. However, as my arable land was but small,
suited to my crop, got it totally well fenced, in about three weeks'
time; and shooting some of the creatures in the day-time, I set my
dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate,
where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a httle time, the
enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and well,
and began to ripen apace. _ .

But as the beasts turned me before, while my corn. was in the blade,
so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear;
for gomg alon by the place to see how it tlirove, I saw my little
crop surrounde with fowls. of I know not how many sorts, who stood,
as it were, watchino till I should be gone. I immediately let fly
amon them, for I always had my gun with me. I had no sooner
shot, ut there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at
all from amon. the com itself. .

This touche me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days they
would devour all my llOfics; that I should be starved, and never be
able to raise a crop at a , and what to do I could not tell - however,
I_resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though 1 should watch it
night and day. In the first place, I went among it to see what
damage was already done, and found they had spoiled a good deal
of it; but that as it was. yet too reen for them, the loss was not so

roat, b'ilt that the remainder was ikely to be a good crop, if it could
c save .
I_ stayed by it .to load my gun, and then coming away, I could
eaSily see the thieves Sitting upon all the trees about me, as if they
only waited till I was gone away, and the event proved it to be so;
for as I walked 011', as if I was Qua-I was no sooner out of their
Sight, than they dropt down one y one_into the com a . I was
so provoked, that I could not have lpatience to stay ti more came
on, knowmi that every grain that t ey eat now was, as it might be
said, a c -loaf to me in the consequences but conung up to the
hedge tired and lulled three of them. This was what I
Wished for;.so _ took them up, and served them as we serve
notorious thieves _m England--hanged them in chains, for a terror
to others. It is imposeible to imagine that this should have such
an effect as it had, for the fowls would not on) not come at the
cor-na but, in short, they forsook all that part 0 the island, and I
can) never see a bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung
there. This I was ver glad of, you maybe sure, and about the latter
end of December, whic was our second harvest of the year, I reaped
in corn.

was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down, and
all I could do was to make one, as well as I could, out of one of the
broad-swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the
(311%). However, as my first crop was but small, I had no eat

culty to cut it down; in short, I_ reaped it my way, for cut
not of but the ears, and carried it_ away in a great basket
which had made, and so rubbed it out With my hands; and at the
end of all my harvesting, I found that out of my half- eck of seed I
had near two. bushels of rice, and about two bushe and a half of
Barley; that is to say, by my guess. for I had no measure at that
me.

However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I foresaw
that, in time, it would lease God to s_u ply me With bread; and
yet here I was perplexe again, for I neit er knew how to grind, or
mate meal of my corn, or indeed, how to clean it and part it; nor, if
made into meal, how to make bread of it - and if how to make it, yet
I knew not how to bake it ; these things bemg added to my deSire of
having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but topreserve it all for seed
against the next season; and, in the meantime, to employ all in
study and hours of working to accomplish this great war of wow .
in myself with com and bread. .

t might be trul said, that now I worked for my bread. I believe

:9? people have} (filgllt m'iiich uprgai the strange nagltltyde mm

necessaryin t eprovi p ucmg, curing, essuig, g,
amishing this one article of read. _

I that was reduced to a mere state of nature found this to my
daily discouragement, and was made more sensxb e of it every hour,
even after I had got the first handful of seed-corn, which, as I have
said, came up unex ctedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no on b to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel
to dig it. Well, t ' Igcomailiered by making me a wooden spade, as

I observed before, but this 'd my work but in awooden manner; and

5
though it cost me a great many days to make itkyet for want of iron,
it not only wore out soon, but made my work t e harder, and made
it be performed much worse. _Eowever, this I bore With, and was
content to work it out With patience, and bear With the badness of
the performance. When the corn was sown, I had no barrow, but
was forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a
tree over it, to scratch it, as it ma be called, rather than rake or
barrow it. When it was growing, an. grown, I have observed already
how many things I wanted to fence it, secure it mow or reap it. cure
and carry it_honie, thrash, part it from the ch , and save it. Then _I
wanted a null to grind it, sievesto dress it, yeast and saltto make it
into bread, and an oven to bake it, but all these things I did Without,
as shall be observed; and yet the .corn was. an inestimableIoomfort
and advan _ to me, too. All this, as I said, made everything labo-
nous and te ous to me, but that there was no helpfor; neither win
my time so much loss to me, because, as I had dmded it a certain
part of it was every dafi appomted to these works; and as I had
resolved to use none of t e corn for bread till I had a ie-eater quan-
tity by me _I had the next six months to apply myse wholly, by
labour and invention, to furmsh myself With utensils proper for the

erformin all the operations necessary for making the corn, when I

it, fit or my use.

But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed enough
to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did_ this, I had a week's
work at least to make me a spade, which, when it was done, was but a
sorrypne indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to work
with it. However, Igot throng that, and sowed my seedintwo large
flat ieces of ground, as nearImy house as I could find them to inf;
min and fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of who
were all cut off that wood which I ad set before, and knew it would

. 'w; so that, in one car's time, Iknew I should have a quick or
vmg hedge, that wo d want but httle repair. This work did not
take me up less than three months, because a great 'art of that time
was the wet season, when I could not go abroa . ithin doors, that
is, when it rained, and I could not go out, I found employment in
the followi v occleigations --alyrays observmg, that all the while I was
at work, I ivert myself With talking to my parrot, and teachm
him to speak; and I quickly taught him to know his own name, and
at last to speak it out rettfioud, Poll, which was the first word I
ever heard spoken in t ie is d by any mouth but my own. Tlus,
thciefore, was not my work, but an assistance to m work for now
as I said, 1 had a great employment upon my han , as follows: I
had long studied to make, y some means or other, some earthen
vessels, which, indeed, I wanted sorely, but knew not where to come
at them. Iiowever consrdering the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but if 1 could find out any clay I might make some pots that
might, being dried in the sun, be har enough and strong enough to
bear handlin , and to hold anything that was dry, and required to be
kept so; an as this was necessariin the preparin corn, meal, &c.,
which was the thing I was domg, resolved to in 'c some as large
seal, aloud, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put
in em.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this aste - what odd mis~
shapen, ugly things I made; how many of t em fell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not bemg stifi' enough to bear its own weight;
how man cracked by the over-violent heat'of the sun, being set out
too hastily ; and how many fell in pieces With only removing, as well
before as after they were dried; and ma word, how, after having
laboured hard to find the clay~to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it--I could not make above two] earthen ugly
things (I cannot call them are) in about two months' abour.

However, as the sun b ed these two very dry and hard, I liftcd
them very gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker
baskets, which I had made on pursose for them that they mivht not
break; and as between the pot an the basket there was a litt c room
to spare, I stufi'ed it full of the rice and barley straw - and these two
pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn,
and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscamedso much in my design for large pots, yet I
made several smaller things with better success; such as httle round
pots, flat dishes pitchers and pigkins and any things my hand
tuned to; and e heat of the sun aked them quite har .

But all this would not answer my en which was to get an earthen
pot to hold what was li uid, and bear t e fire; which none of these
could do: It happe after some time, making a pretty lags fire
for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out after li done
with it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels
in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was
agreeably s rised to see it, and said to miseh, that certamly they
might be e to burn whole, if they would urn broken. _

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn
some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters burn in,
or of glazin them with lead, though I had some lead to do it Wllll;
but I 1) three large ipkins, and two or three pots in a pile one
"FOB another, and laced my firewood all round it With a great heap
o embers under tlibm. I plied the fire Wltll fresh fuelround the
outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red~hot
quite throu h, and observed that they'did not crack at all; whenI
saw them glear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or 513
hours, till I found one of them, tho h it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mix with the clay melted by the
Violence of the heat, and would have run into glass if I had 'one on -
so I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began to abate o the re
colour, and watching them all night, that 1 might not let the fire
abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good I wrll not say
handsome) pipkins, and two'other earthen m, as. iard burnt'as
cgifild be geared, and one of them perfectly g (1 With the ruiimng
o e san .

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of
earthenware for my use 5 but I must needs say as to the shapes of
them, they were very indifi'erent, as anvhone may suppose, when I had
no way of makini them, but as the children make dirt pies, or as a
woman would run .e pies that never learned to raise paste.

No 0y at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine,
when found I had .made an earthen pot that would bear the fire;
and I had hardly patience to stay all they were cold, before I set one
on the fireagam, With some water in it, to borl me some meat, which
it did admirably well; and With a piece of a kid I made some very
good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients
reiiuisite to make it as good as I would have had it been.

Iy nextconcern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or beat
some corn in; for as to'the mill, there was no thought of arriving at
that perfection of art With one pair of hands. To snpgly this want, I
was at a great loss; for, of all the trades in the worl , I was as er-
fcctly un ualified for a stone-cutter, as for any whatever; neither iad
I any too to go about it wnh. I spent many a day to find out a
great stone big enouih to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and
could find none at_ , except what was in the solid rock, and which
I had no way to dig or. cut out; nor indeed were the rocks in the
island of hardness sufficient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone
which neither would hear .theweight of a heavy pestle, nor would
break the. corn Without fiilling it With sand; so, after a great deal of
time lost in searchinifor a stone, 1 gave it_ over, and reso ved to look
out. for a tgreat bloc of hard wood, which 1 found indeed much
easrer; an gettnig one as biv as _I had strength to stir I rounded it,
and formed it on the outside With my are and hatchet, and then,
with the help of fire, and Infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as
the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After'tliis, I made a great
heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood ;.and this
I prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn, which I
proposed to myself to grind, or rather poundhinto meal, to make bread.

It y nest diiliculty was to make a Sieve, or scarce, to dress in
meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk; without which I
did not see it possrble I could have any bread. This was a most
ditiicult thing, even to tlunk on, for to be sure I had nothing like the
necessarv thin to make it; 1 mean fine thin canvas, or stuff, to
searcc the men through. And here I was at a full stag for many
months; nor did I really know what to do. Linen I ha none left,
but what was mere rags; I had goats'Jnair but neither knew how to
weave it or spin it -, and had I known how, here were no tools towoi'k
it with. All the remedy that I foiuid for this was, that at last I did
remember I had, anion},r the seaiiicn's clothes which were saved out
of the ship some neckcloths of calico or muslin; and with some
pieces of these I made three small sieves, proper enough for the
work- and thus I made shift for some years: how I did afterwards,
I shall show in its place. _

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I
should make bread when I came to have corn; for, first, I had no
yeast; a to that part, there was no supplying the want, so I _did not
concern myself much about it. But for an oven, 1 was indeed ni great
pain. At length, I found out an experiment for that also which was
this: I made some earthen vessels very broad, hutgiot deep, that is
to say, about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep;
these I burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by ;
and when I wanted to. bake, I made a reat fire upon mv hearth
which I had paved With some square ti es, of my own baking and
burning also; ut I should not call them square. .

W hen the fire-wood was burned pretty much into embers, or. live
coals, I drew them forward upon t is hearth so as to cover it all
over, and thereI let them he till the hearth was very hot; then
sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and
whelming down the earthen pot upon them drew the embers all
round the outSide of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and
thus, as well as in the best. oven in the world, I baked mg barley-
loaves, and became, in httle time, a ood pastry--cook into the argain;
for I'made myself several cakes an puddings of the rice; but I made
no pies, neither had I anything to put into them, supposmg I had,
except the flesh either of fowls or goats.

It need not-be wondered at, if all these things took me up most
part .of the third year of my abode here- for, it is to be observed,
that in the intervals of these things, I ha my new harvest and hus-
bandry to manage; for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried
it home as well as I could, and laid it u in the ear, in my large
baskets, till I had time to rub it out, for had no floor to thrash it
on, or instrument to thrash it With. .

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasmg, I really wanted to
build my barns bigger; _I wanted a place to lay it up in, for the
increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had of the harder;
about twenty bushels, and. of the rice as much, or more, insomuc
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for my bread 'had been
quite gone a t while; also I resolved to see what quantity would
be sulliCient or me a whole year, and to sow but once a year. .

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and me
were. much more than I could consume in a year; so I resolved to
sow Just the same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes
that such a quantity would fully prQVide me With bread, &c.

All the while these things were domf, you ma be sure my thoughts
ran manv times upon the prospect of and who I had seen from the
other side of the island- and I was not without secret Wishes that
Iwere on shore there,'l'ancying that, seeing the main land, and an
inhabited country, I mi lit find some way or other to convey myself
farther, and perhaps at t find some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such
an undertaking, and how I might fall into_ the hands of savages, and
perhaps such as I might have reason to think far worse than the hens
and tigers of Africa; that if I once came in their powernl should
run a hazardof more than a thousand to one of being killed, and

erhaps of being eaten; for I had heard that the people of the Carib-
n coast were cannibals, or man-eaters, and I knew by the latitude
that I could not be far from that shore. Then, su posing they were
not canmbals, yet they might kill me, as many uropeans who had
fallen into their hands had been served, even when they had been ten
or twenty towether--much more I, that was but one, and could make
little or no defence; all these things, I say which I on ht to have
considered well, and did come into my thou hts afterwai- , yet gave
me no ap reliensmns at first, and my hea ran mightily upon the
thought 0 gettin over to the shore. .

Now I wish for my boy Xu , and the long-boat With the
slioulder-of-mutton sail, with which sailed above a thousand miles
on the coast of Africa 5 but this was in vain: then Ithought I would
go and look at our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up
upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we were first cast
away. She lay almost where she did at first, but not quite; and
was turned, by the force of the waves and the winds almost bottom
11 ward, against a hi h rid of beachy, rou h sand: but no water
a at her. If I h had ds to have re tted her, and to have
launched her into the water, the boat would have done well enough,
and I might have he back into the Brazils with her easily enouih;
but I might have oreseen that I could no more turn her and set er
upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the island- however,
I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to
the boat resolvmg to try what I could do; suggesting to myself, that
if I could but turn her down, I might repair the _amage she had
ieceived, aniiil she would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea in

er very eas y. .

I _s red no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent,
I thi _ three or four weeks about it - at last, finding it impossible to
heave it up with my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand
to undermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting pieces of w
to thrust and de it right in the fall. . .

But when had done this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to
get under it, much less to move it forward towards the water; so I
was forced to ve it over; and yet, though _I gave over the hopes of
the boat, my esne to venture over the main increased, rather than
decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible. .

This at length put me upon thinking whether it was not possible
to_ make myself a canoe, or periagna, such as the natives of those
climates make, even without tools, or, as I might say, Without hands,
of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but
eas , and pleasedmyself extremely with the thoughts of makin it,
an with my havmg much more convenience for it than any 9 the
Negroes or Indians; but not at all consider-i _the'PSamcular,mcon-
veniences which I lay under more than the In ians d, "2., want of
hands to move it, when it was made, into the water--a difliculty
much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of want
of tools could be to them; for what_was it to me, if when Iliad
chosen a vast tree in the woods, and With much trouble cut it down,
if 1 had been able with my tools to hew and dub theoutside into the
Km er shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it

01 ow, so to make a boat of it--if, after all this, 1 must leave it Just
there where I found it, and not be able to launch it into the water?

Onc would have thought I could not have had the least reflection
upon n1 mind_of my circumstances while I was making this boat, but
I shoul have immediately'thought how I should get it iuto the sea;
but my thoughts were-so intent u n m voyage over the sea in it
that I never onceconsidered how sho d get it elf of the land: an
it was really in. its own nature, more easy for me to giude it over
forty-five miles in sea, than about forty-five fathom of land, where it
lay to set it afloat in the water. .

I went to work upon this boat the most hke a fool that ever man
did, who_had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the
design, without deterinining whetherI was ever able to undertake it;
not ut that the difliculty of launching myboat came often into my
head; but I put a stop to my inquiries into it, b this foolish answer
which I gave myself: "Let me first make it; warrant I will find
some .way or other to get it along when it is done."

This was, a most preposterous method- but the eagerness of mI
faiicy_prevailed, and to work I ,went. I ielled a cedar tree, and
question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building
of the Temple of Jenisalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for awhile, and
then parted into branches. It was not without infinite labour that
I felled this tree - I was" twenty days hacking d hewmg at it at the
bottom; I wasfiiurteen more tho the branches an limbs, and
the vast spreading head out _o , whic . I hacked and hewed through
with axe and hatchet, with inexpressible labour: after this, it cost
me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to something
like the bottom of a boat, that it might swmi upright as it ought to
do. It cost me near three months more to clear the inside, and work
it out so in to make an exact boat of it: this I did, indeed, without
fire by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I
had brought it to be a very handsome penagua and big enough to
have carried six and twenty men, and consequently big enough to
have carried me and all my cargo. _ .

When I had gone throu h this work, I m extremely dehghted
with it. The boat was y much bigger than ever I saw a canoe
or perisgua, that was made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary
stroke it had cost, you ma be sure: and had I gotten it into the
water, I make no question . ut I should have the maddest
vom and the most unlikely to be performe that ever was
un e en.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; though they
cost me infinite labour too. It lay about onehundred yards from the
water, and not more; but the first inconvenience w", it was up hill
towards the creek. We to take away this discouragement, I
resolved to dig into the s ace of the earth, and so make a dechvit :
this I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains (but w .o
grudge us that have their dehverance in View .9); but when this
was wor ed throuugfi and this difliculty m d, it was still much
the same for I co no more stir the canoe t an I could the other
boat. Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut

adock or canaLto bring thewaterup mthemnoqseeinglcould
not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work;
and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how dee it was to
be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, I ound that,
by the number of hands I had, bemg none but my own, it must have
been ten or twelve ears before I could have gone through With it;
for the shore lay so igh, that at the upper en_ it must have been at
least twenty feet deep; so at length, though With great reluctancy, I
gave this attempt over also.

This grieved iiie heartily; and nowI saw, though too late, the folly
of bevinning a work before we count the cost, and before we Judge
ri htl} of our own strength to go through With it. _

n the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this place,
and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and With as much
comfort as ever before; for, b a constant study and serious applica-
tion to the Word of God, and y the assistance of His grace, I gained
a different knowledge from what I had before. I entertained differ-
ent notions of thin . I looked now upon the world as a tin
remote, which I ha nothing to do with no expectation from, an ,
indeed, no desu'es about: in a word, I had nothin indeed to do with
it, nor was ever likely to liave;.so I thought it ooked, as we may
perhaps look upon it hereafter, Viz., as a place I had lived in, but'was
come out of it; and well might I sa , as Father Abraham to Dives,
" Between me and thee IS a great fixed." _

In the first lace, I_ was removed from all the nakedness of the
world here; 1 ad neither the lusts of the flesh, the lusts of the eye,
or the pride of life. I had nothing to covet, for I had all that I was
now capable of en'oying- I was ord of the whole manor; or, if I
pleased I might myse king or emperorpver the whole country
which I had 320556551011 of; there were no rivals; I had no compe-
titor, none to ispute sovereimty or command With me: I might have
raised shi -loadings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I. let as little
grow as thought enough for my occasion. I had tortmse or turtle
enougii but now and then one was as much as I could put to an
use: had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; and I h

pes enough to have made wine or to have cured into mama, to
rave loaded that fleet when it had been built.

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable: I had
enough to eat and snaily my wants, and what was all the rest to
me? . If _I killed more esh then I could eat, the dog must eat it, or
vermin; if I sowed more com than I could eat, it must be 3 iled -
the trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the und; could
make no more use of them but for fuel, and that I h no omsion for
but to dress in food.

. In a word, t e nature and experience of things dictated to me n n
Just reflection, that all the good things of this world are no fart er
good to us than they are for_our_ use; and that, whatever we may

cap up to give others, we eany Just as much as we can use and no
more. The most covetous, gnping miser in the world would have
been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had been in my case; for
I possessed infimtely more than I knew what to do with. I had no
room for desire, except it was of things which I had not, and they
were but trifles, th&gl1 indeed, of great use to _me. I had, as I
hinted before, aparcel of money, as well gold as Silver, about thirty-
six pounds sterling. Alas} there the sorry, uselessstufl' la ; I had
no manner of busmess for it; and.I often thought With myse_f, that I
would have ven a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-piper or
fora hand-m to grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all for a
a sixpenn -worth of turmp and carrot seed out of England or for a
handful o peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, Iliad not
the least advantage b it or benefit from it; but there it lay in a
drawer and grew moul y with the dam of the cave in the wet seasons;
and if Ihad had the drawer full of amends, it had been the same
case. they had been of no manner of value to me, because of no use.

_ I had now brought my state of hfe to be much eaSier in itself than
it was at first, and much easier to my mind, as well as to my body]. I
fre uently sat downto meat with thankfulness, and admired the_ and
of 's providence which had thus spread my table in the wilder-
ness. I learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side, and to consider what I emoyed rather
than what I wanted; and this gave me sometimes such secret com-
forts, that I cannot express them; and which I take notice .of here,
to put those discontented people in mind of it who cannot enjoy com-
fortabl what God has given them, because they see and covet some-
thing t at he has not given them. All our discontents about what we
want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for
what we have.

Another reflection was of {Seat use to me, and doubtless would be
so to any one that should f into such distress as mine was; and
this was to compare my present condition with what I at first
expected it would be; nay, with what it would certainly have been,
if the good providence of God had not wonderfqu ordered the ship
to be cast up nearer to the shore, where I not only could come _at her
but could bring what I t out of her to the shore, for in relief an
comfort; without whic , I had wanted for tools to war , weapons
.for defence, and gunpowder and shot for getting my food. .

I s at whole hour I may say who e dag: in re resenting to
myse , in the most live y colours, how I must ve note if 1 had got
nothing out of the ship. How I could not have so much as t any
food, except fish and turtles hand that, as it was longi before found
an of them, I must have perished first - that I shoul 'have hved, if I
had not perished, like a mere savage; that if I had lulled a goat or a
fowl, by an contrivance 1 bad no way to flay or open it, or part the
flash from t e skin and the bowels, or to cut it up; but must gnaw it
with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast. .

These reflections made me V6? sensible of the goodness of Provi-
dence to me, and very thankful or my present condition, With all its
hardships and misfortunes: and this part also I cannot but recom-
mend to the reflection of those who are apt, in. their misery, to say,
"Is any affliction like mine?" Let them consider how much worse
the cases of some people are, and their case might have been, if
Piondence had thought fit.

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort 53y mind
with hopes; and this was comparing my preseht' situation with what
I had deserved and had therefore reason to expect from'the hand of
Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowled e and fear of God. I had been well instructed by father
and mot er; neither had they been wantm to me, in their early
endeavours to infuse a religious awe of God into my mind, a sense
of my duty, and what the nature and end of _my beingI uired_of me.
But, alas . falling early into the seafaring hfe, whic , 0 all lives, is
the most destitute of the fear of God, though his terrors are always
before them; I sa , falling early into the seafaniifil life, and into_sea-
farinfilcompany, that httle sense of religion whic I had entertained
was ughed out of.me by my messniates; by a hardened despislng of
dangers, and the views of death which grew habitual to me; by my
long absence from all manner of opportunities to converse With any-
thi but what was like myself, or to hear anything that was good, or
ten ed towards it.

So void was I of everything that was good, or of the least sense of
what I was, or was to be, that in the greatest deliverances I enjoyed
--such as my escape from Sailee; my being takeuup by thePortu-
guese master of the ship ; my be1n planted so well in the Brazils; my
receivm the cargo from Englan , and the like-I never had once
the wo 5, "Tha God," so much as on my mind, or in my mouth ; nor
in the test distress had I so much as a thought to pray to him,_ or
so niiic as to say, "Lord, have mercy u n me!" no, nor to mention
the name of fiod, unless it was to swear y and blaspheme it.

I had terrible reflections upon my mind or manmnths as I have
alread observed, on account of my wicked and cried hfe past;
and w en I looked about. me, and considered what particular pron-
dences had attended me since my coming into this place and how God
haddealt bountifully With me-- had not m punished me less than
my iniquity had deserved, but had so plent y pronded for me--this
me me great hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that God

vet mercy in store for me. . .

With these reflections, I worked my mind up, not only to a realg-
nation to the W1." of God in the present dis sitlon of my circum-
stances, but even to a sincere thankfulneas or in condition; and
that I, who was yet a bun man, ought not tooomei am, seeing I had
not the due punishment 0 my sins: that .1 emoye so many mercies
which I had no reason to have expected in that. place- that} ought
never more to re ine at my condition, but to rejOice, and to ve daily
thanks for that ally bread, which not ' _ but a crowd o wonders
could have brought; that I ought to consi er I had been fed even by
a miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah bi ravens; nay, by a
lon series of miracles: and that I coul hardly ave named a place
in t e uninhabitable part of the world where I could _have been cast
more to my advantage; a place where, as I had no society, which was
my afiiction on one hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious
wolves or fliers, to threaten my life; no venomous creatures, or

isons, whic I might feed on to my hurt ' no savages to murder and

evourme. In a word, as my hfe was a life of sorrow one way, so":
was alife of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to make it a life
of comfort, but tobe able to make my sense of God's goodness to me,
and care over_me in this condition, be my daily consolation; and after
I did make a Just im rovement of these things, I went away, and was
no more sad. I h now been here so long, that many things which
I brou ht on shore for my help were either quite gene, or very much
was ,_ and near s nt.

_ My ink, as I o rved, had been gone some time all but avery
little,_which I eked out with water, a 'ttle and a little, till it was so
pale, it scare left any appearance of black upon the paper. As lon
as it lasted, 1 made use of _it to minute down the days of the meat
on which any remarkable thing happened to me: and, first, by casting
up times past, I remembered that t. ere was a stran concurrence of
days in t e various prondenoes which befel me, an which if I had
been an erstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate,
I mightt ve hadreason to have looked upon with a great deal of
curmi y.

First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away from
my father any friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to go to set:i
the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man-of~war, an
made a slave; thesame day of the year that I escaped out of the
wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-year afterwards
I made my escape from Sallee in a boat; the same day of the year I
was born on, "2., the 30th of September, that same day I had my
life so miraculously saved twenty-six years after, when I was cast on
shore in this island; so that my Wicked hfe and my solitary hfe
be u both on a day.

he next thing to in ink being wasted, was that of in bread, I
mean the biscuit which brought out of the ship; this I had usbanded
to the last degree allowing myself _hut one cake of bread a day for
above a year; and yet I was quite Without bread for near a year before
I at any corn of my own'; and t reason I had to be thankful that
1 d auy_at all, the getting it ing, as has been already observed,
next to miraculous. .

M clothes, too, began to decay- as to linen, Iliad. had none a

while, except some chequered shirts which I found in the chests
of the other seamen, and which I carefully preserved; because many
times I could bear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very
great help to me that I had, among all the men's clothes of the shi ,
almost three dozen of shirts. There were also, indeed, several thic
watch-coats of the seamen's which were left, but they. were too hot to
wear: and though it is true that the weather was so Violentl hot that
there was no need_ot' clothes, yet I_ could not go quite as ed,--i_io,
thou h I had been inchned to it, which I was not ;--nor could I abide
the thought of it, though I was alone. The reason whv I could not go
naked was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite naked
as with some clothes on; nay, the veryheat nently bhstered in
skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself e some motion, an
whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than Without it. .No
more could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the pun With-
out a cap or a hat - the heat of the sun, heating with such Violence as
it does it that place, would give me the head-ache presently, by
darti so directl on my head, without acap or hat on, so that I
couldliot bear it ; ywhereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go

awiaj.

on these views, I began to consider about utting the few rags I
had,pwliicb I called clothes, into some order; Iphad worn out all the
waistcoats I had, and my business was now to if I could not make
jackets oat of the at watch-coats which I had _ y me, and with such
other materials as had; so I set to work, tailoring or rather, indeed,
batching, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I ho would serve
me a great while; as for breeehes or drawers, I made ut avery sorry
shift indeed till afterwards. _

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that I
killed, I mean fourfooted on . and I had them hung up stretched out
with sticks in the s by whic means some of them were so dry and
hard that they were t for httle, but others were very useful. The
first thing I. made of these was a great ca for in head, With the hair
on the outside, to shoot off the rain; an this performed so well,
that after, I'made me a suit of clothes wholly of these skms,---that is
to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the knees, and both loose,
for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than to keep me warm.
I must not omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made; for
1f I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However, they were
such as I made ve glood shift With, and when I was out, if it
happened to rain, t e air of my waistcoat and cap being outer-
most, I was he t very dry. .

After this, spent a_ great deal of time and pains to make an
umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and had a great mind to
make one - I had seen them made in the Brazds, where they are very
useful in the great heats there, and I felt the heats eve. Jot as great
here, and ater too, being nearer the equinox; boar es, as I was
obhtred to 6 much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well
for the rains as the heats. 1 took a world of epains With it, and was a
great while before I could make a hing lik y to hold: nay, after I
t ought I had hit the wa , I s ile two or three before I made one
to my mind: but at last in e one that answered indifi'erently well;
the main difficulty I found was to make it let down. I could make it
spread, but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it was not portable
for me any way but just over my head, which would not do. .qu-
ever, at last, as I said, I made one to answer, and covered it With
skins the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house,
and kept off the sun so ell'ectually, that I could walk out in the
hottest of the weather with greater advantage than I could before in
the coolest, and when I had no need of it, could close it, and carry it
under in arm. _

Thus lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely composed
by reSIgniiig myself to.the will of God, and throwing myself wholly
upon the disposal of His prondence. This made in; life better than
sociable, for when I began to regret the want 0 conversation, I
would ask mvself, whether thus conreisi mutual] with my own

thoughts, and (as I hope I may say) wit even d himself, by
ejaculations, was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human
society in the world? .

I cannot say that, after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing
happened to me, but I hved on in the same course, in the same pos-
ture and place, a before; the chief thi I was employed in, beSidcs
my yearly labour 'of planting my bar ey and rice, and curin _my
raisins, 0 both which always kept up just enough to have s cient
stock of one year's promion beforehand; I say, besides this yearly
labour, and my daily pursuit. of going out _with my gun, I had one
labour to make a canoe, which at last I fimshed: so that, by digging
a canal to it of six feet wide and four feet dee ,.I brought it into the
creek, almost half a mile. _As .for the first, w ch was so vastly big,
for I made it without considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how
I should be_able to launch it, so, never bent? able to bnniit into the
water, or bring the water to it, I was obhge to let it he w ere it was,
as amemoran uni to teach me to be wiser the next time: indeed, _the
next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a
place where _I could not get the water to it at any less distance than,
as I have said, near half a mile, yet, as I saw it was practicable _at
last, I never gave it over: and though I was near two years about it,
yet Itngitar grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go oil' to
sea a .

However, though my little perhagua was finishemet the size of it
was not at all answera 1e to the _ eSIgn which I in view when _I
made the first ; I mean of venturing over to the term firm: where it
was above forty miles broad; accordingl , the smallness of my boat
assisted to put an end to that design, an now I thOnght no more of
it. As I had a boat my next deSign was to make a cnnse round the
island; for as I had been on the other side in one place, crossing, as
I have already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made
in that little Journey made me very eager to see other parts of the
gast PS2311 now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round

e is

For this e, that I might do everything with discretion and
consideratiopn, I fitted up a little mast in my boat and made a sail too
out of some of the pieces of the 5111 's sails which lay in store, and of
which I had a great stock by me. vmg fitted in mast and sail,
and tried the boat, I found she would sail very we : then I. made
httle lockers, or boxes, at each end of my boat, to put promions,
necessaries, ammunition, &c., into, to be kept dry, either from rain or
the spray of the sea- and a httle long, hollow "algae I cut in the

inside 0 the boat, where I could lay my grin, in g a flap to hang
down over it, to kee it dry. .
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern hke amast, to stand

over my head, and keep the heat of the sun 0&1 me, hke an awning;
and thus I every now and then took a httle voyage upon the sea:
but never went far out, nor far from the httle creek. At last. being
eager to view the circumferenceof in little kingdom, I resolved upon
my cruise; and accordingly I V10 ed my ship for the v0 , put-
ting in two dozen of loaves $0akes I should rather call themi oi barley
bread, an earthen pot full 0 parched rice (a food I ate a great deal
of), a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot for killin
more, and two large watchcoats, of those which, as I mention
before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to
lie upon, and the other to cover _me in the night.

It was the 6th of November in the sixth year of my reign, or in
captivity, which you please that I set out on this voyage, and
found it much longer than I expected; for though the island itself
was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the some
above water, some under it - and beyond that a shoal of said, lying
dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a great way out to
sea to double the paint.

:When first I discovered them, I was going to give over in enter-
prise, and come back again, not knowmg how far it might o lige me
to go out to sea; and, above all doubting how I should get back
again: so I came to an anchor; for I had made a kind of an anchor
With apiece of a broken grappling which I got out of the ship.

Haw secured my boat took my gun and went on shore, climb-
ing up a ill, which seeme to overlook that point, where I saw the
full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I_ stood, I rceived a
strong and, indeed, a most funous current, which ran to t e_east, and
even came close to the point; and I took the more notice of it,
because I saw there might be some danger, that when I came into it,
I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to
make the island again: and, indeed, had I not got first upon this hill,
I believe it would have been so- for there was the same current on
the other side the island, 0an that it set off at a farther distance, and
I saw there was a strong ed y under the shore; so I had nothing to
ggdbut to get out of the first current, and I should presently be in an

y.

I la here however, two da , because the wind blowing ret
fresh alt ES. . and that beinoyfiist contrary to the current, guide?
great breach of the sea upon fiie paint; so that it was not safe for me
to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too far 011',
because of the stream. .

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated overnight,
the sea was calm, and I ventured: but I am a warning_to all rash
and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the pomt, when _I
was not even in boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in
a great depth 0 water, and a current hke the sluice of a mill: it car-
ried my boat along with it with such violence that all I could do
could not keep her so much as on the edge of it; but I found it hur-
ried me farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on my left
hand. There was no wind stirrinfi to hellp me, and all _I could do with
my addles signified nothing: an new began to give m '30]! over
for est; for as the current was on both sides of the island, .knew in
a few leagues distance they must Join again, and .then I was irrecove.
rably gone; nor did I see an pos31bflity of evening it; so that I had
no prospect before me but _0 perishing, not by the sea, for that was
calm enough, but of starvmg from hunger. I had, indeed, found a
tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it
into the boat; and I had a great Jar of fresh water, that is to say, one
of my earthen pots; but what was all this to being driven into the
yast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no share, no main land or
island;l for a thousand leagues at least?

An now I saw how easy It. was for the providence of God to make
even the most miserable condition of mankind worse. Now I looked
back upon my desolate solitary island, as the most pleasant place in
the world, and an the hap mess my heart could wis for was to be
but there in. I stretc ed out my hands to it, With eager wishes:
"0 happy esert_!" said I. " I_shall never see thee more. 0 misera.
hle creature! whither am I gomg P" Then I re reached myself With
myunthankful tem r, and that I_had repin at my sohtary con-
dition; and now w t would I give to be. on shore there again!
Thus, we never seethe true state of our condition till it is. illustrated
to us by its oontraries, nor know how to value what we enjoy, but I)
the want _of it. _ It is. scarcely possible to im ' e the consternation
was now in, heingdriven from my beloved i ud (for so it a peared
to me now to be) into the wrde ocean, almost two leagues, an in the
utmost despair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard
till indeed my strength was almost exhausted and kept my boat.as
much to the northward, that is towards the si e of the current which
the eddy lay onaas possibly I could; when about noon, as the sun

assed the men ian, I thought I felt ahttle breeze of wind in m

ace, springing up from S.S.E. This cheered m heart a little, and
as ially when, in about half an hour mo it lew a pretty gentle
gah:c By this time, I had got at a frightful ' tance from the island,
and had the least cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had been
undone another way, too; for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered towards the island, if I had
but once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I applied
myself to get up my. mast again, and spread m and, standing away
to the nort as muc as possible, tohget out of t e current.

Just as I had set mimut and sail, and the boat began to stretch
away, I saw even h t e clearnoss of the water some alteration of the
current was near, or where the current was so strong the water was
foul; but weiving the water clear, I found the.current abate; and
presently found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the'
sea upon some rocks 3 these rocks I found caused the current to part
again, and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly, leavmg
the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of
the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the
north-west, With a very sharp stream. _

The who know what it is have a regneve brought to them upon
the der, or to be rescued from t 'eves Just gomg to murder
them, or who have been in such extremities may guess what my
present su rise of Joy was, and howafilgdly I put my boat into the
stream of t ' eddy; and the wind freshening, how ladl I
spread ml sail to it, running cheerfuuy before the Wind, an Wit a
strong tr e or eddy under foot. _ , ,

, This eddy earned me about aleague inmywayhack again, directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the northward
than the current which carried me away at first; so that whcn_I came
near the island, I found myself .0 en to the northern shore. of it, that
is to say, the other end of the is and, opp05ite to that winch I went
out from. .

When I had made something more than a league of way by the
help of this current or eddv, I found it was spent, and served me no
farther. However, I found that being between two great currents,
viz. that on the south Sldc, which had burned me away, and that
on the north, which lay about a league on the other Slde; I say,
between these two, in the wake of the island, 1 found the water at
least still, and running no way; and haying still a. breeze of wind fair
for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not making
such fresh way as I did before. ' . _

About four o'clock in the evening, being then ivithm a 1e e of
the island, ] found the pornt of the rocks which occasione this
disaster, stretching out, as is described before, to the southward,
and castinw ofi' the current more southerly, had, of course, made
another edady to the north; and this I found very strong, but not
directly setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but
almost full north. However, haying a fresh gale, I stretched
across this eddy, slanting north-west; hand_in about an hour came
within about a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon
got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks for
my deliverance, resolvin to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance
by 'mv boat- and refresnng myselfwith. such thin as I had, I
brought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove t at I had spied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent With
the labour and fatigue of the voyage. _

I was now at a great loss which way to get home With my boat; I
had run so much hazard, and knew too much of the case, to think of
attempting it by the way I went out; and what might be at the
other Side (I mean the west Side) I knew not, nor had 1 any mind to
run any more ventures: so I resolved on the next morning to make
my way westward along the .shore, and to see if there was no creek
where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again,
if I wanted her. In about t rec miles or thereabonts coasting the
shore, I came to a very good inlet or gray, about a mile over which
narrowed till it came to a very little ri et or brook, where I found
a very convenient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if she
had been in a httle dock made on se for her. Here I put in,
and having stowed my boat very sa e, went on shore to look about
me and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had
been before, when I travelled on foot to that shore; so taking
nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella, for it was ex-
ceedingly hot, I began my march. The way was comfortable enou h
after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached in did
bower in the evening, where I found every thing standing as left
it; for Ialways kept it in good order, being, as I said before, my
country house.

_ Igot over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my
limbs, for I was very wcurv, and fell asleep; but judge you, if you
can, that read my story, what a_ surprise I must be in, when I was
awaked out of mv sleep by a mice, calling me by my name several
times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe; poor Robin Crusoe! Where
are you, RobiiiCrusoc? W here are you? Where have you been ?"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with row-iii", or
paddling as it is called. the first part of the day, and with walking
the latter part, that I did not wake thoroughly; but doziiio between
sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoIie to me i
but as the vorce continued to repeat " Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe '
at. last I began to wake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully
frightened, and started u in the utmost consternation; but no
sooner were my eyes open, ut I saw my Poll Sitting on the top of the
hedge; and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me; for
Just in such bemoaniiio language I had used to talk to him, and
teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon
my finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and cry, " Poor Robin
Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been? How came you
here 2'" and such things as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the arrot, and that indeed
it could be nobody else, it was a good while cfore I could com ose
myself. First I was amazed how the creature got thithcr- nndt en,
how he should 'ust. keep about the place, and nowhere else; but .as
I was well satis ed it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got over it;
and holding out my hand, and calling him by his name, " Poll,"
the sociable creature came to_ me, and sat upon my thumb, as he
used to do, and continued talking to me, " Poor Robin Crusoe! and
how did I come here? and where had I been?" Just as if he had
beelili overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried him home along
Wit me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time and had
enou h to do for many da 5, to sit still, and reflect upon the danger
I h been in. I would ave been very; glad to have had my boat
again on my .side of the island; but I new not how it was prac-
ticable to get it about. As to the east side of the island, which I
had gone round, I knew well enough there was no venturinv that
way; my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill but
to think of it - and as to the other _Side of the island, I did not know
how it might be there; but supposmg the current ran With the same
force against the shore at the east as it assed by it on the other,I
might run the same risk of being driven own the stream, and carried
by the island as I had been before of being carried away item it ; so
with these thoughts I contented myself to be Without any boat,
though it had been the product of so many months' labour to make
It, and of so many more to get it into the sea. _

. In this government of mv temper, I remained near a year; and
hved a very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my
thoughts being _very much composed, as to_ my _ conditionhgnd
fully comforted in resigning myself to_ the dispositions of vi-
dgnce, Itthought I hved really very happily in all things, except that
0 some y. _ _ _ .

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which
my necessmes put me upon a plying myself to; and I believe I
should, upon occasion, have m e a very good carpenter, especrally
considering how few tools I had.

Besides this, _I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and. contrived well enou h to make them with a wheel, which
I found infinitely corner and tter; because I made things round
and sha whic before were filthy things indeed to look on. . But
I think was never more vain of my own performance, or more Joyful
for anything I found out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-

ipe; and though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it was

one, and only burned red, like other earthenware, yet as it was hard
and firm and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted
With it, for I had been always used to smoke ;' and there were pipes
in the ship, but I for? them at first, not thinking that there was
tobacco in the islan ; and afterwards, when I searched the ship
again, I could not come at any pipes.

In my wickerware, also, I improved much, and made abundance of
necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed me; though not
very handsome, et they _were such _as were very hand and come
nientlfor laying t ngs up in, or fetching things home. or example,
ifIkilledagoatabroad Ioonldhangitap inatree, flayit, dress it,
and cut it in reces, and brin it home in a basket - and the like by a
turtle: I oou (1 cut it up, ta e out the eggs, and a. piece or two of
the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them home inabasket,
and leave the rest behind me. Also, large deep baskets were the
receivers of m co which. I always rubbed out as soon as it was
dr , and , and ept it in great baskets. _ .

I began now to perceiye my wder abated eonSiderably - this was
a. want which it was impossi le for me to 8"}:de an I began
seriously to consider what I must do when 1 sho ve no more
powder; that is to say, how I should kill an goats. I had, as is
observed, in the third vear of my being here, 'ept a young kidi and
bred her up tame, and I was in. hopes of getting a . -goat: lit I
could not by any means brin it to pass, till kill kid grew on old
flat; and as I could never tin in my heart to her, she died at

t of mere age. . _

But being now in the eleventh year of my resrdence, and, as I have
said, my ammunition growing low, I set m self to study some art to
trap and snare the goats, to see whether could not catch some of
them alive; and particularly, I wanted a she-goat great With ivying.
For this purpose, I made snares to hamper t em; and I do heve
they were more than. once taken in them; but my tackle was not

for I had no wire, and I always found them broken, and my

ait devoured. At length, I resolved to try a Eitfall: so I dug
several large its in the earth, in places wherel ad observed the
goats used to eed, and over those pits I placed hurdles, of my own
maki too, with a great weight upon them; and several times I put
ears 0 barley and dry rice, Without setting the trap; and I could
eaSily (perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for
I coul see the marks of their feet. At length I set three tra in
one night, audgoing the next morning, I found them all stau 'ng,
and yet the bait eaten and gone: this was very discouraging. How-
ever, I altered my traps; and, not to trouble you With iculnrs,
going one morning to see mitraps, I found in one of t em a large
gld ale-goat; and in one of t e others, three kids, a male and two
em es.

As to 'the old one, I_ knew not what to do with him; he was so
fierce, I durst not _ into the Kit to him; that is to say, to bi'inra'
him away alive, w ich was w at I wanted - I could have kille
him but thatyas not my business, nor would it answer my end:
so I even let him out, and he ran away as if he had been fri tened
out of his wits._ But I did not then know what I afterwards Earned,
that hunger Will tame a lion. If I had let him stay there three or
four days Without food, and then have carried him some water to
drink, and then a little corn, he would have been as tame a one of
the kids; for they are nughty sagacious, tractable creatures, where
they are well use . _

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that
time: then I went to the three kids, and, taking them one b one, .I
tied them with strings together, and with some difficulty rought
them all home. . .

It wu a good while before they would feed; but throwmg them
some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to.be tame. And
now I found that if I expected to supply myself With goats' flesh,
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
onl way, when, fierhaps, I might have them about my house like a
due of sheep. ut, 1; en, it occurred to me that I must keep the
tame from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they
grew up - and the onl way for this was to have some enclosed piece
of ground, well fen either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so
fificfiually, that those within might not break out, or those without

in.

This was a t undertaking for one pair of hands; et, as I saw
there was an a lute necessity for doing it, m first war was to find
out a proper piece of ground, where there was ' ely to be herbage for
them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the
sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will think I had ve little
contrivance,_when I pitched upon a place very pro r for these
(beings plain open piece of meadow lan or seven , as our people
call it in theyestern oolomes), which two or three httle drills of
fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody,--I say they will
smile at my forecast, when I shall tell them I began by enciosing this

iece of ground in such a manner, that my h or pale must have
at least two miles about. Nor was the m .of it so great as

to the com ', for if it was ten miles about, I was like to have time
enough to it in; but I did not consider that my goats would be as
wild in so much compass as if they had had the whole island, and I
stould have so much room to chase them in that I should never catch
em.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fifty yards-
when this thought occurred to me; so I presentl stopped short, and
for the beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece 0 about one hundred
and fifty yards in length, and one hundred iards in breadth, which,
as it would maintain as many as I should ave in any reasonable
timle, so, as my stock increased, I could add more ground to my
enc osure.

This was actin with some prudence, and I went to work with
courafe. I was a at three months hedging iii the first piece; and
till I iad done it, I tethered the three kids iii the best art of it, and
used them to feed as near me as possible, to make t em famihar;
and very often I would go and carry them some sale of barley, or a
handful of rice and feed them out of my hand; so that, after my
enclosure was finished, and I let them loose, they would follow me up
and down, bleating after me for a handful of com.

This answered my end and in about a_ year and a half I had a flock
of about twelve goats, kids and all -, and in two years more I had three-
and-forty, besuies several that I took and killed for my food._ After
that, I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with
little pens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out
of one piece of ground into another.

But this was not all; for now I not only had goats' flesh to feed
on when I pleased, but milk too, a thin which, indeed, in the begin-
ning, I did not so much as think of, an which, when it came into .my
thoughts, was really an eeable surprise for now I set up in dairy,
and had sometimes a galliirn or two 0 milk in a day. And as atin'e,
who gives supplies of food to eveg creature, dictates even naturally
how to make use of it, so I, that h never milked a cow, much less a
goat, or seen butter or cheese made only when I was a boy, after a
great many essays and miscarriages, made both butter and cheese at

ast also salt (though I found it ly made to my hand by the heat

of the sun upon some of_ the me s of the sea), and never wanted it
afterwards. How'mercifully can our Creator treat His creatures,
even in those conditions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed in
destruction! How can He sweeten the bitterest providenees, and
give us cause to raise Him for dungeons and prisons! What a table
was here spread or me in the wilderness, where I saw nothmgat first
but to perish for hunger. .

It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little
family sit down to dinner. There was my mfilwty, the pnnoe and
lord of the whole island; I had the lives of _my subiects at my
absolute command; I wuld hang, draw, give hberty, and take it
away, and no rebels among all my subJects. Then, to see how like
a king I dined, too, all alone, attended by my servants! Poll, as if
he had been my favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to
me. My dog, who was _now grown very old and crazy, and had
found no species to multiply his kind u n, sat always at my right
hand, and two cats, one on one side the table, and one on the1'

aoanvsox cnvsox. 101

other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
special favour. ,

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at first,
fartheg were both of them dead, and had been interred near m habi-
tation y my own hand; but one of them having multiphed by know
not what kind of creature, these were two which I had preserved
tame- whereas the rest rim Wild in the woods, and became indeed
troublesome to me at last, for they would often come into my house
and plunder me, too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did
kill a great many ; at length they left 'me. With this attendance
and in this plentiful manner I hvcd; neither could I he said to want

hing but society; and of that, some time after this, I was likely
to ve much. .

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of
my boat, though very loath to run any more hazards; and therefore
sometnnos I sat contrivmg ways to get her about the island, and at
other times I sat myself down contented enough Without her. But I
had a strange uneasmess in my mind to go down to the point of the
island, where as I have said in my last ramble, I went u the hill to
see how the shore lay, and how the current set, that I nug it see what
I had to do; this inclination increased upon me every day, and at
length I resolved to travel thither by. land, followmg the edge of the
shore. I did so ' but had an one in _England .mct such a man as I
was, it must either have frig tened him, or raised a great deal of
laughter; and as I frequently stood still _to look at myself I could
not but smile at the notion of my travelling throu h Yorkshire with
such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be please to take a sketch
of in figure. as follows :--

I . a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with a flap
hangiiag down behind,_as well to keep the sun from me as to shoot the
rain 0 from running into my neck, nothing bein so hurtful in these
climates as the rain upon the flesh under the clot es.

I had a short Jacket of goat's skin, the skirts comi 0 down to about
the middle of the thighs, and a air of open-knead reeches of the
same; the breeches were made 0 the skin of an old he-goat, whose
hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like autaloons, it
reached to the middle of my lees; stockings and shoes I ad none but
had made me a air of somethings, I scarce know what to call them,
like huskins. to p over my legs, and lace. on either side hke spatter--
dashilishhut of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of
m c 0 es.

'Ihad on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together
with two thongs of the same instead of buckles, and in a kind of a frog
on either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, h a little saw
and a hatchet, one on one side and one on the other. I ad another
belt not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over
my shoulder and at the end of it, under in left arm, hung two
pouches, both made of goat's skin too, in one of w 'ch hung my powder,
in the other my shot. At my back I carried my basket, and on my
shoulder my gun and over in head a great clumsy, ugly, goat's skin
umbrella, but which, after all, was the most necessary t mg I had
about me next to my gun. A_s for my face, the colour of it was reall
not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a man not at all care
of it, and hung Within mac or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard
I had once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yardlong;
but as I had both scissors and razorswfiment I had cut it pretty
short, eacept what grew on in upper hp, which I had trimmed intoa
large pair of Mahometan whis 'ers, such as I had seen worn by some
Turks at Sallee, for the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks
did; of these moustachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were 10
enough to hang my hat upon them, but the were of a length an
tsha _ iagfitrous enough, and such as in Eng d would have passed
or rig .

But all this is_by the bye; for, as to my figure, I had so few to
observe me, that it was of no manner of consequence, so I sa no more
of that. _ In this kind of dress I went mly new Journey Ian was out
five or 51: davs. I travelled first along t e sea-shore, directly to the
place where I first brought my boat to an anchor to get u n the
rocks; and ham no boat now to take care of, I went over t e land
a nearer way to t e same height that I was upon before when, look-
ingiforward to the pomts of t e rocks which lay out, and which Iwas
ob ged to double with to boat, as is said. above, 1 was surpnsed to
see the sea all smooth_an quiet,--no ripplinir, no motion, no current,
any more there than in any other places. was at a strange loss to
understand this, and resolved to afiend some time in the ohservmg it,
to see if nothing from thesets of t. e tide had occasioned it; but Iwas
presently convinced how_it was, "2., that the tide of ebb setting from
the west, and mining With the current of wateis from some great
river on the sliore,_ must be the occasion of this current, and that,
according as the Wind blew more forcibly from the west or from the
north, this current came nearer, or went farther from the shore; for
waitin thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock again, and
then t ie tide of ebb being made I plainly saw the current again as
before, only that it ran farther o , being near half al e from the
shore, whereas in my case. it set. close upon the shore, an hurried me
find my canoe along With it, which at another time it would not have

one.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but to
observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, an I an ht very
easily bring my boat about the island again; but when I _ to
think of putting it in Practice, I had such terror upon my 3 irits
at'the remembrance o the danger I had been in, that I coul not
tlnnk of it in with any patience, but on the contrary I took up
another reso ution, which was more safe, though more rious,--
and this was that I would build, or'rather make, me another perigua
orhcanoe, and so have one for one side of the island, and one for the
0 er.

Ion are to understand, that now I had,.as I'may call it, two lan-
tations in the island--one my httle fortification or tent, m the
wall about it, under the rock, With the cave behind me, which by
this _time I had enlarged into several apartments, or caves, one
Within another, One of these, which was the driest and largest, and
had a door out beyond my wall or fortificationzfithat is to say be 0nd
where my wall joined to the rock, was all ed up With the arge
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and With fourteen
or fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid up my atom of provmions, especially in corn, some in the
gar-fut otf short from the straw, and the other ru bed out with my

an .

.As for my well, made, as before, with long. stakes or piles, those
piles w all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and
sp so V81? much that there was not the least appearance, to any
one's View, 0 any habitation behind them. .

Near this dwellinv of mine, but a little farther Within the land, and
upon lower groundjay in two pieces of corn land, which I kept duly
cultivated and sowed, an which duly yielded me their harvest in its
season; and whenever I had occasion for more com, I had more land
edging as fit as that.

idea this, I had my coun seat, and I had now a tolerable
plantation there also; for first, had my little bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair--that is to say, I kept the hele'lfie which on-
circled it inleoiistantly fitted up to its usual height, the or standing
always in t e inside. I kept the trees, which at first were no more
than stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall, always out, so
that the might spread and grow thick and Wild, and make the more
agreeab e shade which they did efi'ectually to _my mind. In the
middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail
spread over poles, set up for that purpose, and which never wanted
any repair or renewing; and under this I had made me a_squab or
couch,.witb the skins of the creatures I had killed, and With other
soft things, and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-
bedding, which I had saved; and a great watch-coat to cover me.
And here, whenever I had oocasmn to be absent from my chief seat,
1 took up my conn habitation. _

Adioming to this, had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to say,
my goats; and I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence
and enclose this and. I was so annous to see it he t entire, lest
the goats shonldfiiyeak through, that I never left ofi' ti , with infinite
labour, I had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes,
and so near to one another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge,
and there was scarce room to put a hand through between them;
which afterwards when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next
rainy seaso made the enclosure strong like a wall, indeed stronger

an w

[Hm testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared no
pains to b ' to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable
support, f2"? considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures
thus at my band would be a livmg magazine of flesh,_iiiilk, butter,
and cheese for me as long as I lived. in the place, if it were to be
forty years; and that keeping them in my reach depended entirely
upon my rfecting my enclosures to such a degree, that] nu ht
be sure 0 keeping them together- which, by this method, mdee , I
so effectually secured, that when these httle stakes began to grow, I
had planted_thcm so very thick, that I was forced to pull some of
them up again. . ~ _ _

In tins place also I. had my grapes. grownig, which I prmcr all
depended on for my Winter store of raisms, an which I never_ aile
to preserve very carefully, as the best and most vreeable dainty of
my whole diet ; and indeed they were not on y afieable, but
medicinal, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the t degree.

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and
the place where I had laid u my boat I generally staid and lay here
in my_ way thither, for I use fre uently to visit my boat; and kept
all things about or belonging to er, in very good order. Sometimes
I went out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages
would I go, scarcely ever above a stone's cast or two from the shore,
I was so apprehenswe of bemg burned out of mv know-led e againby
the cur rents or winds, or any other accident. But now come to a
new scene of my life. .

It happened one day, about noon, gomg towards in boat, I was
exceedinvly surprised with the print of a man's nake foot _on the
shore w ich was very plain to be seen on the sand. I stood hke one
thunderslruek, or as if I had seen an apparition. I listened, I
looked round me, but I could hear notl nor see anythiuv; I went
up to a rising ground, to look farther; went up the shore, and
down the shore but it was all one: I could see no other impression
but that one. _ I went to it again to see if there were any more, and
to observe if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of a foot--toes, heel, and every

art of afoot. How it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
east imagine; but after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like _a
man'perfectly confused and out of myself I came home to my forti-
fication, not feehng as we say the ground I went on, but terrified to
thc_last degree, bolting behind me at every two or three ste s, mis-
taking every bush an. tree, and faucyin every stump at a ' tanee
to be a man. Nor is it posznble to descri how many yarious shapes
my afi'righted imagination represented things to me in, how many
wild ideas were found every moment in my ancy, and what strange,
unaccountable whimseys came into my thoughts by the way.

When I came _to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after
thug, I fled into it like one pursued. Whether I went over by the
lad er, as first oontnved, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I
had called a door, I eunnot remember no, nor could I remember
the next morning, for never frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to
earth With more terror of mind than I to this retreat.

_I slept none that night; the farther I was from the occasion of my
fright, the eater my apprehensions were, which is souiethin
contrary to t e nature of such things and especmlly to the usuvi
practice of all creatures in fear; but I was so embarrassed with my
own frightful ideas of the thing that I formed nothing but dismal
imaginations to myself, even though I was now a great way 03'.
Sometimes I fancied. it must be the den], and reason joined in with
me in this supposition, for how should any other tlun in human
shape come into the place? Where was the vessel t at brought
them? What marks were there of any other footstep? And how
was it possible a man should come there? But then, to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place, where
there could be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of
his foot behind lnm and that even for no purpose too for he could
not be_ sure I should see.it,--.this was an amusement the other way.
I considered that the devil might_have found out abundance of other
ways _to have terrified me than this of the single print of a foot ; that
as lived guite on the other side of the island, he would never have
been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten
thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and in the sand
too, which the first surf, of the sea, upon a high wind, would have
defaced entirely. _All t is seemed inconsistent with the thing itself,
and wrtli allthe notions we usually entertain of the subtilty of the devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all

g"Iii prehensions of its being the devil; and I presently concluded then,
1: at it must be some more dangerous creature, VIZ. that it must be some
of the savages of the main-land opposite, who had wandered out to
sea in their canoes and either driven by the currents or by contrary
Winds, had made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone
away again to sea- bein as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this
desolate island as fwoul have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling in my mind, I was very
thankful in my_thoughts, that I was so happy as not to be there-
abouts at that time or that they did not see my boat, by which they
would have concluded that some inhabitants had been'in the place,
and perhaps. have searched farther for me. Then temble thoughts
racked my imagination about their having found out my boat, and
that there were people here; and that, if so I should certainly have
them come again in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it
should hap n that they should not find me, yet they would find my
enclosure deestrofi all in corn, and carry away all my flock of tame
goats, and I sho d peris at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my rehgious hope, all that former
confidence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful expc.
nenee as I had had of His goodness- as if He that had fedIme b miracle
hitherto could not preserve, b His power, the provision w ich He
had made for me by His goo css. I reproaohed myself with _my
laziness, that would not sow any more com one year than would Just
serve me till the next season, as if no accident could intervene to

reven my enjoying the crop that was u n the und; and "118 I
ough so just a reproof, that I resolv for the uture to have two
or. three years' corn beforehand; so that, whatever might come, I
in! ht not perish for want of bread. _ . _
ow strange a <<sh nor-work of Prondence is the Me of man!
unduly what secret d' erent springs are the afieotions humed about,
as erent circumstances present. Today we love what tomorrow
we hate; today we seek what tomorrow we shun; today we desire
what to-morrow we fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of.
Thiswas exemplified in me at this time, in the most lively manner
imaginable, for 1. whose only alliiction was that I seemed bams6 lied
from human society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless
ocean, cut of from mankind, and condemned to what I called silent
hfe; that I was one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be
numbered among the hiring, or to appear among the rest of his
creatures; that to haye seen one of my] own species would have
seemed to me a raisin me from deat to life, and the test
blasinlgeghat Heaven itse , next to the supreme blessing of vation,
could tow. _I say, that I should now tremble at the very ap re-
licnSions of seeing a_man, and was ready to snik into the grouu at
baittllifnihadow or Silent appearance of a man haying set his foot m

e is .

Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afi'orded me a great
man curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little recovered
my .rst surprise. I considered that this was the station of life the
infinitely Wise and providence of God had. determined for me;
that as could not oresee what the ends of divine wisdom might be
in all this so I was not to dispute his sovereignty; who, as I was his
creature, had an undoubted right, by creation, to govern and dispose
of me absolutely as he thought fit; and who,_as I was a creature that
had offended him had hkeWise a judicial right to condemn me to
what punishment he thought fit; and that it was my part to submit
to hear his indignation, because I had sm_ned against him. . I then
reflected, that in God, who. was not only righteous, but omnipotent,
had thought fit thus to punish and aflict me, so he was able to dehvei:
me: that if he did not think fit to do so it was my unquestioned
duty to resign myself absolute] and entirely to his Will; and, on the
other hand, it was my duty to hope in him, pray to him, and
quietly to attend the dictates and directions of his daily prondeuce.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, _I may say
weeks and months; and one particular eflect of my cogitations on this
occasion I cannot omit. One mormng early, lying in my bed, and
filled With thoughts about my danger from the appearances of savages,
I found it discompqsed me very much,- upon which these words of
the Scripture came into my thoughts: 'Call upon me in the da of
trouble, and 1 Will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." pon
this, using cheerful] out of my bed, my heart was not on] coni-
forted, but I was gui ed and encouraged to pray earnestly to 'od for
deliverance: when I had done praying, I took up my Bible and
opening: to read the first words that presented to me were, "Wait
on the rd, and be of d cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart;
wait, I say, on the r ." It is ifl'IllBOSb'lble to express the comfort
this gave me. In answer, I thank y laid down the book, and was
no more sad, at least on that occasion. _

_ In themiddle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections,
it came into my thoughts one day that all this might be a mere
chimera of my own', and that this foot might be_tlie print of my own
foot, when I came on shore from my boat; this cheered me u a
little, too, and I began to persuade myself it was_all a delusion; t iat
it was nothing else ut my own foot; and why might I not come that
way_from the boat as well as 1 was oing that way to the boat?
Again I considered also, that I could y no means tell, for certain,
where I had trod, and where I had not; and that if, at last, this was
only the print of my own foot, I had played the part of these fools
who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are
frivhtened at them more than anybody. .

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I had
not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I bevan
to starve for provrsrons; for I had little or nothing within doors but
some. barley-cakesand water: then I knew that my goats wanted to
be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion; and the poor
creatures were in great and inconvenience for want of it; and,
indeed, it almost spoile some of them, and almost dried up their
milk: Encouraging myself, therefore, with the belief that this was
nothing. but the print of one of in own feet, and that I might be
truly said to start at m own shadbw, I began to go abroad again,
and went to my country- ouse to milk m flock: but to see With what
fear I went forward, how often I looked hind me, how I was ready,
every now and then, to lay down my basket, and run forOmy hfe, it
won d have made anyaone ave thought I was haunted wrth an evil
eonsmenoe, or that I d been late] most tembly frightened - and so
indeed, I had. However, I went own thus two or three do '3, and
hung seen nothing, Ibegan to be a little bolder, and to thi there
was really nothing in it but In own imagination; but I could not
persuade myself ally of this til I should i0 down to the shore serum,
and see this rint of afoot, and measure it my own, and see if there
was any sim tude or fitness that I on ht . assured it was my own
foot: but when I came to the place-- rst, it appeared endentl to
me, that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on s ore
any where thereabouts: secondly, when I came to measure the mark
With my own foot, I found er'n'y foot not .so large. by a great deal.
Both these things filled my h with new no nations, and gave me
the vapours again to the highest degree, so t at I shook with cold
like one in an agile; and I went home again, filled with the belief
that some man or men had been on shore there - or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware;
and what course to take for my securit I knew not. .

0 what ridiculous resolutions men t e when possessed With fear!
It defrives them of the use of those means which reason offers for their
relie . The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my
enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle Wild into the woods, lest the
enemy should find them, and then frequent the_island in prospect of
the same or the like booty: then the simple thing of digging uslmy
two corn-fields lest they should find such a n_there, and st be
prompted to frequent the island: then to emohsh_my_ bower and
tent, that they might not see any vestiges of habitation, and be
prompted to look farther, in order to find out the_persons inhabiting.

These were the sub ect of the first night's eogitations after I was
come home again, while the a prehensions which had so overrun my
mind were fresh. upon me, an my head was full of .vapours. Thus,
fear of danger is ten thousand times more te ' than danger
itself, when apparent to the eyes; and we find the _urden of anxiet
greater, by much, than the evil which we are anxious about: an
what was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble that,
from the resignation I used to practise, I hoped to have. I looked,
I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the Phihstrnes
were upon him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did not now
take due ways to compose my mind, bv crying to God in my distress,
and resting upon his provrdence as I had done before, for my defence
and dehverance; which if I had done, I had at least been more cheer-
fully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried through
it With more resolution.

This confusron of my thougllgs kept me awake all night; but in the
morning .I fell aslec ; and ving, by the amusement of my mind,
been, as it were tire , and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly
and waked much better corn ed than I had ever been before. And
now I began to think sedate y; and, upon debate with myself Loon-
cluded that this island (which was so exceedingly pleasant, fruitful,
and no farther from the main land than as I had seen was not so
entirely abandoned as I might imagine; that althouoh t ere were no
stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, vet that there might some-
times come boats of! from the shore who, either with design, or perhaps
never but when they were driven by cross Winds, might come to this
place; that I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with
the least shadow or figure of_ any people et; and that, if at any time
they should be driven here, it was proba le thev went away again as
soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix here
upon any occasron; that the most I could suggest any da r from
was, from any casual accidental landing of stragghng pleople rom the
main, who,. as it was likely, if they were driven hit er were here

inst'their Wills, so they made no stay here, but went od' again with
a possrble speed; seldom staying oneni ht on shore, lest they should
not have the help of the tides and dayi ht back again; and that,
therefore, I had nothing to do but to consi er of some safe retreat, in
case I should see any savages land upon the s 1;.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had ug my cave so large as
to bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond
where my fortification Joined to the rock : upon niaturely considering
tlus, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, in the
same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where
I had lanted a double row of trees about twelve ears before, of
which made mention: these trees having been p anted so thick
before, they wanted but few piles to be driven between them, that
they might be thicker and stronger and my wall would be soon
finished. So that I had now a doub e wall; and my outer wall was
thickened wrth pieces of timber, old cables, and. eve hing 1 could
think of, to make it strong; havrng in it seven httle oles, about as
big as I nught put my am out at. .In the insrde of this, I thickened
my wall to about ten feet thick With continually brin mg earth out
of my cave, and laying it at the foot ofthe wall, and waking upon it -
and through the seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of
which I took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the ship '
these I laan like my cannon, and fitted them into frames, that he
them e a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven guns in two
minutes' time; this wall I was .many a weary month in finishing, and
yet never thought myself safe till it was done. _

When this wu done, I stuck all the und without my wall, for a
great length every way, as full with s as or sticks of the osier-like
wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand; inso-
much, that I heheve I might set in near twenty thousand of them,
leavmg a pretty large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter from the
young trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall. .

Thus, in two ears' time, I had a thick grove; and in five or six
years' time I a wood before m dwelling, growing so monstrously
thick and strong that it was ind perfectly impassa le: and no men,
of what kind soever, could ever imagine that there.was anythin
beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way which I proposed
to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue), it was b setti two
ladders, one to a part of the rock which was low, and t en bro e in,
and left room to place another ladder upon that; so when the two
ladders were taken down, no man living could come down to me
Without do himself mischief; and if they had come down, they
weue still on t e outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took_ all the measures human prudence could suggest for my
own preservation; and itde be seen, at length, that they were not
altogether Without Just reason; "10,231, I foresaw nothing at that
time more than my mere fear suggas to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other
affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my httleherd 0 ts:
they were not only a ready supp] to me on every occasion, audfi'gi'aln
to be sulficient for me, Without t e expense of powder and shot t
also Without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; and was
loath to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again.

For this purpose; after long consideration, I could think of but two
ways to preserve t em: one was, to find another convenient lace to
dig a cave under ground, and to drive them into it every mg t; and
the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land remote from
one another, and as much concealed as I could, whereI might keep
about half a dozen young goats in eaeh place; so that if any disaster
haplpeued to the flock in general, I mifihigbe able to raise them again
wit httle trouble and time : and t , though it would require
3 good deal of time and labour, I thought was the most rational

esign.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired'farts of
the island; and I pitched upon onel which was as private, in eed, as
my heart could wish for : it was a little damp piece of ground, in the
middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, 1 almost
lost myself once before, endeavouring to come back that wag from
the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear piece 0 land,
near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost an
enclosure by nature; at least, it did not want near so much labour to
make it so, _m the other 'ece of ground I had worked so hard at. .

I immediately went t?) work with this piece of grouudsifland, in
less than a month's time, I had so fenced it round that my doc or
herd, call it which you please, who were not so Wild now as at t
the might be supposed to be, were well enough secured in it: so,
without any further delay, I removed ten yo she-feats, and two
he- ats, to this piece- and when they were t ere continued to
e ect the fence, till I had madeit as secure as the other; which,
owever, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great
deal.. All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from my appre-
hensions on the account of the print of a man's foot; for, as yet, I
had never seen any human creature come near the island; and had
now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed made my
life much less comfortable than it was before, as may be we m
by any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of
man. And this I must observe, with grief, too, that the discomposnre
of my mind had great impresswn also 11 n the rehgions part of my
thoughts 5 for the dread and terror of f imto the hands of sav .
and cannibals lay so uhfn my spirits, that seldom found myse in
a due temper for app 'cation to my Maker; at least, not with the
sedate calmness and resignation of soul which I was wont to do: I
rather praged to God as under great afiliction and pressure of mind,
surrounde with danger, and in expectation every night Qf being mur-
dered and devoured before morning; and I must testify from_my
experience, that a temper of peace, thankfulnoss, lov and affection,
is much the more groper frame for prayer than that o terror and dis-
composure - and t at under the dread of mischief impending, _a man
is no more fit for a comforting performance of the duty of praying to
God, than he is for a repentance on a sick bed; for these discompo-
sures affect the mind, as the others do the body; and the discompo-
sure of the mind must necessarily be as (1501:" a disability as that of
the body and much fieater; praying to being properlyan act of
the mind: not of the dli . _ _
But to go on: after 1 ad thus secured one-part of my httle livmg
stock, I went about the whole island, searching for another private
place to make such another deposit; when, wanderine more to the
west Ipomt of the island than I had ever done yet, and ooking out to
sea, thought I saw a boat upon the sea. at a great distance. I_ had
found a perstpective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests, which I
saved out 0 our ship, but I had it not about me; and this was so
remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it
till my eyes were not able to hold to look any lon r: whether it was
a boa or not, I_do not know, but as I descended in the bill I could
see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to no more
out without a. perspective glass in in pocket. When was come
down the hill to the end 0 the islan , where, indeed, I had never
been before, I was presently convinced that the seeing the print of a
man's foot was not such a_strange_ thing in the island as I imafiined:
and but-that it was a s ial proVidence that I was cast upon t e side
of the island where t e savages never came I should easily have
knew that not was more quent than for the canoes from the
main, when they . pened to. be a httle too far out at sea, to
shoot over to that 31 e of the island for harbour: likewise, as they
often met and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any
prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where according to
their dreadful custom bemg all cannibals, they would kill and eat
them; of which he er.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, being
the _S.W. point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and amazed;
nor is it posSible for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing
the shore sfiread with skulls, hands, feet and other bones of human
bodies; an particularl , I observed a place where there had been a
fire made, and a circle ng in the earth, like a cockpit, where I sup.
posed the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feasting:
upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished With the Sight of these things that I enter-
tained no notions of any danger to in self from it fora long while: all
flapprehensions were buried in t e thoughts of such a itch of
' uman, hellish brutali , and the horror of the d erac 0 human
nature, which, though I heard of it of yet never d so near
anew of before ; in short,.I turned away my acefrom the horrid spec-
tacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting,
when nature discharged the disorder from my stomach; and havin
vomited with uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but coul
not bear to stay in the place a moment; so 1 got up the hill again
Etth all the speed I could, and walked on towards my own habi-

1011.

When I'came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile, as amazed, and then, recovering myself, I looked up With the
utmost affection of my soul, and, with a flood of tears in in eyes gave
God thanks, that had cast in first lot in a part of the wor d where I
was distinguished from suc dreadful creatures as these; and that,
though I had esteemed my present condition very miserable, had yet

'ven me so man comforts in it that I had still more to give thanks
For than to comp sin of: and this, above all, that I had, even in this
miserable condition, been comforted with the knowledge of Himself,
and the hope of His blessing :_ which was a felicity more than
suuktliciently equivalent to all the misery which I had suffered, or could
3 er.

In this frame of thankfulnees, I went home to my castle, and
to be much easier now, as to the safety of my Circumstances, t an
ever I was before: for I observed that these wretchas never came to
this island in search of what they could get; rhaps not seeking, not
wanting, or not expecting, an hing here; an havmg often, no _oubt,
been up in the covered, woo y g of it, without finding anything to
their purpose. I knew I had n here now almost eighteen years,
and never saw the least footsteps of human_creature there before;
and I might be eighteen years more as entirely concealed as I was
now, if I 'd not discover myself to them, which I had no manner of
occasion to do; it being my only business to keep myself entirely
concealed where I unless I found a better sort of creatures than
cannibals to make myse known to. Yet I entertained such an abhor-
rence of the savage wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched, inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another112 msmson enuson.

up, that I continued pensive and sad, and ke t close within my own
circle, for almost two years after this: when say my own circle, I
mean b it in three plantations, Viz., my castle, my country seat
{which Icall my bower , and my enclosure in the woods: nor did I
ook after this for any at er use than as an enclosure for my goats;
for the aversion which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was
such, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the. devil him-
self. I did not so.much mute look after my boat all this tun but
began rather to think of ' g another; for I could not t of
ever making any more attempts to bring the other boat round .the
island to me, last I should meet With some of these creatures at sea:
in which case if I had happened to have fallen into their hands, I
knew what would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger
of bein discovered by these people, began to wear off my uneasiness
about t em; audI _n to hve Just in the same composed manner
as before, only With t diference, that I used more caution, and
lie t my e es more about me than I did before last I should happen
logic seen y any of them - and particularly, I was more cautious of
firing my lest any of them, being on the island, should hapgen to
hear_it. t was therefore, a very providence to me that had
furnished myself with a tame b of goats, and that I had no need
to hunt any more about the w or shoot at them; and if I did
catch any of them after this, it was ytraps and snares, as I had done
before: so that for two years after this, I believe I never fired my
gun once 05, though I never went out without it; and, what was
more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried
them out with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my t-
skin belt. I also furbished up one of the great cutlasses that {head
out of the ship, and made me a belt to haniit on also; so that I was
now a most formidable fellow to look at w en I went abroad, if you
add to the former descri tion of myself, the particular of two istols,
and): gireat broad-swo hanging' at my side in a belt, but wi&out a
sea at

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time I seemed,
excepting. these cautions, to be reduced to my former calm sedate
way of living. All those things tended to show me, more and more,
how far my condition was from .being miserable, compared to some
others - my to many other particulars of life, which it might have
fileased God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting how

_ttle_repimng there would be amonimankind at any condition of
life, if people would rather compare 1: eir condition With those that
were worse, in.order to be thankful, than be always com ' them
wiiiatih_those which are better, to assist their murmurings and com-
P ""385- . .

As in my present condition there were not reall many things which
I wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the fr' hts had been in about
these sav wretches, and t e concern I been in for my own pie
servation, taken of the edge of my invention for my own conveni-
ences - and I had dropped aalgood design, which I had once bent my
thoughts too much upon, that was to try if I could not make
some of my barley into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer.
This ya really a.whimsical thouglbt, and I reproved myself often for
the simphcity of it: for I present y saw there would be the want of
several. things necessary to the making my beer, that it would be
impossible for me to supply ~ as, first, easks to preserve it in, which
was a thing that, as I have 0 rved already, I could never com :
no, though _I spent not only many days, but weeks nay mont s, in
attempting it, but to no purpose: In t enext place, Iliad no hops to
make it keep, no yeast to make it. work, no copper or hettleto make
it bod; and yet wrth all these things wanting, I verily behave, had
not the frights and terrors I was in about the savages intervened, I
had undertaken it, and rhaps brought it to pass, too; for I seldom
gave an hing over wit out accomphshing it, when once I had it in
my h . to begin it. But my invention now ran quite another way;
for, night and day, I could thing of nothing but how I might destroy
some of these monsters in their cruel bloody entertainment; and, if
possrble, save the victim they should _b hither to destrodv. It
would take up a larger volume. than this w ole work is mten ed to
be, to set down all the contnvances .I hatched, or rather brooded
upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frightening them so as to revent their comin hither any more: but
all this was abortive; not ing could be possib e to take effect, unless
I was to be there to do it myself: and what could one man do among
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of .them together
with their darts, or their bows andarrows, With which they could
shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun P

Sometimes I thought of di ng a hole under the place where they
made their fire and uttingm ve or 31: pounds of gunpowder, which,
when they kindled t eir fire, would consequently take fire, and blow
up all that was near it: but as, in the first place, I should be unwil-
ling to waste so much powder upon them, m store being now within
the quantity of one barrel, so neither could he sure of its gomg off
at any certain time, when it might surprise them- and, at best, that
it would do little more than Just blow the fire about their ears and
fri ht them, but not suflieieut to make them forsake the lace: so I
laid it aside; and then proposed that I would place in sel in ambush
in some convenient place, with my three guns all dou le loade and
in the middle of their bloodfi'nceremony lct fly at them, when I s ould
be sure to kill or wound r ps two or three at every shot - and then
falling in upon them wit my three pistols and m .sword, I made no
doubt but that, if there were twenty, I should them all. TlI_lS
fancy pleased my thoughts for someweeks and I was so full of it,
that I often dreamed o it and sometimes, that I was-Just'gomg to let
fly at them in my sleep. I went so far With it in my im tion, that
I emfiloyed myself several days to find out roper p to ut
myse in ambnscade, as I sai to watch for t em, and I_went -
quentlfidto the place itself, which was now grown more familiar to me -
blame ":3- ":l" '1" awe 2"" games: "new at
a pu i wenyor o t em esw as may
it, the horror find at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous
wretches devouring one another, abetted my mahce. Well, at length
I found a place in the side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might
securely wait till I saw any of their boats coming; and might then,
even before they would be ready to come on shore, convey mvself
unseen into some thickets of trees, in one of whiclrtherewas a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely ; and there 1 miglit. sit and observe
all their blood doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when
thcv were so c ose together as that it would be next to impossible that
I should miss my shot, or that I could fail wounding three or four of
them at the first shot. In this place, then, I resolved to fulfil my
design; and accordingly, I prepared two muskcts and my ordinary
fowling-piece. The two mus 'ets I loaded with a brace of slugs each
and fourpr five smaller bullets, about the Size of istol bullets; and
the fowhng-piece I loaded w1tli_near abandful o swan-shot of the
la est size; I also loaded my pistols with about four bullets each -
an , in this posture, well prowded With ammunition for a second an
third charge, I repared myself for m expedition. _

. After I ad t us.laid the scheme 0 in design, and in my imagina-
tion put it in ractice, I continually in e my tour every morningto
the top of the ' which was from m castle, as I called it about three
miles, or more, to see if I could o serve any boats upon the sea,
coming near the island, or standing over towards it; but I began to
tire of this hard duty, after I had or two or three months constantly
kept my watch, but came always back without any discovery; there
haying not in all that time, been the least ap ce, not only on or
near the s ore, but on the whole ocean, so ar as my eyes or glass
could reach every way. . _

As long as I kept in dail tour to the hill to look out so 10 also
I kept up the Vigour o my can, and my spirits seemed to be 1 the
while in a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the killin
twenty or thirty naked savages, _for an ofl'ence which I had not at
entered into any discussion of in my thoughts, an farther than in
passions were at first fired by the horror I conceive at the unnatu
custom of the people of that country; who, it seems, had been
suffered by I'mndence, in His wise disposition of the world, to have
no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated pas-'
sions; and, consequently, were left and perhaps had been so for some
ages, to act such homd things, and receive such dreadful customs as
nothing but nature, entirely abandoned b Heaven, and actuated by
some helhsli de eneracy, could have run t cm. into. But now, when
as I have said, began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which I.
had made so lon and so far every morning in vain, so my 0 inion of
the action itselffiiepn to alter; and I began, w1tli_ cooler an calmer
thoughts to consider what I was gomg to engage in; what authority
or call Iliad to pretend to be Judge and executioner upon these men
as criminals, whom Heaven ha thought fit, for so many ages, to suffer,
an umslied, to go on, and to he, as it were, the executioners of His
Ju gments one upon another how far these peo le were offenders
oainst me and what right I had to engage in t e quarrel of that
b cod which they shed promiscuous]? upon one another. I debated
this very often With myself thus: ". ow do I know what God himself
Judges in this particular case? It is certain these people do not com-
mit this ns a crime; it_is not against their own consciences reproving,
or their hght reproacliing them ; they do not know it to be an ofl'ence,
and thencommit it in_ efianee of divine justice, as we do in almost
all the sins we commit. The think it no more a crime to kill a.
captive taken mwar, than we 0 to lull an ox; or to eat human flesh,
than we do to eat mutton." _

When I considered this a little, it followed necessaril that I was
certainly in the wrong; that these people were not mur erers in the
sense that I had before condemned them in m thoughts, any more
than those Christians were murderers who 0 ten put to death the
prisoners taken in battle; or more frequentlyhupon many occasions,
put whole troops of men to the sword Without givmg uarter,
though_they threw down their arms, and submitted. In t e next
place, it occurred to me, that although the usatfie the .gave one
another was thus brutish and inhuman, yet it was rea y not ung to me:
these people had done me no injury: that if the attempted, or I saw
it necessary, for my immediate preservation, to all upon them, some-
thing mi ht be said for it: but that I was yet out of their power, and
they y had no knowled of me, and consequently no desxgn u on
me ; an therefore it coul not be Just fame to fall 11 1} them; tat
this wo d Justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all t eir barbanties
practised in America, where they destroyed millions of these people ~
who, however they were idolaters and barbarians, and had seve
bloody and barbarous ritesin their customs, such as sacrificing human
bodies to their idols, were ye as to the Spaniards, very innocent
peogle- and that the rooting t em out of the country is spoken of
Wit the utmost abhorrence and detestation by even. the-S ds
themselves at this time and by all other Christian nations in fininpe,
as a mere hutche , a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty uninsti-
fiable either to or man; and forwhieh the very name of a Spaniard
is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all geople of humanity or of
Christian com ion- as if the kingdom of pain were {articularly
eminent for th:Em roduce of a race of men, who _were w1t out princi-
plea of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity _to the miserable,
:which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the mind.

These considerations real] put me to a pause, and to a kind of a
full sto ; and I by ' tle and httle, to be of my design, and
to cone ude I had en wrong measures_in my resolution to attack
the savages; and that it was not my business to meddle with them,
unlas they first attacked me; andthis it was m business, if possible
to prevent: but that, if I were discovered an attacked by them,_I
knew my duty. 0n the other hand, I "filed with_m self, that this
really was the way not to dehver myse abut eat to rum and
destro myself - for, unless I_ was sure to kill every one that not only
should" be on shore at that time, but that should ever come on share
afterwards, if but one of them escaped to tell their country-people
what had ha pened, they would come over again b thousands to
reve the death of their fellows, and I should on y bring upon
myse a certain destruction, which, at present, I had no manner of
occasion for. Upon the whole, I concluded that I ought, neither in
principle nor in policy, one way or other, to concern myself in this
affair: that my business was, by all possible means, to conceal myself
from them, and not to leave the least si for them to guess by that
there were any living creatures upon t e island--I mean of human
shape. Religion joined in with this prudential resolution; and I was
convinced now, many ways, that I was perfectl out of my duty when
I was la ' all my bloody schemes for the estruction of innocent
creaturee-- mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were
guilty of towards one another, I had nothing to do with them - they
were national, and Ioiight to leave them to the )nstice of . , who
is the Governor of nations, and knows how, by national iginishments,
to make a just retribution for national offences, and to ring public
'udgments u n those .who olfend in a pubhc manner, by such ways. as
best please Em. This appeared so clear to me now, that nothnig
was a greater satisfaction to me than that I had not been suffered to
do a thing which I now saw so much reason to beheve would have
been no less a sin than that of Wilful murder, if I had committed it -
and I gave most humble thanks, on my knees, to God, that He had
thus delivered me from blood-guiltmess; .beseechinafi _him to t me
the rotection of His Providence, that I might not f into the ands of
the arbarians, or that I might not lay my hands upon them, unless I
had a morecleareall from Heaven to do it, in defence of my own hfe.

In this dis ition I continued for near a year after this; and so far
_was I from .esiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches, that
in all that time I never once went up the hill to see whether there
were any of them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been
on shore there or not, that I might not be tempted to renew any of
my contrivances ' t them, or be provoked by any advantage that
might present itsefi, to fall upon them: only this I did; Iweut and
removed my boat, which I had on the other side of the island, and
carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it into
a little coveg which I found under some high rocks, and where I knew,
by reason 0 the currents, the savages durst not, at least would not
come with their boats upon any account whateverx With my boatI
carried away evervthing that I had left there belon to her, though
not necessary for the baregoing thither, VIZ. a mast an_ sailwhich I had
made for her and a thing hke an anchor, but which indeed could not
be called_either anchor or grapnel; however, it was the best Icould
make of its kind: all these I removed, that there might not he the
least shadow for discovery, or wee _of any boat, or of any hum'an
habitation upon the island. ides this, I kept myself, as I said,
more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell except upon my
constant employment, to milk_ my shepgoots, and manage my little
flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other part of the
island, was out of r;'fo.i- certain it is that these savage people
who sometimes haun this island, never came wrth an thoughts of
finding an hing here, and consequently never waude of from the
coast, an I doubt not but they might have been several times on
shore after my a prehensions of them had made me cautious, as well
as before. Ind I looked back With some horror upon the thou hts
of what mv_ condition would have been, if I had chopped upon t cm
and been discovered before that; when, naked, and unarmed, except
with one gun, and that loaded often onl with small shot I walked
everywhere, peeping and peering about t .e island to see what I could
get; what a surprise snould I_ have been in, if, when I discovered the
print of a man's foot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty
savages, and found them pursuing me, and, by the sw1ftness of their
nmning, no pOSSIblllty of my escaping them! The thoughts of this
sometimes sunk my very soul within me and distressed in mind so
much that I could not soon recover it, to think what I should ave done,
and how I should not only have been unable to resist them, but even
should not have had presence of mind enough to do what] might
have done; much less what now, after so much consideration and
preparation, I might be able to do. lndeed, after serious thinking of
these things, I_ would be very melanchol , and, sometimes, it would
last a t while; but I resolved it all, at t, into thankfulness to that
Prom ence which had delivered me from so maniaunseen dang:e , and
had kept me from those mischiefs which I could ve no way en the
agent in delivering myself fiom because I had not the leastnotiou of
any suchthing depending, or the least suplposition of its being poss-
ble. This renewed _a contemplation whic often had come into my
thoughts in former times, when first I began to see the merciful dispo-
sttions of Heaven, in the dangers we run through in this hfe; how
wonderfully we are delivered w en we know nothing of it; how, when
we are in a quandary (as we call it , a doubt or heSitation whether to
go this way or that way, a secret int shall direct us this way, when
we intendedto go that we : nay, when sense, our own inclination, and
perhaps business, has ed us to go the other way, yet astrange
mpmsion upon the mind, from we know not what springs, and. by we
know not what power, shall overrule us to go this way; and it shall
afterwards appear, that had we gone that way which we should have
ne, and even to our imagination ought to have gone, weshould have
ii ruined and lost. Upon these, and many hke reflections, I after-
wards made it a certain rule with me, that whenever I found those
secret hints or pressings of mind, to doing or not dom. anything that
presented, or going this way or that way, I neverfai ed to obey the
secret dictate; though I knew no other reason for it than that such a
pressure, or such a hint, hung upon my mind. I could give many
examples of the success of this conduct in the course of my life, but
more as ially in the latter part_of .niy mhabitinv this _unhappy
island; fides man occasions which it is very hke y I might have
taken notice of, if I seen with the same e es then that I see with
now. But it is never too late to be Wise- an .I cannot but adwse all
considering men, whose lives are attended With such extraordinary
incidents as mine, or even thoigh not so extraordinary, not to slight
such'secret intimations of From ence, let them come from what mvisi.
ble intelligence they will. That I shall not discuss and perhaps
cannot account for; but certainly they are a roof of the converse of
Spirits, and a secret communication between t 039 embodied and those
unemhodied, and such a proof as can never be Withstood; of which I
shallhave occasion to give some ve remarkable instances in the
remainder of my solitary residence in t ' dismal place. .
I believe the reader of this will not thing it strange, if I7confess
that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern
that was now upon me put an end to all invention, and to all the
contrivances that I had laid for my future accommodations and conve-
niences. I had the care of my safety more now upon hands than that of
my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop it stick of wood now for
fear the noise I might make should be heard ; much less would 1' fire
a gun for the same reason: and, above all, I was mtole'rablypneasy at
making any fire lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in
the day, shoiddhetmy me. For this reason, I remove that partof my
businesa which required fire, such as hnrmng oifaots and ipes, &c.,
into in new apartment in the woods; where, r I had n some
time, foundto my unspeakable consolation, a mere natural cave in
the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage,
had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in-
nor .indeed, would any man else, but one who, like me, wan
nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, where,
by mere accident (I would say if I did not see abundant reason to
ascribe all such things now to I'rovidenoe), I was cutting down some
thick branches of trees to make charcoal; and before I go on I must
observe the reason of my making this charcoal, which was thus: I
was afraid of makin _a smoke about m habitation as I said before;
and yet I could not ve there Without ing my. hread, cooking my
meat, .&c.- so I contrived to burn some wood ere, as I had seen
done m angina, under turf, till it became chark or dry coal: and
then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and
perform the other services for which fire was wanting, without danger
of smoke. But this is by] the bye. While I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived t at, behind a ver thick branch of low brush-
wood or underwood, there was akind of . ollow place: I was curious
to look in it ; and getting With diflioulty into the mouth of it I found
it was pretty large, that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright
in it, and perhaps another With me: but I must confess to you that I
made more haste out than I did ianhen, looking farther into the
place, and which was perfectly dark, saw two broad shini_ eyes of
some creature, whether dad or man I knew not which twfil ed hke
two stars; the dim light from the cave's mouth shining directly in&
and makin the reflection. However, after some pause, I recovers
myself, and began to call myself a thousand fools, and to think that
he that was afraid to see the devil, was not fit to live twenty years in
anislaud all alone; and that I might well think there was nothing in
this cave that was more frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking
up my courage, I took 11 a fircbrand, and in I rushedagain with the
stick flaming in my han : 1 had not gone three steps in, before I was
almost as much frightened as before; for I heard a very loud sigh,
like that of a man in some and it was followed by a broken none
as of words half ex resse , and then a deep .sigh again. I step
back, and was ind struck With such a surprise that it put me into a
cold sweat and if I had had a hat on mE head, I will not answer for
it that myhmr might not have lifted it o . But still locking up my
spirits as well as <<mid, and encouraging myself a ~title with con-
sidering that the power and resence of God was everywhere and was
able to rotectme, .1 steppe _ forward again, and by the light of the
firebran holding it up a httle over my_head, I saw lying on the
ground a monstrous, frightful, o_ld he-goat Just mak his will, as we
say, and ping for hfe, and dying, mdee of mere ol age. I stirred
him a ht e to see ifI_could get him out, and he assayed to get u ,
but was not able to raise himself; andl thought with myself he mist):
even he there ---for if he had frightened me, so he would certainly
fright any of the savages, if any onepf them should be so hardy as to
come in there while he had any hfe in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to_look round
me, when I found the cave was but.very smalL--that is to say it
might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither
round nor square, no hands havmg ever been employed in making it
but those of mere Nature. I observed also that there was a place at
the farther side of it that went in further but was so low that it
required me to creep upon my hands and 'knees to go into it, and
whither it went I knew not; so, haying no candle, I gave It. over for
that time, but resolved to come again the next day pronded With
candles and a tinder-b9 winch I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wil fire in the pan. . .

Accordingly the next day I came prov1ded with en: large candles
of my own makin (for I made very good candles now of goats' tallow,
but was hard set or candle-wick, using sometimes rags or rope-yarn,
and sometimes the dried_rind of a weed like nettles); and ing into
this low place I was obhged to creep u n all-fours, as I ve said
almost ten yards,--which by the wav, thought was a venture hold
enough, considerivifithat I knew not how far it mi ht go, nor what
was beyond it. en I had got through the strait, found the roof
rose higher up, I beheve near twenty feet; but never was such a
glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to look round
the sides and roof of this vault or cave -- the wall reflected a hundred
thousand li hts to me from my two candles What it was inthe rock
--whether diamonds or an other precious stones or gold--which I
rather an posed it to bk--Iknew not. The place I was inwasamost
deh htfui) cavity, or grotto though iperfectly dark; the floor was dry
and evel, and had a sort 0 asmall oose gravel upon it so that there
was no nauseous or venomous creature to he see neither was there
an damp or wet on the sides or roof; the only ' culty in it was the
en rance,--which, however, as it was a place of security, and such a
retreat as I wanted, I thought was a convenience,-----so that I was
really rejoiced at the discovery and resolved, without any delay, to
bring some _of those thin wh1chI_was_most annous about to this
place - particularly, I reso ved to bring hither my me of owder,
and all m spare arms,--viz., two fowhng- 180357 or 1 had I e in
all-and t ree muskets-for of them I h eight in all; so I kept in
my castle only five, whioh stood ready mounts like pieces of cannon
on m. putmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon any
expedition. Upon this occasion of removin my ammunition I hep.
pened to open the barrel of powder which took up out of the sea,
audwhieh had been wet, and Ifound that the water had penetrated about
three or four inches into the powder _on every side, which cakin and
growing hard, had preserved the manic hke a kernel in the shgll, so
that I had near sixty pounds of vedryscgood powder in the centre of the
cask. This was a very agreeable _ overy to me at that time; so I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three pounds of
powder with me in my castle for fear of a surprise of any kind; I also
carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.

I. fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who were said
to hve in caves and holes in the rocks where none could come at them;
for I persuaded myself, while I was here, that if five hundred sa
were to hunt me, they could never find me out--or if they did, t e5
would not venture to attack me here. The old goat whom I fouii
erplring died in the mouth of the cave the next day after I made this
discovery; and I found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and
throw hiiii in and cover him with earth, than to drag him out; so I
interred him there, to prevent offence to my nose. _

I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this island,
and was so naturalized to the place and the manner of living. that,
couldI but have emoyed the certaint that no savages would come to
the place to disturb me I could have n content to have eapitulated
for s Inding the rest ofm time there, even to the last moment, till I
had d me down and die like the old goat in the cave. I had also
arrived to some httle diverSions and amusements, which made the
time s a great deal more pleasantly with me than it did before ~--
lirst, had taught my Poll, as I named before, to speak; and he did
it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, that it was veri
pleasant to me, for Ibelieve no bird ever spoke plainer,---and he hve
with me no less than six-and-twenty years; how long he might have
livedafterwards I know not, though I know they have a notion in the
Brasils that they live a hundred years. My dog was a pleasant and
lovm compamon to me for no less than sixteen years of in time and
then 'ed of mere old age. As for my cats they multipli as I ave
observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot several of them
at first, to keep them from devouring me and all I had; but, at length,
when the two'old ones I brought with me were gone, and after some
time continually driving them. roin me, and letting them have no provi-
Sion with me thei all ran Wild into the woods, except two or three
favourites which kept tame, and whose fyoun , when they had any,
I always drowned; and these were part c myo amily. Besides these
I alwavs kept two or three household kids a ut me, whom I taught
to feed out of my hand; and I had two more parrots, whichtalked

retty well, and would all call "Robin Crusoe," but none hire in
t; nor, indeed did I take the pains With any of them that I h
done With him. Ihad also several tame sea-fowls, whose names I knew
not that I can ht u on the shore, and cut their Wings; and the httle
stakes which I ad p ted before my castle-wall being new wn up
to a good thick grove, these {owls all hved among these ow trees
and bred there, which was very agreeable _to me,--;so that, .as I said
above, I began to be very well contented With the hqu led, if I could
have been secured from the dread of the savages. But it was otherwise
directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with
my story to make this just observation from it :--how frequentl , in
the course of our hves, the en! which-in itself we seek most to s un,
and which, when we are fallen into is the most dreadful _to us, is
oftentimes the very means or door 9 our deliverance, by which alone
we can be raised again from the afiliction we are fallen into. I could
give. many examples of this in the course of m unaccountable life,--

ut innothing w" it more particularly remarkalile than in the circum-
stances of my last years of solitary residence in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
third ear; and this, being the southern solstice (for winter I cannot
call "'3, was the particular time of my harvest, and re uired me to be
pretty much abroad in the fields when, going out ear y in the mom-
m , even before it was thorough dayhght, I was surprised with seeing
a fight of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two
miles, toward that art of the island where I had observed some
savages had been, as fore, and not on. the other side,--but, to my
great affliction, it was on my side of the island.

_I was indeed terribly _surprised at the sight, and stopped short
w1tlnn in grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be an rised; and
yet I no more peace Within, from the apsre ensions had that if
these. savages, in rambling over the islan , should find my corn
standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements, the would
immediately conclude that there were people in the place, an would
then never rent till they had found me out. In this extremity I went
back directly to m castle, pulled up the ladder after me, and made
all things Without 001: as Wild and natural as I could.

Then I prefixed myself within, ntt myself in a posture of
defence; I 0 ed all my cannon, as calle them,--that is to as my
muskets, which were mounted up0n my new fortification, and my
pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp,--not forgetting
seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection and earnestly
to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians.
continued in this posture about two hours, and began to be impatient
for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out. After sitting
awhile longer, and musing what I should do in this case, I was not
able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer; so setting up mybladder
to the side of the hill, where there was a flat place, as 1 0 served
before, and then pulling the ladder after me, I set it up again, and
mounted the to of the hill, and pulling out my perspective- lass,
which I had en on purpose, I laid me down flat on my be you
the ground, and began to look for the place. I presently found t ere
were no less than nine naked sav , Sitting round a small fire they
had made, not to warm them, for t ey had no need of that, the wea-
ther being extremely hot, but as I sup to dress some of their
barbarous diet of human flee which they brought vnth them,
whether alive or dead I could not tell. _

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon
the shore; and as it was then ebb of tide, the seemed to meto wait
for the return of the flood to go away again. tis not easy to imagine
what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on
my side of the island, and so near to me; but when I considered their
coming must be always with the current of the ebb, I began after-
wards to be more sedate in _my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of the flood of tide, if they were not
on shore before; and having made this observation, I went abroad
about my harvest work With the more composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for, as soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take boat and row (or paddle, as we call it)
away. I should have observed, that for an hour _or more before they
went off they were dancing, and I could easily discern their postures
and gestures by my glass. I could not perceive, by in nicest obser-
yation, but that they were stark naked, and had not t e least cover-
ggtnpon them; but whether they were men or women I could not

s inguis .

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon my
shoulders, and two wok in my girdle, and my t sword by my
aide Without a scab. and With all the speed was able to make
went away to the hill w ere I_ had discovered the first appearance of
all; and as soon as I got thither, which was not in less than two
hours (for I could not go fiueieckl , bemg so loaded with arms as I
was), I perceived there had n t canoes more of the savages at
that place 5 and looking out farther I saw they were all at sea toge-
ther, making over for the mm. This was a dreadful sight to me
especiallyI as, fioindgs down to the shore I could see the marks 0
horror w ich t e mal work they had been about had left behind
it, viz., the blood, the bones, and rt of the flesh of human bodies
eaten and devoured b those wretc es with memment and sport. I
was so filled With in ignation at the eight, that I now began to pre-
meditate the destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be
whom or how many soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits
which they made thus to this island were not very frequent, for it
was above fifteen months before any more of them came on shore
there again,--that is to say, Ineither saw them nor any footsteps or
signals of them in all that time; for as to the rainy seaso then
thlefi are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far; yet this
w e I lived uncomfortably, b reason of the constant ap rehea-
sions of their coming u n_ me y surprise; from whence I o e,
that the expectation o eVil is more bitter than the sufl'ermg, espe-
cially if there is no room to shake off that expectation, or those
apB-ehensions. . .

uring all this time 1 was in the murdering humour, and spent
most of my hours, which should have been better emplOyed, in con-
triva how to circumvent and fall upon them the very next time I
shoul see them--especially if they should be divided, as the were
the last time, into two parties; nor did 1 consider at all that if killed
one party--su pose ten or a dozen--I was still the next day, orw
or month, to ll another, and so another, even ad infinituu, till
should be, at length, no loss a murderer than they were in being man-
eateiis,--_;and gei-hapst mufh more sgect I "Elli: tin (1133me indagreat
perpenyan anxieyo mmd,ex in so one or
otherfall into the hands of these merciless creatures; and If I diilat
any time venture abroad, it was not without looking round me With
the greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found, to my
great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided a tame flock or herd
of goats; for I durst not upon any account fire my gun, es iall

near that side of the islan where they usually came, lest shoul

alarm the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to
have them .eome with rha s two or three hundred canoes
with them in a few y and en I ew what to expect. However,
I wore out a year and t months more before I ever saw an more
of the say and then I found them again, as I shall soon 0 rue.
It is true t ey might have been there once or twice ;_ but either they
made no stay, or at least I did not see them; but, in the month of
May, as near as I could calculate, and. in my four-and-twentieth
ya I had a very strange encounter with them; of which in its
p .
_ The rturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen months'
intervate was very great; I slept unquietly, dreamed alwa s frightful
dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night. the day

great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the m ht,_l dream}:

often of killing the sav and of the_reasons why_ might ustify
domg 1t. But to wave this for. a while--It was in the mi die of
May, on the sixteenth da I think, as well as my poor wooden
calendar would reckon, for marked all u n the post still; I say, it
was on the sixteenth of Ma that it b ew a very t storm of
wind all day, with a great d of lightning and thun er, and a very
foul ht itwas after it. I knew not what was the articular occasion
of itnfiiut as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with ver

serious thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised wit

the norse of a gun, as _I thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure,
a surprise quite of a difi'erent nature from any I had met with before;
for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind.
I started up in the greatest haste imaginable - and, in_ a tnce, clapped
my ladder to the middle lace of the rock and pulled it after me; and
mounting it the secon time (got to_ the top of the hill the very
moment that a flash of fire bi me haten for a second gun, which,
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and by the sound, knew
that it was from that of the sea where I was driven down the
current in m boat. immediate] considered that this must be
some ship in ' t and that the ad some comrade, or some other
ship in com , an fired these or signals of distress, and to obtain
help. I basal: e presence of mind, at that minute, to think, that
though I could not help them, it ht be they might help me; so I
brought together all the dry wood could get at_ and and, making
a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill. The wood was
dry, and blazed freely; and, though the wind blew very hard, yet it
burned fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was any such thing
as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt they did; for as soon
as ever in fire blued up, I heard another gun, and after that several
others, all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till
daybreak: and when it was broad day and the air cleared up, saw
something at a great distance at sea, full cast of the Island, whether
a sail or a hull could not distinguish--no, not with my glass; the
distance was so great, and the weather still something hazy also; at
least, it was so out at sea. . _
I looked frequently at it all that day and soon perceived that it
did not move; so I presently concluded that_ it was a shi at anchor;
and bemg e er, you ma be sure, to be satisfied, I too in gun in
m hand an ran tow s the south side of the island, to t erocks
w ere I had former] been carried away .by the current - and fettm
ii there, the weat er by this time being perfectly clear, co 1
p ' y see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a shi , cast away in the
night upon those concealed rocks which I foun when I was out
in my boat; and which rocks, as they checked the Violence of the
stream and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occa-
sion 0 my recovering from the most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever Ihad been in in all my life. Thus, what is one man's safety
is another man's destruction- for it seems these men, whoever they
were, bein out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholl under
water, ha been driven upon them in. the night, the wind lowmg
hard at EHNE. Had they seen the island as I must necessarily
suppose they did not, they must, as I thought have endeavoured to
have saved themselves on shore by the help of, their boat; but their
firing ofi'guiis for help, especially when the saw, as I imagined, my
fire, fille me with man thoughts. Firs , I imagined. that upon
seeing my h ht, they mig t have ut themselves into their boat and
endeavoure to make the shore; ut that the sea running very high,
they imght have been cast away. Other times, I imagined that they
might have lost their boat before as might be the case many ways;
particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which many
times obliied men to stave or take in pieces their boat and some-
times to t row it overboard with their own hands. Other times, I
imagined they had some other ship or shi in company, who, upon
the Signals of distress they made had en them u , and earned
them off. Other times I fancied they were all gone 0 to seain their
boat, and bein hurried away by the current that I had been formerly
in, were came out into the great ocean, where there was nothing but
misery and perishinfiz andthat, perhaps, they might by this time
think of starring. an of being in a con tion to eat one another.
As all these were but comectures at best, so, inthe condition I
was in, I could do no more than look onupon the misery of the poor
men,.and pity them; which had still this good effect 11 on in side
that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks to w chad
so hagmly and comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition;
and t at of two ships' com es, who were now cast away upon this
gait of the world, not one ife_should he s but mine. I learned
ere again to observ that it is very rare t the I'mvidence of God
casts us into any con tion of hfe so low, or an misery so great, but
we may see something or other to be thankful or, and may see others
in worse circumstances than our own. Such certainly was the case
of these men, of whom I could not so much as see room to suppose
any of them were saved - nothing could make it rational so muc as
to wish or ex ctthat. they did not all perish there, except the pos
sibility only 0 their being taken up by another ship in company; and
this was but mere possibility indeed, for I saw not the least sign or
appearance of any such thing. I cannot ex lain, by any possible
energy of words, what a strange longm I fe t in my soul upon this
sight, breaking out sometimes thus :--' 0 that there had been but
one or two, mi, or but one soul, saved out of this ship, to have
escaped to me, t at I might but have had one companion, one fellow-
creature,.to have spoken to .me and to have conversed with!" In
all the time of my sohtary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a
desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep 9. regret .at
the want of it. _ . .

There are some secret moving springs .m the afi'ections which,
when they are set a-going by some ob ect in View, or, though not in
View, yet rendered present to the min by the power of imagination,
that motion camas out the soul by its impetuosity, to such Violent,
eager embracing: of the object that the absence of it is iusupportable.
Such were these earnest wrshings that but .one man had been saved.
I beheve Irepeated the words, "0 that it had been but one !" a
thousand times; and my desires were so moved by it, that when I
spoke the words in bands would clinch together and my fingers
would_press the dpahns of my hands, so thatjf I had had an soft
thin .in my han , I would have crushed it involuntarily; an the
teeth in my head would stnke together, and set against one another
so strong, that for some tirne I could not part them again. Let the
naturalists explain these things, and the reason and manner of them.
All I can do is, to describe the fact, which was even surprising tome,
when I found it, though I knew not from whence it proceeded; it
wm doubtless, the effect of ardent Wishes, and of strongideas formed
in my min realizmg the comfort which the conversation of one of
my fellow'C trans would have been to me. But. it was not to be ~
either their fate or mine or both, forbade it, for till the last ear oi
my being on this island,I never knew whether any were sav out of
that ship or no- and had only the affliction, some da after, to see
the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the en of the island
which was next the shipwreck. _He had no clothes on but a searnan's
waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue liiieu shirt -
but nothing to direct me so much as to gness what nation he was 0 .
He had nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eight and a tobacco-
pi the last was to me of ten times more value than the first:

t was now calm, and I had-a great mind to venture out_in my
boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on
board that might be useful to me. But that . d not altogether ress
me so muc as the ibih that there mi ht be yet some ivmg
creature on w ose life might not 0 y save, but might, by
savrng that life, comfort my own to the last degree 9 and this thought
clung so to my heart that I could not be_quiet mght or day, but I
must venture out in m boat on board this wreck; and committing
the rest to God's prqvi ence, I thought the impression was so strung
upon Enlinlnd that it could not be resiste that itmust come from
aggro rimsible direction, and that I should wanting to myself if I

no go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to m7y.catle,
prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of bread? a t
pot of fresh water, a compass to steer b , a bottle of rum ( or i had
still a great deal of that left), and a ket of mm; and thus,
loading myself With everything necessary I went down to my boat
tthe water out of her, t her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, an
t ien went home ' or more. My second cargo was a great bag
of rice, the umbre to set up over my head for a shade, another
large pot of fresh water and about two dozen of small loaves, or
bar ey-calres, more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a
cheese: all which, with great labour and sweat, I camed to my
boat; and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and
rowmg, onpaddling, the canoe along the shore, came at last to the
utmost Bomt of the island on the north-east aide. And now I was
to launc out into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture.
I looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of
the island at a distance, and which were very terrible to me, from
the remembrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my heart
began to fail me; for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of
those currents, I should be carried a great way out to sea, and perhaps
out of my reach, or sight of the island again; and that then, as my
boat. was but small, if any little gale of wind should me, I should be
mewtably lost. . _

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give over
my enterprise; and hav hauled my boat into a little .creek on the
shore, I stepped out, an sat down upon a_rising bit of ground,
very pensive and anxious between fear and desire, about my voyage;
when as I was musing,l could perceive that the tide was turned,
and the flood come on; upon which my going wm impracticable for
so many hours. Upon this, presently it occurred to me that I should
go 11 to the highest iece of ground I could find, and observe, <<I
cool how the sets 0 the tide, or currents, lay when the flood came
in, that I might Judge whether, if I was driven on way out, I in M
not expect to be driven another way home, with the same ra i ty
of the currents. This thought was no sooner in my head than cast
my eye u on a little hill which sufliciently overlooked the sea both
ways, an from whence I had a clear view of the currents, or sets of
the tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my return. flow
I found that as the current of ebb set out close by the south pomt of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close bly the shore of the
north Side; and that I had nothin to do but to eep to the north
side of the island in my return, andI should do well enough. _

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next morning, to
set out w1t the first of the tide; and, reposing myself for the night
in my canoe under the great watch-coat I mentione I launched out.

I first madea little out to sea, full north, till I_ gan to feel the
benefit of the current, which set eastward, and which carried me at
a'great rate; and yet did not so hurry me as the current on the south
si e had done before, so as to take from me all vernment of the
boat; but, havin a strong steerage with my pagodle, Iwent at a
great rate, direct y for the wreck, and in less than two hours came
up to it. It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which, by its
building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks:
all the stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the
sea- and as .her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on
with great Violence, her mainmast and foremast were brought by
the board, that is to sa , broken short of; but her bowsprit was
sound, and the head an bow appeared firm. When I came close
toiher, a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me.coming, yelped
and cried; and, as soon as I called him, Jumped into the sea to
come to me: I took him into the boat, but found him almost dead
with hunger-and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he
devoured it hke a ravenous wolf that had been starving a fortnightin
the. snow: I then gave the poor creature some fresh water, wrth
which, if I would have let him, he would have burst himself. After
this I went on board ; but the first sight I met with was two men
drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms
fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed robable, that when
the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea bro e so high, and so
continually over her, that the men were not able to bear it, and were
st led with the constant rushin in of the water, as much as if
the ad'been under water. Besi es the do , there was nothing left
in t e shi that had life; nor any goods, t at I could see, but what
were spo ed by the water. There were some casks of 1i uor whe-
the'i~ Wine or brandy, I knew not, which 113v lower in the old, and
which, the water bern ebbed out I coul see; but they were too
big to meddle with. saw seve chests, which. I believe belonged
to some of the seamen; and I got two of them into the boat, With-
out examining what was in them. Had the stern of the ship been
fixed, and the forepart broken 08, I am persuaded I might have made
a good vo 0e; for, by what I found in these two chests, I had room
to suppose t e ship had a at deal of wealth on board; and, if I
may guess from the courses e steered, she must have been bound from
Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, _in the south part of America,
beyond the Brasils to the Havannah, in the gulf of Mexico, and so
perhaps to S ain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of
no use, at t t time, to anybody; but what became of the crew I
then knew not. .

I foun besides these chests, a little cask full of ii uor, of about
twenty ga ons, which I got into my boat with much (11 culty. There
were several muskets in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, With
about four pounds of wder in it: as for the muskets, I had no
occasion for them, so I eft them, but took the powder-horn. I took
a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also _two httle
brass kettles, a co per pot to make chocolate, and a.gn_diron; and
with this cargo, an the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make
home in: and the same evening, about an hour Within mght, I
reache the island again, weary and fatigued to the last de .
I reposed that ni ht in the boat; and in the morning I reso ved
to harbour what I ad got in my new cave, and not carry it home to
my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all in cargo on shore, and
began to examine the particulars. The cask o h. uor I found to be
a kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Bras ; and, maword,
not at all good; but when I came to open the chests, I found several
things of great use to me; for example I found_in one a fine case
of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters,
fine and very . ; the bottles held about three ints each, and were
tipped with s ver. 1 found two pots of very succades, or sweet-
meats, so fastened also on the top that the salt water had not hurt
them; and two more of the same which the water had spOiled. I
found some very good shirts, which were vegi welcome to me; and
about a dozen and a half of white linen ban erehiefs and coloured
neckcloths; the former were also very welcome, being exceedingly
refreshin _to Wlpe my face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came
to the t1 _in the chest, I found there three great bags of pieces-of-
eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of
them, wrap ii in a aper, six doubloons ogngold, and some small
bars or we ges 0 gold; suppose they might weigh near a pound.
In the other chest were some clothes, but of little value; but, by the
circumstances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate; though
there was no wder in it, except two pounds of fine glazed wder,
in three sm .flnks kept, I suppose for charfiinf their owhng-
pieces on occasion. Upon the who e, I, got very 'tt e by this voyage
that was of any use to me; for, as to the money, I had no manner of
occasion for it- it was to me as the dirt under my feet, and I would
have given it all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockin s,
which were things I greatly wanted, but none on my feet or
many years. I had, indeed, got two pair of shoes now, which I took
off the feet of the two drowned men whom I saw in the wreck, and I
found two pair more in one of the chests, which were ve welcome
to me; but they were not like our English shoes, either or ease or
semce, being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I found in this
seaman's chest about fifty pieces-of-eight, in rials, but no gold: I
suppose this belonged to a worm man than the other, which seemed
to belong to some officer. ell however, I lugged this money home
to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before which I had
brought from our own shi ; but it was agreat pity, as I said, that the
other part of this ship ha not come to my share; for I am satisfied
I might have loaded my canoe several times over With money; and,
thought I, if I_ ever esca to England, it might lie here safe enough
till I come again and fete it.

Havmg now brought all my things on shore and secured them, I
went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore
to her old harbour, where I laid her u , and made the best of my
way to my old habitation, where _I fonn everything; safe and quiet.
I began now to repose myself, hve after my old fashion, and take
care of my family affairs; and for a while Ilived easy enough, only
that I was more vigilant than 1 used to be, looked out oftener, and
did not go abroad so much; and if, at any time, I did stir with any
freedom, it was always to the east part of the island, where I was
pretty well satisfied the_savages never came, and where I could go
without so many precautions and such a load of arms and ammuni-
tion as I always carried With me if I went the other way. I lived
in this condition near two years more; but my unlucky head, that
was alwavs to let me know it was born to make my body miserable,
was all these two'yeai-s filled with projleuets. and designs, how, if it
were ible, I might get away from t ' island: for, sometimes I
was or making another volyage to the wreck, though m reason told
me that there w" nothing eft there worth the hazard 0 may voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one wa , sometimes another: an I behcve
verily, if I had had the boat t at I went from Sallee in, I should
have ventured to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither. I have
been, in all my circumstances, a_ memento to those who are touched
With the general plague of mankind, whence, for aught I know, one
half of their miseries flow; I mean that of not being satisfied with
the station wherem God and Nature hath glaced them: for, not to
look back u n my primitive condition, an the excellent adVice of
my father, t e opposition to which was, asI may call it, my original
sin, my subsequentmistakes of the same kind had been the means of
mfiicom into this miserable condition; for had that Prov1dence,
w. ch so ap ily seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me
With confine domes, and I could have been contentedto have gone
on dually, I_might have been by this time, I mean in the time of
my eing in this island, one of the most considerable planters in
the Brazds: nay, 1 am persuaded, that by the improvements I had
made in that little time I lived there, and the increase I should
grow have made if I had remained, I might have been worth a

un thousand moidores: and what business had I to leave a
settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving and increasing
to turn supercargo .to Guinea to fetch ne , when patience and
time would have so increased our stock at ome, that _we could have
bou ht them at our own door from those whose busmess it wu to
fetci them? and though it had cost us something-more, yet the
difference of that pricewas b no means worth saving at so great
a_ hazard. But as this is us y the fate of young heads, so reflec-
tion u n the folly of it is'as commonly the exercise of more years
or of t e dear-bought experience of time : so it was with me now; an
yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper, .that I could
not satisf myself in my station, but was continually porin upon the
means an possibihty of my escape from this place: and t . t I may,
With the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remaining 2::
of my story, it may not be improper to ve some account of my t
conceptions on the subject of this foolis scheme for my escape, and
how, and upon what foundation I acted.

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my late
voy to the wreck, my frigate laid u and secured under water, as

and my condition restored to w t it was before: Ihad more
wealt indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer; for
I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had before the
Spaniards came there.

It was ene of the nights in the rainy seasonjii Marc the four-
and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island 0 solitiig:i
I was. lying in my bed or hammock, awake very well in health,
no_ pain, no distem er, no uneasiness of bod , nor any uneasiness of
mind more than orllinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that
is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as
follows :--It is im ible to set down the innumerable crowd of
thoughts that whirlgdssthmugh that t thoroughfare of the brain
--the memory, in this night 3 time: ran over t e whole history of
my life in miniature, or b abridgment, as I ma call it, to my
comm to this island, and. ofthat part of my e smoe I came to
this is d. In my reflections upon thestate of my case smoe Icame
on shore on this island, I was comparing. the happy posture of my
ail'airs in the first years of my habitation here, with the life of
annety, fear, and .care, which I had hved in ever smoe I had seen
the print of a foot in _the sand; not that I did not beheve the savages
had frequented the Island even all the while, and might have been
several hundreds of them at times on shore there; but I had never
known it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about it; my
satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the same, and
was as hapr in not knowmg mi danger as if I had never really
been ex to it. This furnis ed in thoughts with many very
profitab e reflections, and articularl t is one: How mfimtel? good
that Providence is which as provi ed, in its government 0 man-
kind, such narrow bounds to his si ht and knowledge of things; and
though he walks in the midst 0 so man thousand dangers the
sight of which, if discovered to him, wo d distract his mind and
sink his 'spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by having the events of
things hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which
surround him.

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, Icame
to reflect seriously upon the real dagger I had been in for so many
years in this very island and how I h walked about in the greatest
security and with all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps
nothing but the brow of a bill, a great tree, or the casual approach
of night, had been between me and the worst kind of destruction,
m. that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages, who
would have seized on me with the same view as I would on a goat or
a turtle ; and have thought it no more crime to kill and devour me than
I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I would unjustly slander myseli, if I
should say I was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to
whose singular grotection I acknowledged, with great humihty, all
these unknown ehverances were due, and without which I must
mentably have fallen into their merciless hands. .

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken
up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures, I mean the
savages, and how it came to_pass in the world, that the wise
Governor of allthmgs should give up an of his creatures to such
inhumanity, pay, to something so much elow even brutality itself
as to devour its own kind: but as this ended in some (at that time;
fruitless speculations, it occurred to me to in uire, what part of the
world these wretches hved in? how far 0 the coast was from
whence they came? what they ventured over so far from home for P
what kind of boats they had? and why I might not order in self and
E? busintegs so?) that Imigh' t beasable to go over thither, as ey were

come ine .
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do
with myself when I went thither; what would become of me if I fell
into the hands of the savages; or how I should escape them if the
attacked me; no, nor so much as how it was possible for me winch
the coast and not be attacked by some or other of them, Without
any ssx iht of delive ' myself; .and if I should not fall into their
han , what should do or provision, or whither I should bend my
course: none of these thoughts, I so , so much as came in my way;
but my mind was wholly bent u n t e notion of my pmsing over in
my boat to the main land. I ooked upon m present condition as
the most miserable that could pos5ibly be; t t I was not able to
throw myself into anything but death, thatcould be called worse.
and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with
rehef, orI might coast along, as I did on t e African shore, till I
came to some inhabited country, and where I might find some
relief - andhafter all, perhaps I mi ht fall in with some Christian
ship that might take me in; and the worst came to the worst,
I could but die, which would ut an end to all these miseries at
once. Pray note all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an impa-
tient tern r, made desperate, as it were b the long continuance of
my troub es, and the disappointments I liadv met in the wreck I had
been on board of, and where I had been so near obtaining what I so
earnestly longed for, somebody to speak to, and to learn some know-
ledge from them of the place where was, and of the probable means
of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly by these thoughts - all my
calm of _mind, in my resignation to Providence, and waiting t e issue
of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had,
as it were, no power to turn my thou hts to anything but to the
project of a voyage to the main, whic came upon me With such
orceeedand such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be
resiis .

When this bad agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with
such Violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and my pulse
beat as if I been in a fever, merel With the extraordinary fervour of
my mind about it, Nature, as if {had been fatigued an exhausted
with the verg tho hts of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One
would have t ought should have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor
of anything relating to it: but I dreamed that as I was gomg out in
the mormng as usual, from my castle, Isaw upon the shore two
canoes and eleven savages, co ' to land, and that they brought
With them another savage whom t ey were gomg to kill, in order to
eat him; when, on a an den, the savage that they were gomg to kill
umped away, and ran for his life - and I thought, in myhsleep, that

9. came running into in little thick grove before my fortification to
hide himself; and that , seeing him alone, and not perceiving_tl_iat
the others sought him that way, showed m self to him, and sinihng
uponhim,enco dhim:thathekueel downtome,seemingto
my me to assist im; upon which I showed him my ladder, made

go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became my servant:
and that as soonu I had got this man, I said to myself "Now I
may certainly venture to the main land, for this fellow Will serve me
as a pilot and will tell me what to do, and whither to go for provi-
sions, and whither not to go for fear of being devoured - what places
to venture into, and what to shun." I_waked with this thought;
and was under such inexpressihle impressions of Joy at the respect
of my escape in my dream, that the disappomtments whic I felt
upon coming to myself, and finding that it was no more than a dream,
were equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very
great dejection of spirits. . .

Ufign this, however, I made this conclusion; that my only way to
go a ut to attempt an escape was, if possible, to t asavage into
m possession; and, if possrble, it should be one 0 their prisoners,
w om they had condemned .to be eaten, and should. bgifig hither to
kill. But these thoughts still were attended with this ' culty, that
it was im sible to effect this Without attacking a whole caravan of
them, an killing them all; and this was not only a very1 desperate
attemlpt and might nuscarry; but, on the other hand, I ad greatly
scrup ed the lawfulness of it to myself ; and my heart trembled at
the thoughts of shedding so muc blood, though .it was for my
deliverance. I need not repeat the arguments which occurred to
me inst this, they being t e same mentioned before; but though
I h other reasons to offer now VIZ. that those men were enemies to
my life, and would devour me if the. could; that it was self-preser-
vation, in the highest degree, to de iver myself from this death of a
life, and was acting in my own defence as much u if they were
actually assaulting me, and the hke- I say, though these things
ar ed for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my
de 'verance were ver temble to me, and such as I could by no
means reconcile myse to for a great while. However, at last, after
many secret disputes with myse , and after great perplexities about
it (for all these arguments, one way and another, stru led in my
head a long time the eager prevaili desire of .de verance at
length mastered . the rest; and I reso ved, if saibe, to get one
of these savages into my hands, cost what it wo d. My next thing
was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to
resolve on; but as I could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I
resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them when they came
on shore, and leave the rest to the event; taking such measures as
the opfiortunity should present, let what would be.

Wt these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself 11 n the
scout as often as posSible, and indeed so often, that I_ was eartily
tired of it ; for it was above a year and a half that I waited; and for
great part of that time went out to the west end, and to the south-
west corner of the island almost every day, to look for canoes, but
none appeared. This was very discouraging and _ to trouble
me much, though I cannot sa that it did in this case as it had done
some time before) wear off t e edge of my desire to t e thing; but
the lon r it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for it : in a
word, was not at first so careful to shun the sight of these savages,
and avoid being seen by them as I was now eager to be upon them.
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay two or three
savages, if I had them, so as to make them entirely craves to me, to
do whateverI should direct them, and to prevent their beinv able
at an time to do me any hurt. It_was a great while that I phrased
m _ with this afi'air ; but nothing still presented itself; all my
fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no savages came near me
for a great while.

About .a year and _a half after I entertained these notions and by
long musmg had, as it were, resolved them all into nothin , or want
of an occasion to put them into execution), I was surprise one mom-
ing b seeing no less than five canoes all on shore t ther on my side
the is and, and the people who belonged to them all ded and out of
my sight. The number of them broke all my measum; for seeing so
many, and knowmg that thev always came fonror six, or sometimes
more in a boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my
measures, to attack twentypr thirty men single-handed; so lay still in
my castle, perplexed and discomforted. Hawever, I put myself into
the same posmon for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was
Just read for action, if anything hadupresented. Having waited a
good w e, listening to hear if they m e any noise, at length, b61115
very im treat, I set in ns at the foot of my ladder and clambere
up to t e top ofthe ' by my twos s,asusu_ ; standing so,
however, that my head did not appear a ve the bill, so that they
could not perceive ine b any means. Here I observed, by the help
of my perspective glass, t at they were no less than thirty in number;
that they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed. How
they had. cooked it I knew not, or what it was; but they were all
dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures and figures,
their own way, round the fire. . _

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my perspective,
two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where, it seems they
were laid b , and were now brou ht out for the slaughter. I per-
ceived one 0 them immediatel fa ; being knocked down, I suppose,
with a club, or wooden swq for that was_their way; and two or
three others were at work immediately, cutting him open for their
cookery while the other Victim was left standing by himself, till they
should be ready for him. _ In that very moment this poor wretch,
see himself a httle at hberty, and unbound, Nature inspired him
with o of hfe, and he started away from them, and ran With
moredib e svnftnoss along the sands, directliatowards me; I mean,
towards that gait of the coast where my bitation was. I was
dreadfufly trig tened, I must acknowledge, when I perceived him
run my way ; and especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued
by the who e body ~ and now I expected thaw of my dream was
coming to , an that he won] certainly e shelter in my grove:
but I coul not depend, by any means, upon my dream, that the other
savages would not pursue him thither, and find him there. However,
I kept my station, and my spirits to recover when Ifound that
there was not above three men that ollowed him ; and still more was
I encouraged, when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly in
main , and gained ground on them . sothat, if he could but hold out
for an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get awa from them all.

There was between them and my castle, t e area which I men-
tioned often in the first part of in story, where I landed my cargoes
out of the ship; and this I saw pli'nnly e must necessarily swim over,
or the poor wretch would be taken _there ;. but when the _savage
escaping came thither, he made not of it, thou h the tide was
then u ; but plunging in, swam throu . in about t y strokes, or
therea iitsi landed, and ran with ex stre h and swiftness.
When the t persons came to the creek I foun that two of them
could sw1m, but the third could not, and that, standing on the other
side, he looked at the others, but went no farther, and soon after
went softly back again - which, as it hap ned, was very well for him
in the end. I observed that the two w o swam were yet more than
twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled
from them. It came veri warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed
irresistibly, that now was t e time to get me a servant, and perhaps a
companion or assistant; and that I_wu plainl called by Prondenoe
to save this poor creature's life. I immediate y ran down the ladders
with all possrble expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both
at the foot of the ladders, as I observed before, and gettinf rig again
with the same hastetothe top ofthehill, I crossed towar st _e sea;
and having a very short out, and all down hill, ABlaced myself in the
way between the ursueis and the pursued, h ooing aloud to him
that fled, who, 100 back, was at_ first perhaps asomuch frightened
at me asat them; .but I beckoned wrth my hand to him to come back;
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol~
lowed - then rushing at once u n the foremost, I knocked him down
with the stock of my piece. was loath to fire, because I would not
have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would not have been
easily heard, and being out of sight of the mob, too they would not
have known what to make of it. Hana? knocked this fellow down,
the other who pursued him stopped, as ' he had been frightened, an

I advanced towards him: but as I came nearer, I perceived presently
he had a bow and arrow and was fitting it to shoot at me {so I was
then obliged to shoot athim first, which I did, and killed him at the
first shot. The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he
saw both his. enemies fallen and killed, as he thou ht, yet was so
frifi toned With the fire and naise of mwece, that e stood stock
at , and neither came forward, nor went kward, though he seemed
rather inclined still to fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him

and made signs to come forward, which he easilyiunderstood, an

came a httle way; then stop ed again, and then a ttle farther, and
stOfiiped again; and I could t en perceive that he stood trembhng, as
if e had. been taken risoner, and had gust been to be killed, as his
two enemies were. I koned to him again to come to me and vs
him all the signs of enco ment that I could think of; an he
came nearer and nearer, m down-every ten or. twelve steps, in
token of acknowledgment for saying his hfe. I smiled at him, and
looked pleasantly, an beckoned to him to come still nearer; at length,
he came close to me- and then he kneeled down ' kissed the
ground, and laid his head upon the ground, and, m me by the
_oot, set my foot upon his head; this, it seems, was in token of swear-
ing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made much of him,Rohinmn ('nww rcscw-x' ["rillzly.
and encouraged _him all I could. But there was more work to do
fit; for I perceived the sa whom I had knocked down was not
led, but stunned with the b ow, and began to come to himself: so
I pointed to ' and showed him the savage, that he was not dead;
upon this he spo e some words to me, and though I could not under-
stand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to hear; for they were
the first sound of a man's voice that had heard, my own excepted,
for above twenty-five years. But there was no tune for such reflec-
tions now;- the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so
far as to sit up uson the and, and I perceived that my savage
began to be afrai ; but w an I saw that, I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I would shoot him: upon this, my savage for
so I call him_ now, made a motion to inc to lend him my sword, which
hungI naked in ahelt by my side, which I did. He no sooner had it,
but e runs to his enemy, and at one blow, out off his headso cleverly,
no executioner in Germany could have done it sooner or better;
which I thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe,
never saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords :
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will even
out ofi' heads with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When
he had done this, he comps laug '. to me in sign of triumph, and
brought me the sword_agam and wit abundance of gestures which I
did not understand, laid it down, With the head of the sayage that he
had killed, just before me. But that which astonished him most, was
to know how I killed the other Indian so far of - bszdpomm to him
hemadesignstometoletliimgotohim; andI ehim ,aswe
as I_could. When he came to him, hgstood like oneam looking
at him, ' him first on one side, then on the other; ooked at
the wound the ullet had made. which it seems was Just in his breast
where it had madea hole and no great quantit of blood had followed;
but he had bled inwardly, for he was qiute ead. He took up his
bow and arrows, and came back; so I turned to go away, and
beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him that more might
come after them. Upon this, he_made mines to me that he should
bury them with sand, that they might not seen b the rest if they
followed; and so I made signs to him to 0 so. e_fell to
work; andin aninstant he had scraped a ole mthe sand with his
hands, big enough to b .the first in, and then him into i
and covered him ; and d so by the other also; _ believe he
buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calhng him away, I
carried hm? not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the far-
ther part 0 the island: _so I did not let my dream come to passun
mm he came into my grove for shelter. Here I gave him
b a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of_ water,_which I
found he was indeed in great distress for, fi'om his running: and
havmgrefreslied bim,Iinadesigns for him to go and lie down to
d123, showing him a place where I had laid some rice-straw, and a
b et uponit, which I used to sleep uponmyself sometimes; so the
poor creature lay do and went to sleep. .
He was a comely, me fellow, perfectly well made, With
straight strong limbs, not too la , tall and well shaped; and, as I
reckon, about twenty-six years 0 age. He had a very good counte-
nance, not a fierce and surly as ect, but seemed to have something
very manly in his face; and yet e had all the sweetness and softness
of a European in his countenance too especiall when he smiled.
His hair was long and black, not curle hke woo ; his forehead very
high and large; and a great_vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black, but ve_ 'tawny-
and yet not an 11 ly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Braz iis an
Virgimans, and ot er natives of America are, but of a bn ht kind of
a dun olive-colour, that had in it something very agreea le, though
not very easy to describe. His face was round and plum ; his nose
small, not flat like the Negroes; a very good mouth, thin ps, and his
fine teeth well set, and as white as ivory.

After he_ had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour,_he
awoke again and came out of the cave to me - for I had been milking
my goats, w job I had in the enclosure 'ust by: when he espied me,
he came ninmng to me, laying himself own again upon the ground,
With all the possible signs of an humble, thankful dis sitio making
a great many antic gestures to show it. At last he ays his ead flat
upon the ground close to my foot, and sets in other foot upon his
head, as he had done before; and after this, in c all the signs to me
of subjection, semtude, and submissmn, imaginable, to let me know
how he would serve me so long as he live . I understood him in
many things and let him know I was very well pleased with him. Ina
little time, I began to speak. to him, and teach him to s to me;
and, first, I let im know his name should be Fawn, w ich was the
day I'saved his life: I called him so for the memory of the time. I
likevnse taught him to say Master; and then let him know that was
to be my name; I likemse taught him to say yes. and No, and to
know the_meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen pot
and let him see me drink it be ore him, and sop my bread in it; and
gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quick! complhed
with, and made signs that it was very good for him. I ept t ere
with himall that night ' but, as soon as it was day, Ibeckoned to hnn
to come With me, and at him know I would ve him some clothes;
at which he seemed very lad, for he was star naked. As we went
by the place where he had uried the two men, he pointed exactly to
the place, and showed me the marks that he had made to find them
again, making ' to me that we should dig them up a and eat
t e . At this, a peered veryl an , expressed in ah omncepf
it, made as if 'I wonl vomit at t e t oughts of it, an beckoned with
mihand to hlm to come away, which he did immediately, with '
su missmn. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see his
enemies were gone; and, pulhn out my glass, I looked, and saw
plainly the place where they had Iieen, but no appearance of them or
their canoes; so that it was plain they were gone and had left their
two comrades behind them, Without any search after them.

But I was not content With this discovery; but havinfiow more
courage, and. oonsequentl .more curiosity, I took my man day with
me, givmg him the swo in his hand, With the bow and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use ve dexterously, making him carry
one gun for me, and 1 two for myse - and away .we marched to the
lace where these creatures had been ; for I had a. mind now to get some
er Intelligence of them. When I came tothe place, in very blood
ran chill in my .veins and my heart sunk within me, at t e horror of
the s le ;. indeed, it was a dreadful sight at least it was so to
me, t ough Friday made nothingof it. The place was covered with
human bones, the ground dyed with their blood, and great pieces of
flash left here and there half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in
short, all the tokens of the triumphantfeast they had been making
there, after a Victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five
hands, and the bones of three or four I and feet, and abundance of
other parts of the bodies; and Friday, y his signs, made me under-
stand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upo - that three
of them were eaten up and that he pointing to himself, was the
fourth 5 that there had been a great battle between them and their
next king, of whose subjects, it seems, he had been one, and that they
had taken a great number of prisoners - all which were carried to
several places, by those who had taken them in the fight, in order to
feast upon them, as was done here by these wretchss upon those they
brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever
remained, and lay them together in a heap, and. make a great fire
upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a han-
kering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his
nature; but I showed so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it,
and at the least appearance of_ it, that he duist not discover it 3 for
If lgy some means, let him know that I would kill him if he
0 e i .

When he had done this,.we came back to our castle; and there I
fell to work for my man Friday; and first of all, I gave him a pair of
linen drawers which I had out of the. poor gunner's chest I mentioned
which I found in the wreck, and which, with a httle alteration, fitted
him ve well; and then I made him a Jerkin of goat's skin as well
as m ' would allow at?!>> I was now wn a tolerably good or);
and gave him a cap w 'ch I made 0 hare's skin, very convenient,
and fashionable enough; and thus he was clothe for the present,
tolerably well, and was mightiy well plowed to see mself almost as
well clothed as his master. t is true, he went awkwardly in these
clothes at first: wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and
the sleeves of the waistcoat gelled his shoulders and the inside of his
arms; but a httle easing them where he complained they hurt him,
and using himself to them, he took to them at ength very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I began _to
consider whereI should lodge him; and, that I might do well for him
and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the
vacant allace between my two fortifications, iii the inside of the last,
and in e outside of the first. As there was a door or entrance there
Into my cave, Imade a formal framed door-case, and a door to it of
boards, and set it up in the passage, alittle withinthe entrance; and,
esusmgthe door to open in the inside, I barred it up in the mght,
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could _no way come at me in
the inside of my innermost wall, Without making so much noise in
getting over that it must needs awaken me_; for my first wall had now
a complete roof over it of long-poles, covering all my tent, and leaning
up to the Side of the hill; w ich was again laid across with smaller
sticks, instead of lathe, and then thatched over a great thickness with
thence-straw, which was strong; hke reeds; and at the hole or_place
which was left to Fe in or out y the ladder, I had placed a kind of
trap-door, which, i it had been attempted on the outside, would not
have opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a great
noise: as to wea us, I took them all into my side evcrv night. But
I needed none 0 all this precaution - for never man had a more faith-
ful lovmg, sincere servant than Friday was to me; Without passions,
sullcnness, or deSigns, perfectly obliged and engaged; his very ali'ec-
tions were tied to me, hke those of a child to a lather; and I dare
sagr he would have sacrificed hisili'fe to save mine, u on any occasion
w atsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of t is, put it. out of
doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no precautions for
my safety on his account. . _

This frequently gave me occaSion to observe, and that With wonder,
that however it had pleased God, in His providence, and in the
government of the works of His hands, to take from so great a part
of the world of His creatures the best use: to which their faculties
and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has bestowed
upon them the same Powers, the same reason, the same affections,
the same sentiments o kindness and obligation, the'same paSSions
and resentmeiits of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, smcerity,
fidehty, and all the oapacities of doing good, and receiving good, that
He has given to us; and that when He pleases to otter them occaswns
of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them
to the right uses for which they were bestowed, than we are. This
made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several
occasions presented, how mean a _use we make of all these, even
though _we have these powers enhghtcncd by the great lamp of
instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowleda'e of His word
added to our understanding; and why it has pleased aod to hide the
like saving knowledge from so man milhons of souls, who, if I
might Judge by this our savage, wo d make a much better use of
it than we did. rom hence, I sometimes was led twin, to
invade the sovereignty of .Providence, and, as it were, arm} the
Justice of so arbitrar a dis osition of things, that should hi e that
Sight from some, an rcyc it to others. and yet expect a h_ke duty
from both; but I shut it up, and checked my thoughts with this
conclusion: first, That we did not know by what light and law these
should be condemned; but that as God was necessarily, and, by the
nature of His being, infinitely holy and Just, so it could not be, but if
these creatures. were all sentenced. to absence from Himself, it was
on account of mining against that light, which, as the Scripture says,
was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their consmenees
would acknowled e to be Just thouOh the foundation was not dis-
covered to us; and, secondly, That still, as we all are the clay in the
hand of the potter, no vessel could say to him, "Why hast thou
forincd me thus?" '

_But to return to in new 0010118111011sz was greatly delighted with
him, and made it in usmess to teach him everything that was roper
to make him usefu , handy, and helpful; but es cially to in '8 him
speak, and understand me when I s oke: an be was the aptest
scholar that ever was; and particular dy was so merry, so constantly
diligent, and so pleased when he coul but understand me or make
me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him.
Now mv life began to be so easy that I began to say to myself, that
could Ihut have been safe from more sav ves, I cared not if I was
never to remove from the place where I live .

After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought
that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding, and
from the relish of a oannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other
flesh; so I took him out With me one morning to the woods. I went,
indeed, intending to kill a kid. out of my own flock, and bring it .home
and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat 1 ing down in the
shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I eatclie hold of Friday;
.--" Hold," said I, " stand still 5" and made sighs to him not to stir:
immediately, I presented gig piece, shot, and killed one of the kids.
The poor creature, who h , at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the
savage, his enemy, but did not know nor could imagine how it was
done, was sensibly surprised; trembled, and shook, and looked so
amazed that I thought he would have sunk down. He did_ not see
the kid I shot at, or erceive I had killed it, but riliped up his waist-
coat, to feel whether e was not wounded; and, as found (presently,
thought I was resolved to kill hiin: for he came and kneele down to
me and embracing mv knees, said a great many things I did not
un erstand; but I could easily see the meaning was, to pray me not
to kill him. _

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do himno harm;
and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pomting to the
kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he
did: and while he wm wondering, and looking to see how the crea-
ture was killed I loaded my gun again. . By-and-by, I saw a great
fowl, like a haw , sitting upon a tree within shot; so, tohlet Friday
understand a little what 1 would do, I called him to me again painted
at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been
a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my n, and to the

. und under the parrot, to let him see Iwould ma c it fall, I made
um understand that 1 would shoot and kill that bird; accordinglth
fired and bade him look, and immediatelyI he saw the parrot fall. e
stood like one fri htened again, notwit standing al I had said to
him; and I found is was the more amazed, because he did not see
me put anything into the gun, but thought that there must be some
wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill
man, beast bird, or anythin" near or far 011'; and the astomshrnent
this created in _him was such as could not wear of for along time;
and, I believe, if I would have let him, he would have worshipped me
and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it
for several days afier; but he would speak to it and talk to it, as if
it had answered him, when hewas by himself - which, as I afterwards
learned of him, was .to desire it not to kill him. Well, after his
astomshment was a httle over at this I pointed to him to run and
fetch the bird I had shot, which he di but staid some time; for the
parrot, not being quite dead, hadfluttere away a distance from the
place where she fell: howeverhhe found her, too heru , and brought

er to me; and as I had perceivedhis ignorance about t e before,
Itookthis advan. tochnrgethegunagain, andnotto et_himsee
me do it, that I_ ms t be read for any other mark that might pre-
sent; but nothing more'ofi'ered at that time: so I brought home the
in and the same evemng I took the skin off, and cut it out as well
as could ' and havuig a pot fit for that purpose I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of
It, and liked it very well; but that which was stran t to him was
to see me eat salt With it. He made a sign to me t at the salt was
not good to eat; and putting a little into his own month, he seemed
to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth
With fresh water after it: on the other hand, I took some meat into
in mouth Without salt, and I pretended to sfiit and sputter for want
0 salt, as much as he had done at the salt;I at it would not do; he
would never care for salt With his meat or in his broth; at least, not
for a great while, and then but _a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to
feast_him.the next day by roasting a piece of the kid: this I did by
ban fit before the fire on a string, as I had seen man people do
in d, setting two poles up, one on each Side of the , and one
across on the top, and tyin the string to the cross stick, letting the
meat turn continually. 1115 Friday admired very much; but when
he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well
he hked it that I could not but understand him: and at last he told
me, as well as he could, he would never eat man's flesh any more,
which I was very lglad to hear.

_ The next day, set him to work to beating some corn out, and
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before- and he
soon understood how to do it as well as 1, especially after he had seen
what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of ; for
after that, I let him see me make mv bread, and bake it too; and in
a little time, Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as I
could do it myself. .

I began now to consider, that having two mouths to feed instead
of one, I must pronde more ground for my harvest, and plant a larger
quantity of corn than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of
llama,a and lie fltm dime in the saline ndiannerhaedbegorfmig {which

n wor e no 0 very Willing y an ver u 1 very
cheeriiilly: and I told him what it was for; that it was for corp to
make more bread, because he was now with me, and that I might
have enough for him and myself too. He iipmied very sensible of
that part, and let me know that he thought much more labour
upon me on his account, than I had for myself; and that he would
work the harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this lace.
Friday began to talk pretty well and understand the names of a most
everything I had comma to call for, and of every place I had to send
him to, and talkeda great dealto me; sothat, inshort Ibegannow
to have some use for my tongue again, which indeed, I had VG? little
occasion for before. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, had a
111113ng satisfactigi in the felgiw himself: dhis siigpllegeunfe'i'gzued

ones appeared me more an more every ay, an gem y
to love the creature ; and on his side, I believe he loved me more than
it was ible for him ever to_love anything before. '

I a mind once to_try if he had aninmclination for his own
country again; and havmg taught _him lish so well that he
could answer me almost any question, I as ed him whether the
nation that he belon to never conquered in battle? At which he
smiled, and said, " es yes, we always fivht the better ;" that ishhe
meant, always get the better in fight; and so we began the followmg
discourse :--

JIaater.--You always fight the better; how came you to be taken
prisoner the Friday?
Friday.---- y nation beat much for all that.
befitflruow beat? If your nation beat them, how came you to
en
Friday.--They more 'many than my nation, in the place where me
was; they take onehtwo three, and me: my nation over-beat them in
the yonder place, w ere me no was; there my nation take one, two,
great thousand. . _
Match-TEN, why did not your side recover you from the hands of
your enemies then? .
Fridays--They rim, one, two, three, and me, and make go in the
canoe; my nation have no canoe that time. ' _
Marten--Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the
$3"? they take? Do they carry them away and eat them, as these
Friday--Ya, my nation eat mans too: eat all up.
Marten--Where 'do the carry them P _ '
Fridays--Go to other p .e where they think.
Eastern--Do they come hitherfi
Friday--Yes, yes, they come hither - come other else place.
Malian--Have ou been here With them? '
. Wyn--Yes, have been here (pomts to the NW. side of the
island, which, it seems, was their side).

By this, I understood that my man Friday had formerly been
amon the savages who used to come on shore on the farther art of

the is and, on the same man-eat' occasions he was now Iii-pug t for:
and, some time after, when I {(1315: the. cour to carry him to that
side, being the same I formerly mentioned, e presently knew the

8
place, and told me he was there once, when they eat up twenty men,
two women and one child 5 he could not tell twenty in Ei'iighsh, but
he numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, an pomtmg
to me to tell them over. . .

I have told this , because it introduces what follows; that
after this discourse I h With him, I asked him how far it was from
our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost.
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that after
a little wayput to there was a current and wind, always one way
in the morning the ot er in the afternoon. This I understood to be
no more than the sets of the tide, _as going out or coming in - but I
afterwards understood it was occasroned by the great draft and reflux
of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or _1 h of which river,
as I foun afterwards our island lay; and that t and which I per-
ceived to the W. and N.W. was t_ie great island Inmdad on the
north point of the mouth of the .river: I asked Friday a thousand
questions about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and
what nations were near; he told me all he knew, wrth the greatest
Openness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several nations of
his sort of people, but could get no other name than Caribs: from
whence I easily understood that these were the Caribbees, which our
maps place on the art of America which reaches from the mouth
of the river Oroono o to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He
told me, that up a great way beyond the moon, that. was, beyond the
setting of the moon which must be west from their country, there
dwelt white bearded men, like me, and minted to my great whis-
kers, which I mentioned before; and t t they had killed much
mans, that was his word: by all which I understood he meant the
Spamards, whose cruelties in America had been spread over the
{mole country, and were remembered by all the nations from father

0 son.

I inquired if he could .tell me how I might ' from this island
and get among those white men: he told me, ' Yes, yes, you may
go in two canoe," I could not understand what he meant or
make him describe to me what he meant by two canoe, till at
last, with great difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a large
boat, as big as two canoes. Thispart of Fnday's discourse I began
to rehsh very well; and from this time I entertained some hopes
that, one time_or other, 1 might find an opportunity to make my
egcfiple from this place, and that this poor savage might be a means

e p me.

During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that
he be u to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to
laiagundation of religious knowled in his mind; particular y I
as ed him one time, who made him. e r creature did not un-
derstand me at all, but thought I had aske him who was his father:
but I took it up Hiawatha: handle, and asked him, who made the sea,
the ground we w ed on and the hills and woods. He told me, " It
was one Benamuckee, that lived be and all;" he could describe
not ' of this great person but that e was very old, "much older,"
he sai , "than e sea or the land, than the moon or the stars." I -
asked him then, .if this old Ifieison had made all things, why did not
all things worship him? e looked very grave, an With a fleet
look of innocencesaid, " All things say 0 to him." asked in, if
the people who e in his country went away anywhereii He said,
" Yes; they all went to Beuamuckee." Then I asked him whether
those the eat up went thither too? He said, " Yes."

From t ese th _, I began to instruct him in the knowled . of the
true God; I_ told that the great Maker of all things ved up
there, painting up towards heaven; that He governed the world by
the same power and frondence by which He made it; that He was
omnipotent and soul do everything for us, give everything to us--
take everything from us; and thus, 1) degrees, I opened his eyes.
He_listened With great 'attention, an received With pleasure the
notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of
making our prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even in
heaven. He told me one day that if our God could hear us, up
beyond the sun, he must nee be a greater God than their Bens-
muckee, who lived but a little way of, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to sfieak _to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him? . e said,
" No; they never went that were young men; none went thither but
the old men," whom he called their Oowokakee; that is as I made
him ex lain it to me, their religious, or clergy; and that they went to
say 0 so he called saying grayers) and then came back and told them
what namuckee said. y this I observed, that there is nestcrai't
. even among the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the war] ; and the
policy of in ' a secret of religion, in order to reserve the venera-
tion of the peop e to the clergy, is not only to be ound in the Roman,
but,_perha 5, among all religions in the world, even among the most
brutish an barbarous savages. ' _

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and
told him that the pretence 0 their old men going up to the moun-
tains_to say 0 to their god Benamuckee was a cheat; and their
bringing word from thence what he said was much more so; that
if they met with any answer, or spake with any one there _it must
be With an evil spirit: and then I entered into a long . urse
with him about the devil, the origin of him, his rebellion nst God,
his enmity to man, the reason of it .1113 setting himse u in the
dark parts of the world to be wors pped instead of God? and as
God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to
their ruin; how he had a secret access to our passmns andto our
afl'ections, and to adapt his snares to our inclinations. so a topause
us eyen to be our own tempters, and run upon our destruction by
our own choim. . _ _ _

Ifonnd it was not so easy to im riut ri ht notions in his mind
about the devil as it was about the ing 0 a God: nature assisted
all my arguments to evidence to him even the necessity of .a great
First. Cause--an overruling, governing Power--a secret directing
Providence; and of the equit and justice of paying}: to Him
that madens, and the like; but there appearedinot _ g 0 .this kind
' inthe notion of an evil spirit; of his origin, his being, hisnature;
and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so
too: and the oor creature dpiizzled me once in such a manner, by a
question mere y natural an innocent that I scarce knew what to sa
to lum. I had been talkmga great deal to him of the power of God,
His omnipotence, His aversion to sin, His beiu a consuming fire to
the workers of iniquity; how, as He had in e us He could
destroy us and all the world in a moment ;. and he listeue With great
seriousness tome all the while. After this, I had been telhng him
how the devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his
malice and skill to defeatthe good designs of Providence, and to ruin
the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like. "Well," says
Friday, "but you say God is so strong so great; is he not much
strong, much niiOht as the devil?" " es, yes," 3233's I, "Friday;
God is stronger than the devil : God is above the dev' , and therefore
we pray toGod to tread him down under our feet, and enable us to resist
his temptations and quench his fiery darts". "But," says he again,
"if God much stron er, much might as the. Wicked devil, why God no
kill the devil, so ma e him no more do Wicked?" I was strangely
surprised at this question; and, after all thoiifih I was now_ an old
niau, yet I was but a yoiuig doctor, and ili qua ed for a casuist, or a
solver of difficulties; and at first I could not tell what to sa ; so I
pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he said ; but e was
too earnest for an answer, to forget his question, so that he repeated
it in the very samebroken words as above. _ By this time I had
recovered myself a httle, and I said, "God Will at last punish hiin
severel ; he is reserved for the judgment, and is to be-cast into the
botto ess pit, to dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisfy
Friday; but he returns upon me, repeatm my words, " ' Reserve at
last! ' me no understand: but why not ki the devil now; not kill
greatago?" "You may as well ask me,"_ said I, "why God does
not kill you or me, when we do wicked things here that offend him:
we are preserved to repent and be pardoned." .He mused some time
on this: " We well," says he nughtily afl'eetionately "that well:
so you, I, dev' , all Wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all."
Here I was run down again by lum to the last degree: and it was'a
testimony to me, how the mere notions of nature, though they Will
guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a Go , and of a.
worship or homage due to the suplreine being of God, as the conse-
quence of our nature yet nothing ut divine revelation can form the
knowledge of Jesus hrist, and of redemption purchased for us; of a
Mediator of the new covenant, and of an Intercessor at the footstool
of God's throne; I say, nothing but a revelation from heaven can
form these in the soul ; and that, therefore, the spel of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of Go ., and the Spirit of
God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of his people are the
absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men in the savuig
knowledge of God, and the means of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man,
rismg up hastily, as ii ion some sudden occasion of gomg out; then
sending him for some! iiug a good waypfl' I seriously prayed to God
that he would enable me to instruct savmgly this poor savage; assmt-
ing, by His Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive
the hght of the knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling him to Him-
self, and would guide me to speak so to him from the IVord of God

that his conscience might be convinced, his eyes 0 ned hand his soul
saved. When he came again to me, I entered into a ong discourse with
him upon the subject 0. the redemption of man by the Sayiour of the
world, and of the doctrine of the ospel preached from heaven, viz., of
repentance towards God, and fait in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then
explained to him as well as I could why our blessed Redeemer took not
on him the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham; and how,
for that reason the fallen angels had no share in the redemption;
that he came only to the lostsheep of the house of Israel, and the like.

I had God knows, more smcerity than knowledge in all the methods
I took forthis oor creature's instruction, and must. acknowledge,
what I believe a that .act upon the same dprinciple Will find, that in
laying things open to him I_ really informe and instructed myself in
many things that either Idid not know, or had not fully conSidered
before, but which occurred naturally to my mind ii on searching into
them, for the information of this poor savage; an I had more affec-
tion in my inqui after things upon this occasion than ever I felt
before: so that, w ether this poor Wild wretcli was the better for me
orno, I had eat reason to be thankful that ever he came to me; my

ef sat lig ter upon me; my habitation grew comfortable to me

'ond measure: and when I reflected that in this sohtary life which
I ad been confined to, I had not only been moved to look up to
heaven myself, and to seek the hand that had brought me here, but
was now to he made an instrument, under Providence, to save the
life, and, for aught I knew, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him
to the true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine that
he might know Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I
reflected upon all these things, a secret joy ran throurrh every part of
my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this
place, which I had so often thought the most dreadful of all aflhc-
tions that could possibl have befallen me. ' _

I continued in this t ankful frame all the remainder of my time-
and the conversation which employed the hours between Friday and
me was such as made the three years which we hved there to the;
perfectly and completely ha py, if any such thing as complete appi-
ness can be formed in a sub unary state. This savage was now a
Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason to hope, and
bless God for it, that we were equally pemtent and comforted
restored penitents. We had. here the word of God to read, and
and no farther of from His Spirit to instruct, than if we had been in
England. I alwa s a plied myself, in reading the Scriptures, to let
him_ know as well'as could, the meaning of what I read; and he
again, by his serious in uiries and questionings, made me, as I said
before, a much better so olar in the Scripture knowledge than I should
ever have been by my own mere private reading. Another thing I can-
not refrain from observing here also, from experience in. this retired
part of m life, "2., how infinite and inexpresSible a blessmv it is that
the know edge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation 1):; Christ
Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the Word of God, so. easy to he
received and understood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture made
me capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly
on to the _t work of smcere repentance for my sins, and laying
hold of a mom for hfe and salvation, to a stated reformation in
practice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this without any
teacher or instructor, I mean human; so the same plain instruction
sufficiently served to the enlighteninghis savage creature. and hung-
mglliim to be such a Christian as I ve known few equal to him in
my e.

As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife and contention which have
happened in the world about religion, wliether niceties in doctrines,
or schemes of church government they were all perfectly useless to
us, and, for aught I can yet see, they have been so to the rest of the
world. We had the sure ide to heaven, "2., the Word of God-
and we had, blessed be , comfortable views of. the S int of God
teaching and instructing by His word, leading us into all truth, and
making us both WIllJnf and obedient to the instruction of His word.
And I cannot see the east use that the greatest knowledge of the dis-
puted prints of rehgion, which have made such confiisionin the world,
would ave been to us, if we could have obtained it : but I must go on
with the historical gun. of things, and take every part in its order.

After Friday and became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him, and s pretty fluently,
though in broken English, to me, I acquamte him with my own
history, or at least so much of it as related to my coming to this
place; how I had lived there, and how long: I let him into the
mystery, for such it was to him, of 1:3"qu and bullet, and taught
him how to'shoot. I gave him a ' e, which he was wonderfully
delighted w1th- and I made him a belt, With a frog hanging to it,
such as in Engiand we wear han ers in; and in the frog, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, w ich was not only as good a weapon
in some cases, but much more useful u on other occasions.

Idescribed to him the count of urope, particularly England,
which I came from; how we live how we worshipped God, how we
behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all arts of
the world. I ve him an account of the wreck which I had 11 on
board of, and s owed him, as near as I could, the place where she
lay: but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and which
I could not stir with my whole strength then- but was now fallen
almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a
great while and said nothing. I asked him_what it was he studied
upon. At last, says he, " e see such boat like come to lace at in
nation." I did not understand him a good while 5 but at , whenI
had examined further into it, I understood by him, that a boat such
as that had been, cameon shore upon the country where he lived:
that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I
presently imagined that some European shi must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat mi ht t oose and drive ashore;
but was so dull that I never once thong to men making their escape
from a wreck thither,_mnch less whence they might come: so I only

uired after adescription of the boat.

nday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me
better to understand him when he added wrth some warmth, "We
save the white mans from drown." Then I. presently asked if there
were any white mans, as he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he
said; "the boat full of white mans." I asked him how many. He
told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what became of
them: He told me, "They live, they dwell at m nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for puresently imagined
that these might be t e men belonging to the s 'p that was cast
away in the sight of my island, as I now called it; and who, after the
ship was struck on the.rock and they saw her inevrtably lost, had
saved themselves in their boat and were landed upon that wild shore
among the savages. Upon this I inquired of him. more _critically
what wm become of them. He assured me they hved still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the savages left
them alone, and gave them Vietuals to hve on. I asked him how it
came to pass they did not kill them and eat them. He said f'No,
they make brother With them ;" that is, as I understood him, a
truce; and then he added, "They no eat mans but when make the
war fight ;_ " that is to say, they never eat any men but such as come
to fight with them, and are taken in battle. _

It was after this some considerable time, that being 11 n the to
of the hill, at the wt side of the island, from whence, as have sei ,
I had, in aclear day discovered the main or continent of America,
Friday, the weather being very serene, .looks very earnestly towards
the main land, and, in a kind of surprise, fails a Jumping and dan-
cing, and calls out to me, for I was at some distance from him. I
asked him what was the matter. "0 Joy!" says he; "0 glad!
there see my country, there my nation!" I observed an extraordi-
nary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his eyes 5 arklcd, and
his countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he ad a mind
to be in his own country again. This observation of mine put a great
many thoughts into me, which made me at first, not so eas about my
new man Friday as I was before; and ,1 made no doubt ut that, if
Friday could get back to his ewn nation again, he would not only
forget all his religion, but all his obligation to me, and would be for-
ward enough to 've his countrymen an account of me, and come
back, perhaps, withl a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon
in at which he might be as merry as he used to be With those
of ' enemies, when they were taken in_ war. But I wronged the
poor honest creature very much,_fur which I was very sorry after-
wards. flowever, as my Jealousy increased, andheld me some weeks,
I was a httle more circumspect, and not so famrhar and kind to him
as before: in which I was certainly in the wrong too; the honest,

ful creature having no thought about it,.bnt what consisted with
he best principles both a a religious Christian,_ and as a grateful
friend - as ap afterwards to in full satisfaction.

While my Jealousy of him last , you may be sure I was every
day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new
thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I found everything he
said .was so honest and so. innocent that I could find nothing to
nourish my sus i_cion; and, spite of all my uneasiness, he_made me
at last entirely s own again; nor did he in the least . in that I
was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him of eceit.

One da , walking u the same hill, but the weather bemiilli-azy at

so t.at we coul not see the continent, I called to , and

3%, "Erlday; do not on wish yourself in your own country, your
own nation? " Yes,' he sai 'I be muchO lad to be at my own
nation." . "What would you 0 there?" said I: " would you turn
wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be a savage as you were
before." He looked full of concern and shaking his head, said
" No, no, Ehday tell them to live good; tell them to pray God; tell
them to eat corn-bread _eatt1e-flesh, milk; no eat man again."--
" Why, then," said I to him "they will kill on." He looked grave
at that, and then said, "No, no, they no me, they willing love
learn." He meant by this, they would he Willing to_learn. He
added they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the boat.
Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that
and told me that lie could not swim so far. I told him, I would
make a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I would go with
him. "I go!" says 1-, "why they will eat me if I come there."
" 1\o, no," savs he, " me make the no eat you - me make tlligfi much
love you." He meant, he would tell them how I had ' ed his
enemies, and saved his hfe, and so he would make them love me.
Then he. told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to seven-
teen white nien, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on
shore there. in distress. '
. From this time I confess, I had a mud to venture over, andsee
if I could possibly join With those bearded men, who I made no
doubt, were S ards and Portuguese; not doubting, but, if I could,
we might fin some method to esca from thence, being u n the
continent, and-a good company to et er, better than I could m an
island forty miles ofl' the shore, one, and without help. So, after
some days, I took .Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and
told him I would give him a boat to go back to his own nation; and,
aceordui ly, I earned him to my frigate, which lay on the other side
of the is mi, and havmg cleared it of water (for I alwa s kept it
sunk. in water), I brought it out showed it him, and we _ th went
into it. I found he was a most dexterous fellow at manafing it, and
would make it 30 almost as swift ' as I could. So w en he was
in, I said to him " Well, now, .Frifigy, shall we go to your nation?"
He looked very dull at my saying so; which it seems was because
he thought the boat too small to go so far. I then told him I had a
bigger: so the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay
w_ich I had made, but which I could not t into the water. He
said that was big enough: but then, as I h taken no cure of it, and
it had lain two or three and twenti'yI years there, the sun had split and
dried it that it was rotten. Fn y told me such a boat would do
very well, and would carry " much enough vittle, drink, bread ;" that
was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so tired um my desi of
gems over With him to the continent, that I told ' we we (1 go
and make one as big as that and he should go home in it. He
answered not one word, butolooked ve grave and sad: I asked
him what was the matter With him. e asked me again, "Why

on angry mad with Fridiiy ?--what me done?" I asked him what

e meant. I told him . was not angry with him at all. "No
angry!" says he, repeating the words several times, "why send
Friday home away to my nation?" "Why," sa 3 I, "Friday, did
not_ you say on Wished you were there?" " es, yes," says he,
"wis we bot there; no wish Friday there, no master there." In
a wo he would not think of going there without me, "I go
there, ridayl'" says I, "what shall I do there?" He turned very
quick upon me at this. "You do great deal much good," says he;
' you teach Wild mans be good, sober, tame mans- you tell them
know God, pray God, and hve new hfe." "Alas, Friday!" says 1,
"thou knowest not what thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man
myse ."--~"Yes, es," sa s he, "you teaches me you teachee
them good." ' o, no, riday," says I, " you s go without me -
leave me here to live by myself as I did before." He looked
confused again at that word; an running _to one of_ the_hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily,'and ves it to me.
"What must I do With this?" gas I to him. .'You take kill
Friday," says he. "What must I ' $211; for?" said I again. He
returns very uick--" What you send day away for? Take kill
Friday, no sen Friday away." This he s ke so earnestly that I saw
tears stand in his eyes. In a word, so plainly discoyered the
utmost afi'ection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I
told him then, and often after, that I would never send him away
from me, if he was willln to stay with me. _

Upon the whole, a I ound by all his discourse a settled afi'ection
to me, and that_nothing could part him from me, so I found all the
foundation of his desire' to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent afi'ection to the pie, and his hopes of my 0mg them good;
a thing which, as I no notion of myself, so I had not the least
thought or intention, or desire of undertaking it. But still I found
a strong inclination to attein ting my escape, founded on the sup-
mon gathered from the ' urse, that there were seventeen

ed men there; and therefore, without any more delay, I went
to work with Ffiday to find out a great tree proper to fell and make
a large porting-us.ii or canoe, to undertakeOthe voyage. There were
trees enough in t e island to have built a httle fleet, not ofperiaguas
or canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the 31min 1: I
looked. at was, to get one so near the water that we might lauuc it
when it was made to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At
last, Friday Wed upon a tree; for I found he knew much better
than Iwhat ' d of wood was fittest for it; nor can I tell,to thisday,
what wood to call the tree we cut down, except that it was very like
the tree we call fustic, or between that and the bicaragua wood, for
it was much of the same colour and smell. Friday wished to burn
the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat, but I
showed him how to cut it with tools - which, after I had showed him
how to use, he did very handily - an in about a month's hard labour,
we finished it and made _it very handsome; especially, when, With our
axes, .which I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewe_d the out-
side into the true shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us
near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were,_ inch by inch upon
great rollers into theuwaler: but when she was in, she would have
carried twenty men With great ease. . .

When she was in the water though she was so big, it amazed me
to see With what dexterity and how swn't my man Fridafi could we
her, turn her, and paddle her along. So I asked him if e would, an '1'.
we might venture over in her. ' Yes," he said, " we venture over in
her.very well, though great blow wind." However, 1 had a farther
design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a mat and a
sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. _As to a mast, that was
easy enough to get; so I itched upon a straight young wdar tree,
which I found near the ace, and which there were great plent .of
in the_island, and I set riday to work to cut it down, and gave an
directions how to sha and order it. But as to the sail, that was
my particular care. knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old
sails enough - but as I had had them now six-and-twenty years b me
and had not been very careful to preserve them, not imagining t at I
should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but the '
were all rotten; and, indeed, most of them were so. However,
found two pieces, which appeared pretty good, and with these I went
to work; and with a great deal oprains, and awkward stitching, you
may be sure, for want of needles at length made a three-cornered
ugly thing like what we call in England a shoulder-of mutton sail, to
go With a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the to , such as
usually our ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I best. new how
to manage, as it was such a one as I had to the boat in which I made
my escape from Barbary, as related in the that part of my story.

I_ was near two months performin this last work, Viz. rigging and
fitting my mast and sails; for I finis ed themyery com lete making
a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it to assist if we s ould turn to
windward; and what was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern
of her to steer vnth. I was but a bunghn shi wright, yet .as I knew
the usefulness, and even necessity of sue a t g, I applied myself
withso much pains to do it, that at last I brought it to pass; though
considering the many dull contrivanws I ha_ for it that failed, I
think it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat.

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what
belon ed to the nangation of my boat; for, though he blew very
well ow to saddle a canoe, he knew nothiu of w t belonged to a
sail and a ru der; and was the most amaze when he saw me work
the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail
gibbed, and filled this way or that way, as the course we sailed
changed; I say, when. he saw this, he stood hke one astonished and
amazed. However, With a httle use, I made all these things familiar
to him, and he became an expert sailor, exce t that of the com ,
I could make him understand very little. %n the other han as
there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in
those parts, there was the loss occasion for a compass, seeing the
stars were always to be seen by night, and the shore by day, exce t
in the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared to stir abroad either y
land or sea.

I_ was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of tag cap.
tivitfvmien this place; though the three last years that I h this
crea . With- me ought rather to he left out of the account my
habitation bemg quite of another kind than in all the rest of the
time. I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the same
thankfulnsss to God for his mercies as at first: and if I had such
cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now, havin
such additional testimomes of' the care of Providence over me, an
the great hopes I had of_being efi'ectually and sgeedily delivered;
for. had an invincible 1m ressmn upon my t oughts that my
deliverance was at hand, and t at I should not be another year in this
place. I went on, however, with my husbandry; digging, planting
and fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, and did
eve necessary thing as before.

T e rainy season was, in the mean time ufi'on me, when I kept
more Within doors than at other times. l e ad stowed our new
vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the creek, where
as I_ said in the beginning, I lan e my rafts from the ship; an
hauling her up to the shore at high-water mark, I made my man
Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep
enough to give her water enou h to float in; and then, when the
tide was out, we made a stroag across the end of it, to keep the
water out; and so she. lay dry as to the tide from the sea; and to
keep the rain 06 we laid a great many hou hs of trees, 39 thick that
she was as well thatched as a house; an_ thus we waited for the
:idonthglof November and December, in which I deemed to make my

ven e.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thou ht of my
design returned with thefair weather, I was preparing y for the
voyage. And the first thing I did was to lay by a. certain quantity of
pmwsions, being the stores for our voyage - and intended in a week
or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I
was busy one morning upon somethin of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bid him to go to the sea-s ore, and see if he could find a
turtle or tortoise, a thing which we generally moms a week, for the
sake of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday not been long gone
when he came back, and flew over my outer. wall, or fence
like one that felt not t e ground, or the steps he set his feet on; an
before I had tune to speak to him, he ones out to me, "0 master!
0 master! 0 sorrow! O bad!"--"What's the matter, Friday?"
says I. "0 yonder there," says he, "one, two, three canoes; one,
two, three l"_ B this way of speaking I concluded there were 811;
but on inquiry I found there were but three. f' Well, Friday,'
says " do not he frighten ." So I heartened him up aswell as
I conl . However,_I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared,
for nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for him,
and would cut him in pieces and eat him ;_ audthe r fellow
trembled so that I scarcely knew what to do With him. comforted
him as well as I could, and told him I was in as much danger as he,
and that they would eat me as well as him. " But,' says I,
" Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday?"
" {e shoot," says be "but there come many t number." 'No
matter for that, ' said I, _in; "our guns ' fright them that we
do not lull." So I asked im whether, if I resolved to defend him,
he would defend 'me, and stand b me, and do just as I bid him.
He said, "Me die, when you bi die, master.' So I went and
fetched a good drain of rum angdgave him; for I had been so good a
husband of my rum, that I h a fgreat deal left. When he had
drank it, I made him take the two owlin -pieces which we always
carried, and loaded them With large swan-s ot as is as small pistol-
bullets. Then I took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs,
and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a
brace of bullets each: I hung my great sword, as usual, naked h
my side, and gave Friday his hatchet. When I had thuseirep .
myself, I took m pers ctive-glass, and went up to the Si e of the
hill, to see what coul discover; and I found quickly by mv glass,
that there were one-and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and three
canoes; and that their whole busmess seemed to be the tnum hant
banquet upon these three human bodies; a barbarous feast, in eed!
but nothm more than, as I had observed, was usual With them. I
observed 0, that they had landed, not where they had done when
Friday made his escape but nearer to my creek, where the shore was
low, and where a thicl: wcod came almost close down to the sea.
This, With the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation that I came down again to
Friday, and told him I was resolved to 50 down to them and kill
them all; and asked him if he would stan by me. He had now got
over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised With the dram I
had given him he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he would
die when I bid die. ' _

In this fit of fury I divided the arms which I had_oha_r0'ed, as before,
between us; I ve Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three
guns upon his 5 oulder, and I took one pistol and the other three guns
mvself; and in this posture we marched out. I took a small bottle
of rum in my pocket, and Irave Friday a large bag With more powder
and bullets; and as to ordbrs, I charged lum_to keg: close behind me,
and not to stir, or shoot, or do anything till I bi him and in the
meantime not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a compass
to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to

.t into the wood, so that I could come Within shot of them before
Ighould be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was easy to do.

While I was making this march. my former thouOhts returning, I
began to abate m resolution :--I do not mean that fentertained any
fear of their num er, for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is
certain I w" superior to them--n.3, though I had been alone. But
it occurred to my thoughts what 1, what pocasrnn, much less what
necessity I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people
who had neither done or intended me any wrong? who, as to me, were
innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own disaster,
beingin them a token, indeed, of God's having left them, With the
other nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity, and to such
inhuman courses, but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge
of their actions, much less an executioner of His justice--that when-
ever He thought fit He would take the cause into His own hands,
and bi national vengeance punish them as a peo le for national crimes,
but t a , m the meantime, it was none of my business--that it was
true Friday might justify it, because he was a. declared enemy, and in
estate of war With those very particular people, and it was lawful for
him to attack them--but I could not say t ie same with regard to
myself. These thin were so warmly pressed upon nX' thoughts all
the way as I went, t iat I resolved I would only go an place myself
near them that I might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would
act then as God should direct; but that unless something offered that
wiles more a call to me than yet I knew of I would not meddle With
t em.

With this resoliitionI entered the wood, and with all possible wari-
ness and silence, Friday following close at my heels, 1 marched till I
came to the skirt of the wood on the side which was next to them, only
that one corner of the wood lay between me and them. Here 1 called
softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree which was just at the
corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if
he could see_ there plainly what they were doing. lie did so, and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might be )lainly
viewed them--that they were all about their fire eating the esh of
one of their prisoners, and that another lay hound upon the sand is
little from them, whom he said they would kill next, and this fired the
very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but
one of the bearded men he had told me of, that came to their country
in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming of the wlute-
bearded man- and going to the tree, I saw plainly_bf' in' glass _a
white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea With us iau s and his
feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and that lie was an Euro-
pean, and had clothes on. . . _

There was another tree, and a httle tlucket beyond it, about fifty
ards nearer to them than the place where lavas, which, by gain'7 a
ttle way about, I saw I might come at undiseoyered and that to en
1 should be within half a shot of them; so I Withheld iny'passmii,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree: and gouig hack
abouttwenty paces, I got behind some bushes, wlucli held all the
way till I came to the other tree, and then came to a little rismg
groggid, wliiieh gave me a full new of them at the distance of about
eig y 'ar 3.

1h now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat u n the ground all close huddled _together, and bad
Just sent the ot ier two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him
perhaps hmb by limb to their fire, and they were steeping down to
untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Iriday :--" i\ow, Iriday,"
said I, " do as I bid thee." Friday said he would. " Then, Eriday,"
says I, "do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." 801 set
down one of the muskets and the fowhng-pieee upon the ground, and
Friday did the like .by his, and With the other musket I took my aim
at the savages, bidding him to do the hke; then asking him if he was
ready, he said, " Yes.' " Then fire at them," said I; and at the same
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that he
shot he killed two of them and wounded three more; and on my
side I killed one, andwounded two. They were, you ma be sure, in
a dreadful consternation; and all of. them that were not urt Jumped
u )1 their feet, but did not immediately know which way to run, or
w ch way to look, for they knew not from whence their destruction
game. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him he
might observe what I di - so, as soon as the first shot was made I
threw down the piece, and took up the fowlmg-piece, and Ij'nda'y did
the hke- he saw me cock and present; he did the same agam. ' Are

on read , Frida ?" said I. 'f Yes," sa 5 he. '_' Let fly, then," says
in the name 0 God! 'f and With that I d again among the amazed
wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaded with
what I call swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we found only two drop ;
but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling and scream-
ing like mad creatures, all bloody, and most of them miserably
gg'iinded, whereof three more fell quickly after, though not quite

".Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and
taking up the musket which was yet loaded, _" follow me, ' which he
did With a great deal of con ae- upon which I rushed out of the
wood_aud showed myself, audniIi-i ay cloae at my foot. As soon _as I

rceived the saw me, I shouted as loud as I pould, and bade Friday

0 so too, an runni as fast as I could, which by the way was not
very fast, being loadldi with arms as I was, I made directly towards
the poor victim, who was, as I said, lyin upon the beach or shore, '
between the place where they sat and t e sea. The two butchers
who were just goin to work with him had left him at the surprise of
our first fire, and ed in a terrible fright to the seaside, and had
"iumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.

turned to Friday, and bade him step forwards and fire at them; he
understood me immediately, and runnini about forty yards, to be
nearer them, he shot at them; and I t on ht he had killed them
all, for I saw them iii fall of a heap into the_ at, though I saw two
of them up again quickly; however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third so that he lay down iii the bottom of the boat as if
he had been dead. . .

While my man Friday fired at them, I ulled_ out .m knife and cut
the that bound the poor Victim - an loosmg his ds and feet,
I lifte him up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what .he
was. He answered in Latui, Chnstianus; but was so weak and faint
that he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my

_ ket, and gave it him, makin signs that_he should drink, which he
id; and I gave him a piece 0 bread, which he ate. Then I asked
him what countryman lie was: and he said Espagniole; and being aIlobill'un flu-u- "Wuf' lhe Swnhld
little recovered, let me know, bfv all the signs he coul gassibly make
howmuch he was in _my debt or his deliverance. _ " ignior," said
I, With as much Spamsh as I could make up, " we will talk afterwards
but we must fight now: if you have any strength left, take this pistol
and sword an lay about you." He took them very thankfully; and
no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new
Vigour into him, he flew upon lus murderers like a fury, and had out
two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was
a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened
With the naise of our pieces that they fell down for mere amazement
and fear, and had no. more power to attempt their own escape, than
their flesh had to resist our shot: and that was the case of those five
that Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell With the hurt
they received, so the other two fell with the fright. _ .

kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being Willing to
keep my charge ready because I had ven the Spaniard my pistol
and sword: so I called to Friday, and ade him run up to the tree
from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that
had been discharged, which he did With great swiftness; and then
givmg him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again,
and bade them come to me when they wanted. While I was loading
these pieces, there happened a fierce en _ment between the Span-
iard and one of the savages, who made at in with one of their great
wooden swords, the wee on that was to have killed him before, if I
had not prevented it. be S aniard, who was as bold and braveas
could be imagined, though weal, had fought the Indian 3 good while,
and had out two great wounds on his head; but the savage being a
stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had_thrown him down, being
faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand; when the Span-
iard, though undermost wisely quitting the sword, drew the istol
from his girdle, shot the savage through the body and kill him
upon hthe spot, before I, who was running to help him, could come
near im.

.Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches,
With no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and With that he
des atched those three who, as I said before, were wounded at first
an fallen, and all the rest he could come up with: and the Spaniard
cominito me for a go I gave him one of the fowling-pieces, With
which e pursued two 0 the awaits, and wounded. them both; but,
as he was not able to run, they .th got from him into the wood,
where Friday ursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too nimb e for him; and though he was. wounded yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all his might oh to those
two who were left in the canoe, which three_in the canoe, With one
wounded, that we knew not whether he died or no, were all that
escaped our hands of oue-and-twenty. The account of the whole is
as fo ows ;---three killed at our first shot from the tree - two killed at
the next shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; two kiiled by Friday,
of those at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three
killed bv the Spaniard; four killed. being found dropped here and
there, of the wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them; four
escafied in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead--twenty-one
in a .

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot
and though Frida made two_ or three shots at them I did not find
that he hit any 0 them. Friday would fain have had me take one of
their canoes, and pursue them; and, indeed, I was very anxious about
their esca , lest carrying the news home to their peo le, they should
come perhaps With two or three hundred of t e canoes and
devour us_ by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them b sea,
and running) to one of their canoes, I Jumped in, and bade idai
follow me; at when I was in the canoe was surprised to flu
another poor creature he there, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard
was, for the slaughter, and almost dead Wltll fear, not knowing what
was the matter; for he had not been able to look u over the side of
the boat, he was tied so hard. neck and heels, and find been tied so
long, that he had really but httle life in him.

. I immediately cut the thsted flagsor rushes, which they had bound
him With, and would have helped him up ;. but he could not stand or
speak, but Egoaned most pitcously beheving, it seems, still, that he
was only un und in order to be killed. When Friday came to him I
bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and ullin
out my bottle, made him give the poor wreteh a drain; Wbie _, wit
the news of his beiii dehvered, revived him, and he sat u in the
boat. But when Fri y came to hear him speak, and look in 's face
it would have moved any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed
him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughe hallooed, limped
about, danced, sun ; then cried again, wrung his ds, heat sown
face and head; an then sung and jum about again, hire a dis-
tracted creature. It was a Qod while be ore I could make him 5
to me or tell me what was t e matter; but when he came a litt e to
himself, he told me that it was his father. _

It is not eas for me to express how it moved me to see what
ecstasy and fiha affection had worked in this Eoor savage at the sight
of his father and of his being dehvered from eath; nor, indeed, can
1 describe half the extravagances of his afi'ection after this; for he
went into the boat, and out _of the boat, a great many times: when he
went in to him, he would Sit _down by him, open his breast, and hold
his father's head close to his bosom for many minutes together to
nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed
and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them With his
hands ~ and I, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out
of my bottle to rub them With, which did them a great deal of good.

This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe With the other
savages, who were now almost out of_ sight; and it was happv for us
that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before
they could be got a quarter of their way, and continued blowing so
hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was against them,
that I could not suppose their boat could hve, or that they ever
reached their own coast. .

But to return to Friday; he was so bus about his father, that I
could not find in my heart to take him of 'or some time; but afterI
thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came
Jumping and laughing, and pleased to the hivhcst extreme; then I
asked him If he had ven his father any bread". He shook his head,
and said " None; as y dog eat all up self." I then ave him a cake
of brea , out of a little ouch I carried on purpose; also gave him
a dram for himself, but e would not taste it but carried it to his
father. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of raisins, so I gave
him a handful (if-them for his father. He had no sooner given his
father these raisms but I saw him come out of the boat, and run
arm; as if he had been beWitched, for he was the swiftest fellow on
his pet that. ever I saw: I say, he ran at such a rate that he was out
of Sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I called, and hallooed
out too, after him, it was all one--away he went; and in a (iuarter of
an hour I saw him come back afiin, though not so fast as e went;
and, as he came nearer, I found ' pace slacker, because he had some--
thing in his hand. When he came up to me, I found he had been
quite home for an earthen jug or pot, to bring his father some fresh
water, and that be had t two more cakes or loaves of bread: the
bread he gave me, but t e water he carried 'to his father; however, as
I was very thirst too, I took a little of it. The water revived his
father more than the mm or spirits I had given him, for he was
fainting with thirst. '

When his father had drank, I called 'to him to know if there was
any water left: he said "Yes ;" and I bade him give it to the poor
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent
one of the cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too who was
indeed very weak, and was reposmg himself 13:31 a green lace under
the shade of a tree; and whose hmbs were very st ., and very
much swelled With the rude bandage he had been tied With. When
I saw that upon Friday's comm to him With the water, he sat up and
drank, and took the bread and n to eat, I went to him and gave
him a handful of raisins: he looked up in my face with all the
tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could a pear in any coun-
tenance - but was so weak, notwithstanding he so exerted him-
self mfihe fight, that he could not stand up upon his feet - he tried
to do it two or three times, but was really not able, his es were
so swelled and so painful to him ; so I bade him Sit st' and caused
{Eda}; to rub his ankles, and bathe them With rum, as he done his
a e s.

I observed the poor affectionate creature every two minutes, or

'_ rha 3 lets, all the while he was here, turn 3 head about, to see if
fat er was in the same place and posture as he_ left him sitting;
and atIIast he found he was not to be seen; at which he started up,
and, Without speaking a word, flew With that swiftness to him, that
one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went:
but when he came he only found he had laid himself down to ease his
limbs, so Friday came back to me presently; and then I spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could, and lead him to the
boat, and then he should carry him to our dwelling, Where I would
take care of .him. But Friday a lusty strong fellow, took the Spa-
niard upon his back, and mid him away to the boat, and set him
down softly upon the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the
inside of it; and then lifting lnm quite in, he set him close to his
father; and presently stepping out again, launched the boat ofl', and
Eaddled it along the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind

lew pretty hard too - so he brought them both safe into our creek,
and leaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As
he assed me I spoke to him, and asked lum whither he went. He
tol me, "Go fetch more boat :" so away he went like the wind, for
sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the other canoe in
the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he waited me over,
and then went to help our new ests out of the boat, which he did;
but they were neither of them a le to walk, so that poor Friday knew
not what to do.

To remed this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to Fri-
day to bid t em Sit down on the bank while he came to me, I soon
made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried
them both up together upon it between us. _ .

But when we got them to the outsideof our wall, _or fortification,
we were at a worse loss than before for it was impossuble toget them
over, and I was resolved not to break it down, so set to work again:
and Friday and .I in about two hours' time, made a ve handsome
tent, covered With old sails, and above that With boug s of trees
being in the space without our outward fence, and between that and
the grove of young wood which I had planted; andhere we made
them two beds of such things as I had, viz., of good rice-straw, with
Blankets laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on each

e .
. My island was now peopled, and I thought in self very richin sub-
Lects; and it was a merrv reflection which I requently made, how

kc a king I looked. First of all the whole country was my own
property so that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were perfectly subjected: I was absolutely lord and law-
giver: they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down
their lives if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was remark-
able, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three difi'erent
religions: my man Friday was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan
and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist. However, _I allowed
liberty of conscience throughout my domimons :--But this is by the
wav.

_As soon as I had secured my two weak, rescued risoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I egan to think
of makinv some prowsion for _t|iem: and the first thing I did, I
ordered friday to take a yearlingkiioat, betmxt a kid and agent,
out of my particular flock, to be ed; when I cut_ofi' the binder-
quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to
boilino and stewmg, and made them _a ve_ good dish, I assure you,
of flesh and broth: and as I cooked lt_Wlt iout doors, for I made no
fire_within my inner wall so I carried it all into the new tent, and
haying set a table there for them, I sat down, and ate in own dinner
also with them, and, as well as I could, cheered them an encouraged
them. Friday was my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed,
to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of the
say pretty well. .

A ter we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one
of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-arms,
which for want of time, we had left upon the place of battle; and,
the next day, I ordered him to go an bury the dead bodies of the
savages, which lay open to the sun and would presently be ofi'ensive.
I also ordered him to bury the homd remains of their barbarous
feast, which I could not think of domg myself; nay, I could not bear
to see them, if I went that way; all which he punctually performed,
and efl'aeed the very appearance of the savagesbeing there; so that
when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise than
by the corner of the wood pomting to the place,

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects: and, first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the sava in that canoe, and whether _we
might expect _a return of them, Wit i a power too great for us to resist.
His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat never could hve
out the storm which blew that night they went off, but must, of
necessnty, be drowned, or driven south to those other shores, .where
they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned if the
were cast away 3 but, as to what they would do, if. they came e
on shore he said he knew not ; but it was his opinion, that the
were so dreadfully frightened With the manner of their being attache
the noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell the peodple
they were all killed by thunder and lightning, not by the ban of
man- and that the two which appeared, Vlz., Friday and I, were
two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them and
not men With weapons. This, he said he knew; because he_heard
them all Cl? out so, in their language, one to another; for it was
impossible or them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak
thunder, and kill at a distance, Without lifting up the hand as was
done now: and this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood
since, by other hands, the savages never attempted to go over to the
island afterwards, they were so terrified With the accounts ven by
those four men (for it seems the did escape the sea), t at the
believed whoever went to that enc anted island would be destroye
wrth fire from the gods. This, however, I knew not; and, therefore,
was under continual ap rehensions for a good while, and kept always
upon in guard, with a my arm : for, as there werenow four of us,
I w0ul have ventured upon a undred of them, fairly m the open
field, at an time. ,

In alitt e time, however, no more canoes ap caring, the fear of
their coming were off; and I began to take'my ormer thoughts of a
voyage to the main into consideration; being hkewise assured by
Friday's father, that I might depend upon good usage from t. eir
nation, on his account, if I would go. But my. thoughts were a little
suspended when I had a serious discourse wrth the _Span1ard, and
when I understood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen
and Portuguese, who having been cast away and made their escape
to that side, hved there at peace, indeed, with the savages, but were
very sore put to it for necessaries, and, indeed for life. I asked him
all the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a Spanish
ship, bound from the Rio de la Elata to the Havanna, being directed
to cave their loadin there, which was chiefig hides and silver, and
to bring back what uropean goods they coul meet With there; that
they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took out of
another wreck; that five of their own men were drowned when first
the ship was lost, and that these escaped through infinite dangers and
hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast, where
they expected to have been devoured every moment. He told me they
ha some arms with them, but their were rfeetl useless, for that
they had neither powder nor ball, the was ing 0 the sea having
spelled all their owder, but a little winch they used at their first
landiii , to provi e themselves seine food. .

I as 'ed him what he thought would become of them there, and if
the had formed any deSign of making their escape: He said they
ha man consultations about it; but that llan" neither vessel, nor
tools to uild one nor prousmns of any kind their councds alwavs
ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought they would
receive a proposal from me winch might tend towards an esca _e;
and whether, if they were ali here,.it might not be 'done. I told in
with freedom, I feared mostly their treacherv and ill usage of me, if
I put my life in their hands 3 t'or that gratitude was no inherent virtue
in the nature of man, nor did men always square their dealings by the
obligations they h. d received, so much as they did by the advantages
they expected. I told him it. would be ver hard that I should
be the instrument of_ their deliverance, and t at they should after-
wards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman
was certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessit , or what accident
soever brought him thither; and that I had rat ier he delivered up
to the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless
claws of the'priests, and be carried into the Infiisition. I added
that, otherWise, I was ersuaded, if they were here, we might,
with so many hands, is ' d a barque large enough to carry us all away,
either to the BraZils southward, or to the islands, or Spamsh coast,
northward; but .that if, in requital, they should, when I had put
weapons into their hands, carmme by force among their own people,
I might be ill used for my kin ess to them, and make my case worse
than it was before.

He answered,_witli a great deal of eandour and ingenuousness,
that their condition was so miserable and that they were so sensible
of it, that he beheved they would a hor the thought of using any
man unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance - and that,
if 'I pleased, he would to them, with the old man and discourse
vnth them about it an return again, and bring me their answer;
that he would make conditions With them upon their solemn oath,
that they should be absolutely under my direction, as their comman-
der and ca tam: and they should swear 13101.1 the holy sacraments and
gospel, to true to me, and go to such ristian count as I should
agree to, and no other; and to he directed wholly and a solutel by
my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as I intended -
and that he would bring a contract from them, under their hands, for
that finrpose. Then he told me he would first swear to me himself,
that e would never stir from me as. long as he lived, till I gave him
orders; and that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood,
if there should happen the least breach of faith amonghis countr en.
He told me they were all of them very civil, honest men, an they
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons
or clothes, nor an food, but at the mercy and discretion of the
sava 3; out of he s of ever returning to their own wunt -
and t t he was sure, ' I would undertake their relief, they wofid
live and die by me. .

U :1 these assurances, I resolved to venture to reheve them, if
possi le, and to send the old savage and this _Spaniard over to them
to treat. But when we had got all things in readiness to go the
SSpaniard himself started an o jection, which had so much pru ence
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I
could not but be very well satisfied in it; and ally his adnce put 011'
the deliverance of his comrades for at least i] a year. . e case
was thus: he had been with us now about a month,_during.which
time I had let him see in what manner I had provxded, With the
asmstance of Providence for in support; and he saw evidently what
stock of corn and rice l had 1d up: wlueh, though it was more
than sufficient for myself, yet it was .not sufficient, Without good
husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to four; but much
less would it be suflicient if his countrymen, who were, as he said,
sixteen, still alive, should come over- and least of all, would it be
sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one for a v0 age to
any of the Christian colonies of America; so he told me he t ought
it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig and
cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow, and
that we should wait another harvest that we might have a supply of
corn forhis countrymen, when they should come; for want might
be a tem tation to them to disagree, or not to think themselves deh-
vered, ot erwise than out of one difiiculty into another. " You
know,"_ says he, " the children of Israel, though they reJOiced at first
for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God
h'viii-lii'lselt', that delivered them, when they came to want bread in the

emess."

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I could
not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as 1 WIN;
satisfied with his fidelity; so we fell to digging, all {our of us as
well as the wooden tools we were furmshed. With permitted; and, in
about a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had
got as much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenatfi

ushels of barle on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short,
the seed we h to spare: indeed, we left ourselves barely sufficient
for our own food, for the six months that we had to expect our crop;
that is to say, reckoning from the time _we set our seed asnde or
giving; t3-y it is not to be supposed it is six months iii the ground in

a eoun .

_ Having new society enough, and our number being sugiczient to
Ext us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their num-
r had been very great we went freely all over the island, whenever
we found occasion; and as_we had our escape or dehverance upon
our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the means of
it out of mine. For this purpose, I marked out several trees, which
I thought fit for our work, and I set Frida and his father to cut
them down; and then I caused the Spauia , to whom I im arted
my thoughts on that atl'air, to oversee and direct their work. I s owed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewcd a large tree into
single planks, and I caused them to do the hke, till they had made
about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-
five feet lone, and from two inches to four_inches thick: what
prodigious labour it took up, any one .may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame
goats as much as I could; and, for this urpose, I made Friday and
the Spaniard go out one day and myse With Friday the next day
(for we took our turns), and b this means we got about twenty
young kids to brccd_up With t ie rest; for whenever we shot the
dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock. But, above
all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a

rodigious quantit to be iuiig up in the sun, that, I believe, had we
en at Alicant, .w ere the raisins of the sun are cured, we could have
filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with our bread formed a
great (film of our food--very good hvmg too, I assure you, fbr they are
excee ' gnourishing. . _

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the
most lcntit'ul increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was
enoug to answer our end; for, from twenty-two bushels of barley,
we brought in and. thrashed out'above two hundred and twenty
bushels; and the hke in proportion of the rice, which was store
enough for our food to the next harvest, though all the sixteen
Spaniards had been on shore with me; or, if _we had been ready
for a voy e, it would very plentifully have vietualled our ship to
have carrie us to an part 0 the world, that is to say, any part of
America. When we ad thus housed and secured our niagazme of
corn, we fell to work to make more wicker-ware, viz., great baskets, in
which we kegt it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at
this part, an often blamed me that I did not make some things for
defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.

And now having a full supply of food for all the guests I expected
I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see what he could
do with those he had left behind him there. I gave him a strict
charge not to bring an man with him who would not first swear, in
the presence of himse f and the old savage that he would no we
in'ure, fight With or attack the person he s iould find in the islan ,
w 0 was so kin as to send for them'in order to their deliver-
ance; but that they would stand by him and defend him against
all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under
and subjected to his command; and that this should be put in
writinO, and signed in their hands. How. they were to have done
this, when I knew they had neither pen or ink, was a question which
we never asked. Under'these instructions, the Spaniard and the old
savage,_ the father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which
they might be said to come in, or rather were brought in, when they
came as prisoners .to be devoured by the savages. .I gave each of
them a musket With a_firelock on it, and about ei ht charges of
powder and hail , charging them to be very good has ands of both,
and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.

_ This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me, in
View of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some da 5.
I gave them proVisions of bread, ando dried agrapes, sufiicient lor
themselves for many days, and suflicient for t e Spaniards for

<<fibout eight days' time; and Wishing them a goodvo 'age, I saw them
go, agreeing with them about a Signal they should ang out at their
return, by which I should knowt eni again when they came back,
at_a distance, before they came on shore. 'l'liev went away, with a
fair gale, on the day that the moon was at full,.by my account in
the month of October; but as for an exact reckomng of da '5, after I
had once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I e t even
the number of can so punctually as to be sure I was rinht; t ough
as it proved, w en _I afterwards examined my account, ffound I had
kept a true reckoning of years.

t was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not,
perhaps, been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one
morning, when my man Friday came runmng in to me, and called
aloud, Master, master, they are come, they are come!" I Jumped
111p, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could get my
c_othes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was y this
time grown to be a very thick wood; I say, regardless of dam r, I
went without my arms, which was not my custom to do: but was
surpgsed, when, turningh mty eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat
at a at a league and a. al distance standing in for the shore, With
a shoulder-of--miitton sad, as they call it, and the Wind hlowmg pretty
fair to brino them in: also I observed, presently, that they did not
come from that side which the shore la on, but from the southern-
most end of the island. Upon this 1 ed Friday in, and bade him
he close, for these were not the people we looked for, and that we
might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In the
next lace, I went in to fetch my erspective glass, to see what I
coul make of them ; and, havinvt en the ladder out, I climbed up
to the top of the lull, as _I used to do when I was apprehensive of
anything, and to take my new the plainer, Without being discovered.
I ad scarce set my foot upon the bill, when my eye plainly dis-
covered a ship lyin" at an anchor, at about two eagues and a half
distance from me, 8.88.132, but not above a league and a half from the
shore. By my observation, it a peared lainly to be an Enghsh ship,
and the boat appeared to be an invhsh ong-boat. . .

I cannot express the confusion fwas in, though the o of seeing
a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was mann y my owu
countrymen, and consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe;
but yet I had some secret doubts hung about nie--I cannot tell from
whence they came--bidding me .keep upon my guard. In the first
place it occurred to me to consider what husmess an Enghsh ship
could have in that art of the world, Since it was not the wa to
or from any art 0 the world where the Enghsh had any 9;
and I knew t ere had been no stems to drive them in there, in
distress; and that if they were English, it was most robable
that they were here upon no good can; and that I ha better
gontinue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and mur-
ereis.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of dangerwhich
sometimes are given him when he may think there is no possibihty of
its being real. That such hints and notices are given us, I beheve
few that have made any observations of things can deny; that they
are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits,
we cannot doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be to_ warn
us of danger why should we.not suppose they are from some friendly
agent (whether supreme, _or inferior and subordinate, is not the ques-
tionll, and that they are given for our good? _ .

fl' e present question abundantly confirms me in the {shoe of
this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by t secret
admonition, come it from whence it w I had been undone ment-
ably and in a far worse condition than efore, as you Will see pre-
sently. I had not kegt myself long in this posture, till I saw the
boat draw near thels ore, as if _they looked for a creel: to thrust
in at, for the convenience of landing ~ however, as they did not come
quite far enough they did not-see the little inlet where I formerly
landed m rafts but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about h a mile from me, which was very happy for me; for
otherwise they would have landed Just at my door, as I may say,
and would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have
plundered me of all I had. When they were on shore, I was fully
satisfied they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two
I thought were Dutch but it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven me whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and, as
Ithought, and; and when the first four or five of them were
Jumpe on shore they took those three out of the boat, as prisoneis:
one of the three Ilcould erceive usmg the most sassmnate gestures
of entreaty, aflhction, an despair, even to a kin of extravagance;
the other two, I could perceive, hfted up their hand sometimes,
and appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the
first. was perfectly confounded at the si ht, and knew not what
the Emmi of it should be. Friday called out to me in English,
as well as e could, " 0 master! on see English mans eat pri-
soner as well as savage mans."--" Vhy, Friday" says I. " do '011
think the are gomg to eat them then?" ---' es," says Fri ay
"they ."I eat them."--." No no," says I, "Friday; I am afraid
theyh'wzll 'murder them, indeed; but you may be sure they will not
eat em.

Allthis while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but
stood trembling with the horror of the Sight, expectinlg every moment
when the three prisoners should bekilled; nay, once saw one of the
villains lift ufi his arm with a great cutlass as the seaman call it, or
sword, to stri e one of thzllpwr men ' and I ex ted to see him fall
every moment; at which the_blood in my y seemed to run chill
in my veins. I wished heartily now for the Spaniard, and the
savage that was _ne with them, or that I had any way to have come
undiscovered wit shot of them, that I might have secured the
three men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among them; but it fell
out to my! mind another way. After I had observed the on us
usage of t c three men by the insolent seamen, 1 observed the fe ows
run scattennEaabout the island, as if they wanted to see the country.
I observed t t the three other men had liberty to go also where
the pleased~ but they sat down all three upon the ground, very
pensive, and looked hke men in despair. This put me in mind of
the first time when I came on shore, and began to look about me;
how I gave myself over_for lost; how wildly I looked round me;
what dreadful apprehensions I had; and how I lodged in the tree
all night, for fear of being devoured by wild 'beasts. As I knew
uothing,_that night, of the supply I was to receive by the roviden-
tial drums of t e ship nearer the land by the storms an tide, by
which I have since been so long nounshe and sup rted; sothese
three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain o dehverance and
sup ly they were, how near it was to them, and how effectually and

y the were in a condition of safety, at the same time that they
thought t emselves lost, and their case desperate. So httle do we
see before us in the world, and so much reason have we to depend
cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that he does not
leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst
circumstances, they have always something to be. thankful for, and
sometimes are newer deliverance than the imagine - nay, are even
brought to their deliverance by the means y which they seem to be
brought to their destruction.

It was just at high water when these people came on shore; and
while they rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in,
they had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and the water was
ebbed considerab away, leaving their boat aground. They had left
two men in the at, who, as I found afterwards, having drank a
little too much brandy, fell asleep - however, one of them waking a
little sooner than the other and ding the boat too fast aground
for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest who were_ straggling
about; upon which they all soon came to the heat: but it was past
all their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and
the shore on_t t side be a soft oozy sand, almost like a quick-
sand. In this condition, ' e true seamen, who are, perhaps, the
least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and
away the strolled about the country ; and card one of them
say alou to another, calling them off rom the boat, 'f Why, let her
alone, Jack, can't you? she'll float next tide :" by which I was fu'llfi
confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were.
this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to stir out of
my castle, fill arther than to my place of observation, near the
top of the ; and very glad I was to think how well it was for-
tified. I knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could
float ' , and by that time it would be dark, and} might be at
more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if
they had any. In the mean time, I fitted in self up for _a battle as
before, though with more caution, knowm I to do With anot er
kind of enemy than I had at first._ I or ered Friday also, whom I
had made an excellent marksman With. his gun, to load himself With
arms. I took myself two fowling-pieces, and I ve him three
muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I ha . my formidable
goat~skiu coat on, with the eat cap I have mentioned, a naked
sword by my Slde, two piste s in my belt, and a gun upon each
shoulder.

It was in desi , as I said above, not to have made any attempt
till it was ark; at about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I
found that they were all gone stragghng into the woods, and, as I
thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed men too
anxious for their condition to get any slee , had, however, sat own
under the shelter of a great tree, 'at a at a uartcr of a mile
from me, and, as I thong it, out of Sight of any 0 the rest. _Upon
this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn something of
their condition; immediately I marched as above, my man Friday at
a good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not
niakin quite so star 0 a spectre-like figure as I did. I came as
near t iem undiscovere as I could, and then, before any of them saw
me, I called aloud to them in Slpamsh, " What are ye, gentlemen?"
They started up at the noise, at were ten times more confounded
when they saw me and the uncouth figure that I made. They made
no answer at all but I thought I_perceived them just going to it
from me when I spoke to them in English: " Gentlemen," said ,
" do not be surprise .at me i haps you may have a friend near when
you did not expect it." '
then," said one of them very gravely_to me, and pulling 05 his hat at
the same time to me; " for our condition is past the help of man."
f' All help is from Heaven, Sir," said I: " but can you put a stranger
in the way to help you? for you seem to be in some great distress.
I_ saw you when you landed; and when on seemed to make applica-
tion to the brutes that came with you, saw one of them lift up his
sword to kill you." _

The r man, With tears running down his face, and trembling
looked ike one astonished, returned, " Am I talking to God, or man
Is it a real in or an angel?"--" Be'in no fear about that sir," said
I; "if God h sent an angel to reheve you, he would have come
better clothed, and armed after another manner than you see me;
pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an Enghshman and dis-
posed to 8851le you; on see I have one servant only; we ave arms
and ammunition; te as freely, can we serve you? What is your
case P " " Our case, Sir," said he, " is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near us; _but, in. short, sir, I was commander of that
513); my men have mutimed against me~ they have been hardly pre-
v ed on not to murder me, an , at last, have set me on shore in this
desolate place, with these two men With me,--one my mate, the other

e must be sent directly from eaven
a passenger where we expected to perish, believing the lace to be
uninhabited: and know not yet what to think of it." "pWhere are
these brn our enemies?" said I; " do yon know where they are
gone 1' " " ere they lie, Slr " said be, pointing to a thicket of trees;
.' my heart trembles for fear 1} ey have seen us, and heard you speak;
if they have, the Will certainly murder us all." " Have they any
fire-arms ? " said . He answered "They had onl two pieces, one of
which they left in the boat." 'fWell, then," said , "leave the rest to
me- I seethey are all asleep; it is an eas thing to kill them all; but
3 we rather take them prisoners?" e told me there were two
desperate Villams among them that it_was scarce safe to show any mercy
to ;' at if the were secure _lie beheved all the rest would return to
their duty. _ asked him w ich they were? He told me he could
not at that distance distinguish them, but he would obey my orders
in anything I would direct. " Well," says I, "let us retreat out of
their v1ew_or hearing, lest they awake, and we Will resolve further."
ts]? they Wilhngly went back vnth me, till the woods covered us from
em.

"Look you, sir," said I, "it: I venture upon your deliverance are
you Willin to make two conditions With me?'_' _He anticipate m
fizoposals telling me that both he and the ship, if reeovere slioul

wholly rected and commanded by me moverythmg; an if the
ship was not recovered, he would live and die With me in what part
of the world soever I would send him_;.and the two other men said
the same. " Well," says I, " my conditions are but two; first--that
while you stay in this island With me, you Will not pretend to an
authority here; and if I put arms in your hands, you Will, upon
occaSions, give them up to me, and do no perefudice to me or mine u n
this island and _in the meantime be govern by my orders; seeon y,
-- hat if the ship is or may be recovered, you Will carry me and my

man to England assage free."
He ve me all) the assurances that the invention or faith of man

could evise that he would com ly with these most reasonable de-
mands, and besides would owe is life to me and acknowled e it
upon all occasions as long as he lived. " lVell', then " said I, " ere
are three muskets for you, with powder and ball; tell me nextwhat

on thnik is proper to be done." He showed all the testimonies of

is titude that he was able but offered to be wholly guided by me.
I to d him I thought it was hard venturing anything; but the best
method I could think of was to fire on them at once as they lay, and
ifany were not killed at the first volley, and ofi'ered to submit, we
might save themaand so put it wholl upon God's providence to direct
the shot. He_said, very modestly, t at he was loath to kill them, if
he could lie] it; but that those two were incomgible Villains, and had
been the ant ors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we
should be. undone still, for they would go on board and bring the
whole slup's company, and destroy us all. "Well, then," says I,
"necessit lefiitimates my advice, for it is the onl way to save
our hves. ' owever seeing him still cautious of s edding blood
I-told him they should go themselves, and manage as they found
convemen .
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and
soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him if either of
them were the heads of the mutiny? He said, ".No." " Well, then,"
said I, " on may let them escape; and Provrdence seems to have
awakene them on purpose to save themselves. Now," says I, "if
the rest esca you, it is your fault." Ammated With this, he took
the musket had given him in his hand, and epistol in Ins belt, and
his two comrades with him, With each a piece in. his hand; the two
men who were with him going first made some neise, at which one of
the seamen, who was awake, turned about, and seeing them coming,
cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for_the.moment he
cried out they fired--I mean the two men, the .ca itain wisely reserv-
ing his own piece. They had so well aimed their s at at the men they
knew, that one of them. was'killed on the spot. and thehother very
much wounded; but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and
called eagerly for help to the other - but the captain, stepping to inm,
told him it was too late to cry for elp he should call upon God to
forgive his villany, and with that word knocked him down with the
stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more: there were three
more in the company, and one of them was slightly wounded. By
this time I was come; and when they saw their danger, and that it
was in vain to rcmst, they begged for mercy.' The captain told them
he would spare their hves if they would give him an assurance of
their abhorreiice of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in
carrying her back to Jamaica, .from whence they came. The gave
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be deSire ; and
he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not
avamst only that 1 obliged hun to keep them bound hand and foot
while they were on the island. _

While this was domg, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to the
boat With orders to secure her, and bring away the ears and Sells,
which they did; and by-andby three straigling menilthat were (hap-

ily for them) parted from the rest, came ack upon _earing the guns

ed; and seeing the captain, who was before their prisoner, now

their comiueror, they submitted to be bound also; and so our Victory
was comp cte. _ . .

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
another's circumstances. _ I began first, and told him my whole his-
tory, which he heard With an attention even to amazement,--and
particularly at the wonderful manner of my hemngurnished With pro
visions an ammunition ,' and, indeed, as my story is a whole collection
of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he reflected from thence
upon lumsclf and how I seemed to have been reserved there on pur-
pose to save his hfe, the tears ran downhhis' ace, and he could not
speak a word more. After this communication was at an end, I car-
ried him and his two men into my apartment, leadin them in ust
where 1 came out, viz., at the top 0 the house, where refreshed 'm
with such roviSion as I had, and showed them all the contrivances I
had made tiring my lono long inhabiting that place. .

All 1 showed them, alfI sm to them, was perfectly amazing; but,
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I
had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, haying been
now planted near twenty years .and the trees growmg much faster
than in England, was become a little wood so thick that it was impas-
sable many part of it but at that one Side where I had reserved my
little winding passage into it. I told hnn this was my castle and
my reeldence, but that I had a seat in the countrv as most princes
have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and Iwould show him
that too another time; but at present our business was to consider
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that, but told me
he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there were
still six-and-twenty hands on board, who, having entered into acursed
conspiracy, by which _they had all forfeited their lives to the law,
would be hardened in it now b des cration, and would carry it on,
knowing that if they were su ducd) they would be brought to the
gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of the En~ lish
colonies, and that therefore there would be no attacking them wit so
small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a
very rational conclusion, and that therefore something was to be
resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some
snare for their surprise as to prevent their landing upon us,.and
destroying us. U n this, it presently occurred to me that in _a
little while the s ip's crew, wondering what was become of their
comrades and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other best to look for them, and that then perhaps they might come
armed, and be too strong for us; this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat, which lay u n the beach, so that they might not carry her olf,
and taking everyt ing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be
fit to swim; accordingly we went on board, took the arms which were
left on board out of rher, and whatever else we found there,--which
was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit-cakes a
horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas (the
sugar-was five or six pounds); all which was vc welcome to me,
especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had none left for
many years. _ '

When we had carried all these. things on shore (the oars mast, sail,
and rudder of the boat were carried away before), we knocked a great
hole in her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master us,
yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in
my thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship; but my new
was, that if they went away without the boat, I did not much nes-
tion to make her again fit to carry us to the Leeward Islandstan call
:lpon git" friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had them still in my

on 5.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main
strength, heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that the tide would
not float her off at hi h water mark, and besides, had broke a hole in
her bottom too bio togbe quickly sto ped and were set down musing
what we should db, we heard the Ship fire a gun, and make a watt
with her ensign as a si for the boat to come on board: but no boat
stirred; and theifire several times, making other signals for the
boat. At last, w en all their sygnals and firing proved fruitless, and
they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, b the help of my
glasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards t c shore; and we
ound, as they approached, that there were no less than ten men in
her, and that they had fire--arms With them.

_As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full
view of them as they came, and a 'plain si ht even of their faces;
because the tide having set them a httle to t e east of the other boat,
they rowed 11 under shore, to come to the same place where the
other had lan ed, and where the boat lay; by this means, I sa , we
had a full view of them, and the ca tain knew the persons an cha-
racters of all the men in the boat, 0 whom, he said, there were three
very honest fellpWs, who, he was sure were led into this cons iracy
by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as or the
boatswam who it seems was the chief officer among them, and all
the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were
no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribl appre-
hensive he was that they would be too powerful for us. smiled
at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were past the
operation of fear- that seeing almost every condition that could be
was better than that which we were supposed to be m, we ought to
expect that the consequence, whether eath or hfe, would be sure to
be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the circumstances
of my hfe, and whether a deliverance were not worth venturin for?
" And where, sir," said I, 'f is your belief of my hem". preserve here
on purpose to save our life, which elevated you ahttle while ago?
For my part," sayd , " there seems to be but one thnfi'amlss in all
the prospect of it." "What is that?" says he. " ," said I,
" it is, that as you say there are three or four honest fe ows among
them, which should be spared had the been all of the wicked part
of the crew, I_shou1d have thought od's providence had. smgled
them out to deliver them into your hands- for depend upon it every
man that comes ashore is _our own, and shall die or hve as they behave
to us}: As I spoke this With a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I
found it greatly encouraged him ; so we set vrgorously to our busmess.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boats coming from the
ship, eonsulered of sifimatmg our risoners; and we had, indeed,
secured them effectu y. Two of t em of whom the captain was
less assured than ordinary, I sent with f'riday, and one of the three
delivered men, to my cave, where they were rcmoteenough, and
out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of finding their way
out of the woods if they could have delivered themselves: here they
left them bound, but gave them pronswns; and Bromlsed them, if
they continued there quietly, to give them their bet-3 in a day or
two' but that if they attempted t geir esca e, they sho d he_put to
death Without mercy. Thdy promised fait ifull to bear their con-
finement with patience, an were ve thankf that they had such
good usage as to have rowsxons an hght left them; _for Friday
gave them candles (sue as we made ourselves) for their comfort;
and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the
en ranee.

The other prisoners had better'usage; two of them were kept
pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not able to trust them; but
the other two were taken into my semce, upon the captain's recom-
mendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with
us; so with them and the three honest men we were seven men, well
armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough
with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain had said
there were three or four honest _men among them also. As soon as
they got to the place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat
into t e beach and came all on sho hauling the boat u after them,
which I was glad to see, for I was a raid they would rat er have left
the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore, with some hands
in her to guard her, and so we should not be able to seize the boat.
Bemg on shore, the that thing they did, they ran all to their other
boat; and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find
her stripped as above, of all that was in her, an a great hole in her
bottom. After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or
three great shouts, hallooing With all their might, to try if they could
make their companions hear- but all was to no purpose: then they
came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which
indeed we heard, and the echoes made t e woods ring: but it was all
one- thoae in the cave we were sure, could not hear; and those in
our lreepin , thou h they heard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to t em. ey were so astonished at the surprise of this
that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board
again to their shi , and let them know that the men were all mur-
dere and the ong-boat staved - accordingly they immediately
launc ed their boat as ' and got all of them on boa . .
b Ehe cap'tain wasldtei'lnl'lbly 1,23??? all? even confgundegaflat this,

eev te wou goon es pagainan set giving
their 2:8 es over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship,
which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was
quickly as much frightened the other way. .

They had not been long put otl' With the boat, when we perceived
them all coming on shore again: but With this new measure in their
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, Vlz., to leave
three men in the boat, and t e rest to go on shore, and go up into the
country to look for their fellow. This was a great disappointment
to us, for now we were at a loss what to do, as our seizin those
seven men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let t e boat
esea'ilie; because they would row away to the shi , and then the rest
of t em would be sure to weigh and set sail, an so our recovering
the ship would be lost. However, we had no remedy but to wait an
see what the issue of things might present. The seven men came on
shore, and the three who remainedin the boat put her of to a good dis-
tance from the shore, and came to an anehorto wait for them; so that
it was 1m ible for us to come at them in the boat. Those that
came on s ore kept close together, marching towards the top of_ the
little hill underwhich my habitation lay; and we could see them plainly,
though they could not perceive us. We should have been very glad if
the would have come nearer to us, so that we might have fired at them,
or that the would have gone farther 011', that'we might come abroad.
But when t ey were come to the brow of the hill, where they could see
a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the north-
east art, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed
till t ey were weary: and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the
shore, nor far from one another, they sat down together under a tree
to eonSider it. Had the thought fit to have gone to sleep there as
the other part of them ad done, tliegagad done the job for us; but
they were too full of apprehenSions of ger to venture to go to sleep,
though theypould not tell what the danger was they had to fear. _

The captain made a very Just proposal to me upon this consultation
of theirs, Viz. that perha 3 they would all fire a volley again, to
endeavour to make their fe ows hear and that we shou d all sa1(l{v
upon them Just at the Juncture when their pieces were all discharge ,
and they would certainly yield and we should have them without
bloodshed. I hked this proposal, rovided it was done while we were
near enough to_ come up_to them efore the could load their pieces
again: But this event did not happen; an we lay still along time,
very irresolute'wliat course to take. Atilength, I told them there
would be notliin0 done, in my opinion, till night; and then if they
did not return to tie boat, perha s we might find a way to get between
them and the shore, and so mig t use some stratagem With them in
the boat to_get them on shore. _ We waited a great while, though
very impatient for their removmg; and were very uneasy when,
after long consultation, we saw them all start 11 , and mare . down
towards the sea: it seems the had such dr ul ap rehensions of
tlic_danger of the place, that t ey resolved to go on goard the ship
again, give their companions over for lost, and so go on With their
intended voy With the ship. _ _

As soon as perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it to
beas it really was, that they had given over their search, and were
gomg back again; and the captainhas soon as I told him my thoughts,
was ready to Sink at the apprehenswns of it: but I presentlg thought
of a stratagem to fetch them back aiain, and.which answere my end
to a tittle. I ordered Frida and t e captain's mate to go over the
little creek westward, towar the place where the savages came on
shore when Fmday was rescued,_and.so soon as they came to a httle
rismg und, at about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo out
as lou as they could, and wait till they found the seamen hear
tliem- thatas soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, the
should return it again; and then kee ing out of sight, take a rour
always answering when the others h ooed to draw them as far into
the island, and among the woods, as (posSible, and then wheel about
again to me by such ways _as I directe them. _

They were Just gonig into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed: and they presently heard them and, answering, ran along
the shore westwar towards the voice they hea when they were
stopped by the cree , where, the water benig up, t ey coultiini'iigte'get
over, and called for the boat to come up and set them over ; as, , I
expected. When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat
being gone a way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour
within the lan , they took one. of the three men out of her to go along
with them, and left only two in the boat, havmg fastened her to the
stump of a httle tree on the shore. This was what I Wished for: and
immediately leaving Friday and the cagtain's mate to their business, I
took the mt with me, and crossing t e creek out of their si ht, we
surprised the two men before they were aware; one of them ying on
the shore and the other being in the boat. The fellow on shore was
between sleeping andwaking _and going to start u -, the ca tam,
who was foremost,_ran in upon him, and knocked him own; an then
called out to him in the boat to yield or he was a deadman. There
needed very few argiunents to persuade a sin le man to yield, when he
saw five men upon him, and his comrade nocked down: besides,
this-was, it seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in thc
mutiny as the rest of the crew - and, therefore, _wu easily ersuaded
not only to yield, but afterwards to Jom very sincerely Wit us. In
the meantime, Friday and the ca tain's mate so well. managed their
business with the rest, that they ew them, by halloomg an answer-
ing, from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were very sure
they could not reach back tothe boat before it was dark; and, indeed,
'they were heartily tired themselves also, by the time they came back
0 us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark, and
to fall upon them, so as to make sure work With them. It was several
hours after Friday came back to me before they came back to their
boat; and we could hear the foremost of them, long before they
came fimte up, calling to thosebehmd to come along - and could also
hear t em answer, and complain how lame and tired they were, and
not able to come any faster: which was very welcome news to us. At
length they came up to the boat : but it is impossible to express
their confusion when they found the boat fast aground in the creek, the
tide ehbed out, and their two men gone. We could hear them call to
one another in a most lamentable manner telling one another they
were got into an enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants
in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there were devils and
spirits in it, and they should be all carried awa and devoured. They
hallooed again, and called their two comrades iliy their names a great
many times but no answer. After some time, we could see them, by
the little hght there- was, run about, wringing their hands like men in
despair, and sometimes they would go_ and sit down in the boat to
rest themselves: then come ashore again, and walk about , and
so the same thin over again. My men would fain have ha me. .ve
them leave to f upon them at once in the dark; but I was mg
to take them at some advantage, so as to spare them, and kill as few
of them as I could; and especiallly I was unwilling to hazard the
kilhng any of our men, hiowing t e others were very well armed. I
resolvedtowait, to see if they did not separate; and therefore, to
make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday
and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the
ground as they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as
near them as they could possib y, before they altered to fire. .

They had not been lone in that posture, when the boatswain, who
was the principal. ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown him-
self the most deiected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking
towards them, with two more of the crew ; the captain was so eager
at having this principal rogueso much in his power, that he could
hardly have patience_to let him come so near as to be sure of him,
for they only heard _his tongue before: but when they came nearer,
the captain and Fridav, starting up on their feet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was lulled upon the sgot: the next _man was shot in
the body, and fell Just b him thong he did not die till an hour or
two after- and the third" ran for it. At the nOise of the fire, I imme-
diately advanced with my whole army, which was now eight ,men,
v1z., myself, generahSSimo- Fnday, my heutenant-general; the captain
and his two men, and the three prisoners of war whom we had trusted
with arms. We came upon them, indeed in the dark so that they
could not see our number; and I made the man they had left in the
host, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could
bnpitllcm to a parley, and so erliapsimight reduce them to terms;
whic fell out Just as we desire : for indeed it was easy to think, as
their condition then was, they would be very willing to ca itulate. So
he calls out as loud as he could to one 'of them, "Tom mith! Tom
Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Is that Robinson?"
for it seems he knew the voice. The other answered, " Ay, ay; for
God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are
all dead men this. moment."--" Who must we yield to? Where are
they?" says Smith again. "Here they are," says he; "here's our
captain and fifty men with him have been huntinigdyou these two
hours, the bostswain is killed, Will Fry is woun e , and I am_ a
prisoner; and if you do not yield you are all lost."--'f Will they lgive
us quarter then?" says Tom Smith, f' and we will yield."--"l'
and ask, if sou promise to yield," said Robinson: so he asked t e
captain; an. the. captain himself then calls out, ," You, Smith you
know in mice; if {Em lay down your arms immediately, and submit,
you sha have our ves, all but Will Atkins." . _

Upon this, \ 'ill Atkins cried out. "For God's sake, captain, ve
me; uarter- what have I done? They have all been as bad as :"
whic i, by the way, was not true; for, it seems, this Will Atkins was
the first man that laid hold of the ca lain when they first mutinied,
and used him barbarously, intying his ands, and givmg him in'unous
lan ve._ However, the ca tam told him he must lay down his arms
at 'scretion, and trust to t e governor's mercy: b which he meant
me, for they all called me governor. In a word, t ey all laid down
their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the man that had
parleyed with them, and two more who bound them all ; and then my
great army of fifty men, which, With these three were in all but eight,
came up and seized upon them. and upon their boat; only that I kept
myself and one more out of Sight for reasons of state. .

Our next work was to.repair the boathand think of se' the
ship: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with t em,
he expostulated with them upon the villan _of their practices with
him and upon the further Wickednas of _t eir deSign, and how cer-
{mainlytg fanseffiring "1%? to :lilisery andddistress in_"t:liet.end,danb<:g per.
ps e ows. ey appeare ve peni en , an
hard for their lives. As for that, he told t em they were not
firisoners but the commander's of the island; that they thought thg
ad set him on shore in a barren uninhabited island; but it h
pleased God so to direct them that it was inhabited, and that the
vernor was an En lishmaii; that he mfilht hang them all there, if
e pleased - but as e had given them quarter, he supposed _he
would send them to En land, to be dealt with there as Justice
required, except Atkins, w om he was commanded by the goyernor
to adyise to prepare for death, for that he would be hanged in the
morning.

Though this was all but a fiction of his own yet it had its desired
effect; Atkins fell upon. his knees, to beg the captain to intercede
with the governor for his life; and all the rest begged of him, for
God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.

It now_occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance was come,
and that it would be a most eas thing to bring these fellows in to be
hearty in getting possessmn of t e ship; so I retired in the dark from
them that they might not see what kind of a governor they had, and
called the captain to me; when I called, at a good distance, one of
the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the captain, "03%.

tain, the commandercalls or you ;"_ and presently the ca tain replie
"Tell his Excellene I am Just coming." This morepe ectl amaze
them, and theyall be 'evcdthat the eommanderwas ust by, Wit his fifty
men. Upon the captain coming to me I told 'm my to ect for
scmiug the ship, which he hired wonderfully well, and reso v .to put
it in execution the next moming. But, in order to execute it with
more art, and to be secure of success I told him we must divide the
prisoners, and that he should g? and take Atkins, and two more of
the worst of them, and send t em pinioned to the cave where the
others lay. This was committed to Friday and the two men who
came on shore with the captain. The conveyed them to the cave as to
a prison: and it was, indeed a dism place, especially to men in their
condition: The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which
l_h_ave man a full description: and as it was fenced in, and they
pinione the place was secure enough, conSidering they were upon
their behanour. . _ .

To these in the mormng I sent the captain, who was to enter into a
parley With them; in a wor to try them, and tell me whether he
thought they might be truste or not to go on board and surprise the
ship. He talke to them of the injuryl done him, of the condition
they were brought. to, and that though t e governor had_ ven them
quarter for their hves ms to the resent action, yet that they were
sent th'lnglandhthey would all hanged in chains 5 but that if they
would Jom in so 3ust an attempt m to recover the ship, he would have
the governor's engagement for their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted
by men in their condition; they fell down on their knees to the cap-
tain andufromiscd, with the deepest impreeations, that they would
be f'aithf to him to the lastdro , and that they shOuld owe their
lives to him and would go With im all over the world; that the

would own him as a father to them as long as they lived. " Well, '
says the captain, "I must go and tell the governor what you say, and
see what I can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an
account of the temmhe found them in, and that he verily believed
the; would be fait ' . However, that we might be very secure, I
to] him he should go back vain and choose out those five, and tell
them that they might see he id not want men, that he would take
out those five to be his assistants, and that the governor would keep
the other two and the three that 'were sent prisoners to the castle
(my cave), as hostages for the fidehty of those five; and that if they
proved unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged
in chains alive on the shore. Tlus looked severe, and convinced them
that the govemor was in earnest; however, they had no way left
them but to acce t it; and it was now the busmess of the prisoners,
as much as of t e captain, to persuade the other five to do their

uty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition :first, the
captain, his mate, and passenger: second, then the two prisoners of
the fiist gang, to whom, havmg their character from the captain, I
had given their liberty and trusted them with arms: third, the other
two that I had kept till now in my bower pinioncd, but, on the cap-
tain's motion, had now released: fourth, these five released at. last;
so that they were twelve in all, beSides five we kept prisoners in the
cave for hostages. _ _ .

I asked the captain if he was wilhng to venture With these hands
on board the ship; but as for me and my man Friday, _I did not_tlniik
it was proper for us to stir, having seven men left. behind; and it was
employment enough for us to _keep them asunder, mid supply them
wit i victuals, As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast, but Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries: and Ilinade the otlier_two carry provisions to a certain
distance, where Friday was to take it. . -. _

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was With the captain,
who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to look
after them; and that it was the governor's pleasure they should not
stir anxwhcre but by my direction; that if they did, they would be
fetchc into the castle, and be laid in irons: so that as we never
suffered them to see me as governor, I now ap earcd as another er-
son, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, t c castle, and the 'e,
upon all oecaswiis. . . . .

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his two
boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his passen-
er captain of one, with four of the men; and himself, his mate, and
re more, went in the other; and they contrived their busmess very
well, for they came up to the ship about midmght. . As soon as thefi
came within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail them, and te
them they had brought oil" the men and the boat, but that it was'a
long time before they had found them, and the like; holding them in
a chat till they cameto the ship's side; when the captain and the
mate entering first, With their arms, immediately knocked down the
second .mate and nter With the butt-end of their muskets, being
very faithful] secon ed bd their men; they secured all the rest that
were upon t e main an quarter--decks, and began to fasten the
hatches, to keep them down that were below; when the other boat
and their men, entenn at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of
the ship, and the scutt e which'went down into the cook-room, mak'
three men they found there prisoners. When this was done, and
safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three menkto
break into the round-house, where the new rebel captain la , w o
havmg taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men and a goy had
got fire-arms in their hands; and when the mate, With a crow, split
open the door, the new captain and his men fired boldly among them
and wounded the mate With a musket ball, which broke lus arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody. The mate calling
for help rushed, however, into the round-house, wounded as he was,
and, with his pistol, shot the new captain through the head the bullet
entering at his mouth, and came out again behind one of his ears, so
that he never spoke a word more: upon which the rest yielded, and
the ship was taken effectually without any more lives lost.

As soon as the slii was thus secured, the captain ordered seven
guns to be fired, who was the signal agreed upon With me to we
me notice of his success, which, you may be sure, I was very g to
hear having sat watching u on the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the mornin . Having t us heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it aving been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very
sound, till I was sur rised With the naise of a gun; and rcscutly
starting up, I hear a man call me by the name of " ovemor!
Governor ." and resently I knew the captain's ymce; when climbing
up to the top of the hill, there he stood and pomting to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms. "_My dear mud and deliverer," says he,
" there's your ship for she is all yours, and so are we, and that
belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode
within little more than half a m' e of the shore- for they had weighe
her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and, the weather
hemg fair, had brou'vht her to auanchor ust against the mouth of the
little creek; andB the tide being up, t e captain had brought the
gimme in near t e place where I at first landed my rafts, and so

ded just at my door. I was at first ready to sink down with the
surprise; for I saw my deliverance, indeed, viSibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a arge ship just ready to carry me away whither
I'pleased to go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer
him one word ; but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him,
or Ishould have fallen to the ground._ He erceived the surprise,
and immediately pulled a bottle out of his poc et, and gave me a drain
of cordial which he had brought on purpose for me. After I had
drank it, Isat down upon the und; and though it brought me. to
in self, yet it was a good whilefiigfore I could speak a wet to him.
A this time the poor man was in as great an ccstac _as I, only not
under any surprise as I was; and he said a thousand 'ind mild) tender
t ' to me, to compose and bring me to myselfzi but such wu the
ii of joiin my breast, that it at all_m spirits into confusion: at
last it bro e out into tears; an , in a htt e while after, I recovered
my speech. I then took my turn and embraced him as my deliverer,
and we rejoiced together. . I told him I looked upon him as anian
sent from Heaven to dehver me, and that the whole transaction
seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these were the
testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing the
world and an ev1dence that the eye of an infinite wer could search
into the rcmotest corner of the world, and send he to the miserable
whenever He pleased. I forgot not to lift up my cart in thankful-
ness to Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him, who had
not only in a miraculous manner provided for me in such a wilderness,
and in such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance
must always be acknowledged to roeeed.

When we had talked a while tie captain told me he had brought
me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded, and such as the
wretches that had been so long his masters had not plundered him of.
Upon this, he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring the
things ashore that were for the governor - and, indeed, it was a pre-
sent as if I had been one that was not to be carried away with them
but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still. First, he had
brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters, six large
bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two guarts each), two
Bounds of 'excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's

eef, and Six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about an hundred
Weight of bisciut; he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of flour
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance 0
other things. But besides these, and what was a thousand times
more useful to me,_lic brought me six new clean shiits, six very good
neckcloths, two )air of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one air
of stockings, wit I a very good suit of clothes of his own, which an!
been worn but very little: in a word, he clothed me from head to foot.
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as anv_one may imagine, to
one in mi; circumstances; but never was anything in the world of
that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear
sucli clothes at first. _

After these ceremonies were passed, and after all his good things
were brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what
was to be done with the prisoners we had; for it was worth con-
siderinv whether we might venture to take them away _with us or no,
especially two of them, whom he knew to be incorrigible and re-
fractory to the last degree; and theeaptain said he knew thev were
such rogues that there was no obhging them, and if he did carry
them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over
to justice at the first English colony he could come to; and I found
that the captain himself was very anxious about it. Upon this, I
told him that, if he desned it,I_ would undertake to bring the two
men he spoke of_ to make it their own request that he should leave
them_upon the island. "I should be very glad of that," says the
captain, "With all my heart." "Well," says I, "1 Will send for
them up, and talk with them for you." So I caused Friday and the
two hostages, for they were now discharged their comrades having
performed their promise; I say, I cause them to go to the cave
and bring ii the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and
keep them t iere tillI came. After some time, I came thither dressed
in my new habit; .and now I was called governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with me I caused the men to be brought before
me, and I tol them I had got a full account of their villanous
behaviour to the captain, and how they had run away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit farther robberies, but that Providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that theflnwere fallen into
the pit which they had dug for others. I let them ow that by my
direction the ship had been seized- that she lay now in the road;
and they might see by-and-by, that their new captain had received the
reward of his Villan , and that they would see him hangino at the yard-
arm; that, as to t em, I wanted _to know what they had to an why
I should not execute them as pirates, taken in the fact, as y my
commissmn they could not doubt but I had authority so to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say hilt this, that when they were taken, the captain gro-
mised them their hves, and they humhly im lored my mercy. at
I told them I knew not what more to show t iem; for as for myself,
I had resolved to quit the islan With all my men, and had taken
passage with the capth to go for England; and as for the captaiii,
_e could not ea them to En land, other than as risoners, in
irons, to be tried or mutiny, an ninning away witht e shi ; the
consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the, ows;
so that I could not tell_ what was best for them,'unless they had a
mind to take then: fate in the island. _If theyhdeSired that as I had
liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to give them their
hves if they thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said the would much rather venture to stay
there than be carried to Eng and to be hanged. So I left it on that
issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some diflicultyof it, as if
he duist not leave them there. Upon this, I seemed a little angry
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his;
and that seeing I had offered them so much favour, I would be as
good as my word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I
would set them at liberty, as I found them- and if he did not _like it,
he might take them avain if he could catch them. Upon this, they
aggeared very thankfiil, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and
b e them retire into the woods, to the place whence they came, and
I. would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and some
directions how they should live very well, if they thought fit. Upon
this I prepared to go on board the ship; but told_the captain I
would stay that ms t to prepare my things and deSired him to go
on board in the mean time, and keep all right in the shi , and send
the boat on shore next day for me; orderin him at events, to
cause the new captain, who was killed, to be ged at the yard-arm,
that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my
apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them on their
circumstances. I told them I thought they had made a right chmce;
that if the captain had carried them away they would certainly be
han . . I showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm
of t ie shi , and told them the had nothing less to expect.

When t e had all declare their Willingness to stay; I then told
themI wo d let them into the etc of my living 1. ere, and put
them into the way of making it easy them. Accordingly, I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my coming to it; showed
them my fortifications the way I made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my graIpes; an in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. told them the story also of the seventeen S ards
that were to be expected, for whom} left a letter, and ma e them
promise to treat them in common With themselves. Here it may be
noted that the captain had ink on board, who was greatly surprised
that I never hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal an water, or
of something else, as I had done things much more difficult: .

I left them my lire-arms, viz. five muskets, three fowhn -pieces,
and three swords. I had above abarrel and a half of pow er left-
for after the first year or two I used but httle and wasted none. I
gave them a descri tion of the wa I managed the goats, and direc-
tions to milk and atten them, an to make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story; and told them
I should prevail With the captain to leave them two barrels of gun-

wder more, and some [garden seeds which I told them I_would

vc been very glad of. so, I gave them the bag of peas which the
captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and
increase them. '

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on
board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail but did not
weigh that night. The next inornin early, two of the five men
came svv ' to the ship's side, an making the_most lamentable
com laint of t e other three, begged to be taken into the ship for
God 3 sake, for they should be murdered and begged the captain to
take them on board, though he hanged them immediately. U ii
this, the captain pretended to have no power Without me; but ter
some difiiculty, and after their solemn promises of amendment, the
were taken on board, and were, some time after, soundly whippc
and pickled; after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide be'
up, with the things promised to the men- to which the ca tam":
my intercession, caused their chests and c othes to he adds which
they took, and were ve thankful for. I also encouraged them, by
telling them, that if it ay in my power to send any vessel to tare
them in, I would not forgettliem. . .

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for relic nee,
the great aFoatskin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one o m
parrots; soI forgot not to take the money I formerly mentionetz
which had lain l3" me so long useless that it was wn rusty or tar-
nished, and coul hardly pass for silver till it had 1: a little rubbed
'and handled, as also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish
ship. And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found
by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it
eiggit-and-twen years, two months, and nineteen days- bein
de vered from t is second captivity the same day of the month that
first made my escape in the long-boat, from among the Moors of
Sallee. In this vessel, after a long vo age, I arrived in England the
11th of June, in the ear 1687, having ii thirty-five years absent.

"'hen I came to gland, I was as perfect a stranger to all the
world as if I had never en known there. My benefactor and faith-
ful steward, whom_ I had left my mone in trust with, was alive, but
had had.great misfortunes in the wor d; was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world. I made her very easy as to
what she owed me, assurin her I would give her no trouble; but,
on the con , in gratitu e for her former care and faithfulness to
me, I relieve her as my little stock would afi'ord; which at that
time would, indeed, allow me to do but little for her: but I assured
her I would never forget her former kindness to me; nor did_I
forget her when I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in
its proper place. 1 went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my
father was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct, except
that I found two sisters, and two of the children of one of my
brothers ; and .as I had been long ago given over for dead, there had
been no provismn made for me; so that in a word I found nothing
to relieve or assist me -. and that the little money I had would not do
much for me as to settling in the world. _

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not
expect; and this was that the master of the shi , whom I had so
happily delivered, and by the same means saved t e shi and cargo,
havmlg given a very handsome account to the owners 0 the manner
how had saved t e lives of the men, and the shi , they mVited me
to meet them and some other merchants concerne , and all together
made me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a
present of almost PS200 sterling. .

But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of
my life, and how little way this would go towards setthng me in the
world, I resolved to to Lisbon, and see_if I_ might not come at
some information of t e state of m plantation in the BraZils, and of
what was become of my partner, w o, I had reason to suppose, had
somejears past given me over for dead. With this_ view, I took
shipiping for Lisbon, where I amved in A ril follow1ng)-_ my man
131 ay accompanyin me very honestl in a_ these ram hugs, and
flying a most faith servant upon occaswns. When I_ came to

bon, I_ found out, by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction
my old friend, the captain of the ship, who first took me u at seap
the shore of Africa._ He was now grown old, and had le o_lf gomg
to_sea, having puthis son, who was far from a young man, into his
ship, and who. still used the Brazil trade. The 01 man did not
know me; and mdee Ihardly knew him. ButI soon brought him to
-m remembrance, an as soon brought myself to his remembrance,
w enItoldhimwhonas. 10-,
After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between
us, I inquired, you ma be sure, after my plantation and to partner.
The old man told me he had not been in the Brazds for a at nine
years; but that he could assure me, that when he came away my
partner was hvmg ; but the trustees, whom I had Jomed With him to
take cognizance of my part, were both dead:_that, however he
believed I would have a very good account _of the Improvement of2 the
plantation; for that, upon the general behef of my being cast away
and drowned my trustees had ven in the account of the produce of
my part _of the plantation to t e procuratpr-fiscal who had a pro-
priated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to the g,
and two-thirds to the monaster of St. Augustine, to be exfinded for
the benefit of the oor, and or the converSion of the dams to
the Catholic faith: at that, if I appeared, or any one for me, to
claim the inheritance it would be restored; only that the improve-
ment or annual production, being distributed to charitable uses,
could not be restored: but he assured me that the steward of the
king's revenue from lands, and the prov1dore o_r steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent, that is
to say, my partner, gave every ear a faithful account of the produce,
of which the had duly receive my mmety. I asked him if .e knew
to what heig it of improvement he had brought the plantation, and
whether he thought it might be worth looking after; or whether, on
my going thither, I shoul meet with may obstruction to my ossess-
ing my Just right in the moiety. He tol me he could not tc exactly
to what degree the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that
my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the cum 'ng his art of
it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he h heardt t the
king's third of my part, which was, it seems granted away to some
other monastery or religious house, amounted to abovetwo hundred
moidores a year: that as to my being restored to a quiet possession
of: it, there was no question to be made of that my partner-being
ahve to Witness my title, and my name being also enrolled in the
register of the country; also he told me that the surnvors of my two
trustees were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy; and he
beheved I would not only have their.asSistance for putting me in

sscssion, but would find a very considerable sum of money in their

ands for my account, being the produce of the farm while their
fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, as above; which,
as he remembere was for about twelve years.

I showed in set a little concerned and uneasy at this account,
and inquired o the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees
should thus dis ose of my efi'ects when he knew that I had made
any will, and made him, the fortuguese captain, my umversal

eir c.

He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof of my
bemo dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain account
shou d come of my death; and, besules, he was not willing to inter-
meddle With a thing so remote: that it was true he had registered my
Will, and put in his claim; and could he have given any account of
:13 being dead or alive, he would have acted by procnration, and
en possession of the ingenio (so they call the sugar-house) and
have given his son, who was now at t e Brazils orders to do it.
" But," says the old man, " I have one piece of news to tell you,
which perhaps may not be so acce table to you asthe rest; and that
is, behevm you were lost and the world believing so also, your
partner an. trustees did Oder to account With me, in your name, for
the first _six or eight years' profits, which I received. There being
at that time great disbursements for increasing the works, building
an ingenio, and buym slaves, it did not amount to near so much as
afterwards it produce : however," says 'the old man, " I shall give
you a true account of what I have received in all, and how I have
dis sed of it." . .
ter a few days' farther conference With this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of myaflantation,
signed by m partner and the memhanbtrustees, being ways deli-
vered in , viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum
molasses, &c., which is the consequence of a sugar..work; and I found
by this account, that. every year the income consrderably increased;
but, as above, the disbursements being large, the sum at first was
small: however, the old man let me see that he was .debtor to me
four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests_of
su , and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship:
he aving been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon about eleven years
after my leaving the lace. The good man then began to complain
of his misfortunes, an how he had been obliged to make use of my
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new ship.
" However, my old frien ," says he, " you shall not want a supply in
your neecssify; and as soon as my son returns, you shall be ully
satisfied." pon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives in_e_one
hundred and Sixty Portugal moidores in gold; and givmg the writings
of his title to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of
which he was quarter-part owner, and his son another, he puts them
both into my hands for security of the rest. _

I was too much moved'with the honesty and kindness of the poor
man to be able to bear this; and remembering what he had done for
me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used
me on all occasions, and particularly how Sincere a friend he was now
to me I could hardly _refra.in weeping at what. he had said to me;
therefore I asked him_ if his circumstances admitted him to s so
much men? at that time, and if it would not straiten him? e told
gne he coul not say but It. might straiten him a little; but, however
it was in mone , and I might want it more than he._

Everyt 'ng t e good man said was full of affectio and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I too one hundred
of the moidores, and called for a n and ink to ye him a receipt
for them: then I returned himt e rest, and told if . ever I had
possession of the lantation I would return the other to h1m_also (as,
mddeafterw did); and thatasto thebillof saleofhispartin
his son's ship, Iwould not take it byany means; but that if I wanted
the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did
not, but came to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would
never have a penny more from him. .

When this was passed, the old man asked me if he should put me
into a method to make my claim to my flantation. I.told him I
thou ht to over to it myself. He said might do so if I_pleased -
but t at, if did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately to appro riate the profits to my use: and as there were
ships in the river of _ isbon just ready to go away to Brazil, he made
me enter in name in a'publie register, With his affidavit, affinnin ,
upon oath, t iat I was alive, and that Iwas the same person who too
up the land for the planting the said plantation at first. This bein
regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration atlixed, he directe.
me to send it, wit i a letter of his writing, to a merchant of his
acquaintance at the place; and then proposed my staying With him
till an account came of the retuni.

Never was anything more honourable than the froccedin upon
this procuratiou; for in less than seven months receive a large
packet. from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, for whose

account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.

First, there was the account~current_ of the produce of my farm
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced With
my old Portugal on )tain, bein for six years; the balance appeared
{p be one thousan one huii red and seventy-four meidores in my
avour.

Secondly, there was _the account of four years more, while they
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the
adnumstration, as home the effects of a person not to be found, which
they called civil deat ; and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation _incrcasmg, amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred
and forty-Six crusadoes, being about three thousand two hundred and
fort. _moidores.

iirdly there was the Prior of St. Augustine's account, who had
received the profits for above fourteen years; but not being to account
for what wm disposed of by the hospital, very honestl declared he
had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not distri iuted, which
hetilaleknowledged to my account: as to the king's part, that refunded
no mg.

_ There was a letterIOf my partner's, congratulating me very afl'ee--
tionately upon my being alive, givm me an account how the estate
was improved, and what it produce a year; with the particulars of
the number of squares or acres that it contained, how planted, how
many slaves there were "lid" it :_ and making two-and-twent crosses
for blessmgs, told me he d said so many Ave Marius to t auk the
Blessed Virgin that I was. alive; inviting me verv passionately to
come over and take possessmn of my own; and, in the mean time, to
give him orders to whom he should dehver my efi'eets, if I did not
come in self- concluding With a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of is f'amilfidand sent me, as a present seven-fine leopards'
skins, which he , it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship that he had sent thither, and which, it seems, had made a better
voyage than I. IIe sent me also live chests of excellent sweetmeats,
and a hundred pieces of gold uncomed, not quite so large as moidores.
By the same fleet, my two merchant-trustees shifisped me one thousand
two hundred chests of sugar, Bight hundred ro of tobacco, and the
rest of_ the whole account in go] .

I mi lit well say now, indeed, that_the latter end of Job was
better t the . It is impossible to ex ress the flutterin
of myvery heart when_ found all my wealth agent me; form t e
Brazil ships come all in fleets, the same ships which brought my
letters brought my goods: and the efl'ects were safe in the river
before the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale, and

in sick; an had not the o d man run and fetched me a cordial, I

heve the sud en su rise of JO had overset nature, and I had died
upon the spot: nay, e_r that, continued ver ill, and was so some
hours, till a ph ician being sent for and somet ' g of the real cause
of my illness _ mg known, he ordered me to be let blood; after
which I had rehef, and grew_well: but I verily believe, if I had not
Ken giasfd by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should

ve e .

I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the
Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a yearhas sure as an estate of
lands in England: and, in a word, I was in a condition which I
scarce knew ow to understand, or how to compose myself forthe
enjoyment of it. The first thing I did was to recom use my 0
benefactor, my good. old captain, who had been 1: charitab e to
me in my distress, kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me
at the end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I told_hiin
that, next to the gigvidence of Heaven, which disposed all things,
it was omng to - and that it now lagnon me to reward him,
which I would do a hundred fold: so I t returned to him the
hundred moidores I had received of bim- then I sent for a notary,
and caused him to draw up a general reiease or discharge from the
four hundred and seventy mmdores, which he had acknowledged
he owed me, in the fullest and fimost manner possible. ' After which,
I caused a rocuration to be drawn, empowering him to _be the
receiver of t e annual firofits of my plantation; and aipomtmg m
Eartner to account wit him, and make the returns y the us

eets, to him in my name; and by a clause in_the end, made sogrant
of one hundred moidores a year to_him durm his hfehonlt the
effects, and mmdom a year to his son after , for his Me: and
thus I requi my old man.

I had now to consider which way to steer h'illl course next, and
what to do with the estate that Providence thus put into in
hands; and indeed, I had more care upon my head now than I h
in my silent state of life in the island, where I wanted not but
what I had, and had nothing but what _I wanted- whereas had
now a great charge upon me, and my business was how to secure it.
I .had not a cave now to hide in money in, or a place where it
might lie without lock or key, t' it grew mouldy and tarnished
before anybody would meddle with it- on the contrary, I knew not
where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My old patron, the ca -
tain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only refuge I had. In t e
next place my interest in the Brazds seemed to summon methither -
but now I could not tell how to think of gomg thither till I had
settled in ' affairs and left ni effects in some safe hands behind me.
At first thouo it of my 0 (1 friend the WIdOW, who I knew was
honest, and would be just to me; but then she was in years, and but
Beer, and, for aught I knew, might be in debt; so that in a word, I

adl no way but to go back to England myself, and take my efi'ects
Wit i me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and,
therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain tully and to his-satis-
faction, who had been my former benefactor, so I began to think of
the poor widow, whose husband had been my first benefactor, and
she, while it was in her power, my faithful_steward and instructor.
So, the first thing I did, got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his
correspondent in London, not only to [Pay a bill but to go find her
out and earr her, in money, a hundre pounds irom me, and to talk
with her, an comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she should,
If: I hved, have a further supply: at the same time,'I sent my two
sisters in the country a hundred pounds each, they heingkthough not
in want, yet not in re d circumstances; one haying en married
and left a widow; an t e other having a husband not so kind to her
as he should be: But, among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not et itch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of
my stock, t at might go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe
bclnnd me; and this greatly perplexed me. _

I had once a mind to have gone to the Breads, and have settled
myself there, for I was. as it were naturalized to the lace; but I
had some little scruple in my min about religion, whie msenSihly
drew me back. However it was not rehgion that kept me from going
there for the present; and as I had made no scruple of being openly
of .the rehgion of the country all the while I was among them, so
neither did I yet; on] that, now and then, havm" of late thought
more of it than former y, when I began to think ofP hvin and dying
among them,.I began to regret my havmg'professed myse a Papist,
and thought it might not be the best religion to die With.

But, as I have said, this was not the main thin that lie t me from
going to the Brazils, but that really I did not Enow wit whom to

cave my efl'ects behind me; so I resolved at last to go to England,
where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaintance, or
find some relations that would be faithful to me; and, accordingly, I
prepared to go to ngland with all my wealth.

In order _to prepare things for my going home, I first (the Brazil
fleet being_1ust gomg away) resolved to give answers suitable to the
Just and taitht'ul account of things 1 had from thence- and, first, to
the I'rior of St. Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for his Just
deahngs, and the ode:- of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores
which were undisposed of, which I desired might be given, five hun-
dred to the monastery, and three hundred and seventy-two to the
r, as the prior should direct; desiring the good padre's prayers
or me, and the like. I wrote next a etter of thanks to my two
trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so much justice and
honestyl called for: as for sending them an present, they were far
above avnig any occaston for it. . Lastly, wrote to my partner,
acknowledging his.mdustry in the improvmg the plantation, and his
integrity in increasing the stock of the works ' givmg him instructions
for his future government of my part acepr ing to the powers I had
left With my old patron to whom fdesued him to send whatever
became due to me, till he should. hear from me more particularly;
assuring him that it was my intention not only-to come to him, but to
settle myself there for the remainder of in hfe. To this I added a
very handsome present of some Italian 5 's for his wife and two
daughters, for such the ca tain's son infomed me he had - _with two
pieces of fine English broa cloth, the best I could get in Insbon, five
pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a good value.

Havmg thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my
effects into good bills of exchange, my next difliculty was wluch way
to go to England: I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet
I had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and
though I could ]give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so muc i, that though I had once shipped my baggage in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or
three times. _

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might be
one of the reasons; but let no man slight the strong impulses of lus
own thoughts in cases of such moment: two of the shares which I had
singled out to go in, I mean more particularly single out than any
other, having put my things on board one of them and in the
other to have agreed with the captain; I say, two oi these ships
miscarried, viz. one was taken by the Afierincs and the other was
cast away on the Start, near Torbav, an all the Rico'iile drowned,
except three; so that in either of these vessels I a been made
miserable. .

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom
I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly not to E; by
sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the y of
Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and safe ourney
by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to adrid,
and so all'the way by land through France. In aword, I was so
firepossessed against my going by sea at all, except from Calais to

over, that I resolved to travel all the way by land; which, as I was
not in haste, and did not value the charge was by much the

leasanter wav: and to make it more so, my old ca _tain brought an
'ndeglish gentleman the son of a merchant in .15bon, who was
\v' ing to travel with me; after which we picked up two more English
merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen the last gomg
to Paris only: so that in all, there were six of us, an five servants:
the two merchants and the two Portuguese contentmg themselves With
one servant between two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got
an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, beSidcs my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the
place of a servant on the road. _ .

In this manner I set out from Lisbon ;_ and our company bem very
well mounted and armed, we made a httle troop whereof they d me
the honour to call me captain, as well because l was the oldest man,
as because I had two servants, and, indeed, was the origin of the
whole 'ourney. , .

As have troubled you With none of my sea Journals, so I shall
trouble you now with_none of my land journal; but some adventures
thatt happened to us in this tedious and difficult Journey I must not
omi .

When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strangers to Spain,
were wilhng to stay some time to see the court of S mm, and what
was worth observing; but, it being the latter part of t 3: summer, we
hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of Octo-
ber; but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed, at
several towns on the way, with an account that so much snow was
fallen on the French side of the mountiuns, that several travellers
were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted at
an extreme hazard to ass on. . . .

When we came to 'ampeluna itself, we found it so indeed; and to
me, that had been always used to a hot chmate, and to countries
where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable:
nor, indeed, was it more painful than surprisuig, to come but ten
days before out of Old Cnstile, where the weather was not only warm,
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from the l'yrencan
mountains so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to
endanger benumbing and pcrishing of our fingers and toes. _

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all
covered with snow. and felt. cold weather, which he had never seen or
felt before in his life. To mend the matter, when we came to l'am-
peluiia it continued snowing with so much violence and so long,
that the people said winter was come before its time; and the
roads, which Were difficult before, were now quite impassable; for,
in a word, the snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel,
and being not hard frozen, as is the ease in the northern countries,
there was no going without being in danger of being buried alive
every step. We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when,
(seeing the Winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better,
for it was the severest wniter all over Europe that had been known
in the memory of man) I proposed that we should no away to
Font-arable, and there take. shi )ping for Bourdcaux, which was a
very httle voyage. But, while was considering this, there came in
tour French gentlemen, who, having been sto ped on the French
side of the passes,_ as we were on the Spamsn had found out a
Elude, who, traversmg the country near the head of Languedoe, had

rought them over the mountains by such ways that they were not
much incominoded with the snow; for where they met with snow
in any quantity, thev said it was frozen hard enough to hear them
and their horses. We sent for this guide, who told us he would
undertake to carry us the same way, with no hazard from the snow,
Ecmvided we were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild

asts; for he said, in these great snows, it was frequent for some
wolves to show themselves at t e foot of the mountains being made
ravenous for want of food the ground being covered with snow.
We told him we were we enough prepared for such creatures as
they were, if he would ensure us from a kind of two-legged wolves,
which we are told, we were in most danger from, especially on the
Frenc Slde of the moutains. He satisfied us that there was no
danger of that kind in the way that we were to go; so we readily
agreed to follow him as did also twelve other ntleinen with their
servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as said, had attempted
to co, and were obliged to ('Omc back again.

Kecordmgly, we set out from Pampeluna with our guide, on the
15th of November; and, indeed, I wassurpriscd, when, instead of
gouig forward, he came directly back With us on the same road that
we came from Madrid, about twenty miles; when, having passed two
nvers, and come into the phuu country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow
to be seen; but, on a sudden, turning to his left, be all) iroachcd the
mountains another way; and though it is true the hi 3 and preci-
pices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, sueli meanders,
and led us by such Winding ways, that we insensihly passed the
height of the mountains without being much encumbered with the
snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed us the pleasant and fruitful
provinces of Langucdoc and Gascony, all green and flourishing,
tlionghmindced, at a great distance, and we had some rough way to
pass st .

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a night so fast that we could not travel; but he bid us
be easy; we should soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we
be ,n to descend every day, and to come more north than before;
an so, de cndingu on our guide, we went on.

It was a at two iours before night, when, our ide being some-
thing before us, and not just in sight, out rushe three monstrous
wolves, and after them a hear, from a hollow way adioiiiing to a thick
wood: two of the wolves made at the guide, and, ad he been far
before us, he would have been devoured before we could have hel d
him; one of them fastened upon his horschand the other attac:cd
the man with such Violence, that he had not time or presence of mind
enough to draw his_ istol,_bnt hallooed and cried out to us most
lust-11y. Mv man Fri ay being next me, I bade .lnm. ride up, and see
what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of the man,
he hallooed out as loud as the other, " 0 master! 0 masterlf' but,
hire a bold fellow, rode directl up to the Boer man, and With his
pistol shot the wolf that attaekc him in the ead. _

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for,
havm been used to such creatures in his country, he had no fear
u on m, but went close u to him and shot him; whereas any other
0 .us would have fired at a arther distance, and have perhaps either
missed the wolf, or endanoered shootin the man.

But it was enough techave terrific a bolder man thaiill; and,
indeed, it alarmed all our com , when, with the noise of Friday's
pistol, we heard on both sides t e most dismal howhng of wolves ; and
the noise redoubled by the _echo of the mountains, appeared to us as
if there had been a prodigious number of them; an perhaps there
was not such a few as that we had no cause of apprehensmn: how-
ever, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had fastened upon
the horse left him immediatel , and fled Without domg him any
damage. having happily fastene upon his head, where the bosses of
the bridle had stuck in. his teeth. But the man was most hurt; for
the raging creature had hit him twice, once in the arm, and the other
time a little above his knee; and though he had made some defence,
he was Just tumbling down by the disorder of his horse, when Friday
came_up and shot the wolf. _ ' _

It is easy to suppose that at the neise of Friday'spistol we all
mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
difficult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly
what had been the case, and how Friday had disen ged the poor
guide, thouihuwe did not presently discern what kin of creature it
was he had ' ed. . . _ .

But never was a _fi ht managed so hardilv, and in such a surprising
manner, as that whic followed between Frida and the bear which
glilwe us all, though at first we were sur rise and afraid for him,
t e greatest diversion imaginable. As the ear is _a heavy, clumsy crea-
ture, and does not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and hght, so
he has two particular quahties, which n'euerally are the rule of his
actions: first, as to men, who are not his proger prey (he does not
usually attempt them,_ except the first attac him unless he be
excesswely hungry, which it is probable might now be the case, the

und being covered. With snow), if you do not meddle With him,

e Will not meddle With you; but then you must take care to be
very OlVll to him, and give him the road, for he is a_very nice gentle-
man; he Will not go a step out of his way for a rince; nay, if you
are really afraid, your best way is to look anotier way and k3,?

mg on ;_ for sometimes if you stop, and stand still and look st -
astly at him, he takes it for an afi'ront; but if you throw or_ toss any-
thing at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big
"5.50"? finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all'other business
aSi e to pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in int of
honour ;--this is his first quality: the next is, if he be once routed,
he Will never leave you, night or day, till he hm his revenge, but fol-
lows at a good round rate till he overtakes you.

'Mh man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to
him, ewas helping him off from his horse, for the man was both hurt
and frightened, when on a sudden we es led the bear come out of
the wood, and a monstrous one it was, t e biggest b 'far that ever
I saw. We were all a little surprised when we saw in; but when
Friday saw him, it was easy to see 39 and courage in the fellow's
countenance: ' O, O, Q!" says, Fri , three times, intin . to
him; " 0 master! on give me te leave, me shakeete han With ;
me makee you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: "You fool,"
says I, " he will eat yqu up."--" Eateenie up . eatee me up !" says
Friday, twme over ; ' me eatee hmi u ; me makee you good
laugh; on all stay ere, me show you laugh." _So down he
sits, ca{lets ofi' lus boots in a moment and uts on a pair; of pumps
(as we the flat shoes timh wear, and whic he had in his hlocket),
gives my other servant his e flew,
swift hke the Wind. _ .

The hear was walking soft] on, and offered to meddle With
nobody, till Frida coming firet y near, calls to him, as if the bear
could understand him. ' ark ye, hark ye," says Friday, " me
3 eakee With you." We followed at a distance, for now bem come

own on the Gascony side of the mountains, we were cute a vast
forest, where the country was plain and pretiy p n, though it had
many trees in it scattered here and there. n kl)" who had, as we
say, the heels of the bear, came up With him quic y, and took u a
. t_stone, and threw it at_ him and hit himjust on the head, at
id him no more harm than if he had thrown it nst a wall; but it
answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so voi of fear that he did
it urely tomake the bear follow him and show us some laugh, as he
ed it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, he turns
about, and comes after him, takin very long strides, and shufihng
on at a strange rate, so as woul have put a horse to a middling
gallop: away runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards
us for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and
deliver in man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing
the bear 1: upon us, when he was gomg about his own busmess
another way: and especially I was angry that he had turned the
bear upon us,. and then run away; and I called on , " You dog! is
this your makin us laugh? Come away and take your horse, that
we may shoot t e creature." He heard me, and cried out, " No
shoot no shoot; stand still, and you get much lau li:" and asthe
nimble creature. ran two feet for the bear's one, e turned on a
sudden on one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree _fit for his pur~
pose, he beckoned to _us to follow- and doubhng his pace, he got
nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at about
five or six yards from the bottom. of the tree. The bear soon _came
to the tree, and we followed at a distance: the first thing he did he
stopped at the .smelled at it, but let it he, and up he scrambles
into the tree, 0 mbmg like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was
amazed at the folly, as I thought it, ofpmy man, and could not for my
life see anything to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree,
we all rode near to him. _

When we came to the tree, there was Fridamt out to the small
end of a large branch, and the bear got about way to him. As
soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker,--" Ha!" says he to us, ' now you see me teachee the bear
dance :" so he began jumpin and shaking the bough, at which the
bear began to totter, but 3 still, and began to look behind him to
see how he should get back ; the indeed, we did laugh heartily. But
Friday had not done with himnby a great deal; when seeing him

orse, and with his gun away
stand still, he called out to him again, as if he had supposed the bear
could speak En lish, "What, you come no farther? tfray on come
farther ;" sohe eft Jumping and shaking the tree' an the ear, just
is if he understood whati thlf h'eld' did 001158 a little $111611} tlhtezn he

egan Jum in again an e ar stop again. e oug now
was a good tigme to knock him in the gad, and called to Friday to
stand still, and we would shoot the bear: but he cried out earnestly,
" O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by] and then :"_he would have
said by-aiid-by. However, tolshorten t e story, Friday danced so
much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough,
but still could not imagine what the fellow would do: for first we
thought he depended u n shaking the bear off; and we found the
hear was too cunninrr or that too; for he would not go out far
enough to be thrown Edown, but clung fast with his cat broad claws
and feet, so that we could not imagine what woul be the end of it,
and what the Jest would be at last. But Friday first us out of doubt
quickly: for seeing the bear cling fast to the ugh and that he
would not be persuaded to come any farther, "We , well," says
Friday, " you no coruc farther, me go; you no come to me, me come
to you ;" and upon this he went _out to the smaller end of the
bough where .'t. would bend with his weight, and gently let himself
down hy it, shding down the bough till he came near enough to jum
down on his feet, and away he ran to_ his gun, took it up, and stoo
still. "Well," said I .to him, "Friday, what W111_ on do now?
Why don't you shoot him?" --" No shoot," says Fri y, " no yet;
nie shoot now, me no kill; me stav, give youpne more laugh :" and,
indeed so he did; for when the hear saw his enemy gone, he came
back from the bough where he stood,_ but did it very cautiously,
lookin behind him every step, and coming backward till he got into
the y of the tree; then, With the same hinder end foremost, he
came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot
at a time, very leisurely. At this Juncture, and Just before he could
set his hind foot on the_ground,' Friday stepped up close to him,
clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead.
Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh; and when
he saw we were pleased, by our looks, he began to laugh .ve loud.
" So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. " So you kill t em?"
says I; " why, you have no guns."--." No, ' says he. " n9 gun, but
shoot great much long arrow." This was a good version to us;
but we were still in a Wild place, and our guide very much hurt,
and what to do we hardly knew; the bowling of wolves ran much
in my head; and, indeed, except the neise I once heard on the shore
of Africa, of which I have said something already, I never heard any-
thing that filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night,'called us of, or else, as
Friday wouldahave had us, we should certainly have taken the skin
of this monstrous creature off, which was worth savmg; but we had
near three leagues to go, and our giude hastened us; so we left him,
and went forward on our Jam-neg. .

The ground was still covere With snow, though not so deep and
dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as weFriday and llw "Mr.
heard afterwards, were some down into the forest and plain country,
pressed by hunger to seek for food, and had done a great deal of
mischief in the Villages, where they surprised the country people,
killed a great many of their sheep and horses, and some people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, and our de told us, if there
were more wolves in the country we should fin them there; and this
was a small plain surrounded with woods on every side, and a lou

narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass to get through the woo ,
and then _we should come to the Village where we were to lodge. It
was within half an hour of sunset when we_entered the wood, and a
little after sunset when we came into the 1311:" :_ we met with nothing
in the first wood, except that in a httle p ' Within the wood, which
was not above two fin-longs over, we saw five fist wolves cross the
road, full speed, oneafter another, as if they . been in chase of
some prey, and had it in View ; they took no notice of us, and were
gone out of sight in a few moments. U n this our guide, who by
the way was but a faint-hearted fellow bid keep in a ready pos-
ture, for he beheved there were more wo res a--coming. We kept our
arms readfirgnd our eyes about us; but we saw no more wolves till
we came t ugh that wood, which was near half a league, and entered
the plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough
to look about us: the first object we met With was a dead horse,that is
to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed and_at least _a dozen
of them at work, we could not say eatm him, but ickin his bones
rather 3 for they had eaten up all the flesh before. e di not think
fit to disturb them at their feast, neither did they take much notice .of
us. Friday would have let fly at them, but I would not suffer him
by any means; for I found we were like to have more business upon
our hands than we were aware of. We had not gone half over the
plain when we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left
in a. rightful manner, and presently after we saw about a hundred
coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a
hne, as regularly as an army drawn up b experienced officers. I
scarce knew in what manner to receive t em, but found to draw
ourselves in a close line wm the only way 3 so we formed in a moment:
but that we might not have too much interval, I ordered that only
eve other man should fire, and that the others, who had not fire ,
shou_d stand ready to give them a second volley immediately if they
continued to advance upon us- and then that those who had fired at first,
should not pretend to oad their fusees again, but stand ready, every
one With a pistol, for we were all arme With a fusee and a pair of
pistols each man; so we were, by this method, able to fire Sir volleys,

alf of us at a time: however, at present we had no necessity;_for

upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full stolili, bemg terrified
as well with the noise as with the fire; four of t em bein shot
in the head, dropped; several others were wounded, and went leed-
Lug off, as we could see by the snow. I found they 5mm but
di not immediatel retreat; whereupon, remembering) t _ had
been told that the ercest creatum were terrified at t e mice of a
man, I caused_all the oompan to halloo as loud as we could; and I
found the notion not altoge er mistaken; for upon our shout they
began to retire and turn about. I then ordered a second valley to be
fired in their rear .which put them to the gallop, and'away they went
to the woods. This gave us leisure to charge our pieces n; and
that we might lose no time, we kept gomg: but. we had ut little
more than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves in readiness, when
we heard a terrible naise in the same wood on our left, only that it
was farther onward, the same way we were to go. _.

The. night was coming on, and the lighthegan _to be dusky which
made it worse on our side; but the norse increasm , we could easily
perceive that it was the howlin and yelling of those ellish creatures;
and, on a sudden we rceive two or three troops of wolves, one
on our left, one hehm us, and one in our front, so that we seemed
to be surrounded with them: however, as the did not fall upon us,
we kept our way forward, as fast as we can] make our horses _,
which, the way being very rough, was only a good hard trot. In t, s
manner, we came in view of the. entrance of . a wood, through which
we were to pass, at the farther side of the plain ; but we were great]
surprised, when comin nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confuse
number of wolves stan gogust at the entrance. On a sudden, at
another opening of the w , we heard the norse of a and look-
ing that way, out rushed a horse, With a saddle and a ri e on him
flyin hke the Wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full
s : the horse had the advantage of them; but as we supposed that
he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they would get
up With him at last : no question but they did. _

But here we had a most horrible sight ; for, riding up to the entrance
where the horse came out, we found the carcases of another horse and
of two me devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the men
was no dou t_the same whom we heard fire the ion, for there lay a
gunjust _by him fired off; but as to the man, his cod and the 11 per

art of his body were eaten up. This filled us with horror, an we
w not what course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon,
for they thered about as present] , in hopes of prey; and I veril
believe t ere were three hundred 0 them. It hgg'pened, very nine
to our advan , that at the entrance into the w , but a httle way
from it, there y some large timber trees, which had been cut down
the summer_before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. I drew my
little troop in among those trees, and placing' ourselves in a line
behind one lon tree, I advised them all to alig t, and keepingothat
tree before us or a breastwork, to stand in a triangle or three nts,
inolosiug our horses in the centre. We did so, and it w" well we
did; for never was a more furious charge than the creatures made
upon us in this place. They came on with a glrowlmg kind of noise,
and mounted the piece of timber, which, as said, was our breast-
work, as if they were only. rushing upon their rey; and this fury of
theirs it seems, was principally occuioned by t eir seeing our horses
behind us. I ordered our men to fire as before every other man ;
and they took their aim so sure that they ' ed several of the
wolves at the first volley; but there was a necessifi .to keep a
continual firing, for they came on like devils, those d pushing
on those before.

._.'_.;.~.A_L'4WhHum pulslxm by "'olvn
When we had fired a second volley of our fusees, we thought they
stopped a. little, and I hoped they would have gone off, but it. wasbut
a moment, for others-came forward again 5 so we fired _two volleys of
our pistols; and I believe in these four tirings we had killed seventeen
or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our shot too hastily; so called my servant, not
my man Friday, for he was better employed, for with the greatest
dexterity imaginable, he had charged my fusec and his own while we
were engaged--but, as I said, I called my other man, and giving him
a horn of owder, I bade him lay a train all alone the piece of timber,
and let it e a large train. He did so, and had but just time to get.
away, when the wolves came 11 ) to it, and some got upon it, when I,
snappingan uncharged )istol c ose to the powder, set it on tire; those
that were upon the timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of
them fell, or rather jum )cd in among us with the force and fright of
the fire: we dcs atelier these in an instant, and the rest were so
frightened with t to light, which the night-for it was now verv near
dark--made more terrible, that they (lrew back a little ' upon which I
ordered our last pistols to be tired otl' in one volley, and after that we
gave a shout ; upon thisthe wolves turned tail, and we sallied unme-
diately upon near twenty lame ones that we found struggling on the
ground, and fell to cutting them with our swords, which answered
our expectation for the crying and howling they made was better
understood by their fellows - so that they all tied and left us.

We had, first and last, killed about three-score of them, and had it
been daylight we had killed many more. The field of battle being
thus cleared, we made forward again, for we had still near a league to
go. We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods as
we went several times, and sometimes we fancied we saw some of
them; but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain. In about
an hour more we came to the town where we were to lodge, which we
found in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for, it seems, the night
before the wolves and some hears had broke into the village, and put
them in such terror, that thev were obliged to keep guard night and
day, but especially m the night, to preserve their cattle, and indeed
their people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so
much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no
further; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to
Thoulousc, where we fouml a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant
countrv, and no snow, no wolves, nor anything like them; but when
we told our story at 'I'houlouse, they told us it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains, espe-
cially when the snow lay on the ground; but they inquired much
what kind of a guide we had got, who would venture to bring us
that way in such a severe season, and told us it was sur rismg we
were not all devoured. When we told them how we placet ourselves
and the horses in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us
it was fifty to one but we had been all destroyed, for it was the sight
of the horses which made the wolves so furious, seeing their prey, and
that, at other times they are really afraid of a gum--but; being exces-
sivcly hungry, and raging on that account the eagerness to come at:
the horses had made them senseless ot' tanger,--and that if we had
not by the continued tire: and at last by the stratagem of the train of
powder, mastered them, It had been great odds but that we had been
torn to pieces- whereas, had we been content to have sat still on
horseback, and tired as horsemen, they would not have taken the
horses so nmeh for their own, when men were on their backs, as
otherwise; and, withal, they told us that at last, if we had stood
all together, and left our horses, they would have been so eager to
have devoured them, that we might have come oil" safe, especially
having our firearms in our hands, and being so many in number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life,--for
seeing above three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed
to devour us, and having nothing to shelter us or retreat to, 1 gave
myself over for lost; and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to
cross those mountains again; I think I would much rather go a
thousand leagues by sea, though 1 was sure to meet with a storm once
a wee '.

I have nothing uneounnon to take not ice of in my passage tlu-ough
Frauee,--not hing but what other travellers have given an account of
with much more advantage than I can. I travelled from 'l'houlouse
to Paris. and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and landed
safe at Dover the 14th of January, after having a severe cold season
to travel in.

1 was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little
time all my new-discovered estate safe about me, the bills of exchange
which I brought with me having been vcrv currently paid.

My principal guide and privy-counsellor was my good, ancient
widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no
)ains too nmeh nor care too great to employ for me; and I trusted
her so entirely with everything, that I was perfectly 'asy as to the
security of my ell'eets; and, indeed, lwas very happy from the begin-
ning. and now to the end, in the unspottcd integrity of this good
gent lcwomau.

And now, having resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils,
I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who having otl'ered it to the two
merchant s, the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they
accepted the oti'er, and remitted thirty-three thousand pieces-of-eight:
to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.

In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form which they
sent from Lisbon, and sent it to mv old man, who sent. me the bills
of exchange for thirty-two thousand eight hundred piecesotieight for
the cst ate, reserving the payment of one hundred moidores a year to
him the old man) during his life, and lift y moidores afterwards to his
son or his life, which] had promised them, and which the platt-
tation was to make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given
the first part of a life of fortune and adventurc,--a life of Provi-
dcnee's chequer-work, and of a variety which the world will seldom be
able to show the like ot';-- beginning foolishly, but closing much
inorcthappily than any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to

rope or.
Any one would think that in this state of complicated good fortune
I was past running any more lmzards,----and so, indeed, I had been, if
other circumstances had concurred; but I was inured to a wandering
life, had no family, nor many relations; nor. however rieh, had I con-
tracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold my estate in the
Bands, yet I could not keep that country out of my head, and had a
great mind to be u )on the wing again: es )eeially [could not resist the
strong inclination had to see my islam , and to know if the poor
Spaniards were in being there. My true friend, the widow, earnestly
dlssnaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost
seven years she )revented my running abroad, during which time I
took my two nep news, the children of one of mv brothers, into my
care; the eldest having something of his own. Ibrcd up as a gentle.
man, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate after
my deeease. The other I placed with the Captain of a ship; and
after five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young
fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea; and this young
fellowl'fafterwards drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures
mysc .

In the mean time I in part settled myself here; for, first of all, I
married, and that not either to my disadvmitage or dissatisfaction, and
had three children, two sons aml one daughter; but my wife dying,
and my nephew coming home with good success from a voyage to
Spain, my inclination to go abroad and his import unitv prevailed, aml
engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to the East Indies:
this was in the year 1694-.

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the islaud,--saw my suc-
cessors the Spaniards -had the wltole story of their lives, and of the
villains I left there,-- now at first they insulted the poor S )auiards,-
how they afterwards agreed. disagreed, united, separatet , and how
at last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with them,--how
they were subjected to the Spaniards,--how honestly the Spaniards
used them; a history, if it were entered into, as full of variety and
wonderful accidents as my own part,--particularly, also, as to their
battles with the Caribbeaus, who landed SC\'eral times upon the island,
and as to the improvement they made upon the island itself,-and how
tire of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and brought away
eleven men and tire women prisoners, by which, at my coming, I found
about twenty young children on the island.

Here I stayed about twenty days,--left them supplies of all neces-
sary things, and articularly of arms, owder, shot, clothes, tools, and
two workmen, wliich I brought from ngland with mc,--viz., a car-
penter and a smith.

Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them, reserved to
myself the property of the whole, but gave. them such parts respec-
tively as they agreed on ; and having settled all things With them, and
engaged them not to leave the place, I left. them there.

From thence I touched at the Brazils from whence I sent a bark,
whichI bought: there, with more people to the island; and in it
besndcs other supplies, I sent seven Women, being such as I found
proper for service, or for wives to such as would take thclnli.2 As to
the Eu lishmen, Ipromised them to send' them some women from
Englan , with a good cargo of necessaries, If they would a ply them-
selves to planting--which I afterwards could not pe cm. The
fellows dproved very honest and diligent after thely were mastered,
and ha their properties set apart for them. . sent them, also,
from the Brazds five cows, three of them bemg big wrth calf some
sheep, and some hogs, which when I came again were considerably
increased. _

But all these things With an account how three hundred Cant-
bees came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and how
the fought with that whole number twice, and were at first defeated,
an one of them killed; but, at last a storm destroying their enemies'
canoes, they furnished or destroyed .almost all the rest, and renewed
alrlrd recogered the possessmn of therr plantatlon, and still lived upon
t e is an .

All these things, with some very surprising incidents in some new
adventurespf my own, for ten years more, I shall give a farther
account of m the second part of my lustory.PART II.

Tun- homely groveyb, used on so_many occasions in England, viz,
" That what is _red in the boneWill not go out of the esh, ' was
never more verified than in the story. of my hfe. Any one would
think that after thirty-five years' affliction, and a variet of unhappy
circumstances, which few men, if any, ever went through before, and
after near seven ears of ace. and enjoyment in the fulness of all
things, wn _ol , and w en, if ever, _it might be allowed me to
have b ex enence of every state of middle life, and to know which
was most a apted to make a man completely happy; I say, after all
this any one. would have thought that the native propensity to
ram ling, which I gave an account of in my first setting out in the
world to have been so predominant in my thoughts, should be
worn out, the volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least con-
densed and I might, at stat one years of age, have been a httle
inchned to stay at home, an have done venturing hfe and fortune
an more.

ay, farther, the common motive of foreign adventures was taken

away in me, for I had no fortune to make; I had nothing to seek:
if I had gained ten thousand pounds I had been no richer; for I
had alrea y sufficient for _me, and for those I had to leave it to; and
what I had was Visibly increasing; for, having no great family, I
could not spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for
<<inexpensive way of hvin , such as_a great family, servants, equipage,
galety, and the hke, who were "111153 I had no notion of or mclm
tion to; so that I had nothing, _mdee , to do_hut to Sit still, and fully
enJo what I had ot, and see it increase daily 11 on my hands. Yet
all t ese things .ad_no efi'ect upon me, or at east .not enough to
resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad , which _ u
about me hire a chromcal distem r. In am at, the dew o
seeing my new glantation in the is and, an the colony I left there,
ran in my hea continually. I dreamed of it all night, and my
imagination ran 11 nit all - it was uppermost in all my thoughts -
and my fan wor ed so stea and strongly upon it, that I talke
of it in my s eep; in short, not his could remove it out of my mind:
it even broke so violently into all my discourses that it made my con-
versation tiresome, for I could talk of nothing else; all my discourse
ran into it, even to impertinenee; and I saw it myself. .

I have often heard persons of good Judgment say, that all the stir
people make in the world about ghosts and a paritions is owing to
thc_strength of imagination, and the 'powerf operation of fancy in
their minds; that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a
ghost walking; that people's poring affectionately upon the past con-
versation of their deceased friends, so realizes it to them, that they
are capable of faneviiig, upon some extraordinary circumstances, that
they see them, talk to them, and are answered by them, when in
truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour m the thing, and they
really know nothing of the matter.

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any such
thinos as real appantious, speetres .or walking of people after they
are dead; or whether there is anything in the stories they tell us of
that kind more than the product of vapours, Sick minds, and wander-
ing fancies: but this I know, that my imagination worked up to
such a height, and brought me into such excess of vapours, or what
else I may call it, that I actually supposed myself often upon the
5 mt, at my old castle, behind the trees; saw my old Spaniard,
l'riday's father, and the reprobate sailors I left upon the'island; nay
I fancied I talked With them, and looked at them steadily thoughI
was broad awake, as at persons just before me; and this did till I
often frightened myself with the images my fanc represented. to me.
Que time, in my slee , I had the villany of the 1 rec pirate sailors so
lively related to me [by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it
was surprising; they told me how they barbarously attempted to
murder all the Spaniards, and that they set fire to the DI'OV'lSlonS they
had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve them; things that
had never heard of, and that, indeed, were never all of them true in
fact: but it was so warm iii in iiii inatioii, and so realized to me,
that, to the hour I saw them, I coglgd not be persuaded but that it
was, or would be, true: also how I resented it, when the S amard
complained to me; and how I brought them to justice, trie them,
and ordered them all three to be hanged. What there was really in
this shall be seen in its place: for however I came to form such
things in my dream, and what secret converse of spmts injected it
yet there was I sav, much of it true. I own that this dream h
nothing in it 'teraliy and specifically true; but the eneral part was
so true,----the base Villanous behaviour of these three ardened rogues
was such, and had been so much worse than all I can describe, that
the dream had too much similitude of the fact- and as I would after-
wards have punished them severely, so if I had hanged them all, I
had been much in the naht, and even should have been justified both
by the laws of God and man. But to return to my story: In this
kind of temper I lived some ears; I had no enjoyment of my life,
no pleasant hours, no agreeab e diversion, but what had something or
other of this in it; so that my wife, who saw my mind wholly bent
upon it, told me very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret poweriul im ulse of Prov1dence upon me, which had
detcmiined me to go thit ier again; and that she found nothing hin-
dered my going, but my being engaged to a wife and children. She
told me that it was true she could, not think of "partinghwith me: but
as she was assured that if she was dead it we (1 be t e first thing I
would do; so, as it seemed to her that the thing was determined
above, she would not be the only obstruction; for,.if I thought fit
and resolved to 30-- Here she found me very intent upon her
words, and that I looke very earnestly at her, so that it a httle (lis-
ordered her, and she stopped. I asked her why she did not go on,
and say out what she was going to say? But perceived that -her
heart was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes.) " Speak out,
my dear," said I; " are you Willing 1 should rvo?"--' No," says she
very all'ectiouately', " I am far from willing; but if you are resolve
to go," says she, ' rather than I would be the only hinderancc, I will
go With you: for though I think it a most preposterous thing for one
of your years, and in your condition, yet if .lt_ must be," said she,
again weeping, " I won d not leave you; for, if it be of IIeaven, 'ou
must do it; there is no resisting it: and if Heaven make It. your uty
to go, He Wlll also make it mine to go with you, or otherWise dispose
of me, that I may not obstruct it." . ,

This affectionate behaviour of my Wife's brought me a httlc out
of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing; 1 cor-
rected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with myselt sedately
what busmess I had after three-score years, and after such a life of
tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a
manner: I say, what busmcss had I to rush into new iazards, and
put 1myself upon adventures fit only for youth and poverty to run
in o .

With those thoughts I considered my new engagement; that I had
a wife, one child born, and my wife then great With child of another:
that I had all the world could ive me, and had no need to seek
hazard for gain; that I was dee ining in years, and ought to think
rather of leaving what I had gained than of seeking to increase it;
that as to what my wife had said of its being an impulse from Heaven,
and that it should be my duty to go, I had no notion of that; so,
after many of these cogitations, I struggled With the power of my
imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as believe people may always
do in like cases if the will: and, in a word, I conquered it; com-
posed myeelf with such arguments as occurred to mythoughts, and
which my present condition furnished me plentifully _w1th; and arti-
cularly as the most efi'cctual method, I resolved to divert mysel With
other things, and to engage in some busmess that might effectually
tie me up rom any more excurSions of this kind- for I found that
thing return upon me chiefly when I was idle, and had nothing to do
nor anything of moment immediatel before me. To this purpose, I
bought a little farm in the county of _ edford, and resolved to remove
myself thither. I had a httle convement house upon it; and the land
about it, I found, was capablepf great improvement; and it was
many ways suited to m inchnation, which dehghted in cultivating,
in win , planting an improvin of land; and particularly, bcin
an in an country, I was removed rom conversmg among sailors, an
things relating to the remote parts of the world. .

In sword, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought
ploughs, barrows, a cart, waggon,' horses cows, and sheep, and,
setting seriously to work, became in one half-year a mere country
gentleman: my thoughts were entirel taken up in managing my
servants, cultivatmg the ground, enc osmg, planting, &c.; and I
lived, as I thought, the most agreeable hfe that nature was ca able
of directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was ca le of
retreating to. . .
I-farmed upon my own land; I had no rent to pay, was lnmted
b no articles; I could pull up or.cut down as I pleased: what I
ted was for myself, and what I improved was for i'ndv family; and
having thus left off the thoughts of: wandering, I h not the least
discomfort in an part of hfe as to this world. Low I thought indeed
that I enJo ed t e middle state of life wlnch my father so earnestly
recommen ed to .me and hved a kind of heavenly life, some-
thing like what is described by the poet, upon the subject of a
muutry hfe :--

--" Free from vices. free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare."

But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unseen Pro-
vidence unhin cd me at once; and not only made a breach upon me
inevitable an incurable, but droveme, by its consequences, into a
deep relapse of the wandering disposmon, which, as I may say, being
born in mfy very blood, soon recovered its hold. of me; and, like the
returns 0_ a violent distemper, came on With an irresistible force upon
me. This blow was the loss of my wife. It is not m ' business here
to write an ele upon my vnfe, give a character 0 her particular
Virtues, and m 'e my court to the sex by the flattery of a funeral
sermon. She was, in _a few words, the stay of all my affairs the
centre of all my enterprises, the engine that, byher prudence, reduced
me to that happy comfiiass I was in, from the most extravagant and
ruinous project that 6 ed my head, and did more to guide my ram-
bling genius than a mother's tears, a father's instructions, a friend's
counsel, or all my own reasomng powers could do. Iwas happy in
listening to her, and in being moved by her entreaties; and to the
last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by the low of her.

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardlyrmd me._ I
was as much a stranger in it in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazrls,
when I first went on shore there; and as much alone, except for the
assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither what to
think nor what to do. I saw the world busy around me; one part
labourin for bread, another part 5 uandci'm in vile excesses, or
emfiitg (p easures, equally miserable, eeause t e end they proposed
sti e from them; for the men of pleasure every day surfeited of
their vice and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance; and the
men of. labour spent their strength in daily struggling for bread to
maintain the Vital strength they laboured With: so living in a daily
circulation of sorrow livmg but to work, and working but to live, as
if daily bread were the on] end of wearisome life, and a wearisome
hfe the only occasion of d y bread.-

' This put me in mind of the hfe I lived in my kingdom the
island; where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I did not
want it: and bred no more goats, because I had no more use for
them: where the money In in the drawer till it grew mouldy, and
had scarce the. favour to be ooked ufion in twent years.

All those thmgfhhad I im roved t em as I on t to have done, and
as reason and re gion had ctated to me, woul have taught me to
search farther than human enjoyments for a full felici'tiy; and that
there .was something which certainly was the reason an end of life,
superior to all these things,_ and which was either to be possessed, or
at east hoped for, on this side the grave. _

But my counsellor was ne; I was like a ship Without a
pilot, that co d only,r_un afore t e wmd : .my thouohts ran all away
again into the old afl'air; my head was quite turned with the whim-
seys of foreign adventures; and all the pleasant, innocent amusements
of in farm, my garden, my cattle, and my family, which before
entire y possessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and were
like music to one that has no car, or food to one that has no taste:
in a word I resolved to leave ofi' housekee ing, let my farm, and
return to London; and in a few months after did so.

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before; I
had no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to_do but
to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is
perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing's matter
to the rest of _his kind whether he be dead or ahve. This also was
the thing which, of all circumstances of hfe, was the. most my
aversion, who had been all my days used to an active me and
would often say to myself, " A state of idleness is the very dregs of
M62" and, indeed, I thought I_was much more suitably employed
when I was twenty-Six days makin a deal board.

It was now the beginning of t e year 1693, when my nephew
whom, as I have observed before, I_had brought up to the sea, an
had made him commander of a ship}, was come home from a short
vo age to Bilboa, being the first he ad made. He came to me, and
to dme that some merchants of his a uaintance had been proposmg
to him to go a voyag1 for them to the ast Indies, and to China, as
private traders. " d now, uncle," says be, "if you willgo _to sea
with m I-till engage to land ou upon your old habitation in the
island - he are to touch at t e Brazds.'

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state and of
the enstence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of second
causes with the ideas of things which we form in our minds, perfectly
reserved, and not communicated to any in the world. _

My nephew knew nothin how far my distem r of wandering
was returned upon me, an I knew nothing of w at he had in his
thought to say, when that very morning, before he came.to me, I
had, in a great deal of confusion. of thought, and revolving every
part of my circumstances in my min come to this resolution, that
would go to Lisbon, and consult Wit my old sea-captain; and If. it
was rational and practicable, I would and see the island
and what was become of my people t ere. I had pleased myse
with the thoughts of peopling the 1place, and_ carrying inhabitants
from hence, getting a_ atent for t e possesSion, and I knew not
what; when, in the 1m dle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I
have said, with his project of carrying mc thither in his way to the
East Indies. .

I'Paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily at him, " What
deVi ," said I, "sent you on this unlucky errand?" My ne hew
stared as if he had been frightened, at first; but perceivmgj. at I
was not much displeased With the proposal, he recovered himself.
"I hope it may not be an unlucky proposal, sir," says he; "I dare
say you. would be pleased to see your new colony there, where you
once reigned With more fehcity than most of your brother monarchs
in the world." _

In aword, the scheme hit so exactly with m temper, that is to
say, the re .ssesSion I was under, and of which' have said so much
that I to d iin in a few words, if he agreed With tlielmerchants, I
would go with him: but I told him I would not promise to go any
farther than my own island. " Whv sir," says be, "you don't want
to be left there again I hope?" " Whv," said I, 'can you not take
me up again on your return?" He told me it would not be possible
to do so; that the merchants would never. allow him to come that
way with a laden Slll) of such value, it being amonth'ssail out of
his way, and. might be three or four. " Be31dcs, Sir, if I should
misca '," said he, "and not retuni at all, then you would be Just
reduce to the condition you were in before." .

This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for _it;
wlnch was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship which being
taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, might by the help of
some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry With us, he set up again
in the island, and finished fit to go to sea in a few days. _

I was not long resolving; for, indeed, the im ortunities of mv
nephew mind so efi'ectnally with my_ inclination, t at nothing could
oppose me; on the other hand, my Wife being dead, nobody concerned
themselves so much for me as to persuade me to one way or the other
except my aneient good friend the widow, who earnestly struggle
with me to conSider my years, my easy circumstances, and theneed-
less hazards of a long voyage; and, above all, in young children.
But it was all to no purplose; I had an irreSistibe desire, for the
Voyage; and I told her I t ought there was something wtmoinmon
m the imlpressions Iliad upon my mind, that it would be a kind of
reSisting rov1denee if I should attempt to stay at home: after which
she ceased her expostulations, and_joined with me not onl in making
proViSion for my voyage but also in settlin my family airs for my
absence and prowding for the education 0 my children.

In order to do tins, 1 made my win and settled the estate I had
in such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I
was perfectly easy and satisfied the would have Justice _done them,
whatever might befal me: and for t eir education I left it wholly to
tlie'mdow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care: all
which she richly deserved; for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or undeistood it better: and as she lived till
I came home, I also lived to thank her for it.

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January,
1694-5; and I, With my man Friday, went on board, in the Downs,
the 8th: having, besides that sloop, which I mentioned above, a very
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony;
which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to leave so.

First, [carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to place
there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there, upon my
account, while I stayed, and either toleave them there or carry them
forward, as they. should appear Willing; particularly I carried two
carpenters, a smith, and a very handy, ingenious fellow who was a
cooper by trade, and was also a general mechanic; for he was dex-
tcrous at making wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn, was a good
turner, and a good pot-maker; he also made anything'that was proper
to make of earth or of wood ;. in a word, we called im our Jack-of-
all-trades. With these I earned a tailor, who had offered himself to
go apassenger to the East Indies With my nephew, but afterwards
consented to stay on our new dplantation- an who proved a most
necessary, handfifellow, as con] be deSIred in many other businesses
beSIdes that of is trade; for, as I observed former , necessity anus
us for all cmploymeiits.

My cargo, as near as I_ can recollect for I have not kept account
of the particulars, consrsted of a suliicient quantity of linen, and
some English thin stufi's, for clothing the Spaniards that I expected
to find there; and enough of them, as, by my calculation, might
comfortably supply them for seven ears: if I remember right, the
materials carried for clothing t iem, wnth gloves, hats, shoes,
stockings and all such things as they could want for wearing,
amounted to above two hundred unds, including. some beds,
bedding, and household stufi', partic rly kitchen ntensds with pots,
kettles, ewter, brass, &c., and near a hundred noun 5 more in
iron~wor , nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every
necessary thing I could think of. _

I carried also a hundred spare arms muskets and fusees; besides
some pistols, a consrderable quantity oi shot of all sizes, three or four
tons of lead, and two pieces of brass cannon; and, because I knew
not what tine and what extremities I was provrding for, I carried a
hundred"; of powder, beSides swords, cutlasses, and the iron
part of m: flies and halberts; so that, in short, we hada large
magazme'fi' sorts of stores: and I made my nephew carry two
small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for his ship, to leave
behind if there was occasion; that when we came there we mivht
build a fort, and man it fimnst all sorts of enemies: and, indeed, I
at first thought there we d he need enough for all and much more,
if we he (1 to maintain our possessmn of the island; as shall be
seen in t 6 course of that 33deg12

_1 had not such bad luck in t is voyage as I had been Insed to meet
with; and, therefore, shall have the less occasion to interrupt the
reader, who perhaps, may be impatient to hear how matters went
with my ooony: yet some odd accidents, cross Winds, and bad
weather, ha ned on this first setting out, which made the voyage
longer than exgected it at first; an I, who_ had never made. but
one voy , my rst voyage to Guinea in which I ht be said to
come bac again, as the voyage was at first desrgned, to think
the same ill. fate attended inc; and that I was ham to be never
contented with being on shore, and yet to be always unt'ortunate at
sea.
Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were obliged
to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we laywind-bound two-and-
twenty days; but we had this satisfaction With the disaster, that
provisions were here exceeding cheafi, and in the utmost lenty; so
that while we lay here, we never tone ed the ship's stores, at rather
added to them. Here, also, 1 took inseveral hve hogs, and two cows
With their calves; which I resolved if I had a good passage, to put
{in shore in my island; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of
em.

'We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember it might be about
the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the mate, having the
watch, came into the round-house and told us he saw a flash of fire,
and heard a gun fired; and while ie was tclhng us_of it, a boy came
in, and told us the boatswaiu hcai:d another. This made us all run
out upon the quarter-deck, where, tor a while, we heard nothing; but
in a tow minutes we saw a very great .hglit, and found that there was
some very terrible fire_at a distance: immediately we had recourse to
our reckonings, in which we all trreed that there could be no land
that way inwhieh the fire showc itself, no, not for fire hundred
leagues, for it appeared at. W.l\.W. D on this, we concluded it
must _be some ship on fire at sea; and as, y our hearing the nOise of
fins Just before, we concluded that it could not be far otf, we stood
. ectly towards it, and were firesently satisfied we should discover
it, because the farther we sa ed, the trrenter the_l.igbt appeared;
thou h the weather bein hazy, we could not pei'cciije anything but
the glit for a while. about half an hour's sailing, the wind
being fair for us though not much of it, and the weather clearing up
a little we could plauily discern that it was a great ship on fire, in
the middle of the sea.

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons enga ed in it: I nresenfly noollected
my former circumstances, and in w iat condition was a when taken
up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more _ ble the
circumstances of the poor creatures belonging to that s p must be
if the had no other ship in company with them. Upon this, I
mime 'ately ordered that five guns should be fired, one soon alter
another; that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there
was help for them at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themselves in their boat ; for thou h we could see the flames of the
sing, yet they, it being mght, coul see nothing of us.

e lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship
drove waiting for dayhght; when, on a sudden, to our great'terror
thoug we had reason to expect it, the slnp blew up in the air; an
immediately, that is to sun], Hi a few minutes, all the firewas out,
that is to say, the rest of t e shipl sunk. This was a terrible, and
indeed, an afilicting siiht, for t e sake of the poor men; who, 1
concluded, must be eit er all destroyed in the ship, or be in the
utmost distress in their boat, in the middle of the ocean- which, at
present, as it was dark, 1 could not see. However, to direct them
as well as I could, I caused lights to be him out in all the parts of
the ship where we could, and which we ha lautems for, and kept
firing guns all the night long; letting them know by this, that there
was a ship not far off.

About eight o'clock in the mornin , we discovered the ship's
boats by the help of our perspective gfiisses; and found there were
two of them; both tlironged with people, and dcep in the water. We
perceived they rowed, the mud being against them; that they saw
our ship, and did their utmost to make us see them.

life immediately 5 read our anoient, to let them know we saw
them, and hung a w t out, as a Signal for them to come on board;
and then made more sail, standinv directly to them. In little more
than half an hour, we came up with them; and, in a word, took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for
there were a great many passengers.

U n inquiry we found it was a French_mcrchant ship of three
liun d tons, home~bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship; how
the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the steersman;
but, on his crying out for help, was, as everybody thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that. some sparks of the first fire had
got into some part of the ship so difficult to come at_that they could
not efi'ectually quench it; and afterwards getting in between the
timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the
thold, latnd mastered all the skill and all the apphcation they were able
oexe .

They had no more to do then but to get into their boats, which, to
their great comfort, were pretty large; being their long-boat, and a
great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no great service to
them, other than to et some fresh water and prOVISIOIls into her,
after they had secured their lives from the fire. They had, indeed,
small ho their lives b gettin into these boats, at that distance

from ' ; only, as t e. sai that they thus hesca ed from the
fire, "1% m a possib" ty that some ship might appen to be
at sea, - ght take them in. They had sails, oars, and a compass;

and were pre anng to make the best of their way back to Newfound-
lan the wind blowing retty fair; for it blew an easy gale at 8.19.
by . They had as time provision and water, as, with sparing it so
as to be next door to starvin , might support them about twelve
days; in which if they had noiad weather and no contrary Winds,
the captain said he hoped he might get to the Banks of Newfound-
land, and mi ht perhaps take some fish, to sustain them till they
might go on s ore. But there were so many chances against themm
all these cases, such as storms to overset and founder_them; rains
and cold, to benumb and perish their hmbs; contrary Winds, to keep
them out and starve them; that it must have been next to miraculous
if they had escaped. .

In the midst of their consternation, every one being ho less and
readyto despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, tol me they
were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a can fire, and
after that four more: these were the five guns which I" caused to be
fired at first seeing the light. This revived their hearts, and gave
them the notice, which, as 'above, I desired it should that there was
a ship at hand for their Help: It was ll)0ll. the hearing of these
guns that they took down their masts an .sails: the sound coming
from the windward, they resolved to he bv till morning. Some time
after this, hearing no more guns, they fired three muskets, one a
considerable while after another; but these, the wind being contrary,
we never heard. _ .

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeabl sur-
prised with seeing our livhts, and hearing the guns which, as l have
said I caused to be fired all the rest of the night: this set them to
worli With their oars, to keep their boats ahead, at'least, that we
might the sooner come up With them ; and, at last, to their mexpressible
joy, they found we saw them.

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange
ecstasies, the variety of postures, which these poor delivered peo le
ran into, to express the Joy of their souls at so unexpected a e-
liverance. Grief and fear are casil described; sighs, tears, groans,
and a very few motions of the hea and hands, make up the sum of
its variety; but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand
extravagances in it. There were some in tears; some raging and
tearing themselves as if they had been in the greatest agonies of
sorrow; some star' raving and downright .lunatic- some ran about
the shi stamping with their feet, others wringing their hands: some
were ancing, some singing, some laughing, more crving; many
quite dumb, not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting;
several swooning and ready to faint; and a few were crossing them-
selves, and giving God thanks.

I would not wrong them either; there might be man that were
thankful afterwards; but the passion was too strong or them at
first, and they were not able to master it; they were thrown into
ecstasies, and a kind of frenzy, and it was but a very few that were
composed and serious in their Joy. . . _ '

Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition ton; from the
irarticular circumstance of that nation they bcIon ed to'; mean the

'rench, whose temper is allowed to be more volat c, more passmnate,

and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid than in other nations.
I am not philosopher enough to determine the cause; but nothing
I had ever seen before came up to it. The ecstaSies poor Friday,
my trusty savage, was in, when ie found his father in the boat, came
the nearest to it; and the surprise ofthe master and his two com-
panions, whom I delivered from the villains .that set them on shore
in the island, came a little way towards it; but notlim was to
ionipare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere e e in my
't'e.

It is further observable, that these extravaganees did not show
themselves in that difi'erent_manncr I have mentioned, in different
persons only; but all the variety would appear, in a short succession
of moments, in one and the same person. A man that we saw this
minute'dumb and, as it were, stupid and confounded, would the
next inmate be dancing and lialloomg hke an antic; and the next
moment he tearing his hair, or. iing his clothes to pieces, and
stamping them under his feet 'e a madman; in a few moments
after that, we would have him all in tears. then sick, swooning, and,
had not immediate help been had, he would in a few moments have
been dead- and thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty,
but With the greatest art of them; and, if I remember right, our
surgeon was obliged to et blood of about thirty of them.

There were two priests amon .them: one an old man, and the
other a young man; and that w ich was strangest was, the oldest
man was the worst. As soon as he set his foot on board our ship,
and saw himselfsafe, he'dropped down stone dead to all appearance;
not the least 51"!) of hie could be perceived in him: our surgeon
immediately applied proper remedies to recover him, and was the
only man in the ship that believed he was not dead. At length, he
opened a vein in his arm, havinn first chafed and rubbed the part, so
as to warm it as much as possible. Upon this, the blood, which only
(hopped at first, flowing freely, in three minutes after the man opened
his eyes; and a quarter of an hour after that he s oke, grew better,
and in a little time, uite well. After the bloc was stopped, he
walked about, toldus ewas perfectl well, took a dram o cordial
which the surgeon ve him, and ha come to himselt. About a
quarter of an hour a ter this, they came ruiming into the cabin to the
sur eon, who was bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and
tol him the priest was gone stark niad: It seems he had_ begun to
revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind, and again this put
him into an ecstasy of Joy. His spirits whirled about faster than the
vessels could conve them, the blood grew hot and feverish; and the
man was as fit for Ecdlam as any creature that ever was in it. T he
surgeon would not bleed him again in that condition, but gave him
something to doze and gut him to sleep; which, after some time
operated upon him, and e awoke next morning perfectly composed

and wells 3 . , . .
The ' priest behaved With great command of his passmns,
and was an example of a serious, well-governed mind. At his

first coming on board the shi , he threw. himself flat on his face,
prostrating himself in thankfii ness for his deliverance _in which I
unhappily and unseasonahly disturbed him, really thinking he had
been in a swoon; but he spoke cahnly, thanked me, told me he was
fivmg God thanks for his deliverance; be ged me to leave him a
13;) moments, and that, next to his Maker, e would give me thanks

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him,
but kept others from interrupting him also. He continued in that
posture about three minutes or little more, after I left him then
came to me, as he had said he would, and, with a great deal of
seriousness and affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me,
that had, under God, 'ven him and so many miserable creatures
their lives. I told him had no need to tell him to thank God for

it, rather than me, for I had seen that he had done that already;
but I added that it was nothiniabut what reason and humanity
dictated to all men and that we d as much reason as he to give
thanks to God,' who had blessed us so far as to make us the
instruments of his mercy to _so many of his creatures.

After this, the young priest applied himself to his countrymen-
laboured to com ose them; persuaded, entreated, argued, reasone
With them, and id his utmost to keep them within the exercise of
their reason- and With some he had success, though others were for
a time out of all government of themselves.

I cannot help committinv this to-writim, as, perhaps, it ma be
useful to those into whose hands it may fall: for guiding thcmse ves
in the extravagances of their assions- for if an excess of Joy can
carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason,
what Will not the extravaganees of anger, rage, and a rovoked mind,
carry us to? And, indeed, here I saw reason for 'eeping an ex-
ceeding watch over our passions of every kind, as well those of joy
and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and anger.

We were somewhat disordered by these extravagances among our
new guests, for the first day; but after they had retired to lodgings
Erovided for them as well as our ship would allow, and they had slept

eartilyT-as most of them did, being fatigued and frightened--they
were Tide another sort of people the next day.

_Not nng of good maimers, or 0in acknowledgments for the
kindness shown them, was wanting; the French, it _is known, are
naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain and one of
the priests came to me the next day, and desrred to speak with me
and my ne hew; the commander began to consult with us what
should be one With them; and, first, the told us we had saved
their lives, so all they had was little enoug for a return to us for
that kindness received. The captain said they had saved some
money and some things of value in their boats, cauaht hastily out of
the flames, and if we would accept it the were ordered to make an
ofi'er of it all to us; they only desned to set on shore somewhere
in our way, where if possmle, they might get a pass to France.
ltlv nephew wished. to accept their monev at first wo III to con-
suler what to do with them afterwards; but I overrul Jim in that
part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a stra'nfe country;
and if the Portuvuese captain that took me u at sea h served me
so, and taken all I had or my deliverance, must have starved, or
have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary,
the mere. being sold to a Mahometan excepted- and perhaps a
Portuguese is not a much better master than a Tur , if not, in some
cases, much worse. _

I therefore told the French ea tam that we had taken them up
in their distress, it was true, but t mt it was our duty to do so, as we
were fellow-creatures; and we would desire to be so delivered, if we
were in the like, or any other extreimty; that we had done nothing
for them but what we beheved they would have done for us, if we
had been in their case, and they in ours; but that we took them up
to save them, not to plunder them; and it would be a most bar-
barons thing to take that little from them which they had saved out
of the fire and then set them on shore and leave them; that this
would be first to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves;
save them from drowmn , and abandon them to starving- and, there.
fore, I would not let t e least thing be taken from them. As to
setting them on shore, I told.them, indeed, that was an exceedin
d'tficu ty to us, for. that the ship was bound to the East Indies; an
though we were driven out of our course to the westward a very great
way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on [impose for their
dehverauce, yet it was lmpOSSlblc for us wilfully to c ange our voyage
on their particular account ; nor could my ne hew, the captain, answer
it to the freighters, with whom he was un er charter to pursue his
voyage by the we of _Brazil ; and all I knew we could do for them
was, to put ourse ves in the war of meeting With other ships home-
ward bound from the West Indies, and get them a passage, if
possmle, to England or France.

The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they
could not.biit be very thanktul for it; but they were in ve great
consternation, es ceially the passengers, at t e notion o heino-
carried away to t e East Indies; the then entreated me, that asI
was driven so far to the westward be ore I met With them, I would,
at least, keep on the same course to the Banks of Newfoundland,
where it wasprobable I might meet with some ship or sloop that
they unght hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence they
came. '

I thought this was but a reasonable_request on their part, and
therefore I inchned to agree to it . for, indeed, I wandered that to
carry this whole company to the East Indies, would not only be an
intolerable severity upon the oor people, _but would be ruining our
whole voyage, by devouring a1 our provismns; so I thought it no
breach 0 charter-party, but what an imforeseen accident made
absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we were
to blame; for the laws of God and nature would have forbid that we
should refuse to take up two boats full of peo le in such a distressed
condition; and the nature of the thing, as we respecting ourselves
as the poor-Spec 1e, obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or
other for their de 'veranee. So I consented that we would carry them
to Newfoundland, if Wind and weather would permit; and if not,
that I would carry them to Martmico, in the West Indies.

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather retty good;
and as the Winds had continued in the points between :E. and S.E.
a long time, we missed several op rtunities of sending them to
France; for we met several. ships mid to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been so long
beating u against the wind that they durst take in no passengers,
for fear 0 wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for theme ves
as for those the should take in; so we were obliged to 0 on. It
was about a wee after this that we made the Banks of ewfound-
land- where to shorten my story, we put all our French people on
board a barlr which the hired at sea there, to put them on shore,
and afterwards to carry t_ em to France, if they could get pronsiOns
to Victual themselves With. When I say all the French went on
shore, I should remember, that. the voung priest I spoke of, hearing
we. were bound to the East Indies, desired to go the voyage with as,
and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel; which I readily
agreed to, for l wonderfully liked the man, and had very good r 'ason,
as will a )pear afterwards ; also four of the seamen entered themselves
on our s up, and proved very useful fellows.

From hence. we directed our course for the "'est Indies, steering
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes
little or no wind at all; when we met with another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.

it was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, on the ltbh
day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a ail. our course SI). and by
S. : we soon perceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to
us. but could not at first know what to make of her, till, after coming
a little nearer, we found she had lost her niain-toptnast. foremast, anti
bowsprit; and presently site tired a gun. as a signal of distress; the
weather was pretty good, wind at N.N.\\'. a fresh gale, and we soon
Came to speak with her.

"We. found her a ship of Bristol, hound home front Bat-ballots, but
had been blown out of the road at llarbadoes a few days before she
was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while the captain aml chief
mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides the terror of the
storm, they were in an inditl'erent ease for good artists to bring the
shi ) home. They had been already nine weeks at sea. and had met
witlt another terrible storm, after the hurricane was over. which had
blown them quite out of their knowledge to the westward, anti in
wbieh they lost their masts. They told its they expected to have
seen the Bahama Islands, but were then driven away again to the
south-east, by a strong gale of wind at N.N.\\'., the same that blew
now: and having: no sails to work the ship with bttt a nntineourse,
and a kind of square sail upon a jury foremast, which they had set
up, they could not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to stand
away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all, was. that they were almost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatignes they had undergone:
their bread and flesh were quite gone; they had not>> one ounce left in
the ship. and ltad had none for eleven davs. The only relief they had
was. their water was not all spent, and they had about half a barrel
of flour left ; they had sugar enough; some snecades, or sweettneats,
they had at first, but they wer- all devoured; anti they had seven
casks of rum.

There was a youth, and his mother, and a timid-servant on board,
who Were paSsengcrs, and thinking the shi ) was ready to sail, unhap-
iily came on board the evening before ttL' hurricane began; and
raving no provisions of their own left, they were in a more deplorable
condition titan the rest: for the seamen, being reduced to such an
extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may be sure,
for the poor passengers; and they were, indeed, in such a condition
that their misery is very hard to describe.

I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led me
(the weather being,r fair, and tltc wind abated) to go on board the ship.
The second mate, who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had
been on board our ship, and he told me, they had three passengers in
the great, cabin, that were ina deplorable condition : " .\ay," says he,
"I believe they are dead, for l have heard nothing of them for above
two days: and I was afraid to impiire after them," said he, " forl had
nothing to relieve them with."

We immediately a )plied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my
nephew, that I would have Lvictualled them, though we had gone
away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to have
su )plied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.

tut. now they were in a new danger; for they were afraid of eating
too much even of that little we gave them. The mate, or com-
mander, brought six men with him in his boat ; but these poor
wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak that they could
hardly sit to their oars. The male himself was very ill, and half-
starved; for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and
went share and share alike with them in every bit they ate.

1 cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him immedi-
ately; and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be
sick and out of order- so he stop )ed awhile, and our surgeon mixed
hun up something wittsome brot I, which he said would he to him
both food and physio; and after he had taken it he grew better. In
the mean time, I forgot not, the men; I ordered vietuals to be given
them ; and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it : they were
so exceeding hungry that. they were in a unluner ravenous, aml had
no command of themselves; and two of them ate with so much
greediness, that, they were in danger of their lives the next morning.

The. sight of these )eople's distress was very moving to me, and
brought to mind what had a terrible pros )ect of at my lirst emning
on shore in my island, where I had never t to least mouthful of food,
or any prespcct of procuring any; besides the hourly ap )rehcnslons
I had of being made the food of other creatur's. But al the wink:
the mate was thus relating to me the miserable condition of the ship's
com may, I could not put out of my thought the story he had told me
of t to three poor creatures in the great cabin, viz., the mother, her
son, and the maid-servant, whom he had heard nothing: of for two
or three days, and whom, he seemed to confess, they had wholly
neglected, their own extremities being so great: by which I under-
stood, that they had really Given them no food at all, aml that there-
fore they mnst be perished: and be all lying dead, perhaps, on the
floor or deck of the Cabin. .

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captalnhou
board with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving
crew that were left on board: but ordered my own boat to go on board
the. ship, and, with my mate and twelve men to carry them a sack of
bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boi. Our surgeon charged
the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed, and to
keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the men taking it to eat raw,
or taking it out of the )ot before it. was well boiled, and then to give

every man but a very 'ttle at a time: and by this cautilrm he pre-
served the me who would otherwise have killed themselves with
that very food t at was given them on purpose to save their lives. .

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin,
and see what condition the poor passengers were in; and if they were
ahve, to comfort them, and give them'what refreshment was roper:
and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher, With some of t e pre-
pared broth which he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them dually:

.I was not satisfied with this: but, as I said a ve, havin a great
mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the shi itse f would
present me With, in a more hvely manner than I cou d have it _b
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, wit
me and went myself, a little after in their boat.

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to t the
victuals out of the beiler before it was ready; but my mate 0 served
his orders, and he t a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he laced t ere, after using all posmble persuasion to have
patience, 'ept them off by force: however, he caused some biscuit
cakes to be di ped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the
meat, which t ey called brewxs, and gave them every one some, to
stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safet .thathe
was obliged to give them but httle at a time. But it was a] in vain;
and had I not come on board, and their own commander and otficers
with me, and with good words, and some threats also of giving them
no more, I believe they would have broken into the cook-room by
force, and tom the meat out of the furnace; for words are indeed of
very small force to a hungry belly: however, we pacified them, and
fed them gradually and cautiously1 for the first and the next time gave
them more, and at last filled their ellies, and the men did well enough.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, first the ship's com any bad
so httle for themselves it was but too true that they had at rst kept
them very low, and at last totally neglected them: so that for as or
seven da 3 it might be said theyr had really no food at all, and
for seve days be ore very httle. he poor mother, who as the men
reported was a woman of sense and good breeding had spared all
she could so afi'eetionately for her son, that at last she entirely sunk
under it: and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the
floor or deck, With her back up against the sides, between two chairs,
which were lashed fast, and her head sunk between her shoulders, hke a
co se, though not quite dead. My mate said all he could to revive
an encourage her, and with a spoon msome broth into her mouth.
She opened er his, and hfted u one d, but could not speak: et
she undersde w at he said, an made signs to him intimati t at
it was too late for her, but painted to her child, as ' she woul have
said they should take care of him. However, the mate, who was
exceedingly moved With the Slillt, endeavoured to get some of the
broth into her mouth, and, as e said, got two or three spoonfuls
down; though I question whether he could be sure of it or not: but
it was too late, and she died the same night. .

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate
mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he_lay in a cabin bed, as one
stretched out, With hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of an
old glove in hismouth, havmg eaten 11% the rest of it: however, being
young, and liavin more strengh than is mother, the mate got sonic-
thing down his t root, and he began scnSibly to revive; though by
giving him, some time after, but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary,

e was very sick, and brought it up again.

But the next care was the poor maid: she hi all along upon the
deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one t int had fallen down
with an apogleg, and struggled for hfe. Her limbs were distorted;
one of _her an was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she
griped it so hard that we could not eaSily make her let it go: her
other arm In over her head, and her feet lay both together, set fast
against the name of the cabin table: inshort, she lay Just like one in
t e agomes of death, and yet she was ahve too. _

.The r creature was not only starved with hunger and terrified
With t e thoughts of death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was
broken-hearte for her mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three
days before, and whom she loved most tenderly,

We knew not what to do With this poor girl: for when our sur-
geon, who was a man of very great knowledge and experience, had,
With great a phcation, recovered her as to life, he had her upon his
hands still; or she was httle less than distracted for a considerable
time after. _

_ Whoever shall read these memorandums mnst be deSired to con-
sulcr, that VlSltS at sea are not like a Journey into the country, where
sometimes. people. stay a week or a fortnight at a place: our busmcss
was to reheve this distressed ship's crew, but not he by for them;
and though they were willing to steer the same course with. us for
some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep ace With a shi _that
had no masts: however, as their captain begge of us to hel m to
set up a mam-topmast and a kind of a to mast to his ury- oremast,
we did, as it were, he by him for three or our days; an then, having
given him five barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two he _ heads of his-
cuit, and a proportion of pease, flour, and what other t ngs we could
s are; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and some pieces-
0 :eight from them for satisfaction, we left them; taking _on board
311th mt their own earnest request, the youth and the maid, and all

eir s.

The young lad w" about seventeen years of age; a pretty, well-
bred, modest, and sensible youth, tly dejected with t e loss of his
mother, and, as it seems, he ha lost his father but a few months
before, at Barbadoes: he be (1 of the surgeon to 5 cal: to me to
take him out of the ship- for e said the cruel fellows ad murdered
his mother: and, indeed: so they had, that is to say, passively ; for
they might have spared a small sustenance to the r helpless Widow,
that imght have preserved her life, though it_had u but Igust enough
to keep her alive: but hunger knows no friend, no relation no Jus-
tice,_ no right; and, therefore, is remorseless and capable o no com-
passion. _

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would
carry him away from all his friends and gut him, perhaps, in as bad
circumstances almost as those we found mi in, that is to say, starv-
ing in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if he
was but. delivered from the terrible crew that he was among; that the
captain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing of my
nephew) hadszived his life, and he was sure would not hurt him; and
as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she would be very
thankful for it, let us carry them where we would._ The su on
represented the case so afi'cctiouatelv to me that I yielded, an we
took them both on board, with all their goods, except eleven hogs-
hcads of sugar which could not be removed or come at; and as the
youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his commander sign a.
writing, obliging himself to go, as soon as he came to Bristol, to one
Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the f'outh said he was related,
and to deliver a letter which I_wrote to um, and all the goods he
had belonging to the deceased Widow; which I suppose was not done,
for I could never learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is
most probable, lost at sea; being in so disabled 9. condition, and so far
from any land, that I am of opinion the fiist storm she met with after-
wards, she mi ht founder in the sea; for she was leaky, and had
damage in her old, when we met with her.

I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 32 minutes, and had hitherto
a tolerable voyage as to weather, though, at first the winds had been
contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little inCidents of wind,
weather, currents, &c., on the rest of our my 0e ; but, to shorten my
storv, shall observe that I came to my old :bitation, the Island, on
the 10th of April, 1695. It was with no small dilfieulty that 1 found
the place; for as I came to it, and went from it, before, on the south
and east Side of the_island, comini1 from the Brands, so now, coming
in between the main and the is nd, and having no chart for the
coast nor any land-mark, Idid not know it whenI saw it, or know
whether I saw it or not. .

\i e heat about a great while, and went on shore on several
islands in the month of the dgreat river Oronooque, but none for my
pu ose; only this I learne by my coasting the shore, that 1_ was
inner one great mistake before viz. that the continent which I
thought I saw from the island ilived in, was really no continent,
but a long island or rather a ridge of islands, reaching from one to
the other side of the extended mouth of that great river; and that
the savages who came to my island were not properly those which we
call Qaribbees but islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind,
who inhabited nearer to our side than the rest.

In short, I_ visited several of these islands to no nrpose- some
I found were inhabited, and some were not -. on one 0 them Ifound
some Spaniards, and thought they had hved there; but, speaking
with them, found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard *7, an
came thither to make salt, and to catch some pearl-mussels 1 they
could; but that they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay
farther north, in the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees.

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship,
sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallop, which we had found a con-
venient boat, and'therefore ke 1: her with their very good will, at

length I came fair on the son h side of my island, and presently

knew the ve countenance of the lace: so I brought the ship

gate to an one or, broadside With the tile creek where my old habita~
on was.

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Fridav, and wired him if he
knew where he was? e looked about a little, and resently clap-
ping his hands, cried, " O ves, OIthere, 0 yes, _0 there." pointing to
our old habitation, and fell daneing and capering like a mad fellow;
and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore to the (place.

" Well, Fri ay," says I, "_ do you think we shall find anybody here or
no i' and do you think we shall see your father? " . The fellow stood
mute as a stock a good while; but when I named his father, the poor
affectionate creature looked dey'ected, and I could see the tears run
down his face very plentifully. ' What is the matter, Friday?" says
I; "are vou troubled because on may see your father?"--"1\o,
no," say-she,.shakin%'his head, ' no see him more: no never more
see him again." " by so," said 1, "Friday? how do you know
that ? "--"0 no, 0 no " says Friday; " he long ago die, long ; he
much old man." " ell, well," says 1, "Friday, you don't now:
but shall we see any one else then ?"' The fellow, it seems, had better
e cs than I and he points to the hill just above my old house; and,
t ough we lay half a league ofi', he cries out, " We see, we see yes
yes, we see much man there, and there, and there," I looked, but I
saw nobody, no, not with a rspective-glass, which was, I suppose
because I could not hit the p ; for the fellow was right," I foun
upon inquiry the next da ; and there were five or 51: men _all
together, who stood to 100 at the slnp, not knowmg what to think
0 us.

As soon as Frida told me he saw people, I caused the English
ancient to be spree , and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends - and in about half _a quarter of an hour after, we per-
ceived a smo e arise from the Side of the creek: so .I immediately
ordered the boat out, ' Friday with me; and hanging out awhite
flag, or a flag of truce, went directly on shore taking With me
the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the sto of in
living there and the manner of it, and every particular, both 0 myse
and those I left. there, and who was,_ on that account, extremel
desirous to With me. We had, beSides, about sixteen men we
armed, if we ad found an new guests there which we did not know
of ; but we had no need 0 weapons" .

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we
rowed directly into the creek - and the first man I fixed my eye upon
was the Spaniard whose life i had save and whom I knew by ms
face perfectly well: as to his habit I s describe it afterwards. I
ordered nobody to on shore at first but myself; but there was no
keeping Friday in t e boat, for the affectionate creature had spied his
father at a distance, a good way off the Spaniards, where, indeed, I
saw nothilggiof him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he would

have jum into the see. He was no sooner on shore, {)eit'he flew
away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. 'It would have made
any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the
first transports of this oor fellow's Joy when_he came to his father:
how he embraced him, "ssed him, stroked his face, took him up in
his arms, set him down upon a tree and lay down by him, then stood
and looked at him, as any one would look at a strange icture, for a
quarter of an hour together; then lay down on the groun , and stroked
his legs, and kissed them, and then got up again, andfistared at him;
one would have thought the fellow ew1tehed. But it would have
made a doc laugh the next day to see how his passion ran out another
way: in the morning, he walked alonv the shore, with his father,
several hours, always leading him by the hand, as if he had been a
lady; and every now and then he would come to the boat to fetch
something or other for him, either a lump of su r, a dram, a biscuit
cake, or something or other that was d. n the afternoon, his
frolics ran another way ; for then he won (1 set the old man down upon
the ground and dance about him, and make a thousand antic postures
and gestures; and all the while he did this, he would be talking to
him, and telling him one story or other of his travels, and of what iad
happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial
all'ection was to be found in Christians to their parents, in our part of
the world, one would be tempted to say, there would hardly have been
any need of the fifth commandment. .

But this is a digression: I return to my landing. _It would be
needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and cmlities that the
Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard, who, as I said, I
knew very well, was he whose life I had saved; he came towards the
boat, attended b one more, earning a flag of truce also; and he
not only did not 'now me at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion
of its being me that was come, till I spoke to him, " Seignior," said
I, in Portuguese, "do you not know me ? " At which he spoke not a.
word, but giving his musket to the man that was With him, threw his
arms abroad, saying something in Spanish that I did not perfectly
hear, came forward and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable
not to know that face again that he had once seen as if an angel
from Heaven, sent to save his life -. he said abundance of very hand-
some things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how; and then
beckomng to the person that attended him bade him go and call out
his comrades. He then asked me if I would walk to m old habitw
tion, where he would give me possession of my own ouse again
and where I should see they had made but mean improvements: so
walked alon With him ; but, alas! Ieould no more find the place
than if I h never been there;_ for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a position, so thick and close toone another,
and in ten years' time they were grown so big, that in short, the
place was inaccessible, except b such wmdinr's and blind ways as
they themselves onlv, who made t em, could fin . _ _

I asked them what put them upon all these_fortitications: he
told me I would say there was need enough of it, when they had
given me an account how_they had eased their time since their
arriving in the island, especially after t ey had the misfortune to find
that _I was gone. He told me he could not but have some satisfac.
tion in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone in a good
ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes a strong
persuasmn that one time or other he should see me again: but
nothing that ever befel him in his life, he said, was so su rismg and
afflicting to him at first as the disa pointment he was un er when he
came back to the islan and found was not there.

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said he had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thouvht themselves much better among the savages,
only that their num er was so small: " and}: says he, ' had they been
strong enough we had been all long ago in purgatory" and with
that he crossed himself on the breast. ' But, sir," says he, " I hope
you will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by neces-
Sity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm them, and
make them our subjects as thev would not be content wrtli being
moderately our masters, but would be our murderers." I answered,
I was afraid of it when I left them there, and nothing troubled me at
my arting from the island but that they were not come back that I
mix it have put them in possession of everything first, and left the
others in a state of subjection, as the deserved; but if they had
reduced them to it, I was very glad, an should be ver ' far from find-
ing any fault with it: for I knew they were a paree of relractory,
ungoverned villains, and were fit for any manner of miseliict.

While I was thus saying this, the man came whom lic_had sent
back, and with him eleven more. In the dress they were in it was
impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he made all-clear,
both to them and to me. First he turned to me, and pomtina to
them, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe t on
lives to you; " and then turninv to them, and pointing to me, he let
them know who I was; upon which they all came up, one by one, not
as if they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and the hke, but
really as if they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a monarch
or (great conqueror: their behaviour was, to the last degree obl'filnfi
an courteous, and yet nuxed with a manly, majestic gravxty, w ic
very well became them; and, in short, they had so_mu'eh.ii.iore man-
ners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their civdities, much
less how to return them in kind. . ,

The history of their comiuo to, and conduct in, the island, after my
ggmg away, is so very reuiarhablchand has so many meidcnts, whic
t _e _ormer part of my relation will help to understand, and which
will, in most of the rticulars, refer to the account I have already
given, that I cannot at commit them, With great delight, to the
reading of those that come after me. _ . _

I shall no longer trouble the story With a relation in the first 1;;
son which will put me to the expense of ten thousand 'said Is,
and " said he's" and " he told me's," and " I told luni's," and the like ;
but I shall collect the facts historically as near as I can ther them
out of my memory, from what they related to me, and mm what I
met with in my conversing with them, and With the place.

In order to do this succinctly, and as mtelligibly as I can, I must
go back to the circumstances in which I left the island, and in which
the persons were of whom I am to speak. And first, it is necessary
to repeat that I had sent awav Friday's father and. the Spaniard (the
two whose lives I had rescued. from the savagesglm a large canoe to
the main, as I then thought it, to fetch over t e Spaniard's com-
panions that he left behind him, in order to save them from the hke
calamity that he had been in, and in order to succour them for the
present: and that, if possdile, we might together find some way for
our deliverance afterwards.

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, DI the
least room to hope for, in own deliverance any more than had
twenty years before --mue less had I any foreknowledge of what
afterwards happened I mean, of an English ship coming on shore
there to fetch me o ; and it could not be but a very great surprise
to them, when they came back, not only to find that was ne but
to find three strangers left on the .spot, possessed of all t at I'had
left behind me, which would othermse have been their own. _

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin
where I'left ofi', was of their own part; and I desired the Spamard
would give me a particular account of his voyage back to his coun-
trymen with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me
there was httle variety in thatupart, for nothing remarkable happened
to them _on the way, having h verv calm weather, and a smoot sea.
As for hiscountryme it could not be doubted, he said, but that they
were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the frmcipal man among
them, the captain of the vessel thev had been 5 ipwrecked in havmg
been dead some time) : the were, he am the. more surprised to see
him, because they knew t _at he was f en into_ the hands of the
savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as they did all
the. rest of their prisoners; that when he told them the story of his
dehverance, and in what manner he was furnished for carrying them
away, it was like a dream to them, and their astonishment he said,
was somewhat like that of.Joseph's.brethren, when he told them who
he was, and the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when
he showed them the arms, the powder, the hall, and premiums, that
he brought them for their Journey or voyage they were restored to
themselves, took a ust share of the o of their deliverance, and
immediately repairs to come away wit him. .

Their first usiness was to get canoes : and in this they were ohhged
not. to .stick so much upon the honesty of it, but to trespass upon
their friendly savages, and to borrow two la canoes, or riaguas,
on pretence of gomg out} fishing, or for p easure. In t ese they
came away the next morningAd It seems they wanted no time to get
themselves ready, for they no baggage, neither clothes, nor pro.
Visions, nor anything in the world but what they had on them, and a
few roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.

They were in all threeweeks absent; and in that time, nnluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned in
the other part, and to get oil" from the island, leaving three of the

most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains behind
me, that any man could desire to meet with; to the poor Spaniards'
great grief and disappointment, you may be sure.

The only inst thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions,
and other relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them
the long paper of directions which I had left with them, containing
the particular methods winch I took for managing every part of my
life there; the way I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted
my corn; howI cured my arapes, made my pots, and, in a word,
everything I did; all this being written down they ve to the
Spamards (two of them understood Enghsh well-enoug i): nor did
they refuse to accommodate the Spamards With anything else, for
they. agreed very well for some time. They ve them an equal
adnnssmn into the house, or cave, and they gan to live very
sociabl ; and the head Spaniard, who had seen retty much of my
meth s, and Friday's father together, managed their affairs; but
as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island,
shoot parrots, and catch_ tortmses; and when they came home at
mirht, the Spaniards rovided their supleers for them.

:The Spamards wo d have been satis ed With this, had the others
but let them alone- which, however, they could not find in their
hearts to do long;l but, hke the dog in the manger, they would not
eat themselves neither would they let _the others eat. The differ-
ences, nevertheless, were at first but triVial, and such as .are not worth
relating, but at last it broke out into open war: and it began With
all the rudeness and insolence that canbe imagined--Without reason,
Without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to common
sense: and tliongh, it is true, the first relation of it came from the
Spamards themselves whom I may call the accusers, yet. when I
came to exannne the fellows, theypould not deny a word of it.

But before I come to the particulars of this art, I must supply
a defect in my former: relation; and this was, I orgot to set down,
among the rest that Just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail,
there happened a little quarrel on board of our ship, which I was
once afraid would have turned to a second mutiny; nor was it

a peased till the captami' rousing up I '
p ' parted t

s courfie, and taking us all to
his asSistanee, em by force, and, m ing two of the most

refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons: and as they had
been active in the former disorders, and let fall some iigly, dangerous
words, the second time he threatened to carry them in irons to Eng-
land, and have them hanged there for mutiny,_ and running away
With the ship. This, it seems, thoiigh the _captam did not intend to
do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and some of them had
put it into the heads of the rest, that the captain only gave them good
words for the present till they should come to some Enghsh port,
and that then they should be all utmto o], and tried for their
lives. The mate got intelligence 0 this, an acquainted us With it;
upon which it was desn'cd that I, who still passed 'for a great man
among them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy the men, and
tell them that they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of
the voyage, all they had done for the time past should be pardoned.
So I Went, and after passing my honour's word to them, they
appeared easy, and the more so when I caused the two men that were
in irons to be released and forgiven. _

But this mutiny had brought "5. to an anchor for that night; the
wind also falling ealm next nioniiiig, we found that our two men,
who had been laid in irons, had stolen each of them a musket, and
some other wea ons (what powder or shot. they had we knew not)
and had taken t ie ship's piniiace, which was not yet lialed up, and
run away with her to their companions in rogiiery on shore. As soon
as we feluid this I ordered the long-boat on shore with twelve men
and the mate, and away they went. to seek the rogues; _l)iit they could
neither find them or any of the rest, for they all tlcd into the woods
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in 'ustice to their roguery. to have destroyed their lzuita-
tions, hunted all their household stutl' and funiiture, and left t ieni to
shift without it ; but having no orders, he let it all alone, left every-
thing as he found it, and, bringing the pinnace away, came on board
without them. .Thcse two men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much more Wicked than they, that after
they had been two or three days together, they turned the two
new comers outiof doors to shift for themselves, and would have
nothing to do with them; nor could they, for a_ good while, be per-
suaded to give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were not
yet come.

"hen the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to

0 forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded thethree English

rutes to have taken in their countrymen again, that, as they said,
they might be all one family ; but they would not hear of it 5 so the
two poor fellows lived by themselves; and finding nothing but
Industry and application would make them live conitortalilv, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little more
to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always landed on
the east arts of the island.

Heret ey built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to
lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards having given
them some corn for seed, and some of the peas which I had left them,
they du , planted, and enclosed, after the pattern I had set for them
all, andfiiegan to live rctty well. Their first crop of com was on
the ground; and thougi it was but a little bit of land which they had
dug up at first, having had but a little time, yet it. was enough to
relieve them, and find them with bread and other out bles; an one
of the fellows being_tlic cook's mate of the ship, was veiy ready at.
making seiiifi, puddings, and such other preparations as the rice,
:tim'l1 the m ', and such httle flesh as they got, funnshcd him
0 0.

They were going on in this little thriving position when the three
unnatural rogues, their own_ countrymen too, in mere humour and to
Insult them, came and bulhed them, and told them the island was
theirs: that the governor, iiieanilnig me, had given them the pos-
sessmn of it, and nobody else h any right to it; and that they
isihoullld build no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent
ort em.

The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, asked them to
come in and Sit down, and see what tine houses they were that they
had built, and to tell them what rent theydemauded- and one of
them merrily said, if they were the ground-landlords, he hoped if
they built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long lease: and
desired they would get a scriveuer to draw the writings. One of the
three, cursing and raging, told them they should see they were not
in jest; and omg to a little place at a distance, where the honest
men had ma c a tire to dress t icir victuals, he takes a iirebrand, and
claps it. to the outside of their but, and very fairly set it on tire; and
it would have been all bunied down in a few minutes, if one of the
two had not run to the fellow, thrust. him away and trod the fire out
with his feet, and that not without some dillicuity too.

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in his hand: and
had not the man avoided the blowyery inmbly, and run into the but,
he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the dunner they
were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they came both out
with their muskets, and the man that was tirst struck at with the
pole, knocked the fellow down that began the quarrel, with the. stock
of his musket, and that before the other two could come to help
him; and then seeing the rest come at. them, they stood together,
and )i-etsenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade them
slant 0 .

The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the two honest
men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger,
told them, it' they offered to more hand or foot, they were dead men,
and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not,
indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute, it brought
them to a arlcy, and they consented to take their wounded man With
them and gone: and, indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded
sutlieieiitly with the blow. However they were much in the wrong,
since they had the advantzge, that they did not disarm them ctl'cc-
tually, as they might have done, and have gone iiiiiiiediats'lf' to the
Spaniards, and oivcn them an account how the rogues h treated
them; for the three villains studied nothing but reveng , and every
dav gave them some intimation that they did so.

But not to crowd this dpart with an account of the lesser part of
the rogueries, such as trea iiig down their corn; shootino three young
kids and a she-goat, which the poor men had got to bree qu tame for
their store; and, m a word, plaguing them night and a in this
manner- it forced the two men to such.a desperation, t. at they
resolved to fight them all three, the first time they had a fair op r-
tunitv. In order to do this, they resolved to go to the castle, as t ey
called it (that was my old dwelling), where the three rogues and the
Spaniards all lived together at that, time, intending to have a fair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play: so they got
up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and called the
Englishmen by their names telling a Spaniard, that answered, that
the wanted to speak With t em. . _

Ii: happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, havm been
in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for _tinc-
tion, I called the honest men, and he had made a sad complaint to
the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met With from their
three countrymen, and how the ad ruined their plantation, and
destroved their corn that the h . laboured so hard to brig]? forwar
and killed the milch-goat an their three kids, which was they h
provided for their sustenance 5 and that if_ he and his friends, mean-
m the Spaniards, did not asSist them again they should be starved.
fien the Spaniards came home at mght, and they were all at supper,
one of them took the freedom to reprove the three EnOhshmen,
thouoh in very gentle and manneril'llf terms, and asked them how they
could be so cruel, they being har ess, inofi'ensive fellows: that they
were uttingbthemselves in a way to SllelSt. by their labour, and that
it h cost t em a great deal of pains to bring things to such perfec-
tion as the were then in. .

One of t e En lishmen returned very briskly "What had they to
do there? that t ey came on shore without leave; and that they
should not lant or build upon the island; it was .none of their
ground." " hy," says the Spaniard very calmly ".Seignior In lese,
they must not starve." The Envlishman replied, like a mu h- ewn
tarpa ' "They might starve, theyshould n_ot plant nor bull inthat
place." ' l3ut what must they do then seignior '2' " said the Spaniard.
Another of the brutes returned, " Do . they should be servants, and
work for them." " But how can you-expect that of them?" says
the Spaniard; "they are not bought With your money: you have no
right to make them servants." The Englishman answered, "The
island was-theirs- the governor had given it to .them, and no man
had anythin to do there but themselves ;" and with that swore by
his Maker t t they would go and burn all their. new uts; they
should build none upon their land. " Why, seignior," says the
Spaniard, " by the same rule, we must be your servants too." "Ay,"
says the bold dog, " and so you shall too, before we have done With
vou ;" mix' two or three oaths in the pacifier intervals of his speech.
The Spaniar onlysmiled at that, and in e him no answer. How-
ever, this little discourse had heated them; and stamina' uphone
says to the other (I think it was he they called Will Atkins)
"'Come Jack, let's go, and have t'other brush With them; we'll
demolish their castle, Ill warrant you; they shall plant no colony
mi'i'" ddegt"i'u""degl'il'" t n t - a

on s ey won a rooping away, in every man a gun,
a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among
themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when
opportunity ofl'ered- but the S amards it seems, did not so er-
fectly understand them as to ' ow all the articulate, or}? tiat,
iii gener'ae they threatened them hard for t ' g the two nglish-
men's p . .

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening
the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they wandered
about the conntrycafiiart of the night, and then lying down in the lace
which I used to my bower, they were weary, and overslept t em-
selves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till midni ht,
and so to take the two _r men when they were aslee , and as they
acknowledged afterwar , intended to set fire to their life. while they
were in them, and either burn them there, or murder them as they
came out. As malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange
the should not have been kept. awake.

' owever as the two men ad also a design upon them, as I have
said,_though a much fairer one _than that of burning and murder-
ing it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they were up
hut gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came to their

a s.

When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins who, it
seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade, " Ha, Jack,
here's the nest, but the birds are flown." _They mused awhile, to
think what should be the occasion of their being no abroad so soon,
and suggested presently that the Spaniards ha given them notice
of it; and With that they shook hands, and swore to one another that
they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they; had made
this bloody bargain, the fell to work with the poor men's abitation;
they did not set fire iii eed, to anything, but they pulled down both
their houses, and pulled them so hmb from hmb that the left not the
least stick standing, or scarce any si on the groun_ where they
stood; they tore all, their little collecte household stuff in pieces, and
threw everythin about in such a manner, that the_poor men afterwards
found some of t eir thin a mile of their habitation. When they
had done this, they ull up all the young trees which the poor men
had planted; pulle up an mclosure they had made to secure their
cattle and their corn; and, in a word, sacked and lundered everything
as completely as a horde of Tartars would have one.

The two men were, at this Juncture gone to find them out, and had
resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they were but
two to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them: for they were all very stout, resolute fellows,
to ive them their due.

ut Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they
themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged one another,
when the three were gone thither, the two were here; and afterwards,
when the two went back to find them, the three were come to the
old habitation again: we shall see their difi'erent conduct resently.
When the three came back like furious creatures, flushe _w1th the
rage which the work they had been about had put them into, they
came u to the Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way
of sco and bravado- and one of them stepping up to one of the
Spaniards, as if they had been a cougile of boys at play, takes hold of
his hat as it was upon his head, an giving it a tvnrl about, fleennafi
in his face, says to him " And you, Seigmor Jack Spaniard, sh
have the same sauce if you do not mend your manners." The
Spaniard, who, then h a quiet, civil man, was as brave a_man as
could he, and, wit a strong, well-made man, looked at llusm for a
good while, and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely
up to him, and, with one blow of his fist, knocked hun down, as an
ex is felled with a pole-axe; at. wlnch one of the rogues, as mso-
lent as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard immediately: he
missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but
one of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much.
The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he
really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he acted all in
a perfect calm; but now resolving to go through with his work, he
stooped, and took the fellow's musket whom he had knocked down,
and was just going to shoot the man who had fired at him, when the
rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and calling to him
not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the other two, and took their
arms from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they began
to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have had their
arms again; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was between
them and the other two Englishmen. and that it would be the best
method they could take to keep thezn from killing one another, told them
they would do them no harm; and if they would live peaceably, they
would be verv willing to assist and associate'with them as they did
before; but that they could not think of givingthcm their arms again,
while they appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to their own
countrymen, and had even threatened them all to make them their
servants.

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act
with reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving away,
and raging like madmen, threatening what they would do, though
they had no tire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising their threaten-
ing. told them they should take care how they offered any iu'ury to
their plantation or cattle, for if they did, they would shoot t rem as
they would ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and ifthey
fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. How-
ever, this was far from eoolinrr them, but away they went, raging
and swearing like furies of he . As soon as they were ''one, the
two men came back, in passion and to e enough also, though of
another kind; for having men at their p antation, and finding it all
demolished and destroyed, as above, it: will easily be supposed they
had provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
talc, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was
strange enough to find that three men should thus bully nineteen, and
receive no puuishment at all.

The S )aniards, indeed, despised them, and es ecially, having thus
disannet them, made light oftheirthrcatenings; )ut the two English-
men resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains socver it
cost to find them out. But the Spaniards interposed here too, and
told them, that as they had disanned them, they could not consent
that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms, and perhaps
kill them. " But," said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor,
" we will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you will leave it
to us: for there is no doubt but they will come to us again, when
their passion is over, being not able to subSist without our assistance :
we promise on to make no peace with them, without having a full
satisfaction lot you; and, upon this condition, we hope you will pro-
mise to use no violencewith them, other than in 510m own defence."
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwar v, and with mat
reluctance - but the Spaniards protested that they did it onl to 'ee

them from bloodshed, and to make them all easy at last. " 'or " sai

they, " we are not so many of us; here is room enough for us all, and
it is a great pity that we should not be all good friends." At length
they did consent, and waited for the issue_of the thing, livmg for
(slome days With the Spamards; for their own habitation was

estrove .

In about five da 5' time, the threevagrants, tired with wandering,
and almost starve with hunger haying chiefly lived on turtles' eggs
all that while, came back to the grove; an findnig my Spaniard,
who,_as I have said, was the governor, and two more with him,
walking by the side of the creek, they came up in_ a very submissive,
humble manner, and begged to be received again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had acted so
unnaturally to their countrymen, and so very grossly to them (the
Spaniards), that they could not come to any concluswu without con-
sulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however, they would
go to them and discourse about it, and they should know in half an
hour. It may be guessed that they were very hard put to it; for, it
seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an answer, they begged
they would send them out some bread in the mean time, which they
did; sending, at the same time, a large piece of goat's flesh, and a
hoiledhparrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were hungry
enoug .

After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long
debate ensued- their two countrymen eliargiiur them with the ruin
of all their labour, and a design to murder tiem- all winch they
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole
the Spaniards acted the moderators between them; and as they ha
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were
naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild
their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same, and the other of larger
dimensions than they were before; to fence their ground again where
they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room of those
pulled up, di up the land again for planting corn, where they had
spoiled it, an , in a word, to restore everything to the same state as
t ey found it, as near as they could; for entirely it could not be, the
season for the corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges, not being
possible to be recovered.

Well, they submitted to all _this- and as they had plenty of
provisions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, an the
whole society began to hve pleasantly and agreeab y together again -
only that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work,
mean for themselves, except now and then a little, Just asthey
pleased: however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they
would but live sociably and friendlfi' together, and study the good of
the whole plantation, they would e content to work for them, and
let them walk about and be as idle as they pleased: and thus, having
hved pretty well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave
b3?" arms again,' and gave them liberty to go abroad With them a

. ore.

It was not above a week after they had these arms, and went
abroad, before the un ateful creatures began to be as insolent and
troublesome as ever: ut, however, an accrdent l'iflppened resently
u )on this, which endangered the safety of them ; and t ey were
0 h ed to lay by all private resentments, and look to the preservation
of t ieir lives. ' . .

It happened one mght that theSpanish governor, as I call lnm,
that l_S to say, the Spaniard whose live I had saved, who was now the
captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy
in the niclit, and coal bv no means get any sleep: he was perfectly
well in body, as he told me the story, only ound his thou hts
tumultuous - lns mind ran u ii men fighting and killing one aiiot ier,
but he was broad awake, an could not by any means get any sleep;
in short, he lay _a great while; but growing more and more uneasy,
lic'resollved to rise. As they lay, being so many of them, on wont-
skins laid thick upon such couches and ads as the made for t icm-
selves, and not in hammocks and ship eds as _I_ d, who was but
one, so they had little to do when they were Willmo to rise, but to
get upon their feet, and, perhaps, dput on a coat, such as it was, and
their unips, and they were rea y for going any way that their
tlioiig its guided tliem. Being thus t up, he ooked out; but,
being dark, he could see little or nothing; and, besides, the trees
which I had planted, as in my former account is described, and which
were now rown tall, intercepted his sight so that he could only
look ufi' an see that it was a clear starlight mght, and, hearing no
noise e retunied and laid him down again: but it was all one; he
could not sleep, nor could he coni ose himself to anything like rest;
blllt his thoughts were to the last egrce uneasy, and he knew not for
"' la .

Having made some noise with risin and walking about, going
out, and coming in, another of them w 'ed, and, calhng asked who
it was that was up. The governor told him how it had been With
him. 'f Say on so?" says the other Spaniard; " such things are not
to be slighte , I assure you- there is certainl ' some mischief work-
ing near us 2" and presently he asked him, " I here are the Enghsh.
men?" "They are all in their huts," says he, " safe enough.' It
seems the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment, and
hadhmade a place for the three Envlishmen, who since their last
mutiny, were always quartered by themselves, and could not come
at the rest. " Well," says the Spaniard, "there is something in it,
1 am rsuaded, from my own experience. _ I am satisfied our spirits
embo 'ed have a converse wrtli,_aiid receive. intelligence from, the
spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invrsible world; and this
friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we knew how to make
use of it. Come," says he, " let us go and look abroad; and If?
we find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, I_'ll tell you a
story to the Purpose, that shall eonvmce you of the Justice of my
proposmg it.' _

In a word, they went out, to go up to the top of the hill, where

I used to go; but they being strong, and a good company not alone
as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and
pulling it u after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but were
going roun throuOh the grove, unconcerned and unwary, when they
were su rised with seeing a hglit as of fire, a very little way ofi' from
them, an hearing the vaices of men--not of one or two, but of a
great number. . . .
. In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landin on the
island, it was my constant care to. prevent them making t e least
discovery of .there being any inhabitant upon the place; and when
by any occaSion they came to know it, they felt it so effectually that
they that got away were scarceable to give any account of it; for
we disappeared as soon as posmble; nor did ever any that had seen
me escape to tell any one else, exce t it was the three savages in our
last encounter who jum ed into t e boat; of whom, I mentioned,
I was afraid they shoul go home and bring more help. Whether
it was the consequence of the escape of those men that so t a
number came now together, or whether they came 1 orant y, and
by accident, on their usual bloody errand, tl'ie Spaniar 5 could not, it
seems, understand; but whatever it was, it had been their business
either to have concealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all,
much. less to have let the savages have seen that there were any
inhabitants in the place; or to have fallen upon them so effectually as
that not a man of them should have escaped, which could only have
beenb'y getting in between them. and their boats: but this presence
of mm was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquillity
for a great while. . .

We need_not doubt but that the governor and the man with him,
surprised With this sight, ran back immediately and raised their fellows
ginng them an account of the imminent danger they were all in, and
they again as readily took the alarm; but it was impossible to per-
suade them to stay close Within where they were, but they must all
run out to see how things stood.

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough and they had
aggrtunity enough, for some hours, to View them by the hght of
t fires they had made at a distance from one another; what they
were domg they knew not, and what to do themselves they knew not.
For, first, the enemy weretoo many; and, secondly, they did not
keep together, but were dmded into several parties, an were on
shore in several places: . _

The Spaniards were in no small_consternation at this sight; andLas
the found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,t ey
in .e no doubt but, first or last, some of them would cho in upon
their habitation, or upon some other place where they wo d see the
token-of inhabitants; and they were in great Re lexity also for fear
of their flock of goats, which would have been 'tt e less thanstarvmg
them, if they should have been destroyed; so the first thing they
resolved upon was to des ateh three men away before it was light,
two Spaniards and one hnglishinau, to drive. all the goats away to
the great valley where the care was, and, if need were, to drive
them into the very cave itscll. Could they have seen the savages
all together in one body and at a distance from their canoes, they
resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked
them; but that could not be obtained; for they were some of them
two miles off from the other; and, as it appeared afterwards, were
of two ditl'crent nations. .

After havin mused a great while on the course they should take,
and beating tieir brains .ui eOiiSideriiiv their present circumstances,
they resolved, at last, while it was still dark, to send the old savage,
Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possmle, souieth' concom-
iiig tliem,--as what tliev came for, what the intended to_ o, and the
like. The old man readily undertook it; an stripping himself quite
naked, as most of the savages were, away he went. After he had
been gonean hour or two, e brin word that he had been among
them undiscovered,--tliat he foun_ they were two parties, and of
two several nations, who had war With one another, and had a great
battle in their own country; and that both sides having had several
prisoners taken in the fight, they were, by mere chance, landed all on
the same island, for the devouring their prisoners and making merry,
but their coming so by chance to the same place had spelled all their
mirth,----that they were in a great rage at one another, and were so
near, that he believed they would fight again as soon as daylight
began to appear; but he did not rceive that they had an notion
of anybody being on the island at themselves. He ha hardly
made an end of tellin his story, when they could perceive, b the
blmsdudfinlfitsc they in c, that the two little armies were engage in a

00 y gr .

Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade our
people to be close and not be seen, he told them theirsafcty mn-
sisted in it, and that they had nothing. to do but he still, and the
sav'rfes would kill one another to their hands, and then the rest
wo d go away ;_ and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible
to prevail, especiall upon the Enghshmen; their curiosity was so
importunate upon t eir prudentials, that they must run out and see
the battle ;_ however, they used some caution, too; they did. not
go warmly, ust by their own dweullllfa, but went farther into_the
w s an placed themselves to vantage, where they nnght
securely see t cm manage the fight, and, as the thought, not be seen
liy tg'em; but it seems the savages did see t em, as we shall find

ere ter. .-

The battle was very fierce; and, if I might believe the Englishmen,
one of them said he could perceive that some of them were men of
great brave , of invmeible splints, and of great hey in gindmg the

"lit. The ttle the said, eld two hours he ore the could guess
which party would be ten; but then that party whic was nearest
our people's habitation began to appear weakest, and after some time
more, some of them began to fly; and this put our men a 11 into a
great consternation, lest any one of those that fled shoal run into
the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and thereby involuntarily
discoverthe place; and that. y consequence, the pursuers would do
the hke in searchof them. Upon this, they resolved that they would
stand armed Within the wall, and whoever came into the grove, they
resolved to sally out over the wall and kill them so that, it' possible,
not one should return to give an account of it; t icy ordered also that
it should be done with their swords, or by knocking them down with
thestocks of their niuskcts, but not by shooting them, for fear of
raising an alarm by the noise.

As they expected it fell out; three of the routed army tied for life,
and crossin _the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the least
knowmg w ither they went, but runmng as into a thick wood for
shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad gave notice of this
within, with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction, viz., that
the eonquerorshad not pursued them, or seen which way they were
gone; upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would
not sufl'er them to kill t c three 'fugitives, but sending three men out
by the to of the hill ordered them to go round, come in behind
them, an surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. The
rcSiduc of .the conquered people fled to their canoes and got off to
sea; the Victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing
themselves into a body together, gave two great screaming shouts,
which they sup sed was by way ot triumph--and so the fight ended;
and the same ay, about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had the island
again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no
sav es for several years after. _

_A ter they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, and
Viewing the field of battle, they found about two--and-thirty men dead
on the spot; some were killed With great long arrows, some of which
were found sticking in their bodies; but most of them were killed
with great wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of which they found
in the field of battle, and as many bows, with a great many arrows.
These swords were strange, great unwieldy things, and they must be
ve stron men that used them; most of those men that were killed
wit .thein ad their heads mashed to (pieces, as we ma say, or, as we
call it in English, their brains knockc out, and seve_ their arms and
legs broken - so that it is eVident they fight With inexpresstble rage
and fury. We found not one man that was not stone dead, --
for either they stay by their enemy till they have killed him, .or
ttfiiey carry all the wounded men that are not qmte dead away With

em.

I This deliverance tamed ourEnglishmen foragreatwhile'; the sight had
filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared temble to the
last degree, especially u n supposing that some time or other "EH
should fall intp the hang of those creatures, who would not only

them as eneimes, but kill them for food, as we kill our cattle; and
they professed to me that the thoughts of being eaten_up hke beef
or mutton, thougllli it was supposed it was not to he till they were
dead, had somet 'ng in it so horrible that it nauseated their very
stomachs, made them sick when they thought of it, and filled their
minds with such unusual terror, that they were not themselves for
some weeks after. This, as I said, tamed even the three English
brutes I have been speaking of; and for a fleet while after they
were tractable, and went about the common usmess of the whole
society_well enougli,--planted, sowed, reaped, and began to be all
naturalised to the country._ But some time after this they fell mto
suchl lsimple measures again, as brought them into a great deal of
trou ) e.

They had taken three risouers, as I observed; and these three
being usty, stout young fe ows, they made them servants, and taught
them to work for them; and as slaves they did well enough; ut
they did-not take'their measures With them as I did by my man
Friday, Viz., to begin with them upon the prinCiple of haying saved
their lives, and then instruet them in the rational prinCiplie-s of life,
much less_ of religion, -- civdismg and reducmg them by d usage
and atl'cctionate arguments; but as they save them their food eve
day so they gave t em their work top, an kept them fully emploKe
in rudgery enough; but they faded in this by it, that thev never ad
them to assist them and fight for them as I had my man Friday, who
was as true to me as the very flesh upon my bones. .

But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends, for
common danger, as Isaid abovehhad effectually reconcded them, they
began to eonSider thcmgeneral circumstances; and the first thing that
came under consideration was whether, seeing the savages particularl
haunted that side of the island, and that there were more remote an_
retired parts of it equally adapted to their way of livmg and mam-
fcstly to their advantage, they should not rather move their habita-
tion, and plant in some more proper place for their safety, and espe-
cially for the security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would not
remove their habitation; because that, some time another, the
thoutrht they might hear from their governor again, meamng me ~. an
if Is ould send any one to seek t em I should be sure to direct
them to that side, where, if they should find the place demohshed,
the would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone,
an so our supply would go too. But as to their corn and cattle,
they agreed to remove them into the valley where my cave was,
where the land was as proper for both, and where, indeed, there
was land enough- however, upon second thoughts, they altered one
part of their reso ution too, and resolved only to remove part of their
cattle thither, and plant part of their corn t ere; and so if one part
was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one part of prudence
they used, which 1t was ve well they dim--that they never trusted
those three savages which t :3 had risoners Wltll know-mg anything
of the plantation they had in e int t valley or of any cattle they
had there, much less of the cave there, which they kept, in case of
necessny as a safe retreat; and thither they carried also the two
barrels of powder which I had sent them at .my coming away. But,
however, they resolved not to ehanve their habitation; yet they
agreed, that as I'had carefully covered3 it first With a wall or fortifica-
tion, and then Wltll a grove of trees, so seeing their safety consisted
entirely in their being concealed. of which they were now fully eon-
vmced, they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet more
effectually than before. _For this urpose, as I planted trees, or rather
thrust in stakes, which in time grew up to be trees, for some. good
distance before the entrance into my apartments they went on in the
same manner, and filled up the rest of that whole space of ground
from the trees I had set quite down to the side of the creek where,
as I said, I landed my floats and even into the ve ooze where the
tide flowed, not so much." leavmg any place to Ian or any sign that
there had been any landing thereabouts,--those s as also being of
a wood very forward to grow, as I have noted formerl , they took care
to have them generally much larger and taller than t cse which I had
planted; and as they w space, so they planted them so very thick
and close together, t at .when. the had been three or four years
grown, there was no piercm With t e eye considerable way into
the plantation; and as for t at art which I d planted, the trees
were grown as thick as a man's t_ gh, and among them they placed so
many other short ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a
palisado a_quarter of a. mile thick, and it.was next to impossible to
penetrate it, but With a little army to cut it all down--for a little dog
could hardly get between the trees, they stood so close.

. But this was not all; for the did the same by all the ground to the
right hand and to the left, an round even to the Side of the hill,
lea no way, not so much as for themselves to come out but by
the der placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted u , and
placed again from the first stage up to the top; and when the adder
was taken down, nothing but what had WIDE! or Witchcraft to assist
it could come at them. This was excellent y well contrived; nor was
it less than what theivl afterwards found 000881011 for,_ which seryed to
convmce me that as uman prudence has the author-it of Prondence
to justify it, so it has doubtless the directionof Proyi ence to set it to
work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of it, I am persuaded
we might prevent many of the disasters which our hves are now, by
our own negligence, subjected to.. . .

I return to the story. They hyed two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more Visits from the savages They had,
indeed, an alarm given them one mormng, which. put them into a
great_constemation; for, some of the Spaniards bemg out earl one
mom on the west aide, or rather end,.of the island (whic was
that en where I never went, for fear of be discovered), they were
surprised with seeing above twenty canoes 0 Indians ust conung on
shore. The made the best of their wag home in 1113 enou h;
and giving the alarm to their comrades, t ey kept close that. ay
and the next, going out only at night to make their observation;
but the had the good luck to be mistaken ;_ for wherever the savages
"glint, 5 ey did not land that time on the island, but pursued some
0 er esrgn. , ~

And now they had another broil with the three Enghshmen; one
of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the three
slaves, whom I mentioned they had take because the fellow_ had not
done something right which he bid him 0, and seemed 91311310 un-
tractablelin his showing him drew a hatchet out of afrog-helt, inwliicli
he wore it b .his side, and fell upon the poor savage, not to correct
him, but to him. One of the. Spaniards, who was by seeing him
give the fellow a barbarous out With the hatchet, which lie aimed at

is head, but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut
the r creature's arm ofi', ran to him, and entreatinfilhim not to
in er the poor m_ placed himself between him and t e savage to
prevent the mischie . The fellow being enraged the more at this,
struck at the Ssanmrd With his hatchet, and swore he would serve
him as he inten ed to serve the savage; which the Spamard perceiv-
ing, avaided the blow, and With a shovel which he had in his hand (for
they were all working in the field'about their corn land) knocked the
brute down. Another of the Englishmen, runmn at the same time to
help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down ; an then two Spaniards
more came in to help their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon
them. They had none of them any fire-arms or any other wea ons
but hatehets and other tools, except this third Englishman; he . one
of my rust cutlasses, With which he made at the two_last Spaniards,
and woun ed them both. This frai set the whole family in an uproar,
and more help coming in, they too the three Englishmen risoneis.
The next question _was, what should be done with them? hey had
been so often mutinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and
so idle Withal, they knew not. what course to take with them, for
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and cared not what hurt
{fley did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live with

em.

The S ' who was governor told them, in so many words
that if t ey had been of his own country, he would have hanged
them; for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and
those who were dangerous to the society ought to be ex lled out of
it; but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to t e generous
kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their preservation and
dehverance, he would use them With all pOSSlble lenity, and would
leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were
their count en.

One of t e two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they
desired it might not be left to them --" For," says he, " I am sure
we ought to sentence them to the gallows ; " and with that he 'ves
an account how Will Atkins, one o the three, had 151de to are
all the five Englishmen Join together, and murder e Spaniards
when they were in_their sleep.

When the Spamsh governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins,
"How, Seigmor Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you
to sa to that?" The hardened Villain was so far from denyin it,
that e said it was true and swore they would do it still before %he
had donewith them. "Well, hut Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniar
" what have we done to you that you Will kill us? And what would
you get by killing us ? And whatth we do to prevent your killing
us? Must we kill you, or you kill us? Why will you put us to
the necessity of_this, Seiginor Atkins?" says the Spaniard very
calmly, and smiling. Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the
Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not been held by three
men, and withal had no weapon near him, it was thou ht he would
have attempflfild to have killed the S aniard in the middle of all the
company. s hair-brain earn o 11%: them to consider seriously
wha was to be done; the twofinghs en, and the S aniard who
saved the poor savage, were of the opinion that they should h one
of the three, for an example to the rest, and that particularly iggfiould
be he that had tWioe attempted to commit murder with his hatchet;
and, indeed, there was some reason to beheve he had done it, for the
poor savage was in such a miserable condition with the wound he had
reoeiyed that it. was thought he could not live. But the governor
Spaniard still said no; it was an Enghshman that had saved all their
hves, and he would never consent to put an Englishman to death,
though he had murdered half of them,----nay, he said if he had been
kille himself by an En hshman, and had time left to speak, it should
be that they should par on him. ' .

This was so positiyelymsisted on by the governor Spaniard, that
there was no gaiiisaymg it; and as merciful counsels are most apt to
prevail, where they are so earnestly dpressed, so they all came into
it; but then it was to.be considere .what should be done to keep
them from doing the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor
and all, that means were to be used for preserving t e somety from
dan er. After a long debate, it was agreed first, that they should
he disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, powder, shot
sword, or any weapon; and should be turned out of the society and
left to live where they would and how they wouldjjhfi' themse ves;
but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or Engin~ , should con-
verse with them, speak with them, or have anyt g to do wrth
them: that they] should be forbid to come Within a certain distance
of the place w ere the rest dwelt; and if they ofi'ered to commit
any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn,
planting? buildings, fences, or cattle belon rig to the society, they
should 'e without mercy, and they would s oot them wherever they
could find them. . _

The governor, a man of great humamty, musing upon the sen-
tence, considered a little upon it; and turning to the two honest
Enghshmen, said, "Hold; on must reflect that it Will be long ere
they can raise corn and cattle of theirown, and they must not starve;
we must therefore allow them provisions." So he caused to be
added, that they should have a proportion of corn given them to last
them eight months, and for seed to sow, b which time they might
be supposed to raise some of their own- t t the should have six
milch-goats, {our he-goats, and six kids given t em, as well for
present subsistence as for a store; and that they should have tools
given them for their work in the fields, such as srx hatchets, an adze,
a saw, and the like; but they should have none of these tools or
provisions, unless they would swear solemnly that they would not
Eu.rt_or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of their fellow

n hshmen.

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to
shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as
neither content to go away nor to stay; but, as there was no remedv
they went, pretending to go and choose a place where they would
settle themselves; and some proviSions were given them, but no
wea us.

A at four or five days after, they came ' for some victuals,
and gave the govenior an account where they pitched their tents,
and marked themselves out a habitation and plantation; and it was a
very convenient lace, indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N.E.,
much about the p where I prov1dentially landed in my_first voyage,
when I was driven out to sea, the Lord knows whither, ni my foohsh
attempt to sail round the island. _

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them
in a manner like my first habitation, being close under the side of a
hill, having some trees growing already on three Sides of it so _that
by planting others, it would be very easily covered from the Sight,
unless narrowly searched for. They deSIred some dried goatskins,
for beds and covering, which were iiven them; andupon Elfin" their
words that they would not distur the rest, or injure any of their
plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what other tools they could
spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sowmg; and, in a word,
anything the wanted, except arms and ammunition.

Theyblivedv in this separate condition about six months, and had
got in their first harvest thou h the quantity was hut small, the
parcel of land they had planted eing but httle ' for, indeed, havmg
all their plantation to form, they had a great deal of work upon their
hands; and when they came to_make boards and [pots, and such
things, they were guite _out of their element, and eoul make nothing
of it: and when t e rainy season came on, for 'want of a cave in the
earth, they could not keep their grain , and it was in great danger
of s 11mg; and this humbled them muc : so the came and begged
the paniards to help them, which the very rea y did; arid in four
days worked a great hole in the side 0 the hill for them, big enough
to secure their corn and other things from therain; but it was a r

lace at best, com red to mine, and especially as mine was t en,
or the Spaniards greatly enlarged it, and made several new
apartments in it.

About three quarters of a year after this separatiq a new frolic
took these rogues which together with the former wily they had
committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and h ve near
been the ruin of the whole colony. The three new associates
it seems, to be_w of the laborious life they led, and that without
hope of bettering t eir circumstances: and a whim took them that
they would make a vhiaie to the continent, from whence the savages
came, and wouldtry t _ey could seize upon some prisoners among
the natives there, and brin them home, so as to make them do the
laborious part of the work or them.

The prt'lficct was not so preposterous, if they had ne no farther.
":But their . (1 nothing, andrpijoposed nothing, but ha either mischief
mtlie deSign, or mischie in the event. And if I may give my
opnuon, they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; for if we
Will not allow a visible curse to pursue Visible crimes, how shall we
reconcile the events of things with the Divine justice 2' It_was cer-
tainly an alpparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that
brought t em to the state they were in; and they showed not the
least remorse for the crime, but added new villamee to it, such as the
piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a r slave because he did
not, or {Ell-1h?" could not, understand to 0 what he directed, and to
wound in such a manner as made him a cri ple all his life, and
in a place where .no surgeon or medicine could had for his cure ;
and what was _St1l.l worse, the murderous intent, or, to do Justice to
the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it was; as was
afterwards the formed desi they all laid, to murder the Spaniards
in cold blood, and in their 5 eep.

But I leave ohsemng and return to the story:--The three
fellows came down to the. paniards one morning, and in v humble
terms deSired to be admitted to speak With them. The _panizirds
very readily heard what they had to say, which was this :--that
they were tired of living in the manner they did: and that they
were not handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and
that having no help, they found they should be starved; but if the
Spaniards would give them leave to take one of .the canoes which
they came over in, and give them arms and ammunition roportioned
to their defence, they would go over to the main an seek their
fortunes, and so deliver them from the trouble of supplying them
With an other rovismns.

The pauia were glad enough to get rid of them, but very
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were
runmng into; told them they had sufi'eredsiich hardships upon that
very spot that they could, without any 5 int of prophecy tell them
they would be starved or murdered; and ade them conSider of it.

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they
stayed here, for the could not work, and would not work, and they
could but be starve abroad; and if they were murdered, there was
an end of them; theiv had no Wives or children to cry after them;
and, in short, insiste importunately upon their demand; declaring
they would go, whether they gave them any arms or no. _

The Spaniards told them, With great kindness, that if they.were
resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to efend themselves; and that though they could ill spare
their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would
let them have two muskets a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man
a hatchet, which thee thought was suflicient for them. In a word,
they ,accepted the 0 er; and bavmg baked .bread enough to serve
them a_ month, and given them as much goats'fiosh as they could
eat while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a pot of
fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldl set out in the canoe for
a vo age over the sea, where it was at lent orty miles broad.

.e boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for
them to manage; but a they had a fair breeze, and floodvtide With
them, the did well enough. They had made a most of along pole,
and a sail of four large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed or
laced together; and away they went merrily enough. The Spaniards
called after them, "Boa ueyajo ;" and no man ever thought of seeing
them an more.

The aniards were often saying to .one another,_and to the two
honest nglishmen who remained behind, how quietly and com-
fortably they lived, now these three turbulent fellows were .gone. As
for their coming again, that was the remotest thing from their thon hts
that could be ima%ned; when, behold, after two-and-twenty ys'
absence, one of the nghshmen, being abroad upon his plantin work,
sees three strange men coming towards him at a distance, Wit guns
upon their shoul ers. _ . .

Away rims the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes
frightened and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they
were all undone, for there were stranflers upon the island, but could
not tell who they were. The Spaniard, pausmg a while, says to him,
" How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are the say <<res, to
be sure." " No, no, ' says the Englishman; 'fthey are menm c othes,
With arms." "Nay, then," says the S amard, "why are vou so
concerned? If they are_not savages, tiey must be friends; for
there is no Christian nation upon earth but Wlll do us good rather
than harm." . _

While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen and
standing without the wood,_ which was new planted, hallooed to t iem.
'l'liey presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder ceased.
But now the admiration was tunicd upon another question :--what
could be the matter, and what made them come back again?_ . .

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring
where thev had been, and what they .had been doing, they gave
them a full account of their voyage in a few words ;--that they
reached the land in two days, or something less; but finding the
peo le alarmed at their coming, and repanng with bows and arrows
to anglit them, they durst not 0 on 5 mm, but sailed on to the north-
w Six or seven hours, till t ey came to a great o Jening, by which
they perceived that the land they saw from pm is and was not the
main, but an island; upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw
another island on the right hand, north, and several more west- and
bein resolved to land somewhere they put over to one of the islands
wliic lay west, and went boldl on shore: that they found the
people very courteous and frien y to them; and that they gave
several roots and some dried fish, and appeared very seeiable; and
the women, as well as the men, were very forward to supply them
with anything they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them
a eat way upon their heads. .

hey continued here four days; and inquired, as well as they
could of them, by signs what nations were this way, and that way;
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost
every way who, as they made known bv signs to them, used to
eat men; but as for themselves, they!" said, they never ate men or
women, except only such as they too in the wars; and then, they
owned, they made a great feast, and ate their risoners.

The Enghshmen inquired when they had a feast of that
kind; and they told them about two moons ago, pointin to the
moon and to two fingers - and that their great king had two undrcd
prisoners now, which he had taken in his war and they were feedin
them to make them fat. for the next feast. 'l'he Enghshmenseemed
mighty desirous of seeing those prisoners; but the others mistaking
them, thought they were desirous to have some of them to carry
away for t eir own eating. So they beckoned to them, pointing
to the settin of the sun, and then to the rising; which was to
signify that t e next morning at sunrismg they would bring some
for them; and, accordingly, the next mormng they brought down
five women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to
carry With them on their voyage, Justas we would bnng so many cows
and oxen down to a sea-port town to Victual a ship.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned_at this sight, and they did not know what to do.
To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront to the
sava gentry that could be ofl'ered them, and what to do with them
they new not. . However, after some debate, they resolved to accept
of them; and, in return, they gave the sav "es-that brought them
one of their .hatchets, an old key, a knife, an Six or seven of their
bullets; which thonvh they did not understand their use, they
seemed particularly pleased with - and then tying the 1poor creatures'
hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into t e boat for our
men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had
them, or else they that gave them this noble present would certainly
have expected that they should have gone to work with them, have
killed two or three of them the next morning, and, rhaps, have
invited the donors to dinner. But having taken their eave, with all
the respect and thanks that could well pass between pco le, where,
on either aide, they understood not one word they coul say, they
put 011' With their boat, and came_back towards_the first island;
where when they amved they set eight of their prisoners at hberty,
there bemg too many of them for their occasmn. _ _

_In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some commumcation
With their prisoners; but it was imposSible to make them understand
anything. Nothing they could say to them, or give them or do for
them, but was looked upon as going to murder them. They first of
all unbound them; but the poor. creatures screamed at that, espe-
cmlli the women, as if they had ust felt the knife at their throats;
for t ey immediately concluded t ey were unbound on purpose to be
killed. If they save them anything to eat, it was the same thing;
they then eonclu ed it was for fear they should sink in flesh, and so
not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of them more par-
ticularly, the party presently concluded it was to see whether he or
she was fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay after they had brought
them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them well,
still they expected every day to make a dinner or supper for their
new masters. .

When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
or iournal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was; and being told that they had brought them on

shore, and putthem into one of their huts, and were come u to beg

some victuals for them, they the Spaniards) and the ot er two

Englishmen, that is to say, the w ole colony, resolved to go all down

3: the place and see them; and did so, and Friday's ther With
em.

When they came into the but, there they sat, all bound; for
when they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands
that they might not take the boat and make their escape - there,
say, they sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were three men,
lusty, comely fellows, well shaped, strai ht and fair limbs, about
thirty to thirty-five years of age; and ve women, whereof two
might be from thirty to forty ' two more not aboveifour or five-and-
twenty; and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about Sixteen or
seventeen. The women were well-favoured, vreeable persons, both
in shape and features only tawn - and two 0 them, had they been

erfect white would have passes, or very handsome women, even in

ondon itself: having pleasant, agreeable countenanees, and of a very
modest behaviour; especially when they came afterwards to be
clothed and dressed, as they called it, though that dress was very
mdifierent it must he confessed. _

.The Slillt, you maybe sure, was something uncouth to our Spa-
mards, w owere, to give them a ust character, men of the best
behaViour, of the most calm, se ate tempers, and perfect good
humour, that ever I met with; and, in particular, of the most
modesty; I say, the sight was very uncouth, to_see three naked men
and five naked women, all together bound, and in the most miserable
circumstances that human nature could be supposed to be via, to'be
expecting every moment to be dragged out, and have their brains
fincctked out, and then to be eaten up like a calf that is killed for a

am y.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father to go in, and see, first, if he knew any of them, and then if
he understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came in
he looked serious y at them, but knew none of them; neither could
any of them understand a word he said, or a Sign he could make,
except one of the women. However, this was enou h to answer the
end, which was to satisfy them that the men into w ose hands they
were fallen were Christians- that they abhorred eating men or
women; and that they might be sure they would not be killed. As
soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such a joy, and by
such awkward gestures, several ways, a is hard to describe; for it
seems they were of several nations. _ .

The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place,
to ask them if they were wilhng to be servants, and to work for the
men who had brought them away, to save their lives; at which the
all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking u this, an
another that, anything that lay next, to carry on their s ouldeis, to
intimate they were Willing to work. .

The governor, who found that the having women aino them
would presently be attended With some inconvenience, an might
occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what
they-intended to do With these women, and how the intended. to use
them, whether as servants or as Wives? One 0 the Englishmen
answered very boldly and readily, that they would use'them as both;
to wluch the governor said, " I am not geing to restrain on from it;
you are your own masters as to that; but this I thin]; is. ut Just, for
avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it of you for
that reason only, v1z.:--That you Will all en-e , that if any of you
take any of these women as a Wife, that he sh take but one - and
that having taken one, none else shall touch her; for tholgf we
cannot in any one of ye yet it is but reasonable that, w c you
stay here, he woman any 0 you takes shall be maintained by the
man that takes her and should be his Wife; I mean," says he,
" while he continues here, and that none else shall have anything to
do with her." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it
Without any difficulty. _ . _

Then the Englishman asked the S aniards if they deSigned to take
any of them? But every one .of tiem answered_"No:'_' some of
them said they had wives in Sdpain, and the others did not hke women
that were not Christians; an all together declared that they would
not touch one of them: which was an instance of such Virtue as I
have not met with in all my travels. On the other hand, to be short,
the five Englishmen took them every one a wife, that_is to say a
temporary Wife- and so they set up a new form _of livmgnfor t e
Spamards and friday's father lived in my old habitation, which they
had enlai- d exceedingly within. The three servants which were
taken int e last battle of the sav es lived with them: and these
carried on the main part of the_coony, supplied all the rest With
food, and assisted them in anything as they could, or as they found
necessitirequired. .

But t e wonder of the story was, how five such refractory, ill-
matched fellows should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not choose the same woman, especially seeing two or
three of them were, without comparison, more agreeable than the
others: but they took a good way enough to prevent uarrelling
among themselves; for they set the five women bh themse ves in one
of their huts, and the went all into the other ut, and drew lots
among them who she d choose first. .

He that drew to choose first went away by} himself to the but
where the poor naked creatures were, and fetc ed out her he chose;
and it was worth observing, that he that chose firsthtook her that
was reckoned the homehest and oldest of the five, which made mirth
enough among the rest; and even the S ' ds laughed at it: but
the fellow considered better than any of t em, that it was apphcation

and business they were to expect assistance in, as much as in anything
else - and she proved the best Wife of all the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and
fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon
them again, and they firmly believed they were now gomz to be
devoured. Accordingly, when the Enghsh sailor came in and fetched
out one of them, the mt set up a most lamentable cry, and hung
about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and affection
as would have nrrieved the hardest heart in the world: nor was it
possible for the Tinglishnien to satisfy them that they were not to he
immediately mm-dered, till they fetched the old man. Friday's fatlu r,
who immediately let them know that the five men, who were to fetch
them out one by one, had chosen them for their wives.

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a little
over, the men went. to work, and the Spaniards came and he] red
them; and in a few hours they had built them every one a new rut,
or tent for their lodgiiw apart- for those they had already were
crowded with their tools, rousehold stuff, and provisions. The three
wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones nearer
but both on the north shore of the island, so that they continued
separated as before; and thus my island was peopled in three places:
and, as 1 might say, three towns \verc begun to be built.

And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it often happens
in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are in such a
dispOsition of things, I cannot say), the two honest fellows had the
two worst wives; and the three rcprobates, that were scarce worth
hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do
themselves good, nor any one else, had three clever, diligent, careful,
and ingenious wrvcs; not that the first two were bad wives, as to
their temper or humour, for all the five were. most willing, quiet,
passive, and sub'ceted creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but
my meaning is, thev were not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious,
or alike cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent.
a )plieation on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negligent
i e. temper on the other, that when I came to the place, and viewet
the several improvements, plantings. and management of the several
little colonies, the two tnen had so far outgone the three, that there
was no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as much ground
laid out for com as they wanted, and the reason was, because, accord-
ing to my rule, nature dictated that. it was to no purpose to sow more
com titan thev wanted; but the difference of the cultivation, of the
ilanting, of the fences, and, indeed, of everything else, was easy to

e seen at first view.

The two men had innumerable 'ouno trees lanted about their
huts, so that, when you came to the place, not ting was to be seen
but a wood: and though they had twice had their plantation demo-
lished once by their own countrymen, and once bv the enemy, as
shall he shown in its place, yet they had restored all again, and
everything was thriving and flourishing about them: they had gra )es
planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though they ad
themselves never seen anything of that kind; and, by their good
ordering their vines, their grapes were as good again as any of the
others. They had also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest
part of the woods: where, though there was not a natural cave, as I

tad found, yet they made one with ntceSsant lahOur of their hands
and where, when the mischief which followed happened, they sccuret
their wives and children so as they could never be found; they
having, by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood which,
as 1 said, grew so readily, made the grove iin )assable. except in
some places, where they climbed up to get over the outside part, and
then went on by ways of their own leaving.

As to the three re irobates, as l justly call them, though they were
much civilized by tieir settlement compared to what they were
before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the same oppor-
tunitv; yet one of the certain companions of a profiigate mind never
left them, and that was their idleness. It is tme, they planted corn,
and made fences; but Solomon's words were never better verified
than in them, "1 went by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was all
overgrown with thorns ;" for when the Spaniards came to view their
crop, they could not see it in some places for weeds, the hedge had
several gaps in it, where the wild goats had got in and eaten up the
corn; per raps here and there a dead bush was crammed in, to stop
them out; for the present, but it was only shutting the stable-door
after the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the colony
of the other two, there was the very face of industry and success
upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn
or a gap in any of their hedges; and they, on the other hand verified
Solomon's words in another place, "that the diligent hand iiiakctli
rieli;" for cvervtliing grew and thrived, and they had plenty within
and without; they had more tame cattle than the others, more
utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more pleasure and
diverSion too.

.It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and clean]
Within doors; and having learned the English ways 01 dressing an(
cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who as I said, was a
cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' vietuals
verv nicely and well; whereas the others could not be brought to
understand it; but then the husband, who. as I say, had been cook's
mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of the three wives,
they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs and caught fish and birds;
in a word, anything but labour; and they fared accordingly. The
diligent lived well and comfortablv, and the slothful lhard and
beggaxrly: and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all over the
wor .

But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened
before, either to them or to me; and the origin of the story was
this_:--Early one morning, there came on shore five or six canoes ot'
Indlans or savages, call them which you lease, and there is no room
to doubt they came upon the old errand o feeding upon their slaves;
but that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men
too, that they did not concern themselves about it, as I did: but
having been made sensible by their experience, that their only
husniess was to lie conceale , and that if her were not seen by any
of the savaies, they would go 011' again quietly, when their business
was done, aving, as yet, not the least notion of there being any
inhabitants in the island; I say, having been made sensible 0t this,
they had nothing to do but give notice to all the three plantations
to keep within doors, and not show themselves, only placing a
scout in a proper place, to give notice when the boats went to sea
again. _ _

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster sporled all
these measures, and made it known among the savages that there
were inhabitants there; which was, in the end the desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the sav cres were
gone off, the Spaniards peepcd abroad again; and some of t em had
the curiosity to go to tie place where they had been, to see what
they had been dorng. Here, to their cat surprise, they found three
savages left behind, and lying fast as eep upon the. ground. It was
supposed they had either been so gorged With their inhuman feast,
that, hke beasts, the were fallen asleep, and would not stir_when
the others went, or- t ey had wandered into the woods, and did not
come back in time to be taken in. . . _

The Spaniards were great! surprised at this Sight and perfectly
at a loss what to do. . he pamsh vernor, as it ha pened, was
with them, and his advice was inked, ut he rofessed e knew not
what to do. As for slaves, the had enough y; and as to kill-
ing them, there were none of t em inclined to do_tha_t: the Spaniard
governor told me, they could not think of shedding innocent blood -
or as to them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded
none of their property, and the thought they had no just quarrel
against them, to take away their 'ves. And here I must, .in Justice
to these Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and 'l'eru be what they will, I never met With seventeen
men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign count , who were so
universally modest, temperate, Virtuous, so very good- umoured, and
so courteous, as these Spaniards -. and as toerueltyhthey had nothing
of it.in their very nature: no inhumanity, no barbanty, no out "eons
passtons; and yet all of them men of great courage and spirit. heir
temper and calmness had a peared in the1r_bea.ring the insufferable
usage of the three Eng 5 men; and their Justice and humanity
ap cared now in the case of the_savages as above. After some con-
s tation, they resolved upon this; that they would he still a while
longer, till, if ssible these three men might be gone. But then
the governor pauiard recollected that the three savages had no
boat; and if they were left to rove about the lisland, they
would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it - and _so
the should be undone that way. Upon.thrs, they went back again,
an there lay the fellows fast asleep still, and so they resolved to
awaken them, and take them prisoners ; and they did_ so. The poor
fellows were strangely fri htened when the were seized upon and
bound; and afraid, ' e t e women, that t ey should be murdered
and eaten: for it seems, those people think all the world does as the
do, eating men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, an
away they carried them. .

It was veri happy for them that they did not carry them hometo
their castle, mean to my palace under the hill- but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the .chief of their country work,
such as the keeping the goats, the plantmg the corn, &c.; and after-
ward they carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it .was not much they had for
them to do - and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or
that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know
not, but one of_thein ran away, and taking to the woods, they could
never hear of him any more. . _ .

They had good reason to beheve he got home again soon after in
some other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards; and who,_ earryino on their revels as usual,
went ofi' in two days' time. This thought terrified them exceed-
ingly; for. theyl conc uded and that not Without good cause indeed
that _if this fe ow came ome safe among his comrades, he .would
certamly 've them an account that there were eople in the
island, an also how few and weak they were; for tiis savage, as
observed before, had never been told, and it was very baggy he had
not, how manithere were, or where they lived; nor h be ever
seen or heard t efire of any of their guns, much less had they shown
him any of their other retired places- such as the cave in the
Vfilltilyi or the new retreat which the two linghshmen had made, and
t e 'e.

The first testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence
of them was, that about two months after this, six canoes of savages,
With about seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowin along
the north side of the island, where they never used to come eforc,
and'landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about
a mile from the habitation of the two Enghslimen, where this escaped
man had been kept. As the Spamard governor said had they been
all there, the damage would not have been so much, fbr not a man of
them would have escaped: but the case differed now very much,_for two
men to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the happiness to
discover them about a l e of, so that it was above an hour before
they landed; and as they dcd a mile from their huts, it was some
time before they could come at them. Now, having . eat reason to
beheve that they were betrayed, the first thing they d was to bind
the two slaves which were left, and cause two of the three men whom
they brought With the women who, it seems, proved very faithful
to them), to lead them, with t eir 'two wires, and whatever they
could carry away with them, to their retired places in the woods,
which I have spoken of above, and there to bind the two fellows
hand and foot, till they heard farther.

In the next lace, seeing the savages were all come on shore and
that they had nt their course directly that way, the opened the
fences where the milch-cows were kept, and drove t em all out;
leavin their goats to st. gle in the woods, whither they pleased,
that t e savages might th ' they were all bred Wild; but the rogue
who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave them an
account of it all, for the .went directly to the place. _ '

When the two r riglitened men had secured their Wives and
goods, they sent tie other slave they had of the three who came Wltll
the women, and who was at their place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to 've them the alarm, and desire speedy
help, and, in the meantime, t ey took their arms, and what ammuni-
tion they had, and retreated towards the place in the wood where
their wires were sent; keeping at a distance, yet so that they might
see if possible, which way the savages took. _ .

Theyhad not gone far, but that from arising und they could
see the little army of their enemies come on direct y to their habits:
tion, and, in a moment more, could see all their huts and household
stufi' flanfiig up together, to their great. grief and mortification;
for they 3 ve great loss, to them irretnevable at least for
some time. Th? ept their station for a while, till they found the
savages, hke Wll beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rum-
maging every way,_ and every lace they could think of, m_search of
prey; and in fiarthculah for t e people, of whom, now, it fphunly
ap eared the ad intelligence. _ . _

e two nglishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure
where they stood, because it was likely some of the Wild people might
come that way, and they might come too many together, t ought it
proper to make another retreat about half a mile farther ' beheving,
w it afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer
wouldbe together. _

Their next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown part
of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was
hollow and vastly large- and in this tree they both took their stand-
ing, resolving to see there what might ofi'er. They had not stood
there long before two of the savages appeared runnin directly that
way, as if they already had notice where they stood, an were coming
up to attack them; and a little way farther they espied three more
coming after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a distance,
running another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like sports-
iueii heating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether the should
stand and keep their posture, or fly- but, after a very sho debate
\Vitli themselves they considered, that if the savages ranged the
country_thus before he! came, they might perhaps find out their
retreat in the woods, an_ then all would be lost; so they resolved to
stand them there; and if the were too many to deal with, then they
would get u to the top of t e tree, from whence they doubted not
to defend t emselves, fire excepted, as 10 0 as their ammunition
lasted, though all the savages that were lande which was near fifty.
were to attack them.

Herring resolved upon this, 'they next considered whether they
should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the middle
part3, by which the two and the five that followed would be sepa-
rate ; at length they resolved to let the first two pass by, unless
they should spy them in the tree, and .come to attack them. The
first two savages confirmed them also in this regulation, b turn-
ing a little from them towards another part of the wood: ut the
three, and the five after them, came forward directly to the tree,
as if they had known the E lishmen were there. Seeing themeome
so straight towards them, t ey resolved to take them in a hne as
they came: and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps the
first shot might hit them all three - for which Burpose the man who
was to fire But three. or four small bullets into is piece; and hav'

a fair loop- o_le, as it were, from ahroken hole in the tree, he too
a sure am Without being seen, waitm till they were within about
thirt ards of the tree, so that he coul not miss.

e the'yawere thus waiting, and the savages came 'on, they
plainly saw t t one of the three was the runaway savage that had
escaped from them; and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved
that if ssible, he should. not escape, though thefi should both fire:
so the at or stood ready With his piece, that if he (1 not drop at the
first shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the first was too
good a marksman to.miss his aim; for as the sav . kept near one
another, a httle behind in a hne, he fir and it two of them
directly: the foremost was lulled outright, ing shot in the head;
the secon which was the runawa Indian, was shot through the
body and ell, but was not quite ead; and the third had a little
scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through
the body of the second; and being dreadfufly frightened, though
not so_ much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling
in a hideous manner.

The five that were behind more frightened with the noise than
sensible of the danger, stood still at first; for the woods made the
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes ratthng
from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all arts, scream-
ing, and every sort making a dill'erent neise, accor ing to their
kind; just as it was when f fired the first gun that perhaps was
ever shot otf in the island. . _

However, all being silent again, _and they not knowmo what the
matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the place where
theirpompanions lay in a condition miserable enough: and here the
poor ignorant creatures not sensible that they were Within reach of
the same mischief, stood all together over the wounded man, talking,
and, as maybe supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt:
and who it is very rational to believe told them, that a flash of. fire
first, and immediately after that thunder from their gods, hadkilled
those two and wounded him- this, I say, is rational; for nothingI is
more certain than that as the. saw no man near them, so they ad
never heard a gun Hi all their ves nor so much as heard of a gun;
neither knew they anything of kiliing and wound at a. distance
With fire and bullets: if they had, one might reasona l believe they
would not have stood so unconcerned to View the fate 0 their fellows,
Without some apprehensions of their own. . .

Our two me . though, as they confessed to me, it grievedthem to
be obliged to so many poor creatures who at the same time, had
no notion of their danger; et, having them thus in their wer,
and the first having loade his piece again, resolved to let y both
together among them; and sin hng out, by agreement, which to aim
at, they shot together, and kified, or very much wounded, fourpf
them; the fifth; frightened even to death, though not hurt, fell With
the rest; so t t our men, seeing them all fall together, thought they
had killed them all.
The belief that the savage: were all killed made our two men come
boldly out from the tree fore they had charged their guns, which
was a wrong step; and thev were under some surprise when they
came to the place, and found no less than four of them alive, and of
them two very little hurt, and one not at all: this obhged them to
fall upon them Wltll the stocks of their muskets; and first their; made
sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of all t. e mis-
chief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and put them out of
their pain: then the nian that was not hurt at all, came and kneeled
down to them, With his two hands heldyii,i and made iteous moans
to them, bv gestures and signs, for his fe, but co d not say one
word to them that they could understand. However, they made
Signs to him to Sit down at the foot of a tree hard by; and one of the
Englishmen, with a piece of rope twuied, which he had by great
chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him, and there they
left_ him; and With what 5 ed the could, made after the other two
which were gone before, earing t icy, or any more of them, should
find the way to their covered lace in the woods, where their wives,
and the few goods they had 1e t lay. They came once in sight of the
two men, but it was at agreat distance; however, they had the satis-
faction to see them cross over a valley towards the sea, uite the
contrary way from that which led to their retreat, which t ey were
afraid of ; and being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree
where they left their risoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered
by his comrades, for e was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn,
with which they had bound him, lay Just at the foot of the tree.

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what
course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what number;
so they resolved to go away to the place where their wives were, to
see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough to be sure; for though the savages were their own country-
men, 'et they were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the
more or the knowledge they had of them. _

When they came there, they found the savages had been _in the
wood, and very" near that place, but had not found .15; for it was
indeed inaccessible, from the trees standing so thick, unless the
personssceking it had been directed by those that knew it, which
these did not; the found, therefore, everything very safe, onl the
women in a temb e fright. Whilethey were here, they _ba the
comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to their assxstance;
the other ten, Wltll. their servants, and old Friday (I mean Friday's
father), were gone in a body to defend their bower and the corn and
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages should have roved over
to that Slde of the country; but they did not spread so far. With
the seven Spaniards came one of the three sav 5, who, as I said,
were their risoneis formerly -, and with them a so came the savage
whom the nglishinan had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for
it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and
unbound the eighth, and brou ht lum along with them- where, how--
ever, they were obhged to bin him again, as they had the two others
who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners now began to he a burden to them; and the were
so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to ki them
all, behevmg they were under an absolute necessity to do so for their
own preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would not con-
sent to it; but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent out
of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with two
Spaniards to guard them; and give them food for their sanistencc,
w iich was done; and they were bound there hand and foot for that

NW]; . .

en the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encou-
raged, that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer
there; but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves, With four
muskcts and a pistol amon them, and two stout quarter staves,
away they went in nest of t ie savages. And first they came to the
tree where the men ay that had been killed; but it was easy to see
that some more of the savages had been there, for they had attempted
to carry their dead men away and had dragged two of them a good
way, but had given it over. From thence they advanced to the lirst
rising ground, where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed,
and where they had the mortification still to see some of the smoke;
but neither could they here see any of the savages. They then
resolved, though with all possible caution, to go forward towards
their mined plantation; but a little before they came thither, coming
in sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all embarked
again in their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry at lirst,
that there was no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow;
but, upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid oi' them.

'lhe poor Englishmen being new tWiec ruined, and all their im-
provements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them to
rebuild, and assist them with needt'ul supplies. Their three coun-
trymen, who were not yet noted for havnig the least inclination to
do any , yet as soon as they heard of it for they, hvmg remote
eastwar knew nothing of the matter till was ever), came and
oll'ered their help and assistance and did, very friendly, work tor
several days to restore their ha itation, and make necessaries for
them. And thus, in a little time their were set upon their. legs again.

About two days after this, they had the farther satisfaction of
seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore, and, at
some distance from them, two drowned men: y which they had
reason to believe that they had met with a stomi at sea, which had
oversetfisome of them ; for it had blown very hard the mght after they
went 0 .

However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand enough
of them esca ed to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as
of what ha happened to them, and to whet them on to another
enterprise of the same nature; which they, it seems, resolved to
attem t, with sufficient force to carry all before them: for exee t
what t ie first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say htt e
of it of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man;.and the
fellow being killed that_ atfirmed it, they had no other Witness to
confirm it to them. 14
It was five or sin months after this before they heard any more of
the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they had either
forgot their former bad luc orgiven over hopes of better; when, on
a sudden, the were invade wit a most formidable fleet of no less
than eight an twenty canoes, full of savages armed with bows and
arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such hke engmesof war-
and they brought such numbers w1th_them, that, in short, it put all
our people into the utmost consternation. .

As the came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side of
the islan our men had that night to consult and consider what to
do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
was their only safety bekire, and would be much more so now, while
the number of their enemies would be so great, they therefore
resolved, first of all, to take down the huts which were built for the
two Englishmen, and drive away their _ats to the old cave; because
they supposed the sav would go . ctly thither, as. soon as it
was day to play the ol ame over again, though they did not new
land Within two leagueso it. In the next place, they drove awailall
the flocks of goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, w 'ch
belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of
inhabitants anywhere as was a{ilossdilez and the next morning early
they posted themselves, With their force, at the plantation of the
two men, to wait for their coming. As they guessed, so it happened:
these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the island,
came ranging along the shore, directly towards the place, to the
number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could Judge.
Our army was but small, indeed; but_that which was worse, they
had not arms for all their number neither. The whole account, it
seems, stood thus: that, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five English-
men, old Friday (or Friday's father), the three slaves taken Wild). the
women, who proved very faithful, and three other slaves, who hved
with the Spaniards. To arm these, they had eleven muskcts, five
pistols, three fowling-pieees, five muskets, or fow' --pieces, which
were taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom reduced, two
swords, and three old halberts. _

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee,_ but
they had each a halbert, or a long stafi', hke a quarter-staff, with a
float spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and 1) his Side a

tehet: also every one of our men had a hatchet. o. of the
women could not be prevailed upon but the would come into the
fight, and they had bows and arrows, which t e Spaniards had taken
from the savages when the first action happened, which I have
spoken of, where the Indians fought With one another: and the
women had hatchets too. _

The Spaniard governor, whom I descnhed so often, commanded the
whole: and Will Atkins, who though a dreadful fellow for wicked-
ness, was a most daring, bold fellow, commanded under him. The
savages came foward like hens; and our men, which was the worst of
their fate, had no advantagein their Situation; only that Will Atkins
who now groved a' most useful fellow, With six men, was lanted
Just behin a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guar With
orders to let the first of them pass by and then fire into the
middle of them, and as soon as he had red, to make his retreat
as nimblg a he_eould round a part of the wood, and so come in
behind t e Spaniards, where they stood, havmg a thicket of trees
"it? thiii" th traggli be t '

en e savages came on, ey ran 3 no a 11 every way in
heaps, out of all manner of order and Will Atkins let about fifty of
them nfiass by him; then seeing the rest come in a very thick throng,
he 0 ers three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskets With
six or seven bullets a-piece about as big as lat pistol bullets. How
many theykilled or woundedthey knew not, ut the consternation
and surprise was inexpress1ble among the savages; . they were
frightened to the last degree to hear such a dreadful noise, and see
their men killed and others hurt but see nobody that did it; when,
in the middle of, their fright, W' Atkins and his other three let ily
again amon the thickest of them; and in less than a minute the first
three bein oaded again, gave them a third volley.

Had W Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as they
had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the body been
at hand to have poured in their shot continually, the savages had
been efi'ectually routed; for the terror that was among them came
principally from this, that they were killed by the gods With thunder
and lightning, and could see nobody that hurt them; but Will Atkins,
staying to load again, discovered the cheat : some of the sav ves who
were at a distance sp)' them, came upon them behind; an though
Atkins and his men fire at them also, two or three times, and killed
above twenty retiring as fast as theicould, yet they wounded Atkins
himself, and killed one of his fellow nglishmen With their arrows, as
they did afterwards one S award, and one of the Indian slaves who
came with the women. his slave was a most gallant fellow and
fought most :desperately, killing five of them with his own hand,
havmg no weapon but one of the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other
men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood- and the
Spaniards after firing three volleys upon them, retreated also; for
their num er was so great and they were so desperate, that though
above fifty of them were ed, and more than as many wounded, et
they came on m the teeth of our men, fearless of dan r, and s ot
their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed that t eir wounded
men, who were not (finite disabled, were made outrageous by their
wounds, and fought h e madmen. _

When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the English-
men that were killed behind them; and the savages, when they came
up _to them killed them over_a}gain in a wretched manner, breaking
their arms, legs, and heads, wit their clubs and wooden swords, like
true savages; but finding our men were gone, they did not seem to
pursue them but drew themselm up in a ring,.which is, it seems, their
custom, an shouted twice, in token of their victory; after which,
they had the mortification to see several of their wounded men fall,
dying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together
upon a rising ground Atkins, though he was wounded, would have
had them march and charge again all together at once: but the
Spaniard rc )licd --"Scignior Atkins, you see how their wounded
men tight- et them alone till inorning- _all the wounded men will
be stiff and sore with their wounds, and (mat with the loss of blood;
and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This ady'ice was good:
but Will Atkins re lied merrily, "That is true, Seiguior, and so
shall I too - and t ml; is the reason I would goon while I am
warm."--"Vl"ell, Seignior Atkins," says the _Spaiiiard, "you_ have
behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will fight for you if you
cannoe come on; but I think it best to stay till morning." so they
waite .

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages
in_gre:it disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great
neise and hurry among them where they lay they afterwards resolved
to fall upon them in the night - especially if they could come to give
them but one vollev before they were discovered, which they had'a
fair op rtunity to do : for one of the Englishmen in whose quarter it
was w iere the tight began, led them round between the woods and
the sea-side westward, aud thcn turning short south, they came
so near where the thickest of them lay, that, before they were seen_ or
heard, eight of them fired in upon them, and did dreadful execution
upon them; in half a minute more, eight others fired after them,
touring in their small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were
'illcd and wounded; and all this while they were not able to see who
hurt them, or which way to fly. _

_The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expeditionhand then
diVided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in among
them all together. They had in each body eiiht [persons that is to
say, twenty-two men and the two women, w 02 y the way, fought
des rately. They divided the fire-arms equally in each party, aswell
as t ie halberts and stares. They would have had the women kept
back, but they said they were resolved to die with their husban s.
Havmg thus formed their little army they marched out from among
the trees, and came up to the teeth 0 the enemy, shouting and balloo-
ing as loud as they could; the savages stood all together, but were in
the utmost confusion, hearing the neise of our men shouting from
three quarters together: they would have fought if they had seen us;
for as soon as we came near enough to he seen, some arrows were
shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not dangerously;
but our men gave them no time, but, running up to them fired among
them three ways, and then fell in With the butt;ends of their muskets,
their swords, armed staves, and hatchets, and laid about them so well,
that, in a word, they set up a dismal screaming and howling, flying to
save their lives which way soever they could. _

Our men were tired with the execution, and dulled or mortally
wounded in_the two fights about one hundred and ei ht of them;
the mt, being frightened out of their wits, scoure t rough the
woods and over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet could
help them to; and as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue
them, they got all together to the seaside where they landed, and
where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet;
for it blew a temble storm of wind that evemng from the sea, so that
it was impossible for them to go 011'; nay, the storm continuing all
night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of themdnven
by the surge of the seaso high u n the shore that it required mfimte
toil to get them of! ; andsome 0 them were even dashed to pieces
against the beach, or oainst one another. _

Our men, though g1 of their Victorynyet got httle rest that night -
but havmg refreshed themselves as we as they could, they resolvet
to march to that part of the island where the savages were tied, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them over the
place where the fight had been, and where they found several of the

. r creatures not qmte dead, and yet past recovering life; a sight

isagreeable enough to generous minds - for a truly great man, though
obliged by the law of battle to destroy 's enemy, takes no delight in
his misery. However, there was no need to 'give any orders in this
case; for their own sav "es, who were their servants, despatched
these poor creatures with t eir hatchcts.

At length, they came in view of the place where the more miserable
remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about a lion-
dred still: their posture was generally Sitting upon the ground, With
their knees up towards their mouth, and the head put tween the
two hands, leaning down upon theknees.

.When our men came Within tm musket-shots of them the Spa-
niard governor ordered two muskets to be fired, without ball, to alarm
them : this he did, that by their countenance he might know what to
expect, whether they were still _m heart to fi ht, or were so heartily
beaten-as to be dispirited and discouraged, an so he might manage
accordingly. This stratagem took; for as soon as the sav ores heard
the. first and saw the flash of the second, they starte up upon
their feet in t e greatest consternation imaginable; and as our men
advanced smftly towards them, they all'ran screaming and yelling
away With a kind of howlinfienoise, which our men did not under-
stand and had never heard fore; and thus they ran up the hills
into the country.

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and
they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that
this might probably have been the occasion of their coming again in
such multitudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so many
and so often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them.
Will Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound, ke t always
With them, proved the best counsellor in thiscase: his vice was
to take the advant that ofi'ered, and step in between them and
their boats, and so 'e rive them of the capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the is and. _

They consulted long about this; and some were against it for fear
of makin the wretches fly to the woods and live there dos rate, and
so they s ould have them to hunt like wild beasts, be md to stir
out about their business, and have their lantations continually rifled,
all their tame goats destroyed, and, in s ort, be reduced to a life of
oontmnal distress. 14-2
Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a hundred
men than with a hundred nations: that as thev must destroy their
boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of them destroyed
themselves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it'so lamly,
that. they all came into it; so they went to work immediate y With
the boats, and getting some dry wood together from a dead tree, they
tried to set some of them on fire, but they were so wet that they
would not burn; however, the fire so burned the upper part that it
soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as boats. When the
Indians saw what they were about, some of them came runnino out of
the woods, and coming as near as they could to our men, lineeled
down and cried, "0a, 0a, W aramokoa," and some other words of
their language, which none of the others understood anything of ; but
as they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was easy to under-
stand thev begged to have their boats spared, and that they would be
gone, and never come there again. But our men were now satisfied
that they had no way to preserve themselves or to save their colony,
but eii'eetually to prevent any of these people from ever gomg home
again _: depending upon this, that if even so much as one of them got
back into their country to tell the story, the colony was undone; so
that, letting them know that the should not have anv mercy, they
fell to work With their canoes, an destro 'ed every one that the storm
had not destroyed before; atthe sight of) which, the savages raised a
hideous cry in the woods which our ieo _1e heard plain enouoh, after
which they ran about the island ' 'e distracted nicn ; sotliat in a
word, our men did not really know what at first to'do With them.
Nor did the Spaniards with all their prudence, counter that while
they made those peopfe thus desperate, they ought to have kept a
good guard at the same time upon their plantations . for though, it is
true, they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not find
out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor the cave
in the .valley, yet they found out my plantation at the bower, and
pulled it all to ieces, and all the fences and plantin about. it; trod
all the corn un crfoot, tore up the vines and grapes, ing Just then
almost ripe, and did our men an inestimable damage, though to them-
selves iiot one farthing's worth of service.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down:
for as they were too nimble of foot for our men when they found them
single, so our men durst not go abroad single, for fear of being sur-
rounded with their numbers. The best was, thefv had no weapons;
for though they had bows, they had no arrows lc t, nor any materials
to make any -, _nor had they any edge-tool or weapon among them.

. 'l'he extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and
indeed deplorable: but, at the same time, our men were also brought
to very bad circumstances by them: for though their retreats were
preserved, vet their provismn was destroyed, and their harvest
spOiled - nd what to do, or which way to turn themselves, they knew
not. The on] ' refuge they had now, was the stock of cattle they had
in the valley y the cave, and some httlc corn which grew there, and
the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades,
who were now reduced to two; one of them being killed by an arrow,
which struck him on the side of. his head, just under the tem 105, so
that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable that t iis was
the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave with his
hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the Spa-

mards.
I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time, than mine

was at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and rice,
and got into the manner of planting and raising my corn, and my tame
cattle; for now the had, as I may. say, ahundred wolves upon the
island; which woul devour everything they could come at, yet could
be hardly come at themselves.

When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing they
concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the
further part of the island, south-west, that if any more savages came
on. shore they might not find onc_another; then, that they would
daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of them as they could
come at, till they had reduced their number; and if they could at last
tainc them, and bring them to anything, they would give them com,
and teach them how to plant, and live upon their daily labour.

In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified them with
their uns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian,
if he id not hit him, yet he would fall down for-fear; and so dread-
fully frightened they were that thcykept out of Sight farther and fur.
ther; til], at last, our men following them, and almost every day
killing or wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods or
hollow laces so much, that it reduced them to the utmost misery for
want 0 food- and many were afterwards found dead in the woods,
Without any hurt, absolutely starved to death. .

When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity
moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was_the' most
Fentleniau-likc, generous-minded man that I ever met Willi in in

ife; and be pro osed, if posmble, to take one of them alive, ani
bring him to un erstaud what they meant, so far as to be able to act
as interpreter, and go among them and see if they might be brought
to some conditions that might be depended upon, to save their hves
and do us no harm_. _

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but being
weak and half-starved one of them was at last surprised and made a

risoner. He was sullen at first, and wouldneither eat nor drink;

nt finding himself kindly used, and Victuals given to hini, and no Vio-
lance offered him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told
him how kind the others would be to them all ;. that thcvavonld not
only save their lives, but give them part of the island relive in, pro.
yidcd they would give satisfaction that they would. keep in their own
bounds, and not come beyond it to injure or prf'JlldlCC others; and
that they should have corn given them to plznit and make it grow for
then- bread, and some bread given them for their present submstence :
and old Friday bade the fellow and talk with the rest of his
countrymen, and see what they sai to it; assuring them that, if they
did not agree immediately, they should be all deetro ed. .

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and need in number

to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first ofl'er, and

to have some food given them; u n which, twelve Spaniards
an two En lishmen, well armed, with t Indian slaves and old
Friday, mare ed to the place where they were. The three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice bailed up to
cakes and dried in the sun, and three hve goats; and they were
ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat_ down, ate their
provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to
their words that could be thought of; for, except when they came to
beg victuals and. directions they never came out of their bounds;
all: there they hved when 1 came to the island, and I went to see
t em.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats and milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and the soon
would have been a nation. They were confined to a_ neck 0 land,
surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lyingplam towards the
sea before them, on the south-east corner of the island. They-had
land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about a mile and a
half broad, and three or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for
myself, and gave amour, them twelve hatchets and three or four
knives; and there they lived, the most subjected, innocent creatures
mirgeiilvmihmi degf' d if ct tran uillity 'th t

r is,tecoonyenjoye apee q' ,Wl respec
to the sav , till I came to revisit them, which was about two years
after; not ut that, now and then some canoes of savages came on
shore for their triumphal, unnatural feasts; but as they were of several
nations, and perhagls had never heard of those that came before, or the
reason of it, they 'd not make any search or inquiry after their coun-

trymen: and if they had, it would have been very hard to have found
them out.

Thus I think, I have given a full account of all that ha . ed to
them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The ndians or
savages were wonderfully civilised bv them, and they frequentl went
among them; but forbi , on pain of death, any one of the dians
coming to them, because they would not have their settlement betrayed
again. One thing _was very remarkable, v1z., that they tau ht the
savages to make Wicker-work, or baskets, but they soon out id their
masters : for they made abundance of most ingenious things in wicker-
work particulary of all sorts of_ baskets, sieves, bird- es, cup-
boards, &c.; as also _chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couc es, and
abundance of other things; being very ingenious at such work, when
they were once put in the wa of it.

My coming wm a rti ar' relief to these peofile, because we
furmshed them With ves, scissors, 5 es, shove ickaxes and

all things of that kind which they eo d want. Wit the help _of
those tools, they were so very handy that they came at last to build
up their huts or houses, very handsomely raddling or working it up
like basket--work all the way round; whic was a very extraordinar
iece of ingenuity, and looked very odd, but was an_ exceeding good
ence as we 1 against heat as against all sorts of vermin; and our men
were_so taken With it, that they got the Wild savages to come and do
the like for them - so that when came to see the two Englishnien's
colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they all lived like bees in a
hive. As for Will Atkins, who was now become a very industrious,
useful, and sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of basket-
work as, I beheve was never seen; it was one hundred and twenty
paces round on the outSide, as I measured by my steps, the walls
were as close worked as a basket, .in panels or squares o thirty-two in
number, and vet strong, standing about seven feet high; in the
middle was .anotier not_above twenty-two paces round, but built
stronger, being octagon in its form, and in _tlie eiihit corners stood
eight very strong posts; round the top of which he dstrong pieces
pinned together With wooden pins, from which he raised a (pyramid
or a roof of eight rafters very handsome, I assure you, an Joined
together very we 1, though he had no nails and only a few iron 5 ikes,
which he made himself too out of the old iron that I had left t ere -
and, indeed, this fellow showed abundance of iiigenuit in several
things which he had no knowledge of: he made him a orge, with a
.' of wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal for
is work; and he formed out of the iron crows a middhng good anvil
to hammer upon: in this manner he made many things, but especially
hooks, staples, and spikes, bolts, and hinges. But to return to the
house: after he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he worked
it up between the rafters with basket-work, so firm, and thatched
that over again so ingeniously with rice-straw, and over that a large
leaf of a tree, which covered the top, that his house was as dry
as if it had been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the savages
had made the basket-work for him. The outer circuit was covered
as a lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay
from the thirty-two angles to the to posts of the inner house,
being about twenty feet distant. so t at there was a space hke a
hmhk within the outer Wicker-wall and without the inner, near twenty
ee Wi e.

The inner place be partitioned off with the same wicker-work but
much fairer, and div1ded into six apartments, so that he ha six
rooms on a floor, and out _of every one of these there was a door;
first into the entry or conun into the main tent, another door into
the main tent, and another oor into the space or walk that was
round it; so that walk was also div1ded into six equal parts, which
served not on] for a. retreat, but to store up any necessaries which
the family h occasion for. These six spaces not takin u the
whole circumference, what other apartments the outer circle were
thus ordered :---As soon as you were in at the door of the outer circle,
ion had a short passage straight before you to the door of the inner

ouse: but on either side was a wicker partition, and a door in it, by
which you went first into a large room, or storehouse, twenty feet
Wlde and about thirty feet long, and through that into another not
quite so long; so that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms,
Six of which were onl to be come at through the apartments of the
inner tent, and serve as closets or retiring rooms to the respective
chambers of the inner circle; and four large warehouses, or barns, or
what you lease to call them, which went throu h one another, two
on either and of the passage, that led through t e outer door to the
inner tent. . _

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the world,
nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. In this

at bee-hive hved the three families, that is to say, Will Atkins and
is compamon: the third was killed, but his Wife remained With three
children, for she was, it seems big with child when he died: and the
other two were not at all backward to give the Widow her full share
of everything, I mean as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c., and when thev
killed a kid, or found a turtle on the shore; so that_tliey all lived well
enough; thou h, it was true, they were not so industrious as the
other two, as as een observed already.

One thing, however cannot be omitted, viz., that as for religion,
I do not know that there was anything of that kind among them;
they often, indeed, put one another in mind that there was a God, by
the very common method of seamen, swearing by his name: nor were
their poor ignorant savage Wives much better for havmg been married
to Christians, as we must call them: for as they knew very httle of
God themselves, so they were utterly incapable of entering into any
discourse With their Wives about a God, or to talk anything to them
concerning rehgion. . _ _

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the Wives had
made from them was, that they 'had taught them to speak Enghsh
pretty well; and most of their children, who were near twenty in all,
were taudeght to saga]: En lish too, from their first learning to speak,
though thev at t spo e it in a very broken manner, like their
mothers. _'I'here was none of these children above six years old when
I came thither, for it was not much above seven years since they had
fetched these five savage ladies over; but they had all been pretty fniit-
ful for they had all children, more or less: I think the cook's mate's
Wife was big of her sixth child; and the mothers were all a good sort
of well-governed, _quiet, laborious womentmodest and decent, helpful
to one another, mighty observant and subyect to their masters (I can-
not call themhusbands), and wanted nothing but to be well instructed
in the Christian rehgion, and to be legally married; both which were
happily brought about afterwards by my means, or at least in conse-
quence of my coming among them. .

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty
much of my runagate English I must say something of the Spaniards,
who were the main body of the family], and in whose story there are
some incidents also remarkable enoug .

I had a great many discourses With them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they
had no instances to give of their aprihcation or ingenuity in that
country; that they were a poor, miserab e, dejected handful of people -
that if means hadbeen put into their hands, yet they had so abando
themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of their misfor-
tune, that they t ought of nothing but starving. One of them a
grave and senSible man, told me he was convmced they were in t e
wrong ;_ that it was not the part of wise men to give themselves up to
their misery, but always to take hold of the li_elps which reason offered,
as_well for recent support as for futiire dehverance: he told me that
grief_was t e most senseless, mSIgnificant passwn in the world, for
that it ed only thin Idpast, which were generally impossible to
be recall or to be reme i, but had no Views of things to come, and
had no share in anythin that looked like deliverance, but rather
added to the affliction t an ro sed a remedy; and upon this be
repeated a Spanish proverb, 'w_ c though I cannot repeat in just the
same. words that he spoke it in, yet I remember I made it into an
English proverb of my own, thus :--

In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had
made in my solitude ; my unwearied application, as he called it; and
how I had made a condition, which in its circumstances was at first
much worse than theirs, a thousand times more hap y than theirs
was, even now when they were all together. He to d. melt was
remarkable that Enghshmen had a greater presence of mind, in their
distress, than anv people that ever e met With; that their unha py
nation and the .Portuguese were the worst men _in the worl to
struggle with nusfortunes; for that their first step in dancers, after
the common efforts were over, was to despair, he down under it, and
die Without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.

I told him their case and mine difi'ered exceedingl ; that they were
cast upon the shore Without necessaries, without supp y of food, or re.
sent sustenance till they could provide for it: that, it was true, 1 ad
this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the sup-
filiies I had providentially thrown into m hands, by the unexpected

Ving of the ship on shore, was such a he p as would have encouraged
an creature in the world to have applied himself as I had done.
" ignior " sa 's the Slpaniard, " had we poor Spaniards been in. your
case, we shoul never ave got half those things out of the ship; as
you did: nay," says he, " we should never have found means to ave
got a raft to carry them, or to have t the raft on shore Without boat
or sad - and how much less shoul we have done if_ any of us had
been alone 1". Well, I desued him to abate his com hments, and IE0
on With the history of their coming on shore, where t ey landed. e
told me they pnhappily landed at a place where there where people
without provisions - whereas, had they had the 'common sense to ut
of to sea again, and gone to another island a little farther, the ad
found proVisions though Without people; there being an islan that
way, as they had been told, where there were proVisions though no

eople; that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad had frequenilfi

_ en there, and had filled the island with goats and hogs at seve
times, where they had bred in such multitudes, and where'tnrtle and
sea-fowl: were in such plenty, that they could have been in no want
of flesh, though they had found no bread; whereas, here, they were
only sustained with a few roots and herbs, which they understood
not, and which had no substance in them, and which the inhabitants
gave them sparingly enough; and they could treat them no better,
unless they would turn cannibals, and eat men's flesh, which was the
great dainty of their country. . _ _
They gave me an account how man ways they strove to eiyilise
the savages the were With, and to teae them rational customs in the
ordinary way 0 livmg but in vain; and how they retorted it upon
them as unjust, that they who came there for assistance and support,
should attempt to set up l'or instructors of those that gave them ood -
iiitimating, it seems, that none should set up for the instructors of
others but those who could live without them. _ _ _
They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven
to; how sometimes they were many da '5 Without any food at all _thc
island the were upon eing inhabited y a sort of savages that lived
more indo ent, and for that reason were _less sugplied With the neces-
saries of life than they had reason to believe ot ers were in the same
part of the world: and yet they found that these savages ,were less
ravenous and voracmus than those who had better supplies of food.
Also they added, they could not but see with what demonstrations of
wisdom and goodness the governing proVidence of God directs the
events of things in this world 2 which, they said, appeared in their
circumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were under, and
thc barrcnness of. the country where they were, they had searched
aftera better to live in, the had then been out of the way of the
relief that happened to them y my means. _
They then gave me an account how the savages whom they hvcd
among expected them to go out with them into their wars; and .1t was
true, that as they had tire-arms with them, had they not had the disaster
to lose their ammumtion, they could have been serviceable not only to
their friends, but have made themselves terrible both to friends and
enemies; but being without powder and shot, and yet in a condition
that they could not in reason deny to go out with their landlords to
their wars; so when they came into the field of battle, they were in a
worse condition than the savages themselves, for they had neither bows
nor arrows, nor could they use those the savages gave them; so they
could do nothing but stand still and be woun ed with arrows till the
came u ) to the teeth of their enemy; and then, indeed, the three ha -
herds t'ie had were of use to them; and they would often drive a
whole htt e army before them with those halbcrds, and sharpened sticks
put into the muzzles of their muskets : but that, for all this, they were
sometimes surrounded With multitudes, and in great danger from
their arrows, till at last they found the way to make themselves large
targets of wood, which they covered With skins of wild beasts, whose
names they knew not, and these covered them from the arrows of the
savages: that, notWithstanding these, they were sometimes in "rent
danger; and five of them were once knocked down together with the
clubs of'the savages, which was the time when one of them was
taken risoncr, that is to say, the S_ aniard whom I relieved: that at
first t ey thought he had been led; but when they afterwards
heard he was taken prisoner they were under the_ greatest 'ef
imaginable, and would y have all ventured their lives to hiilve
rescued him.

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of

their company rescued them, and stood over them fightin till they
were come to themselves, all _but him who the thouvht ad_been
deadi and then they made their way with their alberds and pieces
standing close together in a hne, through a body of above a thousan
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the victory over
their enemies but to their t sorrow because it was with the loss
of their friend, whom the ot er party tinding alive, carried off, with
some others, as I gave an account he ore.
. They described, mostafl'eetionatelv, how they were surprised with
Joy at the return of their friend an. companion in misery, who they
thought had been devoured by Wild beasts of the worst kind wild
men; and yet, how more'and more they were surprised with the
account he gave them of his errand; and that there was a Christian
in any place near --much more one that was able, and had humanity
enough, to contribute to their deliverance. '

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief
I sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they had
not seen Since their coming to that miserable place; how often they
crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what u.
reyivin cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as also the other
things had sent for_their supply: and, after all, they would have told
me something of the Joy they were in at the sight of a boat and pilots,
to carry them away to the person and place from whence all these
new comforts came; but it was imposmb c to express it by words, for
their excessive joy naturall driving them to unbecoming extravagances
they had no way to descri them, but by telhng me_ they bordere
upon lunac , having no way to give vent to their pasSions suitable to
the sense t at was upon them; that in some it worked one way and
in some another: and that some of them, throu h a surprise of Joy,
would burst into tears, others be stark mad, an others immediate y
faint. This discourse extremely affected me and called to my mind
Fnda s ecstasy when he met his father, and the poor peo lefs ecstasy
when took them up at sea after their shi was on fire- t c Joy of the
mate of the ship when he found himself elivered in the place where
he expected to perish; and my own Joy, when, after twenty-eight
years' captivity found a good ship ready to c me to my own
count . All these things made me more sensible o the relation of
these poor men, and more afi'ected With it. _

Havmg thus given a view of the state of things as I found them, I
must relate the heads of what I did for these. people and the condi-
tion in which I left them. It was their opinion, and mine too, that
they would be troubled no more with the savages, or if they were,
they would be able to cut them ofi', if they were twwe as many as
before; so they had no concern about that. Then I entered into a
serious discourse With the Spaniard, whom I call governor about
their stay in the island ; for as I was not come to carry any of them off,
so it would not be Just to carry off some and leave others, "1130, per-

0
haps would be unwillin to sta if their stren h was diminished.
0n the other hand, I tel them came to esta hsh them there, not
to remove them; and then I let them know that I had brought With
me relief of sundry; kinds for them; that I had been at a great
charge to supply t_ em With all thin necessary, as well for their
convenience as their defence; and t t I had such and_such -
tieular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit their num er,
as.by the igartieular necessary emEloyments which they were bred to,
beingart cers, to assmt them int ose things mwhich at present they
were in want.

They were all together when I talked thus to them; and before I
delivered to them t ie stores I had brought, I askedthempne by one
if they had entirely foroot and buried the first_ammosrties that had
been among them, and5 would shake hands with one another, and
engage in a strict friendship and 11111011. of interest, that so there
might be no_ more misunderstandings and Jealousies.

ill Atkins, with abundance of frankness and wood humour, said
they had met with afilietion enout'h to make them all sober, and
enemiesenough to make them all friends ; that, for his parthhe
would hve and (116 With them- and was so far from designing
anythmg against the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing
to him but what his own mad humour made necessary, and what he
would have done, and perhaps worse, .in their case; and that _he
would ask them pardon, if desired it, for the foolish and _brutish
thingshe had done to them, and was very willing and desrrous of
hvmg in_terms of entire friendship and union With them, and would
do_anythmg that lay in his power to convmce them of it ; and as for
gomg to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these twenty
years.

The Spaniards said they had, indeed at first Idisarmed and excluded
Will At ins and his two countrymen fbr their ill conduct, as they had
let me know, and the apgealed to me for the neeeSSit they were
under to do so; but t at \ ill Atkins had behaved himse so brayely
in the great fight they had with the 'savaees, and on several occaSions
Since, and had showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for, the
general interest of them all, that they had forgotten_a.ll that was
passed, and thought he merited as much to be trusted With arms and
summed. With necessaries as any of them; and they had testified their
satisfaction in him, by committing the command to him next to the
governor himself - and as they had entire confidence in him and all his
countrymen, so they acknowledged they had merited that confidence
by all the methods that honest men could merit to be valued and
trusted; and they most heartilv embraced the occasion of giving me
this assurance, that they would never have any interest separate from
one another.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we appointed
the next day to time all together; and 'indeed, we made a splendid
feast. I caused the shiR's cook and his mate to come on shore and
dress our dinner, and t 9 old cook's mate we had on shore assisted.
We brought on shore 51:: pieces of good beef, and four pieces of
pork, out of the ship's proVisions, With our piiuchbowl, and materials
to fill it: and.I in particular I gave them ten bottles of French claret,
and ten bott es of Enghsli beer; things that neither. the Spaniards
nor the Enghsh had tasted for many cars, and which it may be sup-
posed they were very glad of. The paniards added to our feast five
whole kids, which the cooks roasted; and three of them were sent,
covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen, that they might
feasltooudfresh meat from on shore, as we did With their salt meat from
on at .

After this feast at whichwe were very innocently merry, I brought
my cargo of goo ; wherein, that there might be no dispute about
dividing, I showed them that there was a sufiicieuc for them all,
desiring that they nnght all take an equal uantity o the goods that
were for wearing; that is to say equal w en made up. As, first I
distributed linen. sufficient to make every one of them four shirts,
and, at the Spuiiiard's request, afterwards made them up Six; these
were exceeding comfortable to them, havmg been what the had
long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them. I otted
the thin English stutl's, which I mentioned before, to make every one
a light coat like a frock, which I Judged fittest for the heat or the
season, cool and loose; and ordere that whenever they decayed, they
should make more, as they thought fit; the like for pumps, shoes,
stockings. hats, &c. _ _

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the
countenances of all these oor men, when they saw the care I had
taken of them, and how we I had. furnished them. They told me I
was a father to them; and that having such a correspondent as I was
in so remote a. art of the world, it would make them forget that they
were left in a csolate place; and they all voluntarily engaged to me
not to leave the place Without my consent. .

_ Then I ]presented to them the co le I had brought with me, Ipar-
ticularly t c tailor, the smith, an t c two carpenters, all of t em
most necessary people; but, above all, my general artificer, than whom
they could not name anything that was more useful _to them: and the
tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work immediately, and,
With my leave, made them every one a shirt, the first thing he did;
and, what was still more, he taught the women not only how to sew
and stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the
shirts for their husbands and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were:
for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhaudy things, and made clever
convenient tables, stools, bedsteads on boards, lockers, shelves, and
everythin they wanted of that kind. lgut to let them see how nature
made art' cers at first, I carried the car enters to see Will Atkius'
basket'house, as I called it; and the bot owned they never saw an
instance of such natural Ingenuity efore, nor auytliiug so regular
and so handily built, at least of its kind; and one of them, when he
saw it, after musing a good while, turning about to me, "_I am sure,"
Shays 2:31: that man has no need of us; you need do nothing but give

in ." --

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and ve every
man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no flows or
plough; and to every separate place a pickaxe, a crow, a broad axe,
and a saw; always a gomting, that as .often as any. were broken or
worn out, they shou be supplied without dging, out of the
general stores that I let't belund. Nails, stap es hinges, hammers,
chiscls, knives, scissors and all sorts of iron-wor , they had without
reserve, as they re uired ; for no man would take more than he wanted,
and he must be a 001 that would waste or spoil them on any account
whatever; and for the use of the smith, I left two tons of unwrought
iron for a supply. .

My inagazme of wder and arms which I brought them was such,
even to rofusion, t at they could not but rc101ce at them; for now
thev co d march as I used to do, With a musket upon each shoulder,
if there was occasion; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if
they had but some little advantages of situation, which also they could
not miss, if they had occasmu.

I earned on shore With me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also; she was a sober, well educated,
religious young woman, and behaved so mofl'cnsivel that every one

ye heragoo word; shehhad, indeed an unhap y li e with us, there

mg no woman in the slup but herself, but she re it with patience.
After a while, seeinv things so well ordered, and in so fine a way of
thriving upon my island, and conSidering that they had neither busi-
ness nor acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking so long
a voyage, both of them came to me and desired I would give them
leavetoremain on the island _and he entered amo , my family, as
they called it. I agreed to this readily - and they a httle plot of
ground allotted to them, where they ha three tents or. houses set up,
surrounded with a basket-work, palhsadoed like Atkins's, adjoining
to his plantation. Their tents were contrived so that they had eac i
of them a room 3 art to lodge in, and a middle tent hke a great
storehouse, to lay t_ on goods in, and to eat_and drink in. And now
the other two Enghshmenremoyed their habitation to the same place;
and so the island was dmded into three colonies, and no more, viz.,
the Spaniards, with old Ij'riday and the first servants, at my old habi-
tation under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city, and where
they had_so enlarged. and extended their works, as well under as on
the outside of the hill, that they hved, though perfectly concealed
yet full at large. Never was there such a httle city in a wood, an
so hid, in an part of the world - for I verily beheve that a thousand
men mioht ve ranged the island a month, and, if they had not
known there was such a thing, and looked on purfiose for it, they
would not have found it; for. the trees stood so t ick and so close,
and grew so fast woven'one into another, that nothino but cutting
them down first could discover the place, except the onl two narrow
entrances where they went in and out could be found, w 'ch was not
very easy: one of them was close down at the water's edge, on the
Side of t e creek and it was afterwards above two hundred yards to
the place: and the other was up a ladder at twice as I have already
described it -, land they had also a large wood, thickly planted, on the
top of the hill, containing above an acre, which grew space, and
concealed the place from all discovery there, with only one narrow
place laetween two trees, not easily to be discovered, to enter on
t at S! e.

The only colony was that of Will Atkins, Where there were four
families 0 En, lishmen, I mean those 1 had left there, with their
wives and chil new three savages that were slaves; the widow and
the children of the Englishman that was lgilled- the young man and
the niaid- and, by the way, we made a Wife 01' her efore we went
away. There was also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me fonthem; also the smith, who was a i'ery'nccessary
man to them, especially as a nsnnth, to take care of t eir_ arms;
and my other man, whom I c ed Jacket-all-tradcs, who was in hun-
self as good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, but a. very merry fellow; and before I went away
we married him to the honest maid that came With the youth in the
shi limentiimed bkefotre. _ 't b _ to

u now spea o marrying. , 1 rings me naturally say some-
thing of the French ecclesmstic that I had brought with me out of
the ship's crew whom I took. up at sea. It is true this man was a
Roman, and perhaps it may give offence to some hereafter, if I leave
anything extraordinary upon record of a man whom, before I begin,
I must to set him out in Just colours) represent in terms very much
to his advantage, in the account of Protestants: as first, that he
was a Papist; secondly, a 1'0th priest; and, thirdly, a French
Popish priest. But justice demands of me to give him a due cha-
racter; and I must say, _he wasla grave, sober, ious, and most
religious person; exact in _his life 'extenswe in charity, and
exemplary in almost ever hm he did. What then can any one say
against being ve sensi le 0 the value of such a man, notWith-
standing his pro session? though it may be :1 opinion, perhaps,
as_ will as the opinion of others who shall re this, that he was
nus en.

The first hour that I began to converse with him after he had
agreed to go with me to the East Indies, I found reason to dehght
exceedingly in his conversation; and he first began With me abOut
religion in the most obligiiz'go manner imaginable. "Sir,"_ says he,
" you have. not only under d (and at that he crossed his breast)
saved my life, but you have admitted me to go this voyage in your
ship, and by your obliging civility have taken me into_your family,
givmg me an opportunity of free conversation. Now, Sir, you see by
my habit what m _professron is, and I ess by your nation what
yours is; I may t ink it is my duty, an doubt as it is so, to use
my utmost endeavours, on all occasmns, to bring all the_souls Ilcan
to the knowledge of the tnith, and to embrace the Cathohc doctrine;
but as I am here under your pcrmissron, and ."1 our family, I am
bound in Justice to your kindness, as well as in ecenc and
manners, to be under your government; and therefore shall not,
Without your leave, enter into any debate on the pomts of religion in
which we magi-wt agree, farther than you shall give me leave.'

I told him _ carriage was so modest that I could not but acknow-
ledge it; that it was true we were such Ipeongle as they called heretics,
but that he was not the first Catholic h conversed With, Without
falling into inconveniences, or carrying the questions to any height in'
debate; that he should not find himself the worse used for being of a
different opinion from us; and if we did not converse Without any
dislike on either side it should be his fault, not ours. . .

He r lied, that he thought_all our conversation might be easily
separate. from disputes; that it was not his busmess to cag prin-
ciples With every man he conveised With; and that. be rather eSired
me to converse with him as a gentleman than as a religiouist ; and that,
if I_ would give him leave at any ti_ine_to discourse tapes rclmous
subjects, he would readily comgly With it, and that _he id not doubt
but I would allow him also to efend his own opinions as well as he
could; but that,_w1thout my leave, he would not break in upon me
With any such thing]. He told me farther, that he would not cease to
do all that became im in his office as a priest, as well as a private
Christian, to procure the good of the Sliilp andthe safet of all that
was in her; and though, perhaps, we we dnot Join With im, and he
could not pray with us, he hofifd he might pray for us, which he
would do upon all occaSions. this manner we_ conversed; and as
he was of t e most obliging, gentlemanlike behawour, so he was, if I
may be allowed to say so, a man of good sense, and, as I believe, of
great learmng. . . .

He gaye me a most diyerting account of his life, and of the many
estraordinary events of it; of many adventures which had befallcn
him in the few years that he had been abroad in the world; and par-
ticulnrl it was very remarkable, that in the voyage he. was now
engage in, he had the misfortune to be five times shipped and
unshipped and never to go to the place whither any of the ships he
was in at first designed. That his first intent was to have gone to
Martinico, and that he went on board a ship bound thither at St.
Male; but, being forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship
received some damage by ($5 aground in the month of the river
Tagus, and_was obli ed to unl her cargo there - but finding 9. Por-
tuguese ship there un_d to the Madeiras, an ready to sail and
supposmg he should easily meet With a vessel there bound to Mar-
tinico, he went on board, in_ order to sail to_the Madeirasi but the
master of the l'ort ese ship, being but an mdifl'erent mariner, had
been out of his rec oning, and they drove to Fyal; where, however,
he happened to find avery good market for his cargo, which was
com, and therefore resolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load
salt at theOIslepf May, and to go away to Newfoundland. He had
no remedy in this exigence but to with the ship, and had a pretty
good voyage as far as the Banks e?) they call the place where they
catch the fish); where meeting Wit aFrench ship bound from Ij'runce
to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from thence to Martimeo, to
carry growsions he thought he should have an o portunity to com-
plete .18 first desagn but when he came to us so, the master of
the ship died, an the vessel roceeded no arther; so the next
voyage, he ship ed himself for raiiee, in the ship that was burned
when we took t em up at sea- and then shified With us for the East
Indies, as I have already am . Thus he been disappomted in
five voyages, all, as I may call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall
have occasion to mention farther _of him.

But I shall not make digression into other men's stories, which
have no relation to my own; I return to "hat concerns our affairs in
the island. He came to me one niornin _(lor he led ,cd among us all
the whilewe were upon the island), on it happene to be 'ust when
I was gomg to VISlt the Englishmcn's colonv, at the fart est part
of the island ; I sav, he came to me, and told me, with a very grave
countenance, that he had for two or.tliree days desired an oppor-
tunity of some discourse With me, which he hoped would not be dis-
pleasin tome, because he thought it might in some measure cor-
respon With my general dejsuzn, which was, the prosperity of my
new colony, and perhaps might put it,_at least more than he yet
thought it was in the way of God 5 blessmg. _ .

I looked. a little su used at the_last 'part of his discourse, and
turning a little short, " ow, sir," said I, ' can .It_ be said that we are
not in the way of God's blessmg, after such \[ISlble assistances and
dehverances as we have seen here, and of which I have given you a
large account P"--"If you had pleased Sir," said he, With a world of '
mo esty, and yet great readiness, "to have heard me, on would have
found no room to have been displeased, much less to nk sohard of
me that I should sug est that you have not had wonderful assistances
and dehverances; an I hope, on your_behalf, that you are in the
way of God's blessmg, and your design is exceeding good and Will
pros r: but, sir, though it were more so than is even 1possible to on,
yet t ere may be some among you that are not e ual y n ht int eir
actions: and you know, that in the story of the ch dren 0 Israel, one
A'chan in the camp removed God's blessuig from them, and turned
his hand so against'them, that Six-and-tliirty of_them, though not
concerned in the crime, were the objects of divme vengeance, and
bore the weight of that unishmentfi' _ _ _
_ I was sensiny touc ed With his discourse, and told him his
inference was so Just, and the whole desmn seemed so Sincere and
was really so religious in its own nature, that 1 was very sorry lhad
interrupted him, and begged him to go on; and, .in the meantime,
because it seemed that what we had both to say might take_up some
time, I told him I_was gomg to the Englishmen's Plantations, and
asked him to go With me, and we might discourse o it by the way.
He told me he would the more willing y wait onme thither, because
there partly the thing was acted which 'he desired to ipealg to me
about; so we walked on, and I pressed him to be free an plain With
me in what he had to say. .

"Why, then, sir," says he, "be pleased to give me leave to lay
down a few propositions, as the foundation of what I have to say,
that we may not difl'er in the general principles, though we_may be
of some diflering opinions in the raetice of particulars, .First, Sir,
though we difi'er in some of the octrinal articles of rehgion and it
is very unhapp it is so, especially in the case before us, as _ shall
show afterwar 5), et there are some general princi les in which we
both wthat t ere is a God; and that this Go havmg given us
some stated general rules for our service and obedience, we ought
not williu ly and knowingly to ofi'endI-Iim, either b neglecti to do
what He as commanded, or b _ do what he _ex ress for-
bidden. And let our difl'erentre i ons what they will, t is general
principle is readily owned by us a ., that the blessing of God does not
ordinarily follow presumptuous smning against His command; and
every good Christian will be afi'ectionately concerned to prevent any
that are under his care livin in a total neglect of God and His pom-
mands. It is not your men emg Protestants, whatever my opinion
may be of such, that discharges me from being concerned for their
souls, and from endeavouring, if it lies before _me, that they should
live in as little distance from enmit with their Maker as possible,
especial? if you give me leave to me _dle so far in your circuit."
coul not et imagine what he aimed at, and told him I granted

all he had am and t anked him that he would so far concern him.
self for us; and _ he would explain the particulars of what he
had observed, that he Joshua, to take his own parable, I might
put away the accursed thing from us. .

"Why, then, Sir," says he, "I wrll take the liberty you give me;
and there are three things, which, if I am right, must stand in the
way-of God's blessin upon your endeavours here, and which I should
reJOIce, for your e and their own, to see removed And, 811', I
promise myself that you Will fully agree with me in them all, as soon
as I name them; especmlly, because I shall convince you that every
one of them msiy, With great ease, and very much to zour satisfaction,
be remedied. 1131:, Sir," says he, "you ave here our Englishmen,
who have fetched women from among the sa and have taken
them as their wives, and have had many children y them all, and yet
are not married to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of
God and man require; and therefore are yet, in the sense .of both
no less than. fornicators, if not living in adultery. To this, 811', I
know you will object that there was no clergyman or priest of an
hind, or any profession to perform the ceremony; nor any_pei_i an
ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage, and have it signed
between them. And I know also, sir, what the Spaniard governor
has told you, I mean, of the agreement that he obliged them to make
when they took those women, viz. that they should choose them out
by consent, and keep separately to them; which, 'by the way is
nothing of a marriage, no agreement with the women, as wives, _but
only an ement among themselves, to keep them from quarrelling.
But, sir t e essenceof the sacrament of matrimony (so he called _it,
being a oman) consrsts not only inthe mutual consent of the gar-ties
to take one another as man and Wife, but in the formal an legal
obhgation that. there is in the contract, to com 1 the man and
woman, at all times to own and acknowledge eac other; obliging
the man to abstain from all other women, to engage in no other con-
tractwhile these subsist; and, on all occasions, as ability allows, to
pronde honestly for them and_their children; and to oblige the
women to the same or like conditions, mutatis mutandia, on their side.
NOW,.SII," says he "these men may, when the pl _ or when
oceasron presents, a don these women, disown err chil en, leave3031x501: censor. 269

them to perish, and take other women, and marry them while these
are livin g" and here he added, with some warmth " How, sir, is God
hone in this unlawful hbertyP And how shall a blessing succeed
your endeavours in thisp however good in themselves, and how-
ever smcere in your design, w e these men, who at present are your
subjects, under your abso ute government and dominion, are allowed
by 1you to hve in open adulte P" . .

confess} was struck Wit the thing itself, but much more with
the convmcing arguments he sulpported it with ;.for it was certainly
true, that thou h they had no 0 ergymen upon the spot yet a formal
contract on hot SldeS, made before Witnesses and co rmed by any
token which they had all agreed to be bound t , though it had been
but hreakin a stick between them, engagin t e men to own these
women for t_ on Wives u n all occasions, an never to abandon them
or their children, and t e women to the same with their husbands,
had been an eii'ectual lawful mamage in the si ht of God; and it
was a great neglect that it was not done. But I t ought to have got
off my young priest by telling him that all that part was done when
I was not there; and that they had lived so many years With them
now, that if it was adultery, it W" past remedy; nothing could be
done in it now.

. " Sir," says he, '_' asking your pardon for such freedom on are
right in this, that, it being done in your absence, you coul not he
charged With that part of the crime; but, I beseech you, flatter not
yourself that you are not therefore under an obh tlon to do your
utmost now_ to put an end to it. How can out ' but that, let the
time t he on whom it will, all the I. t, for the future, Will he
entire y upon you? because it is ee y in your power now to put
an end to it, and in nobody's power but yours." . .

. I was so dull still that I did not understand him right; but I
imagined that, by utting an _end to it he meant that I s ouldsart
them and not an er them to live together any longer; and I am to
him I could not do that b any means, for that would put the Whole
island into confusion. e seemed surprised that I should so far
mistake him. "No, sir," sa 8 he, "I do not mean that you should
now separate them, but I y and effectually marry them; and, as,
sir, in way _of them may not be easy to reconcile them to,
thong it Will be e ectuak even _b your own laws, so your waymay
he as well before God, an asvah among men. I mean by a written
contract signed by both man and wom and by all the witnesses
present, which all the laws of Europe wo d decree to be vahd." _
I- was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much Sincerity
of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to his own
party or church, and such true warmth for preservmg the people,
that he had no knowledge of or relation to- I say, for preservm
them from transgressing the laws of God, the like of which I_ha
indeed not met With anywhere. But recollectinfi What he had said of
marrying them bgaa written contract, which I new he would stand
to, I returned it ck upon him, and told him, I granted all_that he
had said to be Just, and on his part very kind - that I would discourse
With the men upon the point now, when I came to thtiisi'i;a and I
knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marry them all
which I knew well enough would he'granted to be as authentic and
valid in England as if they wereinamed bfione of our own clergymen.
What was afterwards done in this matter, shall speak of by itself. -

I then mssed him to tell me what was the second coin laiut
which he to make acknowledging that I was very mac his
debtor for the first, and thanked him heartily for it. He told me he
would use the same freedom and plainness in the semnd, and hoped
I would take it as well; and this was, that notwithstandin these
English subjects of mine, n he called them, had lived w1t_ these
women almost seven gears, had taught them to speak English, and
even to read it, an that they were, as he perceived, women of
tolerable understanding, and capable of instruction, yet they had not,
to this hour, taught them anything of the Christian religion, no, not
so much as to know that there was a God, or a_ worship, or in what
manner God was to be served; or that their own idolat ,_ and
worshipping they knew not whom, was false and absurd. 3, he
said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly
call them to account for, and perhaps, at last take the work out of
their hands ;--he Sfiioke this very affectionately and warmly. " I am
persuaded,"_ says e, "had those men lived in the savage country
whence their Wives came the savages would have taken more pains
to have brought them to he idolators, and to worshi the devil, than
any of these men, so far as I can see, have taken wit _thein to teach
them the knowledge of the true God. Now sir," said he, "thoufilei
1 do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we would
glad to see the DeVil's servants, and the subjects of his kingdom,
taught to know the general fprinciples of the Christian religion; that
they might, at least, hear 0 God and a Redeemer, and of the resur-
rection, and of a future state--things which we all beheve; that they
might at least be so much nearer coming into the_bosom_of the true
church than they are now,,in the public professmn of idolatry and
deVil-worship." _ _

_I could hold no longer; I took him in my.arms, and embraced
him With an excess of passion. " How far " said I to him, '_' have I
been from understanding the most essential part of a Christian, viz.
to love the interest of the Christian church and the good of other
men'ssouls! I scarce have known what belo s to the benign
Christian." "Oh, 511'! do not say so," regied e; "this thing is
not your fault." " No " said I; ' but why 'd I never la it to heart
as well as you P" "It is not too late yet," said he; ' be not too
forward to condemn yourself." "But what can be done now 73" said
I If--"fiou see I am gomg away." " Will you we me leave to talk
With t ese poor men about it P" "Yes, With my heart," said I;
"and will oblige them to give heed to what you say too." "As to
that," said .he, 'we must leave them to the mercy of .Christ; but it
is your busmess to aSSist them, encou we them, and instruct them;
and if you give me leave and God his lessmg, I do not doubt but
the poor ignorant souls shall be broughthome to the great circle of
Christianity, if not into the articular faith we all embrace, and that
even while you stay here." pon this I said, " I shall not only give
{on leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it." What followed
shall mention in its place. . _ _ .

I now W him for the third .article in which we were to
blame. " y, really," as he, "_it is of the same nature. And I
Wlll proceed, asking your eave With the same plamnsss as before.
It is about 1your poor savages w .o are, as I ma say, your conquered
subjects. t is amazim, sir that is, or ought to , received among all
Christians of what church or pretended church soever that the
Christian knowledge ought to be. propagated by all ssible means,
and on all posSible pccasmns. It is on this principle t at our Church
sends missionaries into Penna, India, and China; and that our clergy,
even of the superior sort, willingly en in the most hazardous
voyages, and the most dan rous rem ence among murderers and
barbarians, to teach them t e knowledge of the true God, and to
bring them over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have
such an opportunity here to have an or seven-and-thirty poor savages
brought over from a state of idolatry to the knowledge of God, their
Maker and Redeemer, that I wonder how you can pass such an
oicalsirliii} of doing good, which is really worth the expense of a man's
w o e e." -

I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word to say. I
had here the spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before
me let his particular prmmples be of what kmd'soever. As for me, I
had not so much as entertained a thought of this in in heart before,
and I believe I should not have thought of it; for looked upon
these savages as slaves and people whom had'we not had any work
for them to do, we would have used as suc , or would have been glad
to have transportedthem to any other part of the world; for our
business was to get rid of them; and we would all have been satisfied
if they had been sent to any country, so the had never seen their
own. I was confounded at his discourse, and new not what answer
to make him. _ _ . '

He looked earnestly at me, seem me in some _disorder--" Sir,"
sa 3 he, "I shall be ve so if w at I have said gives you anfy
o ence."--" No, no," sai 1, " am offended with nobody but mysel ;
but I am perfect] confounded, not onl to think that I should never
take any notice 0 this before, but wit reflectmg what. notice I am
able to take of it now. You know, 811' f' said I, "whatcircumstances
I am in; I am bound to the East Indies in a ship. freighted by'mer-
chants, and to whom it would be an msufi'erable new of injustice to
detain their ship here, the men lying all this w e at Victuals and
wages on the owners' account. 1: is true, I agreed to be allowed
twely days here, and if I stay nioretal must peiy three pounbgs sterhililg
per new>> emurrage; nor can s y upon emurrage a ve eig
days more and I have been here thirteen already; so that I am r-
fectly una .le to engage in this work, unless I would suffer mysel to
be left behind heigm If h in which cuise11 1:] limbo 5%}? sliit should
miscarrym o ervoyage, so J m esame
condition thdtnI was left in here at first, and from which I have been
so wonderfully delivered." He owned the case was very hard ufion
me as to my voyage; but laid it home upon my conscience, whe er
the blessing of saving thirty-seven souls was not worth venturing all
I had in the world for. I was. not so sensible of that as he was. I
replied to him thus: " Why, air, it is a valuable thinfii indeed, to be
an instrument in God's hand to convert thirt -seven eathens to_ the
knowledic of Christ; but as you are an ecc esiastic, and are given
over to t e work, so it seems so naturally to {all into the way of [four
profession ;_ how is it, then, that you do not rather offer youise to
undertake it than press me to do it P"

Upon this, he faced about 'ust before me, as he walked along, and
putting me to a full stop; in e me a very low bow. " I_most heartily
thank God and you, sir . said he, "for giving me so endent a _call to
so blessed a work; an lf_ you think yourself discharged from_it, and
desire me to undertake it I Will most readily do it and think it a
happy reward for all the hazards and difficulties of, such a broken,
disappomted voyage as I have met With, that I am dropped at last
into so glorious a work." .

I discovered a kind of re ture in his face while he spoke this to
me; his eyes 5 arkled hke his face lowed, and his colour came
and went, as i he had been falling into ts; in a. word, he was fired
with the JO _of being embarked in such awork. I paused a con-
siderablc Wiile before I could tell what to say to him; for 91 was
really surprised to find a man of such sincerity and zeal,_ and carried
out in his zeal beyond the ordinary rate of men, not of his lprol'essmn
only, but even 0 any profession whatsoever. But after had eon-
Sidered it awhile, I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and that
he would venture, on the single conSideration of an attempt to con-
vert those poor peo lo, to be locked up in an un lanted island for
perhaps his life, an at last might not know whet or he should be
able to do them good or not?

He turned short upon me, and asked .me what I called a venture?
"I'ray, sir," said he, " what do you think I consented to o in your
Slhllp to the East Indies for?"---"1_\Iay," said I, "that I now not
u ess it was to preach to the Indians."---"Doubtless it was," said
he; "and do you think, if I can convert these thirty-seven men to
the faith of Jesus Christ, it is not worth my time, though I_should
never be [etched off the island vain ?--nay, is it not infinitely of
more worth to save so many so than my hfe is, or the life of
twent more of the same rofession? Yes, sir," says he, "Iwould
give bust and the blessed1 Virgin thanks all my da is, if I could be
made the happy instrument of saving the souls of t ose poor men,
though I were never to set my foot 011' this island, or see my native
country any more. . But since you will honour me with putting me into
tlns work for which I will pm for you all the days of my life, I
have one humble petition to you sides."--" What is that?" said. I.
--" Why," says he, "it is, that you Will leare your man Friday With
me, to be my intgflreter to them, and to assrst me; for Without some
hele I cannot sf to them, or they to me."

was sensib y touched at his requesting Friday, because I could
not think of parting with him, and that for many reasons: he had
been the companion of my travels; he was not onl faithful to me,
but smcerely afi'ectionate to the last degree; and had resolved to
do something considerable for him if he outlived me. as it was ro-
bable he would. ThenI knew that as_I had bred Friday up to e a
Protestanti'itwould guite confound him to bring him to embrace
another re 'iiign- an he would never, while his eyes were open
believe that old master was a heretic and would be damned; an

this might in_the end ruin the poor fellow's principles, and so turn
him bac again to hisfirst idolatry. _However, _a sudden thought
relieved me in this strait, and it was this: I told him I could not say
that I was Willing to part With Friday on any account whatever,
though a work that to him was of more value than his life, ought to
be to me of much more value than the keeping or ing with a
servant. But, on the other hand, .I was persuad that Friday
would by no means agree to part With me- and .I could not force
him to it Without his consent, Without manifest in nstice; because I
had promised I would never send him away, an he had promised
and engaged to me that he would never leave me, unless I sent him

awa .
if; seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational
access to these poor people, seeing he did not understand one word
of their language, nor thrill one of his. To remove this difficult , I told
him Fnda s father h learned Spanish, which I found e also
unders , and. he should serve him as an interpreter. So he was
much better satisfied, and nothini could persuade him but he would
stay and endeavour to convert t em; but Providence gave another
veiiy happy turn to all this. . _ .
come back now to the first part of his objections. When we
came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all together, and after some
account given t em of what I had done for them, viz. what necessa
thinos I had provided for them, and how they were distribute ,
whic they were very scn51ble of, and very thankful for, I began to
talk to them of the scandalous hfe they led, and gave them a full
account of_ the notice the eler man had taken of it; and ar uing
how unchristian and irreligiousa ife it was, I first asked them i they
were mamed men or bachelors? The soon explained their con-
dition to me, and showed that two of t em were w1dowers,_ and the
other three were smgile men, or bachelors. I asked them with what
conscience they coul _ take these women and call them their wives,
and hgve so many children by them, and not be lawfuny married to
em.

They all gave me the answer I eiiipected, viz. that there was
nobody to marry. them; that they agree before the governor to keep
them as their Wives, and to maintain them and own them as their
wives; and they thought, as things stood With them, they were as
legally married as if they had been married by a parson, and with all
the formalities in the world. _ _ .

I told them that no doubt they were married in. thesught of God,
and were bound in conscience to keep them as their Wives; but that
the laws of men being otherwise, the might desert the poor women
and children hereafter; and that t eir wives, being poor desolate
women, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to help them-
selves: I therefore told them that, unless I was assured of their
honest intent, I could do nothing for them, .but would take care that
what I did should be for the women and children Without them; and.
that, unless they would give me some assurances that they would
marry the women, I con] not think it was oonvement the should
continue to therasman and Wife; {01' that it was bothsean ous to
men and o ensive to God, who they could not think would bless them
if they went on thus. .

All tlus went on as I expected: and they told me, especially Will
Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the rest, that they love their
wives as well as if they had been born in their ovrn native country
and would not leave them on any account whatever; and they did
verily believe that their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and
di to the utmost of their skill, as much for them and for their
chi dren, as any women could possibly do 3 and they would not part
With them on any account: and Will Atkins, for his own particular,
added, that if an man would take him away, and olfer to carry him
home to Englan and make him paptam of the best man-of-yvar in
the us, he would not go with him, if he might not_carry his wife
and ch en with him; and if there was a clergyman in the ship, he
would be married to her now With all his heart.

This was Just as I would have it: the priest was not with meat
that moment, but was not far 03'; so to try him farther I told him
I had a clergyman With me, and, if he was sincere, I would have him
married next morning, and bade him conSider of it and talk With the
rest. He said, as for himself, he need not conSider_ of it at all, for
he was very ready to do it and was glad I had a mimster with me,
and he beheved theywould be all wilhng also. I then told him that
my friend, the mimster, was a Frenc man, and could not speak
English, but I would act the clerk between them. He never so
much as asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant which was
indeed what I was afraid of; so we parted 5 I went back to m
clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk With his com ons. I
desired the French gentleman not to say anything to t em till the
miness was thoroughly ripe; and I told him what answer the men

given me.

Before I went from their quarter the all came to me, and told
me they had been considering what I ha said- that they were lad
to hear I had a clergyman in in com any, and they were very w' ' g
to give me the satisfaction I esue and tolbe ormally mamed as
soon as I fleased; for they were far from desmng to part with their
Wives, an that they meant nothing but what was very honest when
they phone them. So I appomted them to meet me the next
mommg; and, in the mean time, they should let their wives know
the in ' of the mamage law; and that it was not only to prevent
any scand but also to oblige them that they should not forsake
them, whatever might happen. _

The women were easily made sensible of the meanin of the thing,
and were very well satis ed With it, as indeed they h reason to be :
so they failed not to attend altogether at my apartmeet next morning,
where I brought out my clergyman: and thou h he had not on a
minister's gown, after the manner of or the habit of a
Kim, after the manner of Fran yet havin a black vest something
' e_a cassock with a sash mun it, he di not look very unlike a
minister; and as for hislanguage, I was his interpreter. But the
seriousness of his behaviour to them, and the scruples he made of
marrying the women, because they were not baptized and professed
Christians, gave them an exceeding 'reverence for his person; and
there was no n after the to inquire whether he m a clergyman
or not. Indeed, was afrai his scruplos would have been carried
so far as that he would not have mamed them at all; nay, notwith-
standin all I was able to say to him, he resisted me, though
modes , yet very steadily; an at. last refused absolutely to marry
them, unless he had first talked with the men and the women too-
and though at that I was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed
to it with a good Will, reeivm the sincerity of his delsfin. .
'When he eaine to t em, he et them know that I acquainted
him With their circumstances, and with the present design; that he
was veryan to rform that eart of his function, and marry
them as I had esue ; but that be ore he could d9 it, he must take
thehberty to talk with them. He told them, that m the sight of all
indifferent men, and in the sense of the laws of soc1ety, they had
lived all this while in open formcation; and that it was true, that
nothing but the consenting to marry, or efl'ectually separating them
from one_ another, could now put an end to it; but there was a
difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony,
which he was not_fully satisfied about, that of marrying one that is
a professed Christian to a savage, an idolator, and a heathem--pne
. that is not baptized; and yet that he did not see that there was time
left to endeavour-to persuade the women to be grind, or to profess
the name of Christ, whom they had he doubt , heard nothing of,
and without which they_ could not beibaptized. He told them he
doubted the were but mdifi'erent Christians themselves that they
had but litte knowledge of God or of his ways, and therefore he
could not expect that they had said much to their wives on that head
yet - but that unless they would promise him to use their endeavours
With their wives to ersuade them to become Christians, and would,
as well as they could? instruct them in the knowledge and behef of
God that made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed
them, he could not marry them; for he would have no hand _m gaming
Christians _with eayages; nor was it consistent with the (principles of
lElie Christian rehgion, and was, indeed, expressly forbid en in God's

w.

They heard all this_very attentively, and I delivered it very faith-
fullyto them from his mouth, as near his own words as I could;
only sometimes addin something of my own, to convince them how
Justjt was, and that was of his mind: and I alwa very faithfufly
distinguished between what I said from myself, an what were the
clergyman's words. They told me it was very true what the gentle-
man said, that they were very indifi'ereiit Christians themselves and
that they had never talked to their wives about rehgiom "In
sir," says Will Atkins; " how should we teach them wk on? why,
we know nothing ourselves; and be51des, Sir," said he, should we276 110an censor.

talk to them of God and Jesus Christ and heaven and hell, it would
make them laugh at us, and ask us what we beheve ourselves? And
if we should tell them that we believe all the things we speak of to
them, such as of good people gomg to heaven, and Wicked ple to
the de ' they would ask us _where we intend to ourse ves that
believe I this, and are such Wicked fellows as we in eed are? Why,
Su' 'tis enough to give _them a surfeit of rehgion at first hearing;
folks must have some religion themselves before the pretend to teach
other eople." "Will Atkins " said I to him, "t ough I am afraid
that w t_ you say has too much truth_in it yet can you not. tell your
Wife she is in the wrong; that there is a 0d, and a religion better
than her own; that her gods are 'idols; that thgfimn neither hear
nor 5 eak; that there is a great Being that made things, and that
can estroy all that he has made; that he rewards the and un-
isth the bad; and that we are to be judged by him at sat for we
do here? You are not so i oraut, but even nature itself will teach
you that all this is true - andnl am satisfied you know it all to be true,
and believe it yourse ."--" That is true, sir," said Atkins: " but
with what face can I say anything to my Wife of all this, when she
Will tell me immediately it cannot be true.?"--"_Not true!" said I:
"what do you mean bv that ?"----" Why, sir," said he: " she will tell
me it cannot be true that this God I shall. tell her of can be Just, or
can punish or reward, since I am not punished and sent to the den],
that have been such awicked creature as she knows I have been,
even to her, and to everybody else; and that I should be suffered to
live, that have been always acting so contrary to what I must tell her
is good, and to what I ought to have done."--" Why, trul , Atkins,"
said I, "I am afraid thou s akest too much truth ;" an Wltll_ that
I_ informed the clergyman 0 what Atkins had said, for he was impa-
tient to know. " 0h," said the priest, "tell him there is one thing
Will make him the best minister in the world to his w1fe,and that is,
repentance 3 for none teach ripentance hke true pemtents. He
wants nothing but to repent, an then he will be so much the better
(Lualified to instruct his wife: he will then be able to tell her that
t ere is not only a God, and that he is the just rewarder of and
(mi, but that he is a merciful Being and with infinite . . ess and
long'sufi'enn forbears to unish those that offend; waiting to be
gracious, an wzlhng not t e death of a sinner, but rather that he
should return and live; that oftentimes he suil'ers Wicked men to go
a long time, and even reserves damnation to the general day of retri-
bution; that it is a. clear evidence of God and of a future state, that
righteous men receive not their reward or wicked men their unish-
men till they come into another world; and this Will lead up to
teach his Wife the doctrine of _the resurrection and of the last Judg-
mcnt. Let him but re nt himself, he will be an excellent preacher
of repentance to his w' e." .

I reficatcd all this toAtkius, who looked vcrfiaserious all. the while
and w 0, we could easdy perceive, was more t n ordinarily aficeted
With it: when bemg eager, and hardly suffering me to make an end--
"I know all _this, master," sa 3 he, 'and a great deal more; but I
have not the impudenee to thus to my wife, when God and my
conscience know .and my wife will be an undeniable evidence against
me, that I have ved as if I had never heard of a. God or future state,
or anything about it; and to talk of my replenting, alas! (and.Wit_h
that he fetched a deep sigh, and I could see t at the tears stood in lus
eyes) 'tis past all that With me."--" Past it Atkins?" said I: "what
dost thou mean by that?"--" I know well enough what I mean,"
sa he' " I mean 'tis too late and that is too true."

told the clergyman, word for word, what he said: the poor, zeal-
ous priest--I must call him so, for, be his opinion what it will, he had
certainl' y a most 15:25:11" affection for the good of other men's souls,
and it would be to think he had not t e hke for his own--I say,
this affectionate man could not refrain from tears - but, recovering
himself, said'to me, " Ask him but one question: Is he eas that it is
too late; or; is he troubled, and wishes it were not so ?" put the
questionfairly to Atkins; and he answered, with a great deal of
pasSion, " I_Iow could any man be easy in a condition that must cer-
tainly end in eternal destruction? that he was far from being my;
but that, on the contrary, he believed it would, one time or other,
ruin him." "_What do you mean 'by that?" said I_. " Why," he
said, " he beheved he should one time or other cut his throat, to put
an end to the terror of it.f' .

The cle anshook his head, with great concern in his face when
I_told him this; but turning quick to me upon it, says, " If_that be
his case, we may assure him it is not too late - _Chnst will ve him
repentance. But pra ," says he, "explain thist him; at asiio
man is saved but by 'st, and the merit of His passion procuring
divme mercy for him, how can it be too late for any man to receive
mercy ? Does he think he is able to sm bevond the power or reach
of dime. mercy? Pray tell him there may be a time when rovoked
mercy will no longer strive, and when God may refuse to ear, but
that it is never too late for men to ask mercy; and we, that are
Christ's servants are commanded to preach mercy at all times, mtlie
name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repent; so that it is
never too late to repen ."

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with at earnestness; but
it seemed as if he turned of the discourse to t e rest, for he said to
me, he would go and have some talk with his Wife; so he went out a
while, and we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly
ignorant as to matters of religion, as much as I was when 1 went
rambling away from my father; and yet there were none of them
backward to hear what had been said ;_ and all of them seriously ro-
mised that they would talk with their wives about it, and do t eir
endeavours to persuade them to turn Christians.

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer the
gave, but said nothing a good while; but at last shakin his h

' We that are Christ's servants," says he, " can go no fart er than to
exhort and instruct: and when men com ly, submit to the reproof,
and promise what we ask 'tis all we can a: we are bound to accept
their words; but believe me, sir," said he "whatever you may
have own of the life of that man you call Will Atkins, I believe he
is the only Sincere convert among them: I Will not despair of the

it
rest; but that man is apparently struck with the sense of his past
life, and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of rehgion to his wife,
he Wlll talk himself efi'ectually into it; for attempting to teach others
is sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves. I know a man, who,
having nothing but a summary notion of religion himself, and being
wicked and prothgate to the ast_ degree in his life, made a thorough
reformation in himself by labouring to convert a Jew. 1f that poor
Atkins begins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his Wife,
my life for it he talks himself into a thorough convert, makes himself
a enitent andwho knows what may follow ?"

'pon this discourse, however, and their Bromising, as abovezto
endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace liristlamty, he married
the other two couple; but Will Atkins and his Wife were not yet
come in. After this, my clergyman waiting awhile, was curious to
know where Atkins was gone; and turning to me, said, " I entrcat
you, sir let us walk out of your lab 'rinth here, and look; I dare say
we shall find this poor man somewhere or other talking seriously to
lns wife, and teaching her already something of religion." I began to
be of the same mind; so we went out to ether, an I carried him a
way which none knew but myself, and w ere the .trees were so we
thick that it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, an
far harder to see .111 than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the
wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny Wife sitting under the shade of a
bush, very eager in discourse: I stopped short till my clergyman
came up to me, and then havmg showed him where the were, we
stood and looked very steadily at them a good while. Vt e observed
him veiz earnest With her, painting up to the 5"th to eve quar-
ter of t e heavens, and then down to the earth, t en out to tie as
then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees. " Now,'
says the clergyman, " you see my words are made good, the man
preaches to her; mark iim now, he is tellin her that our God has
made him and her, and the heavens, the cart , the sea, the woods, the
trees, 8;c.'_'---" I believe he is," said I. Immediately, we perceived
"Ill Atkins start upon his feet, fall down on his knees, and hit up
both his hands. We supposed he said something, but we could not
hear him; it was too far tor that. He did not continue kneehng half
a minute, but comes and Sits down again by his wife, and talks to her
again; weperceived then the woman very attentive, but whether she
said anything to him we could not tell. While the r fellow was
upon his knees, I could see the tears run plentifull own my clergy-
man's cheeks, and I could hardly forhear myself; ut it was a real:
afihction to us both that we were not near enough to hear anyt ng
that. passed between them. Well, however, we could come no nearer
for fear of disturbing them; so we resolved to see an end of this piece
of still conversation, and it spoke loud enon h to us without the helg
of voxce. He sat down again, as I have sai , close by her and talke
again earnestly to her, and two or three times we could see him
embrace her most passionately; another timewe saw him take out his
handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again with a kind
of transport very'unusual; and after several of these things, we saw
him on a sudden Jump up again, and lend her his hand to help her up,
when immediately leading her by the hand a step or two, they both
kneeled down together, and continued so about two minutes.

M friend could bear it no longer, but cries out. aloud, " St. Paul!
St. aul! behold, he rayeth."' I was afraid Atkins would hear him,
therefore I entreated im to _w1thhold himself awhile, that We might
see an end of the scene, which to me I must confess, w'as the most
infecting that ever I saw in my hfe. Well, he strove with himself for
a while, but was in such .raptures, to think that the poor heathen
woman was become a Christian, that he_ was not able to contain him-
self - he wept'several times, then throwing up his hands and crossing
his breast, said over several_thin0s ejaculatory, and by the way of
giving God thanks for so miraculbus a tcstmiony of the success of
our endeavours: some he spoke softly, and I could not well hear
others; some in Latin, some in French; then two or three times the
tears would interrupt him,_ that he could not speak at all; but I
begged that he would contain himself, and let us more narrowly and
fully observe what was before us, which he did for a time, the scene
not being. near ended yet; for after the poor man and his wife were
risen again from their knees, we observed he stood talking still
gagerly to_ her, and we observed her motion, that she was gently

ected With what he said, by her frequently hftmg up her ands,
laying her hand to her breast, and such other postures as express the
greatest seriousness and attention : this continued about half a quarter
of an hour, and then they walked away: so we could see no more of
them in that Situation. I took this interval to sa to the clergyman,
first, that Iwas glad to see the particulars wehad th been Witnesses
to; that, though I was hard enough of belief in such cases, yet that _I
bean to think it was all very Sincere here, both in the man and his
Wife, however hgnorant they might both be and I hoged such a
beginning woul yet have amore happy en : "And w o knows "
said I, ' but these two may in time by instruction and example,
work upon some of the others ?"----" dome of them?" said he tum-
ing quick upon me: "ay, upon all of them: depend u n it, if those
two sav ----for he has been but little better, as 'oure ate it--should
embrace esus Christ, they will never leave it t' they work upon all
the rest; for true religion is naturally commumcativenand he that is
once made a Christian will never leave a Pagan behind him, If- he
can help it."_ I owned it was a most Christian princi le to_ think
so and a testimon of true zeal, as well as a generous cart in him.
".l3ut my friend, ' said I, " will you give me leave to start one
difficulty here? I cannot tell how to o Ject the least thing against
that affectionate concern. which you show for the turning of the soor
people from their Pagamsm to the Christian religion: but how oes
this comfort (you, while these people ar in your account, out of the
pale of the athohe church, without :bich you believe there is no
salvation? so that on esteem these but heretics, as elt'ectually lost as
the P . themse ves." .

Tot _he answered, with abundance of candour, thus: " Sir, I am
a Cathohc of the Roman church, and a priest of the order of St.
Benedict, and I embrace all the princi les of the Roman faith; but
yet, if you will believe me, and that I do not speak in compliment to
you, or in reslpeet to my circumstances and our civilities; I sav,
nevertheless, do not look upon you, who yourselves reformed,
Without some charity: I dare not say (thong I know it is our
opinion in general) that you cannotbe saved: I will by no means
limit the mercy of Christ so far as think that he cannot receive you
into the bosom of his church, in a manner to us unperceivable; and I
hope you have the same charity for us: I pray dailv for your being
all restored to Christ's church, by whatsoever method He, who is all-
wise, is pleased to direct. In the meantime, surely you will allow it
conSists With me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a Protestant
and a I'agan: between one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a
way which _I do not think is according to the true faith, and a savage
or a barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no Redeemer; and if
you are not Within the pale of the Catholic church, we hope you are
nearer being restored to it than those that know notlung 0 God or of
his church: and I POJOIOC .therel'ore when I see this poor man, who,
you say, has been a pro gate, and almost a murderer, kneel down
and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose {he did, thou h not fully
enli toned; believing that God, from whomhevery soc work pro-
ceed's Will sensibly touch his heart, and brinlgf him to the farther
knowledge of that truth in his own time: and God shall influence
this poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage his Wife, I
can never believe that he shall be cast away himself. And have I not
reason, then, to rejoice, the nearer any are brought to the knowledge
of Christ, though the may not be brought quite one into the bosom
of the Catholic churc last at the time when I may desire it, leaving
it to_the goodness of C rist to fierfect his_work_i'n his own time, an
in his own way? Certainly _ would re30ice if all the savages in
America were bro ht, like this poor woman, to pray to God, t ough
they were all to be rotestants at first,_ rather than the{ should con-
tinue Pagans or Heathens ; firmly believmthhat He that . ad bestowed
the first light on them would farther illuminate them_w1th a beam of
his heave y grace, and bring them into the pale of his church, when
He should see_ d." . ' _

I was astonis ed at the sincerity and temper of. this pious Papist
as much as I was 0 pressed by the power of his reasoning; an
it presently occurre to in t oughts, that if such a temper was
universal, we nught be all athohc Christians, whatever church or
particular profession we joined in; that a spirit of charity would
soon work usall u into right rinciples; and a he thought that the
like charity woul make us Catholics, so I told him I believe
had all the members of his church the hke moderation, they woul
soon all be Protestants. And there we left that part; for we never
dis nted at all. . - . .

fiowever I talked to him another way, and takin him by the hand,
" My frien " says I, "I Wish all the cler of t e Romish church
were blesse wit such moderation, and ha an equal share of your
charity. I am entirel of your opinion; but I must tell you, that if
you should preach suc doctrine in Spain orltaly, the would put on
into the Inquisition."----" It may be so," said he; " know not w t
they would do in Spain or Italy; but I willnot say they would be the
better Christians for that severity; for I amsure there is no heresy in
abounding With charity." _ .

Well, as Will Atkins and his Wife were gone, our business there
was over so we went back our own way; and when we came back,
we found them waitmfi to be called .m: obsemng this, I asked my
cle an if we shoul _discover.to him that we had seen him under
the ush or not; and it was his opinion we should not, but that
we should talk to him first and-hear what he would say to us; so we
called him in alone, nobody being in the place but ourselves, and I
began with him thus 5-- .

' Will Atkins," said I, "prythee what education had you? What
was our father?" _

I . A.--A better man than ever I shall be; sir, my father was a
clergyman. _ .

It. C.-----What education did he give you? .

W. A.----He would have taught me well, sir, but I despised all
education, instruction, or correction, like a beast as I was. _
b1? EUR.-'--It is true, Solomon says, "He that despises repioof is

ru is .'

W. A.--Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed for I murdered m father:
forhGM's sake, sir, talk no more about that; sir, I murdcre my poor

a er.

R. 0.--Ha !.a murderer! .

Here the priest started (for I_ mte retcd every word he. spoke)
lint'l looked pale: it seems he behaved t t Will had really killed his

a ier.

R. _C'.--No, no, sir; _I do not understand him_ so: Will Atkins,
explain yourself; you did not kill your father, did you, With your
own hands?

. W. A.--No, sir, I did not cut his throat; but lent the thread of all
lns comforts, and shortened his days; I broke his heart by the most
ungrateful, unnatural return, for the most tender and affectionate
treatment that ever_ father gave, or child could receive. _

R. Cz--Well, I did notask you about your father to extort this
confessmn: I gray God ve you regentance for it, and forgive that
and all your 0t er sins ; . ut aske you because I see that though
you have not much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some are
in thin that are good; t at you have known more of religion, a
great eal, than you have practised. .

W. A.--Though you, Sir, do not extort the confessmn that I make
about my father, conscience does; and whenever we come to look
back nion our lives, the sins against our indulgent arents are cer--
tamlyt e first to touch us; the wounds they make ie dee st, "."d
the weight they leave W111 lie heaviest upon the mind, of the snis
we can commit. _

b R. _EUR.--You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins; I cannot

ear 1 .

W. A.---You bear it, master! I dare say you know nothing of it.

.R._C.---.Yes Atkins; every shore, every hill, nay, I may say_evcry
tree in this island is witness to the anguish of my soul for my ingra-
titude to, and bad usage of a good, tender father; a father much like
ours, by your description: and I murdered my father as well as you
Vlll Atkins; but I think, for all that, my repentance 18 short of
yourstoo byagreat deal. . _ .

I would have said more, if I could have restrained my passions;
but I thoufiht this poor man's re entanoe was so much .smcerer than
mine,_ that was finite leave 0. the discourse and retire; for I was
surprised with w t e had said, and thought that instead of my
going about to teach 'and instruct him, the man was made a. teacher
and instructor to me in a most surpnsm and unexpected manner.

I laid all this before the young. c ergyman, who was greatly
afi'ected with it, and said to me, "Did I not sa Sll' that when this
man was converted he would preach to us all? tell you, Sir, if this
one man be made a true enitent, here Will be no need of me; he
Will make Christians of in the island."_----- But having a little
confliosed myself, I renewed my discourse, With Will Atkins. " But,
Wi ,g' said I, " how comes the sense of this matter to touch you just
now _ "

W. A.--Sir, you have set me about _a. work that has stuck a dart
through my very soul; I have been talking about God and religion to
my wife, in order, as 1you directed me, to make a Christian of her,_and
lihc has preached sue a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I

re.

12. CI--No, no, it_is not your wife has preached to you; but when
{on were ineving rehgious arguments to her, conscmuee has flung them

aek upon you.

W. A.---Ay, sir with such force as is not to be resisted.

R. C.--Pray, Will, let _us know what passed between you and your
wife - for I know something of it already. _

Wt A.--Sir,. it is impossible to give you a full account of it; I am
too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it; but let
her have said what she will, though I cannot give you an account of
ill this I can tell you, that I have resolved to amend and reform my

e.

R. (SC--But tell us some of it: how did youbegin Will? For this
has been an extraordinary case, that .13 certain. S e has preached a
sermon, indeed, if she has wrought this upon you. _

IV. A.----Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about marriage,
and what the reasons were that inen and women were obliged to enter
into such compacts, as it was neither m_ the power of one nor other
to break; that othemsc, order and justice could not .be maintained,
and men would run from their Wives, and abandon their children, mix
confuscdly With one another, and neither families he kept entire, nor
inheritanees be settled by legal descent.

It. C'.--You talk like a civflian, Will. Could you make her under-
stand what yon meant by inheritance and families? They know no
such things among thesavages, but marry anyhowhmthout regard
to relation, consanguinity, or fannly; brother and sister, nay, as I
havel been told, even the ather and the daughter, and the son and the
mot or.

W. 11--1 believe. sir on are misinformed, and my wife assures
me of the contrary, and t t they abhor it; perhaps, for any farther
relations, they may not be so exact as we are; but she tells me never
in the near relationshifigou speak of.

R. 0.--Well, what ' she say to what you. told her?

W. A.--She said she liked it very well, as it was much better than
in her country. _ .

R. C.-But did you tell her what marriage was ?

W. Az--Ay, ay, there began our dialogue. I asked her if she would
be married to me our way. She asked me what way that was, I told
her marriage was appomted by God; and here we had a strange talk
toeether, indeed, as ever man and Wife had, I believe.

.B.--This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife, I took
illi'ifivn in writing, Just after he had told it me, which was as

0 (ms:--

Wife--Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God in your
country? ' _

W. A.--Yes, my dear,_God is in every country.

Wife--No your God in my country; my country have the great
old Benainuckee God. . .

W. sir-Child. I am very unfit to show you who God is; God is in
lileaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that in

[em is.

Wife--No makee de earth; no you God makee all earth; no makec
my country, _ _ '

Will At 'ins laughed a httle at her expressmn of God not making
her country. . .

Mfe.--No laugh; why laugh me? This nothing to laugh.

h H: lint) justly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious than
c a rs .

W. A.--That's true, indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dear.

Wife--Why, you say you God makee all?

W. A.----Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you, and
me, and all things; for he is the only true God, and there is no God
but him; he lives for ever in heaven.

Wt e.--Why you no tell me long ago?

. A.--That 5 true, indeed; but I have been a wicked wretch, and
have not only forgotten to acquaint thee With anything before, but
have lived without God in the world myself.

Wife--What have you a wreat God in your country, you no know
him ablNo say i) to him? $10 do good thing for him? That no
poss'i e.

W. A.--It is true; though for all that, we live as if there was no
God in heaven, or that he had no power on earth.
1i Wye--But why God let you do so? Why he no makee you good

ve.

gym--Blah all our own lfault. t h t h h t

l e.-- 11 you say me e is muc grea ave muc grea
power, can makee kill when he Wm y he no in '00 kill when you
no serve him? No say 0 to him, no be good mans.

W. 4.--That is true, he might strike me dead; and I ought to
expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that is true; but God is
merciful, and does not deal with us as we deserve.
Wi e.--Bnt then you do not tell God thankee for that too 'i'
. A.--No, indeed, I have not thanked God for his mercy, any
more than I have feared God for his power.-
Wife--'I'hen you God no God; me no think believe he be such one,
great much power strong: no makee kill you, though you make him

much angry. . _ _ _ .

W. A.--- Vhat, WIll m Wicked life hinder Sou from hehevm
in God? What a dread ul creature am I! an what a sadtrut
is i3) that the homd hves of Christians hinder the conversion of

ma ens .

Wife--How me think you have great much God up there [she
points n to heaven] and yet no do well, no do good thing? Can he
tell? are he no tell what you do?

W. A.--Yes yes, he knows and sees all thinfis; he hears us
speali, sees w at we do, knows what we think, t ough we do not
spen .

d Wan--What! he no hear you curse, swear, speak de great
amn .

W. A.--Yes, yes, he hears it all.

Wi' e.--Wlie_re be then the much great power strong? _

I . A.--He is merciful, that. is all we can say for it; and this proves
him to be the true God; he is God, and not man, and therefore we
are not consumed: . .

Here Will Atkins told us he was struck With horror, to think how
he could tell his Wife so clearly that God sees, and hears, and knows
the secret thoughts of the heart, and all that we do, and yet that he
had dared to do all the Vile things he had done.

W i e.--Mereifiil! What you call that? _

. A.--He is our father and maker, and he pities and spares us.

_Wife.----So then he never makee kill, never angry when you do
Wicked; then he no good himself, or no great able. _

IV. A.--Yes, yes my dear, he is infinitely good and infinitely great
and able to punish too; and sometimes, to show his justice an
vengeance, he lets tly his anger to destroy sinners and make examples;
many are cut off in their sins.

I {gas--But no makee kill you yet- then he tell you, may be,
that e no makee you kill; so you makee do harm With him, ou
do bad thing, he no be angry at you when belie angry at ot er
mans.

W. A.--No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon his good-
ness; and he would be infinitely just if he destroyed me, as he has
done other men. _

' Wi e.--Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead: what you say to
him or that? You no tell him thankee for all that too?

W. A.--I am an untliankful, ungrateful dog, that is true.

fife--Why he no makee you much good better? you say he
ma 'ee you.

W. A.--He made me as he made all the world : it is Ihave deformed
mystellfl and abused his goodness, and made myself an abominable
wrc c .
Wife--I wish (you. makee God know me; I no makee him angry, I
no do bad wickc thing, _ ' _

Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk Within hnn, to hear a poor
untaught creature desire to be taught to know God, and he such
a Wicked wretch that he could not say one word to her about God,
but what the reproach of his own carriage would make. most irra-
tional to her to believe; nagghat alread she had told hmi that she
could not believe in God, ause he, t t was so Wicked, was not
destroyed. _

W. A.--My dear, you mean, {you Wish I could teach you to know
God, not God to know you; or he knows you aheady, and every
thought in our heart.

Wife.-- 'h then he know what I say to you now; he know me
wish to know Iiim; how shall me know who makee me?

_W. A.--Poor creature, he must teach thee, I cannot teach thee; I
Will pray to him to teach thee to know him, and forgive me, that am
unworthy to teach thee. . ' .

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desmiig him to make
her know God and her wishing to know him, that. he said he fell down
on his knees before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind with
the savm .knowledoe of Jesus Christ, and to pardon .lllS sins, and
accept of 3 being the unworthy instrument of instructnig her in the
grinciples of religion: after wlnch he sat down by her again, and their

ialogue went on.--This was the time when we saw him kneel down,
and hold n his hands.

W g'f'e.-- at on put down the knee for? What you hold 11
ghetgand for? hat you say? Who you speak to? What is-

a

W. A.--My dear, I bow my knees in token of m submission to him
that made me: I said O to him, .as on call it, an as your old men do
to their idol Benamuekee; that is, prayed to him.

m_'fi:.--What sa you O to him for?

W. A.--I praye to him to open your eyes and your understanding,
that you may know him, and be accepted by lnm.

Wi e.--Can he do that too? .

. A.--Yes, he can - he can do all things.

fife--But now he hear what you say? .

. A.--Xes, he has bid us ray to him, and promised to hear us.

Wife--Bid you pray? en he bid you? How he bid you?
What, you hear him speak?

W. A.---No, we do not hear him speak; but he has revealed himself
man ways to us.

Hire he.was at a great loss to make her understand that God has
revealed himself to us by his word, and what his word was; but at
last he told it her thus :--- _

W. A.--God has spoken to some good men in former days even
from heaven, by Elam words; and Go has inspired good men by his
spirit; and they ave written all his laws down in a book.

W: e.--Me no understand that; where is book? _

. A.--Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book; but 1

16
heap: _ 1:I shall one time or other get it for you, and help you to
re 1 .

Here he embraced her with great affection, but with inexpressible
grief that he had not a Bible.

Wife--But how you makee me know that God teachee them to
write that book? .

W. A.--B the same rule that we know him .to be God.

Wi e.---- at rule? What way Jon know him? .

.A.--Because he teaches an commands nothing but what is

good, righteous and holy, and tends to make _us perfectly good, as
well as erfeetly happy; and because he forbids, and commands us
to avoi , all that is Wicked, that is ev11 in itself, or eVil in its
consequence. _
i Wye--That me would understand, that me fain see; if he teachee
all good thing, he makee all good thing, he give all thing, he hear
me when I sa 0 to him, as you do )"St now; he makee me gfod,
if I wish to e good; he s are me, no makee kill me, when no
blemgkood: all this you say e do, get he be great God: me take,
t 'd', believe him to be greatGo ; me say 0 tohiinmth you,
my ear.

Here the poor man could forbear no louver, but raised her up,'made
her kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the
knowledge of himself, by his spirit; and that by some good rovidence,
if possible, she might some time or other come to have a Mo, that
she might read the Word of God, and be taught b it to know him.
This was the time that we saw him lift her up by t e hand, and saw
him kneel down by her, as above. _ _

They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too long
to be set down here; and_ rtieularly shelmade him promise that
since he confessed his own I 6 had been a Wicked, abommable course
of 0Erovocations against God, that he would reform it, and not make
G angry any more* lest he should make him dead, as she called it,
and then she would be left alone, and never be taught to know this
God better; and lest he should be miserable, as e had told her
wicked men would be, after death. _

This was a strange account, and re afi'ecting to us both, but
particularly'tothe young clergyman; e was indeed wonderfully
surfimsed With it, but under the greatest affliction im_ mable that he
eou d not talk to her that he could not speak Enghs , _to make her
understand him; and as she spoke but very broken English, he could
not understand her; however, he turned himself to me, and told me
that he believed that there must be more to do with this woman than
to marry her. I did not understand him at first, but at 1e hhhe
caplained himself, via, that she ou ht to be ba tized. I aIi With
him m that part readily, and Wished it to be one resent]. "No
no; hold, sir," said be; "though I would have her ba twedb all
means for I must observe that Will Atkins, her husbau has in eed
brought her, in a wonderful manner, to be willing to embrace aIrehgious
lifchand has given her Just ideas of the be of a God; of his power,
Justice and mercy: yet I'desire to know 0 him if he_has said any-
thuii,r to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of Sinners; of the
nature of faith in him, and redemption by him; of the Holy Spirit,
the resurrection, the last Judgment, and the future state."

I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the poor fellow fell
immediately into tears, and told us. he had said something to her of
all those things, but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and
his own conscience so reproached him with his horrid, ungodly life,
that he trembled at the ap rehensions that her knowledge of him
should lessen the attention s 6 should give to those things, and make
her rather contemn rehgion than receive it; but he was assured he
said, that her mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of all
those things, and that if I would but discourse with er, she would
make lilt appear to my satisfaction that my labour would not be lost
upon er.

According] , I called her in, and placi o myself as interpreter
between in rzzligious priest and the womainufentreated him to begin
With her; ut sure such a sermon was never plreached by a Popish
finest in these latter ages of the world; and, as told him, I thought

e had all the zeal, all the knowledoe, all the smcerity of a Christian,
Without the error of a Roman Catholic; and that I took him to be
such a clergyman as the Roman bishops were, before the church of
Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men. In
aword, he broug t the poor woman to embrace the knowledge of
Christ, and of redemption by him, not With wonder and. astonishment
01311:" she did the first notions of a God but With 9y and faith;

t' anafi'ection, and a surprising degree of understan 0', scarce to
be lllezgltlled much less to be expressed; and, at her own request, she
was p in .

When he was pre aring. to baptize her, I entreated him_that he
would perform that o 'ce With some caution, that the man might not
fierceive he was of the Roman church, i'possible, because of other

consequences which might'attenda ' erence among us in that
very religion which we were instructing the other in. He told me
that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor pro er thin for the office,
I should see he would do it in a manner that shoul not know by it
that he was_a Roman Catholic myself, if I had not known it before;
and so he did - for saying only some words over to himself in Latin,
which I could not understand, he poured a whole dishfiil of water
upon the woman's head, pronouncing in French, very loud, " Mary,
(which was the name her usband desired me to 've her, for I was
her godfather), I baptize thee in the name of the ather, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost ;" so that none could know anythin by
it what religion he was of. He gave the benediction afterwar s in
Latin, but either Will Atkins did not know but it was French, or else
did not take notice of it at that time. _

. As soon as this was over, we mamed them; and after the mar-
riage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very affectionate
mannerexhorted hmi, not only to persevere in that good disposmon
he was'in, but to suplport the convictions that werenpon him by a
resolutionto reform is life; told him it was in vain to say he re-
mted if he did. not forsake his crimes: represented to_ him how God

honoured him with being the instrument of bringing his Wife to
the knowledge of the Christian religion, and that he should be careful
he should not disiionour the grace of .God - and. that if he did, he
would see the heathen a better Christian than himself; the savage
eonvurted, and the instrument cast away. He said a great many
good things to them both; and then, recommending them to God's
goodness gage them the benediction agam, I repeatina everything to
them in inghsh; and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the
most pleasant and agreeable day to me that ever I passed in my
whole ife.- .

But my clergyman had not done yet: his thoughts hung continually
upon the converSion of the thirty-seven savages, and fain he would
have stayed upon the island to have undertaken it; but I convmced
him, first, that his undertaking was impracticable in itself;_ and,
secondly, that perhaps _I would put it into a way of being done in his

, absence to his satisfaction.

Having thus brought the afi'airs of the island to a narrow oomlpass
I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the young man had
taken out of the tarnished ship's company came to me, and told me
he understood I had a clergyman with me, and that 'I had causedthe
Englishmen to_ be married to the. savages - that he had a match too,
wlnelnhe desired might be finished before I went, between two
Christians, which he hoped would not be disagreeable to me.

I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother's
servant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island: so I
began to ersuade him not to.do anything of that kind rashly, or be-
cause he ound himself in thissolitary circumstance. I represented
to him that he had some considerable substance in. the world, and
good friends, as I understood by himself, and the maid also; that the
maid was not only poor, and a servant, but was une ual to him, she
beuig Six or seven and twenty years 01 and he not 3 ve seventeen
or eighteen; that he_might very roba 1y, with my assistance, make
3 remove fromth Wilderness, an come into his own country again;
and that then it would be a thousand to one but he would repent his
choice and the dislike of that circumstance might be disadvantageous
to both. I was 00mg to say more but he interru ted_me, smiling,
and told me, with a great deal of modesty, that mistook in my
guesses,--that he had nothin of that kind in his thou hts; and he
was ver glad to hear that I ad an intent of Eutt' t em in a way
to seet eir own country again- and nothing 5 ould ave made him
think of staying there, but that the voyage I was going was so
exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the
reach of all his friends; thathe had nothing to desire of me, but that
I would settle him in some little property in the island where he was
in: him aservant or two, and some few necessaries, and he would

've here hke a planter, waiting the good time when, if everI re-
turned to England, I would redeem him; and hoped I would not be
uninindful of him when I came to England: that he would give me
some letters to his friends in London, to let them know how good I
had been to him, and in_what part of the world, and what eircum-
stances I had left him in:. and he promised me that whenever I
redeemed him, the plantation, and all the improvements he had
made upon it, let the value be what it would, should be wholly
nune.

His discourse was ve prettily delivered, considering his youth,
and was the more agreea le to me, because he told me posnively the.
match was not for himself. I gave him all poSSible assurances that
if I hved to come safe to Encland, I would deliver his letters. and do
his busniess eii'ectually; and that he might depend I should never
forget the circumstances I had left him in; but still I was impatient
to 'now who was the person to be married; upon which he told me
it was my Jaek-of--all-trades and his maid Susan" I was most agree-
ably surprised when he named the match; for, Indeed, I thought it
verfy suitable, The character of that man I have given already; .and
as or the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, and religious
young woman; had a very good share of sense, was agreeable enough
in her person, spoke very handsomely and to the purpose, always \vith
decency and good manners, and was neither too backward to speak
when requisite, nor im iertiiicntly forward when it was not her insi-
ness; very handy and ionsewifely, and an excellent manazer; tit,
indeed, to have been governess to the whole island; and she knew
verv well how to behave in every respect.

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them the
same day; and asI was fathenat the altar, and gave her away, so I
gave her a portion; for I agpointed her and her husband a handsome

arise space of ground fort eir plantation: and, indeed, this match,

an the proposal the young gent eman made to give him a small pio-
perty in the Island, put me upon parcelling it out amongst them, that
their might not quarrel afterwards about their situation. .

This sharing out the land to them I left to IV ill Atkins, who was
now . wn a sober, grave, man "mg fellow, 1perfectly reformed,
exce ugly pious and religious; an , as far as may be allowed to
speak Sitively in such a case, I verily believe he was a true peni-
tent. e diVided things so Jursetiiv' and so much to eve onc's
satisfaction, that they on] desi one general writino un or my
hand for the whole, which caused to be drawn up, and signed and
sealed, setting out the bounds and situation of every man's plantation,
and testifying that I gave them thereby severally a right to the whole
possessmn and inheritance of the respective plantations or farms, "1th
their improvements, to them and their heirs, reserving all the rest of
the island as my own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation after eleven yeais, if I, or any one from me, or in my
naritie, came to demand it, producmg an attested copy of the same
wri 1113.

As to the government and laws among them, I told them, I was
not capable ofnlgiving them better rules than they were able to give
themselves; 0 y I made them promise me to live in love and good
nei ,hbonrhood with one another; and so I prepared to leave them"

. e thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now settled in
akind of commonwealth among themselves and havuig much busi-
ness in hand, it was odd to have seven-an -thirty Indians live in a
nook of the island, inde endent, and, indeed, unemployed ' for,
excepting the pmwding themselves food, which they haldodgtlienlty