.w..m@w.

mfififiw

kg"?
Aw; : .THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

ROBINSON CRUSOE

BY DANiEL DEFOE

 

A NEW EDITION. EDITED FOR YOUNG READERS BY E. 0' CHAPMAN>>

WIT" UFWARDS 0F "90 MUNDflED "HIS"! mm: 5' DALZIEL. MUSE], J. D. WAYsall AIID O'NEfiS.

CIHCAGOZ
DOXOHUE. HENNEUERRY J: 00..

007-429 DRAR'RORN Snzm'COI'YKX'JGI .
DONOHL'E. mum:

. cmcmo:
DONOHUF. & HENNEBERRY,
I'RINTEKS k BINDERS.INTRODUCTION.

------._--

 
  

Tim story of Boone

ten by Dnniel Dc Foe,
and first published in
1719, nearly one hundred and seventy years
ngo. The author nailed it "The Life and
Strange Surprising Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe, of York, Mariner: who lived eight,-
mnl-twenty years all nlone in an uninhabited
island on the coast of America, near the
mouth of the great river Oroonoque; hav-
ing been cast on shore by shipwreck, where-
in all the men perished but himself. With
on account how he was at last strangely
delivered by Pirates W'rit-teu by himself."

They gnve their books very long titles
in those days. But the people soon found
that this was :1 very interesting book, de-
spite its long title. No publisher wanted
to print it at fixst, but us soon as it was
published, a large number of copies were
sold, and publishers have been printing it
rind selling it ever since.

It was at first thought by some to be an

503' Cursor: was "Tit I

entirely true story, but it is not. It is, no
doubt, however, founded in part on the res]
lulventmes of Alexander Selkirk, the son
of n. shoemaker in Scotland. The following
brief account of him is given by Wilson,
the biographer of Do F 00:
l "His real name was Selol'nig, which he
changed to thnt of Selkirk, when he went
Ito see. He was born at Largo, in the
[county of Fife, in 1676, and, after a com
[mou school education, was put to his

I
l

.' to London. engaged with Ceptnin Dnmpicr

father's u-zsiness, which was that of a. shoe-
maker. Being a. spoiled child, he soon dis-
covered a wnywardness of temper that gave
much uneasiness to his parents; whilst; nu
curbr propensity to the sea. rendered his
employment irksome. At length an inci-
dent occured that put him upon indulging
his humor; for, being brought under church.
censure for irregular conduct when he was
eighteen years of age, rather than euhmit~
he suddenly left home, nnd was never heard
of for six years. It is supposed that he was
with the hncmmeers in the South Seas. In
li'OI we find him again at Largo, but the
same intractable person as ever, being en-
gaged in constant hroile with his family.
As the sen wns his favorite element, he did
not continue long in Scotland, but, going
 

upon a cruising expedition to the South
Seas. This was the voyage that rendered
his subsequent history so interesting to the
lovers of romance.

" Being appointed sailing-master of the
Cinqne Ports galley, a companion to the
St. George, commanded by Dampier, he left
England in the spring of 1703, and, after
various adventures, both vessels leached
the island of Juan Fernandez in the follow-
ing February. After staying some time to
re-fit, they sailed again in quest of booty;
but u. violent quarrel arising between Sel-
kirk and his commander. Straclling, which
settled into a rooted aninmsity, the former
resolved to take the fimt opportunity of
leaving the vessel. This occurred at the
beginning of September, 1704, when her
crazy state obliged Strnrlling to return to
Juan Femundez for trunk repah's; which

 

being completed, Selkirk bade a final adieu
to his comrades at the end of the same
month. Upon this island he lived by him
self four yams and four months, until he
was released by Captain Woodes Rogers
in the month of February, 1709."

It has been said thnt this wild fellow
wrote a story of his adventures and gave it

I to De Foe, and that Do Foe made the story

of Romnsox GRUSOE PS10m it, but this is not
believed to be true.

Whether the story is founded upon that
of Selkirk or not, it is one that every body
finds full of interest The picture of Crusoe.
with his coat and umbrella of goat skint;
watching (lay after day for a ship, until the
days pass into months and the months into
years, is one which readers will never tire
of, and is especially attractive to boys and.
girls.WAS BORN in the city
of York, in the year 1632.
My father's fight name
was Kmutznaer, and he

Bremen. My mother's rev
- lations were named Robin-
son, so I was named Robinson Kreutznner.
The English people called i1; Crusoe, and
after a while we came to write it so.

My father was not Iieh, but he hnd
become well to do by trading, and he
wished me to stay at home 11ml he happy ;
and all the more because both he and my
mother were getting old, and further, he-
cnuse one of my elder brothers had been

 

had come to England from -

 

--_----.----

kilied in the war with the Spaniards, and
the other had gone own); from home and
had not been hem-d from; but I would be
satisfied with nothing but going to sen;
and my inclination to this led me so
strongly against the will of my father, and
against all the entreaties of my mother
that there seemed to be something fatal in
my pcrver ' , ,tending directlyr lo the life
of 1111921 v "hieh " .15 to befall me.

One 111or11ing, my father (.nlled me into
his chamber, where he was- sick with the
gout, and talked to me very seriously
about it. He told me that if I stnid at
home, I had a proslwet of raising my
fortunes and living a life of happiness.
 

He said that it was only the very wealthy
an the one hand, or the very desperate on
the other, who went abroad in search of
adventure. Mine was the middle state,
which he-had found by experience was the
best state in the world. This was the
state of life that was envied both by kings
and beggars. This condition of life was
what the wise nun: meant when he prayed
that he might have neither poverty nor
riches.

 

Much more he told me to dissuade me
Crom going to sea, and he ended by saying
that though he should not meme to pray
[or me, it' I did take this foolish step,
God would not Mess me.

1 was deeply affected by what my father
said, and I resolved not to think any more

of going abroad. lhzt in n. {aw days my
good resolutions "(Are all given up and I
began to think of running away from

home in spite of the entreatics of my would never rise again.

ever, as no opportunity presented itself, I
still remained at home, though I refused
to engage in any businefi or to learn any
trade.

'One day, being at Hall, I met one of my
companions who was going by sea to Lon-
don, and he invited me so strongly to go -
with him that I consulted neither father
uor mother any more, nor so much as sent
them word of it; but- leaving them to hear
o[ it as they might, without asking God's
blessing, or my father's, without any oou-
sicle..n.ion of circumstances or consequences,
and in an ill hour, God knows, on the 13?-
of September, liibl, I went on board a ship
bound for London.

Never any young adventurer's misfor
tunes, I believe, began sooner or continued
longer than mine. ' 'ho ship was no sooner
got; out of the Humber than the wind
began to blow, and the sea. to rise in a
most frightful manner; and, as I had never
been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terrified in mind. I
began now seriously to reflect upon what 1
had done, and how justly I was overtaken
by the judgment of Heaven [or my wicked
leaving my father's house, and abandoning
my duty. All the gorx'l counsels of my
parents came now fresh into my mind; and
my conscience, which was not yet come to
the pitch of hardness to which it lms (:omc
since, repromzhed me with the contempt of
advice, and the breach of my duty to God
and my father.

I thought that. every wave would swallow
us up, and that every time the ship fo'l
into the hollow 01' trough of the sea, it
In this agony of

father and the (cars of my mother. How ! ruindI made many vows and resolutions,
9

 

 

that-if it would please God to spare my
life in this one voyage, if ever I gm. once.
my foot upon dry land again, I would go
directly Ironic: to my futluer. mid never set

made a sight tlmb I thought the most do
lightful I ever saw.

I lmd slept well in the niglitmul wus
now no more mix-sick, but; very chmu'hil.

 

it into :1 Ship :wuiu while I lived; llml- I
would take his ndviw, and never run my-

self into such miseries as flu-so an}' more. '

I had llxesse wise mid good thoughts as
long as the. storm lured, and, iudu l, for
some time after. But the next dug, film
wind nlmted and the sea. grew calmer, and
:1 fine evening followed. My sen-sickness
mu] my fem disappeared, and with tlmm
all my thoughts of lmxnu nml duty. The
sun rose clual' the. next- mm'ning, and his
beams shining upon the sea, which was
quite smooth, there being little or no wind,

 

looking with wonder upon the seen that was
my rough and terrible flu: tiny before, and
. could he. so calm and so pleasant in solittle
: :1 time after. And now, lest my good re
solutions should cnutinue, my companion
who lmd (tntit'crl inc nwny comes to me.

" \Vell, Bob," r 3's lie, clappingr me upon
the sliuliltle'r, " lnm' dn you do after it? .I
|

 

 

warrant ynn were frightened, \ver'n't you,
last. night, when it blew but. a capful of
wind l"

"A cnpful d'you call if- ?" said I ; "Was

:I. terrible sun-in.""A storm, you feel l" replies he; " do you
call that a storm? why, it was nothing at
nll; give us but It good ship and sen-room,
and we think nothing of such a. squall of
wind as that; but you're. but u. fresh-Water

R OBINSON CR USOE.

I fonml, indeed, some intervals of reflee
tion; and the serious thoughts did, as it
were, endeavor to return again sometimes;
but. I shook them 011'. and roused myself
from them, and applying nwselt' to drink
ing and company, soon mastered the return
of those fits. But I was to have another
trial for it still ; and l'rovidenw, as in such
generally it does, resolved to leave me
,entinelvv without excuse; for if I would
not take this for a deliverance, the next
was to he such :1 one us the worst and most
hzudened wretch amongr us would confess
both the. (hinge and the me .

The sixth (la),- of our being at sen, we
came into Yin-mouth Roads; the wind
having been contrary, and the weather
calm, we had made but little way since the
storm. Here we were obliged to come to
an anchor, and here we lay, the Wind con-
tinuing contrary, for seven or eight days,
during which time a grant man} ips from
Newcastle came into the same Roads.

\Ve had not, however, rid hem so long
but we should have tided it up the river,

 

   

 

 

sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a bowl of but that the wind blew too fresh, andI

punch, and we'll forget all that."

To make short this sad part of m}? story, very hard.

we went the way of all sailors; the punch
wus nmdemnd I was made halt'vdrunk with
it; and in that one night's \vickednessl
drowned all my repentauw, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, all my resolu-

after we, had lain four or five days, blew
I'lowever, the RA): is being
reckoned as good as an harbor, the anchor-
age good, nnd our ground-tackle very
strong. our men were unconcerned, and not
in the least apprehensive of danger, but
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the

(ions for the future. In a word, as the sea manner of the sen. But the eighth day, in

was returned to its smoothness, so the
burr)r of my thoughts beingr over, my fears
of lining swallowed up by the sen being

the morning, the wind increaseu, anl we
had all hands at work to strike our top.

masts, and make everything snug and close,

forgotten, and the ciu'rent of my former that the ship might ride as easy as possible.

desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows
and promises that I made in my distress.

By noon the sun went very high indeed,
and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped
 

 

eevgflxl seas, and we. thought. once or twice
our anchor had come home; upon which
our master 0 Hi red out the slicer-:uwlmr.
The storm grew fiercer and fiercer until
1 begun to sew terror in the fumes. of the
seamen themselves. At first, I was quite
stupid with sickness nnil fear, and I lay in
the cabin; but now I clambercd on (leak,
and lookedahnut. Tm) nl' the ships near us

had cut their masts, and I hcanl the sailor>>: .

 

 

distress, and, the stump somewhat. almti
a boat was put off to us from a ship that
hall not been damaged, lmcause she "'11:!
light. "'1: hml great (lifi'icnlry in getting
into the boat when it reached us; but \\'v
(lid it'safcly and after several hours of
drifting, ill danger Cl: llbi! r swamped every
minute, we. reached illL shore, ilrcncluul
and destitute. The ship sank soon after
we left her.

 

 

 

any that two more had been blown out to '
sen. Finally a great ship fouudcrcrl before
our eyes, and the muster ordered our masts
to he cut. away. Then came a cry that we
had sprung a leak, and we all went to
work at the pumps.

All our cfiorts were useless; the water
gained rapidly' in the hold, and it becmncl
certain that we could not ride out the
storm. Guns were now fired as signals of

A tYarmouth, We were given some money,
and I might easily have gone back to Hull,
but niyill late pushed me. mi. \Vith what
nuine)' l lnul, l linule my way to Landim.
There I fell in with the Munster 05' a ship
bound for the coast of Guinea on a trading
voyage. llc: took quite a fancy to me at
once and became my friend. I raised some
forty pounds by corresponding with some
relations, and investing it in trinkets. such1':

CH USUE.

\.

 

us; the capmin carried to trade with the,
nntives, we set. sail, and made a most suc- .
cessi'nl voyage. '

 

My succu' I owed entirely to my
Lriend the captain, who first showed me
what thing: to buy in London, and than
how to trade them with the natives of

 

ROB 'I'NS'ON

 

 

Guinea for gold'dI 0n the Voyage, he
ought me the use of the. ship's instruments,
by which an account. of our court": was
taken every day, and I became a navigator
as wall :13 :1 Guinea trader.

My friend died soon after his arrirnl at
homo, but I resolved to go the same my
__tin on the same ship. This was :
most. unhappy voyage, for though I left. n

"gt;

 

good portion of In} money with inyi'riend's
widow, yet. I fell into terrible misfortunes. .

Our ship making her course towards Ina
Canary Islands, was surprised, in the. gray
of the morning, by a Moorish rover of'Sal-
lee, who gave. chase to us, "'0 crowded as
much canvas as our yards would spread, or
our musts carry, to get clear; but. finding
the pirate gained upon us, we prepared to
fight, our ship having twelve guns and the
rogue eighteen. About three in the after-
noon he: came up with us, and bringing to,
in}: mistake, just nthivarr'. nur quarter, we
brought. eight of our guns to lwar on that.
side, and poured in a broadside. upon him,
which made him sheer olf again, nfirr
returning our fir:,-, and pouring in also his
squall shot from near two hundred men
which he had nu lmard. l'lmrever, we imd
not a man touched, all our men keeping

' close.

110 prepared to attack us again, and we
to defmid ourselves; but layingus on hoard
the next time upon our other quarter, he
entered sixty men upon our dut who
immediately fell to cutting and hacking
the sails and firming. We plied them with
small shot, lmlf-pih s, pmvder-cht , and
 

 

sucn lihemml cleared our deck of them
twice. However, to cut short this melan-
choly part of our story, our ship being dis-
n'oled, and three of our men killed, and
oi ht wounded, we were obligml to yield,
and were all carried prisoncm into Sallee,
a port belonging to the Moon.

The usage I had there was not so
dreadful as I at first feared; nor was I car-
ried :11: the country to the l'hnpemr's court,
as the rest, of our men were, but. was kept
by the captain us his proper prize, 'uul
made his slave, being young and nimble
and fit for his business. At this 5111'].
.655, {1'01" Ii.

 

 

ing change of my circum:
merchant to a slave, l was pcrfectlv over-
whelmed; and now I looked back upon
my father's prophet. discomse fo me, thnt
I should be miserable; which I thought
was now so effectually hmught to pas,
that I could not be worse; for now the
hand of heaven had overtaken me, and I
"'11:: undone. But; alas! this was but a
taste of the )'Jlalfl'y l was to go tln'cmgii.
As my new patron, or master, had taken
me home. to his house, so I was in hopes
that he would take me. with him when he
went to sea again, believing that it Would

 

 

 

some time or other be his fate to he mitten ,

by a. mmmfiwar, and that then Ishould
be set at. liberty. But- this hope of mine
was soon taken away ; for when he went
to sea, he left me on Short! to look after his
little garden, and do the common drudgery
of slav s about his house.

I had no one to talk to, for, though
there were other slaves, not one of them
could undcmtand my lnngnngc, nor could

 

I understand theils. But while at work'

dlgging in the garden or grinding grain, I

 

 

 

15

 

thought of nothing but my many: Ill)?
for u long .time no means of escaping rho-
sentml itself.

Afim' about: lwo yams, my mafia-r stayed
at home longer than usual, and two or
three times a week he used to go out
n-lishiug in his boat. Ilre always fool: me

and a young Moron-o, besides a. Moor, with

 

him, for we made him vm'y merry, and 1
was very dcxr'crons in catching fish.

It- happencd one time, that, going l-fish-
ing with him in a calm morning, a fog rose
so thick, thnt though we Were not half a
league from the shore, we lost sight oi is:
and rowing we knew not whither. m;
labored nll day and all the next night; nnzi
when the morning came, we found we had
pulled out to sen instead of pulling in for
 

the more However, we got well in again,
though with a great deal of labor and some
danger, and we were all very hungry. But
our master, warned by this disaster, resolv-
ctl to take more care of himself in the
future: and having lying by him the. long
boat of our English ship which he had
taken, be resolved he would not go a-fish-
ing any more without. a. compass and some
previsiou. so he ordered the carpenter of

Moor to take me and the young Morena;
whose name was Xury, and go and cater:
some fish, as he expected some distinguished
company to sup with him. Now, thought
I, is my chance to get my liberty.

My first contrivancc was to speak to the
Monr and ask him if we ought not to take
along some food for our dinner; for I told
him we must not presume to eat of our
master's bread. He said that was true ; so

 

his 31:21) to l'bllilll a little cabin in the
middle of tho long-lmat and iii; a. place for
provisions and Water, also for a compass,
and put in a mast and sails. After that,
we used to go a-fishing in the long-boat.
{me day my master commanded the

he brought a basket full of their kind, and
three jam; with fresh water into the heat.
I knew where my hunter's case of bottles
stood, and I conveyed them into the boat
whih the Moor was on shore, as if they
had been there before for our master I
 

conveyed also a great lump of beeswax

into the boat, which weighed about half

an hundred weight, with a parcel ol' twine
or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer,
all of whieh were of great use to us after-
wards.

Another trick I

southerly, I had been sure to make the
coast, of Spain; but. my resolutions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone
from that. horrid Place where I \\'as,1m(l
leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished

 

some time. and

 

 

 

tried upon hnn, which

 

 

 

 

 

he innocenriy :anm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

into also : " Nicely,"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

said I, ' our ].':I.I5I'(>ll'fi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

guns are all on board

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the heat; can )3 an not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gel. a. little powder

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and shot 'E It may be

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

we may kill some

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

alcamies (a fowl like.

 

 

 

 

' our (:urlmvsl im- nur--
sclves." "W '
he, "I'll bring some,
and accordingly, he
brought- a great leath-
L'l' pouch, which held
al'mut it pound and a
half of powder, and

with shot,

that had live or six
pounds, with some
bullets, and put all into the: boat. At the

'same time, I had found some powder of my

master's in the great cabin, and Lhu>>: fur-
nished with everything ueedful, we sailed
out of the port to fish.

'<<The Castle, which is at the entrance of the
port, lilHHV who we were, and tool: nu
notice of us; and we were not above. a mile
out of the pert before we hauled in our
sail, and sat. us down to fish. The wind
blew from the N. N. J1, which was con-
trary to my desire; for had it blown

    

another

 

 

caught nothing (for when i had fish on my
hank I would not. pull them up, that he
might not. see the-nu) I. said to the Moor,
"This will not do; our muster will not. he
thus served; we must stand further oil."
He, thinking nu harm, agreed, and, lining
in the head of the hunt, set the. sails; and,
as I had the helm, I ran the boat out near
a league farther, and then brought her tn,
as if I would fish; when, giving the boy
the helm, I stepped forward to where the
Moor was, and making as if I stooped [or16

R ()3 INSUN Ult'. USO Iu'.

 

Something behind him, I took him by sur-
prise with my arm under his waist, andi
tossed him clenr overheard into the sea. 5
He rose immediately, for he swam like all
cork, and begged to be taken in.

As he continued to swim after us I'

fetched a fuming-piece from the cnbin,

 

 

. but I was at -

.in great numbers.

not mistrust him, and swore to he fuit-hfnl
to me, mid go all over the world with me.
As long as the swimming Moor could
see. me, I steered the hunt straight out to
sea, for I knew he would tell his master
which way I hnd gone. lint us soon as
I thought the heat was out of his sight,
I turned her head to the smith-cast,
With It good breeze and a. smooth sun, at
three o'clock on the afternoon of the next

'dny, I lnld no doubt. that. we were one

hundred and fifty miles from Sellee. At
this time we. were within sight nf the
, and I knew that we were were out
of the kingdom of the Moms.

But so afraid was I of being {allowed

 

'hy my late master, that we sailed on

"toward the south for five days, without
stopping. At the close of the fifth day,
we anelmred :d. the month of n little river;
' l to go on slmrc forfem'et'
the wild beasts, which inhabit that must
r ' .
lhey nnule hideous
nnises in the night, and sometimes we could

   

_see great creatures lmtliillg on the bench.

and pointing it :11. him. said: "You can,
swim well enough to reach the. shore. If:
you try to get. in the boat, I will slmoti
you." He turned about when he saw I
ths determined, and swam tnwm-d the
shore, which I have no doubt he remched
in safety.

When he was gone. I turned to the boy,
and said to him, "Xury, if yen will he
l'nithl'nl to me, I'll make " u :1. great mun;
hut if you will not stroke your face to be
lrue tu me," that is, swear by Mnhunxet
and his hither-'5 heard, " I must throw you
into the sea, too." The boy smiled in my

     

One of them swam off ton-21rd the boat,
but a shot frmn a fouling-piece sent him
quickly buck to the shore.

However, We lmd to go on share. for
water, [or we had not 11. pint left, so, the
next day, we drew the heat in as: elnse as
we could, and wzuled ashore, taking our
ftm'ling-pieces and two jars. I Sinul by
the heat, while any smn fnund some
water nnd filled the jars. He also shot v
hare, which we roasted on tle. shore, and
had quite a feast

Several times I was obliged to land for
freshwater, utter we had left this place;

.fucc. and spoke 5m immeently, that I could I and once in particular, being early in the11031375037 (3111;30ij .I -;

 

mowing, we came to an anchor under 21'
little paint of lmul. Xtu'y, \\-'hose <<30.4

were more about him Lham it seems mine
Wow, culls so'l'iily to me, find tells me that we
had bus: go farther off the shore; "for,"
says he, "look, yonder lies a. dreadful
monster (m the side of that hillock, fast.
asleep." I looked Where he pointed, and '
saw a terrible great lion thnt lay on rhcl

lay so, wilh his leg mimu :l lili-le above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about
the liner, and hmke llm hone. He is tried
up, growling at film, hut finding his leg
broke, fell down again; :Lml then got up
upon three lvu' nml gm'c thcmost hiilenus
rom- that e ' I heard. I took up thu
REL-0nd piece immediately, and though he
lwgmi ('0 1mm: ufl'. lii'ml "gain, and shot,

 

 

 

 

side of the shore, under the Shzuhe of :Li
piece of the hill. I took our 13' gun,
and hnulml it with :\ goutl L'hzu': of pow-
der, and with two slugs, :1an lniul it down;
then I lnuiletl mint-her gull with two huh,
let's; and the Lhinl (for we had t'lmeu
pieces) I lmnlwl with live smaller bullets.
I took the host aim I could wifh the 111'
L-iece to have shot him in the head. huf- lm A

    

  

him in the head, and llflll the pleasure tr
sue him drop.

This "'ns "nun: innlnwl in m, hut this
wnx m) fund; and I was \'wn' sari-y 1>> Jose
three ch:
creature that was gunnl for noflxing to us.
I hcthought 111' lf, hon-'cvel', that. perhaps
the skin of him might, one way or other,
he of some. Vnhic To us, So X1111)! and I

a of Powder and shut. upon a
went Lu work with him; but Xi H was devour the flesh, making signs to offer me
much the. better worhnmn at it, for I knew 1 some. I shook my head, but. signified that.
very in how to (in it. Indeed, it took us ' I would take the skin, if the. ould put it

 

 

both the \vhnle day, but at last we got off on the Show. and go "way. This they did,
the hide of him, and spreading it on the

 

and I sent Xury for it. They also left on

 

 

(up of mu- cabin, the. sun effectually dried the shore a great jar of water um'. ; :--
it- in two days' time, and it nfmijwzuds dried roots and corn for which I was
svrvml me ln lie 111nm. . fhmihful.

.'d'ivr sailing on for twelve days more I i I snihed on for eleven (lays in :1; without
found that, the lamI was inhabited by ' goings; near the shore till I saw the hind run
mgwes,u'ho ram along the shore: and made mm it. great way into the sea. This I took
simna to us. As I thought; them savages, I to be Cnpe de Verde. On sailing out tn
did not Venture to go on shore. One day the point of the Cape, I saw land far 0112.
'1 grout h-ulmrd run (hm-11 among them to to son which I thought. was the Cape (is,
the water, at, which they were groutly Vex-(la IsIands. I stepped into the cabin
frightcnwl. th-n I Shot, him, they wear. and was; thinking whether I ought 110th)
_ 1y surprised and very grateful. They sail for the Islands when I head Xurycrv
cuiv. .3' (wk 011' the skin and begun to out: "Master, muster, a ship with a sub."
 

 

 

I rushed from the cabin and found Xury utensils and thing" as i. wanted; which he
in a great fliWht, he thinking that it must did, and brought them to me on. his unit
mad: he 11 ship of his old master the

 

ph-m I saw, however that it. was a
Portuguese ship. and I crowded all sail to
come up to her, and was soon on board.
Upon hearing my story, the captuin
ofiercd to take me to the Brazil's, whither
he wns going, without any pay \\'l1zite\'e.1',nu(l
to take all my goods also. .llc nfi'crcd to

give me a good 1111111 for my boat, which I
lMK'Hlitficl. He wanted also to buy X111-y,

but I was 10th to sell the boy's liberty as
soon as he hail gained in. But as he ofiexed
to set- him free in ten years and to treat
him well, and, moreover, Xury being will-
ing, I let the Captain have him.

we made a good voyng'e to the Th'nzils,
landing in All Snints' Bay in tn-'entyvtn-'o
days. The. generous treatment the captain
gave me, I can never enough 11211113111bcr. He
would take nothing of 1111; for my passage,
gave me twenty ducats for the leopurd's
skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I
had in 1n_\-'lmat, and caused everything I
hnd in fl .hip to ho punctually del' .d
to me; such as the case of bottng two of
my gum, and 21 pieee of the lump of lives"-
wax, for l hurl inmlc candles of the rest; in
a word, I made about two hundred and
twenty pieces of eight: of all my cargo; and
with this stock I went on shore.

I soon learned that the planters of that.
country lived well and became rich, m I
bought land and lutminc a planter, raising
sugar and tobacco. "Ihe'n the Portuguese
captain sailed, I sent. by him an order for
the dummy which I had left with the
Englieh captain's widow, and gave him i11-
mctions to invest it in Lisbon in such

   

l V ()_\' ""9.

I was now very 1110313010113 and happy,
but I was not. to 1e1uaiu so. I ofteu talked
to the planters about me of my voyage to
the coast of Guinea, and how may it was to
trade With the natives 'l'or gold-dusts, or
even for elm-11% which were very dear in
the Bl'fl.lll&

One day some of the plautms came to
111e1111d proposed, that, as them was noth-
ing we needed so much as slaves to work
our plantations, they would lit out :1 ship
to go to the coast of Guinea for .
that I would take change of the aft.

 
    

.Al

though I was very well situated Whele I
was, I accepted their proposal, providing

 

they would take care of my property while
I was gone. In short, I obeyed blindly the
. dictates of my fancy Hitherthan n1\-'1enson;
and, accordingly, the ship being fitted out.
and the cause finished, and all things don!-20

 

:15 by agr 112111, by my partner>> in --t11e
voyagefi 115115 1111. 111111111. in 1.111 evil hour
$511,111, the 151 of Dupiember, 1.655), being the
1111111; 121151111511: Jeans than 1 want from my

 

 

1.1111111 11.1111 mother :11 111111, actingr the rchvl
to their n11t1111ri1..., 211111 the fool 20 my own
11111111131.

 

0111' ship was alannt one hundred and-

twenry Ions 11111111111, curried six guns, 111111
111111111911111en,hes 103 the 111113191; his 1305',
111111 mystlf. We 1111,11 on 13111111] 110 large
<<urge of 2 ls, except of such toys :13 were
fit fox-(1111' 1111113 with the negroes, 5:111:11 as
1101111: hits of glam, shells, and 01111 trifles,
<<110111 11.1r litLle 10131111111011- knives,
scis<< . lintchcts, 111111 the like.

""1: 111111 wrv good weather, PS11111 we
~11111-11 north, nt 11 1., along (1111' mm coasL

 

    
 

   

Wu [1115.49.11 the line in 11110111. twelve 1111ys'
i

111-, 111111 "-1- 11., 113' 0111' lust observation, in
1:141 degrees 1111111111110 111i1111t1~a 11111111
le1iitndo, wh1>11 :1 violent. tornado took 113
filliic out; of (1111' lill()\\'lEURt1_'_'('. It blowin
11111111 :1 terrible 111111111121; 111211; 1111' twelve
11:111-1 1. <<her we 121111111 do nothing 11111.
drive, and, sulldding' z1\\':1_\' before. it,l1,-t it.
'1' 11s \\ horurur 11110 111111 1111-, fury of the
warm: (111-111-1111; (11111 during these twelve.
(1:

 

 

 

 

   

to he swulhnvcd 1111; 1101' (lid any in
1,111: ship expect 111 sure their lives.

 

I 1111011 11111: say that I expeutml every .

R 013111115011} (/21: U S 0111'.

AL last we pe1ceivcd land. ahead hut In
fme we 1:1)u111 make out w 1111111111- 1: was an
is111n11 or 1.111: mainland, 1111: 51111: 51.11101: 011
11112 $111111 11 long distance 1111111 the shore.
Now, we were in 11. dreadful condkion in
111111 111111 1111.11 110:1 1111" to 110 but to think
01.511111113111111 lives as best 110 could. \\ 1:
111111 :1 11011.1: 111 0111' 5111111 just before the
storm, but she was first. 31111-1111 1:}; (lashing
'1151 the ship's rudder, 111111 in the nexc

1.1111110 she broke awny, 111111 either sunk 01'
wns driven off to sen; so There 11' no 11.1113
frmn her. WV: had another host (111 11011111,
but. hmv to get. her off 111111 11111 912:1 was a
. 1111111111111 thing; however, there was
room to (11--. ate, for we fancied the ship
111111111 131-0111: in pieces every minute, 511111
some 1.0111 115 she, was actually broken
already.

In this distress, the mate of 0111' vessel
lz1\-' 1.10111 01' the boat, 111111 with .1111 119.111 111
1'1111 1e 1: of 1111'. 1111111,tl1eygot 1101' 1311111! 011-1-
1-110 ship's side; and getting .1'. 11111) lltEl,l let
1.11), 111111 c11111111iLLe11 ourselves, being elevvu

 

 

 

!1()

 

 

in number, to God's mercy 111111 the W'lid
314.11; 1111' though the storm was 1111:1le1'l con.
( 5111111'1111'13', yet 1.1113 sea went 111'011111'11113' inn
1 upon the Show.And now we all smv plainly that the. porhnps mnlm smooth water.
bonn couhl not escape, and that "'0. should \
As to making sail, "'0 had in. .
none, nor. if we had, (toultl we have tlUHU l looked more flightful tlnm Il';
anything with it; SL1 Wu "ml-ed uh the our I

he (lion-mull.

iowunls lnntl, i.li(mgh with heavy henna,
like men going in cxvcution; for we all
knew that when the boat cnmc nem- the.
shore shu Would he (l:l$ll&|l in a thousmhl

 

pieces hy 1hr; hrn (-h of tin: ,
we cunnnitl'ml our souls to Gml in the mnFl'.
nest- nmunel'.

ll 1 |\\'(">>'('l',

 

 

\'Clmt llnA. shore was, whether rock or
sand, whether stoop m- shoal, m3. know not;
the only hope was that we n
into some, lmy 01' gulf
river, where by grant. clmnco we might run
our lmut in under the lee of the lzunl. mnl

 

"WU"? "lhlllll (-i SUI)!"

 

 

 

 

It lmmuen -

160 h' I NEON CR (5301'). 251

Illul; there
nothi g of (his appeared; but as; we
.r and nearer the shore, the land

 
 

5'8."- .

 

At lnst' n grant wave came rollh
us, OVCI'FCll'v the. hour, and "'0. were all swnL
lowed up in a moment. Nothing can (le-
sm'iln: wlint I felt when I sunk into Hie
wan-r; for though ll :~'\\'1nn very \rull. yci- .-

 

 

" S")
" to (lr'm' ln'u:1fli,till lenb wave lnu'ing
v'n-lxen n . or mthm' cm-ric-Il n way
ls [he shm'u, :nnl lmvm; in-nt
ltsnrlf. wont lmulc, nxnl Mr nne 111m]: lln: lzunl
almost (ll-y, lllll' hulF (lmnl \\ ilh Llle "Tm-1' I
took in. I haul so mllt'll ]I1'ufi' "e of mind,
as well :15 ln'enlh luff, that", so g myself
m-nrm' the main lznnl llnu} l cxpcctctlflgc".

 

 

   
   

on townupon my feet and ran.
Anathcr wau': soon ()\'E-Zl'- ,
tool; n'm. and then another, until I was ;
(laid-it'd a dust :1 ruck with such fame as to I
make! me "curly st'nmelvfi. I

I held (in tn thn l'llt'k, hmV'L":0r, until the '
wave rvvudwl, and the. next run I tank I
got in the nntinlund. exhausted and bruised,
and, indeed, nmru (head than alive.

 

lint l \\':H now landed, and sale (in
short>>, and In n tn look up and to thank
God that my life was saved. I. Walltfiil'
about the. shore, lifting up my hands, and
my whole being, I may say, wrapt up in
a contemplation of my delirc.'anc8; male
ing a thousand gestures and motions, which
I Emmot-dcsoriliu; reflecting upon. all my
comrades that were drowned, and that
there. should not. he one soul saved butty
\ clt'; for, as {or them, I never saw them
nfmrmmls, or any 'gn of them, cxmq-t
three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
that were not. fellows.

 

 

 

I cast my eyes to the .Ktrandud vessul,
when, the. breach and froth of the sea
living .'m big, I would hardly see it, it. lay
so far <<ill, and considered, Lind! how was
it littssll'tlc I could get- (m shore?

Afn-rl had Snlm't-tl my mind with the
(vumforlnlulo purl of m_\' condition, l began
tn look around me, to see what. kind at
place I was in, and what- \\'as. next. to lie:

 

16 0313" S ON OR USO F}.

(lane; and I soon .l'nund my comfort! abate,
and that, in a word, I had a dreadful de-
liverance; for I was wet, had no clothes to
shift. me, nor anything either to eat or
drink, to comfort me. Xeithcr did I see
any prospect liel'm'u inc, llllli that. of per-
ishing with hunger, or being devoured by

 

i wild beasts; and that which was put , ,

larl)' alfecting tu me was, that I had no
\rr-apnn, cit crtn hunt and kill an)r (-rea-
tnre form),r suitenance or to defend my
self against an} other creature that nnght
ilrsi e to kill me [or theirs. In a word, I
had noth' about me. hnt a knife, :1 to
lmccu'lillie, and a little tobacco in a box.
This was all my provision; and this threw
me. into terrible :tgonies of mind, that. for a
while. Iran about like a madman. Night.
coining upon me, I began, with a heavy
heart, to cnnsidcr what would he my lot if
there were any ravenous beasts in that:
country, i in" at night they always come
abroad for prey.

All the remedy that offered to my
thoughts, at that time, was to get up into
a thick bushy tree, like a. fir, but thorny,
w . h grew near me, and where. I r0501 VCIl
to air, all night, and consider the next.
day what death I s mild die, for as yet I
saw no pros-peat: of Me. I walked about
a furlmig from the shore, to see it I could
find any fresh water to drink, which I did
to my great joy; and having drunk, and
put ah:tle tobacco in my. month to IH'G-
rent hunger, i went to the free, and get-
ting up into it>>, endeavoured to place my'
self so that it I should sleep I might not
fall. And having out me a short stick.
liko a trunchecm, for my defence. I took up
my lodging - and being excessively fatigued,
 

I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably that at least I might save some necessary
as, I believe, few could have done in my things [or my use.

condition, and found myself more refreshed When I came down from m - mums
with it than 1 think I ewr was on such an in the tree, I l<vulcuti about me Ill], and
occasion. I, (he first. thing I found was Um boat, which

 

  

 

 

lay, as the Wind and sea. il fussed her up,
upon the land, about two in on myright
hand. I walked as far as: I could upon
shore. to have. got to her; but-found :1 neck,
01' inlet I)?" water between me and {he boat
which was about half a mile ln'i'mnl; an I
came h: k for the present, being lunl'e
intent Ill"!!! getting at the ship, "lll'l't'. I
hoped to find smncihing fur my ln'usunt
subsistence.

A little nitur nuon I found the sun very
calm, and the title ebbud so far nnf, Hint". I
could come within a quarter of a mile of

When I waked up it- was broad day-
light, the weather clear, and the storm
abated. so thnt the sea did not rage and
swell a; before; but i which sui'pi-is (1
me more was. that the ship was lifted 02'?
in the. night, from tho sand whare she lay,
by the swelling of the tide, and was driven
up almost; as far as the ruck which I nt first;
mentionml, where I had been so bruised
ii}! the' wax-'0 dushing me against it. This
being within about a. mile. from the shore
where I was, and the ship seeming to stand
upright still, I wished myself on board,9.1,

 

 

the ship. Am' 11: I found afresh renew-
ing of my grief; for I mm-'ox-'ideutly, that if
we iuul llupt on l)()PSll'll, we had been all
sate; {hut- is to say, we .lmd all got mfe on
shore, and I had not been so mis rarhle as
to he left. entirely d imte of all comfort
and cmupauy us I now was.

This forced the tours to my ey: '
As there was little relief in that,l resolved
it 1K)s:<ilpl<-', to {get to the ship; so I pulled

olt my clothes, [or the weather was. hot, and

 

 

 

 

uml; 1n the water. But when I mnmtulhe
ship my dilllvuity was still greater to know {
how to get on hoard. for as she 'my high out

'51)oiled and What was free.

 

1 t' OBINS DA" CR USOE.

 

 

reach to lay hold of. I swam nrountl he!
twice, and the second time I cspicd a small
piece of rope lumgingr down the fore-chains
so low, that with great (lifiicully I got hold
of if, und hy the help of that rope got up
into the forecastle of the ship.

I found that the ship was bulged, and
had 1!. great deal of water in her hold; but
that: she lay so on the side of a. bank of
hard sznul, or ruther earth, that her stern lny
lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
ulmost t0 the water. By this means all her
quarter was free, and all that was in that
port was dry; for you may he sure my first
work "his to search, and to see what was
And, first, I
found that n.ll the ship's provisions were
dryzunl untouched by the \i'nl.e1',:un'l being
very well disposed to er.t,I went to the
ln'einlq'oum mid filled my pockets with his-

cuit, and ate it as I went about nther things,

forI had no time to lose. I also found
some rum in the great (:ulJiu, of which 1
tool; a large drum, and which I hml, indeed:
nerd enough of, to spirit me for What was
before mo.

Now I: wnuted nothing but a. boat, to
furnish myself with many things. which I
fur <<aw would herery necessary to 1110-. It
4.: in vain to sit still and wish for what
was not to he had; and this exh-mnity
roused my application. \\-"e had several
spnre yardsfiud two or three large spun: of
wood, and a spare top-must 01' two in the
ship. I resolved to fall to work withthese,
21nd I flung as many of them overboard as i
could nmnuge for their weight, tying every
one with a rope, that they might not drive
\Vhen this was done I went down

 

 

\\-

""1! \'.

 

of thn "'ITL'I', tin-re u'u-s :luthing within my

the ship's side. and pulling; them to me. IRUB] .-\ SO; \"

timl. {our of them tuguther ut lmth (ends, . .
well as I could. in the form of 11 raft, 11nd
laying two ortln'ee short. pinces of plank
upon them, cl'OSS%W3}-'S, I found I could
walk upon it. very well, hut. than. it. was not
able tn hear any great weight, the ])l('.('('.s
being 100 light.

So I wenf. to work, and with the (211111511-
tex-'s saw I cut; a spare top-mast into th-Ne
lengths, and mlded them to my ruff, with :1
great deal of'lnhor and pains. lint the
hope. of furnishing 1113-5611: with necessaries
encouraged me in) go beyond wlmt I should
have b01511 able to have (lune upon another
Occasion.

)'Iv ruff. wns now strong enmwh to hear
anv reasonable \1 cwht. NV next. <<1111- u xxx
"h: 'lt Lu lmul it with, and how to pieserve
What I llml laid upon it from Hm :~'1nf1>>+
the sea: but I was not long considcling
this.

I fil'st- laid nll the plnnlcs (11' boards 1111.711
it. that- I could get, and having considered
"'12" wlmf. I most wanted, I Iirist got three
of the somnci
open and emptied, and lowered them down
upon in)" rii'i; tin: {inst 01' these I iillml
with Pro )l]S--\'i7., lire: 11! '
Dutch cheese-'1, fiua pieces at d1 lel2 's
il1sl1 (whirlh "1: liu-ul 111110h111:011>,1i1nl :1
little remainder 11+ l'l'umlneun 1211111 \1h11h
had been laid by for smile {owls which we.
brought. 1:) 311:1 with us but the {owls were
killed. There hull lit-en Home: lnn le_\'
wheat. Lugeihei; hut, to my
pointmcnhl found ulteru'unln . 1hr: ruls
had eaten or spoiled it- nll. As for liquurs'
[found sewn-11! (times 11f bottles belonging
to our skipper, in which we some cordial
"inns; 11ml, in all, about five or six gallons

 

 

 

flu cc

 

 

and

car. ilinun

 
 

 

 

'hcs'tn', which I haul broken . -

25

CR (5501').

 

11: :1 Then-91 stowed by thuna 11 391,
there benig' no need to put 3110111 111%) tho
chest, nur 11113; room for then).

"While I "'11.: doing th :1. l t'uulnl (he lide

begun to flow, though very 1111111; and I had

 

the 111111'1'ili1311riu11 to sun my cunt, shirt and
\\':1i>f1'1>:11, whiuh I had left, 1111
upon The sand. swim away.

flu? sham
A3 for my
bronchus, which were only " 1e11, and ope-1:1-
kueml, I 51mm on board in them and my
slacking-I.

 

llou'e

 

.1', this put 1111-. 111ml) rummaging
J'nr clotlm, of which I found enough, but
1.1111]; 111. more than what I wunlell I'm-11m-
Scnt "<0, for l hzul other things which my
'1: was inure upon ; as. first, tooli in work
1 with 1111 Show: and it was alter long
scorching that-l found out the cnrpcnleils.26

R OBINSON

CR USOE.

 

client, which was. iinlucd a very useful prize
to me, and lunch mow valuable than aship-
hiding of gold would have been at that
- I got it down to my rat't, whole ~13
without losing time to look into ii,
for I knew in gmwral what it contained.

time.

 

it \ra. _.

 

My iwxl: care was for some nxnnnlnilion
and arms. There were Lwo fowling-piuues
in the cabin, and two pistols. These I
secured first, with some pou'dcrhoms, and
two old. NEW su'ords. I lunew lIln-H'e were
three barrels of powder in the ship nnd,
with much scnrclnl found them; two of
than were dry and good, and these I got
to my rni't, with the arms.

And nowI thought. myself pretty well
freightm'l, and I began to think how I
should get. to shore. with all my things,
Inn-in"r neither sail. oar. nor rudder, and
the least. pull of \\ind would have overact
my raft. But the 'rn was calm, the [rifle
wns setting toward the shore, and what.
little wind there was, blew in lhatdirec-
tion. I found, however, two or three.
ln'okrn cars, and with thosxe I put to sea.

'l'ln- mil- \wnl very well; but. I found
that (1w tide. took nu: some distance from

 

 

' . and nearlv upse .l

the point where I had landed before, iv:
which I. perceived that there was an in-
draft of the water. This led. me to think
that there might be a creek or river there;
and -0 I found there w

l steered my rut't- toward it. as well as I
could. At. the mouth of the little creel: I
came wry near suffering a second ship-
wreck. which, I verily believe, would have
' broken my heart. The raft. run on a. shoal,
I hold all the Lhintm in
and when the tide rose a 1i t'le

   

 

 

their place.

 

' higher, it floated safely off. I landed at-

high tide, when the miner covered the.
bank, and when it; receded, the raIt was

_ high and dry.

My next work urns to View the country,
and seek a proper place for my habitation.
and where to stow my gmds, to securi-
them from whatever 1111':- t happen. "'lmi'o
I was, I yet knew not; whether on the
continent 01' an island; whether inhabited
or not inhibited; whether in danger of
wild beasts or not.

There was a hill not. above a mile from
me, which msc up very steep and high,
and which seemed to overtop some other
hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, nortib
ward. I took out one of the fouling
pic. and one of the pistols, and a horn
of powder; and thus armed, I traveled for
discovery up to the top of that. hill, where.
after I had With great labor and cliflicult-y
got to the top, I saw my f: tie, to my grunt
:dlliclion--viz., that, I was in an island
cm'ironud with the. no
I land to be seen except some rock. hich
lay n grunt u \-' oil'. and two small islands,
less; than this, which lay about three
leagues to the west.

 

 

 

 

every \Vfl)'
 

 

 

 

I found also that the island I wns in was l At my coming back, I shot 5A a great,
bmwn, mul, us I saw goml reason to .bird,whicl1 I snw sitting upon a tree, on
believe, uninlmlxited, except. by wild beasts, the aide of a grant wood. I believe it was
of which, however, I saw none. Yet I saw , the first. gun that; had been fired them
abundance of Ion/ls, but knew not. their i since the <<rumiun of (.ln: world. I had no
kinds; neither, when I lcillml them, (:oulll ' sooner fired, but from nll parts: of the. wood
I. tell what was fit for food mnl what not. there. :u-use :ul inmunumblc number of
CR USU E.

 

fevles of 11..1.1 v sous, nmkiurr u confused
SClChHllllr' ""11 Cl J'Ing, CV )' 0"" numl'dill"
to his; usual note, but not one of them of
an}. kind that I knew. As for the ereatuw
I killed, I took it to be 11. kind of hawk, its
color and heal: resembling it, but: it. had no
[nlons or clqu more than common. Its
flesh was cnrrion, and fit for nothing.
(.'onlented with this discovery, I (mine
back to my 1111's, and fell to work to bring
111v (:nrgo on shore, which Look me all the
re of the day. \tht to do with 1113-51111'

 
 

 

nt night I knew not, nor indeed when: to
rest, for I was afraid to lie. down (Ml-the
ground, not lmowing,F but. some wild beast
might devour me, though, us I afterwards

   
 
 
  

 

found, there was realljr no need for these
fears.

However, us well as I could, I bam'ieaded
myself round with the chests and inward:
that I had brought on shore, and made a
kind of: hut. for that night's lodging. As
for food, I yet smv not which way to sup-
ply myself, except that I had seen two or
three crenlnres, like hares, run out of the
wood where I shot the fowl.

I now begun to consider that I might
yet get a great many things out. of the
ship, "hich would be useful to me, and
particulznlv some of the rigging and sails,
and such ot'hcx things as might come to
land; and Iresolved to make minther voy-
age on bomd the vessel. if possible. And
as I knew thin; the limt Storm that blew
must necessarily break her all in pieces, I
resolved to set .11 other things apart, till I
got evewthing out of the ship thnt I could
get. Then I called a council--that is to
say, in my thoughts--whet.her 1 Should

take back the raft; but. this appeared im-

praetienble; so I resolved to go as before,
when. the tide was down; and I did so,
only that I = firmed before I went from my
hut, having noLhing on but a chequered
shut, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of

 

, pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and

'Prepm-cd 11, second rnft; and, having had

experience of the Inst, I neither mode this
so unwieldy, nor loaded it; so hard, but yet

: I brought away several things very useful

to me; as, rim, in the carpenter's stores I
found two or three bags full of nails and
spikes, a great serew-j- k, a dozen or two
of Innehels, and, above all, that most useful
thing called a grimlstoueAll these. I secured, together with scre-
rnl things belonging to the gunner, pan'licn-
lm'ly two 01' three iron crows, 11ml two
Inn'rels cf musket bullets, sewn innsIu-fs.
and another fowling piece, with some small |

 

quantity of pmvdcr more; it large hug-full '
u'f small shonmnl n grrfint roll 01 snc'n-t lezul',
but this lnsf'. wns so heavy l (-nnlll 110!>> -
hoist it. up to get. . . ovc-r the ship'. "den

Beesidns ihrsn thing, I took all the men's
cltflhos' that i could Iintl, 11ml 1|. spare foru-
t-up sail, :L hmmnm'k, nnd some hrnhlin";
sun] with this Ilmulnnl my svuuntl NIH, and
ln'ouqht thrm all safe on share, Lo my "err
great- itmnfol't.

.l. was lll'fliitl' swine apprnhen-vinn (luring
my nlwencu from t'hn hnul, that at. 19th my .
pmvl ons might be (lovunrml on .Khnrr;
but when I cnnm hack, .1 found no 3 'n of
any \ 1511.0"; only (how, sat a creature likr :1
wild (mt, n_lon "no of the chrs'rs. which.

 

 

 

 

 

ROBIN'S'ON' ('RI

   

'4. E"

 
  
 

when I unne towards: it, ran a"
distance, and thou stood still. She
composed and nxicnncurnenl,mnl lunkml .
in my face, as if sin: inul 21 Jnlml to he
zmluninml with nzn. l pn-srnh-(l my gun
to her, but, a he dial mt nn<lei ' ml it,
she was pm-L'mrly nnumn rnenl an) il, nor
ilill she ufi'cr fr>> stir a" ; nlmn \rhirh i
tossed her a hit of lti<c1n'_. llnrngh, l1): [ha
xv: ', l \i

21.: m rt. 9'

   

 

 

 

    
   

 

'1: u.' it, for my allure

 

 
 

at; lmw
l my, :unl she \renl- 10 it, Enlvllwl at it, fll'rl

    

1'. I spnrml NT 11. hit,

are it, (11111 lnnkotl (ns plcnsml) fur more;

but I thanked llcl', and could spare no
more, sn :~'ln; Innrclnnl ()iI.

I-luxing got my
though I was ubligwl to ripen {he barrels of
])1:>>\\'rlcl',mnl bring?r I'hmn liylnu' .l<<,Iu1' they
were too heavy, being lm-wv m I wvnt
to work to make me :1 little- Tvnt, with the
s:1il,nri(l HHIHH poles which I cut for that
lnlrp>> " ; mnl info This tour, I brought,
(everytliim; than. I knew "'(mhl spoil either
with min <<11' Elm : illitl I lill'lll all the Empty
rhesls and 111) in n. virulr 1-01an the
hank, i0 Ini'lhj.' it. from :n sudden attempt,
either from nnm or beast.

\thn I haul (lune this, I bloukexl up the
duor of the tom. wifh some hnnnls within,
nntl nn empty chest set up on end nilhoutz

 

.t'ITU'IHl 0313"" I)" Sllnh' -

   
    

{Snn-[x spuemiing one of the heads upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my
haul, and my gun at: length by me, I went.
to bed for the first time, and slept very
quietly all night". I \vuei vex-v weurv and
hcnv v; for the ninht before I had slept
little, null had lnlmrcd hard nll (luv, as
well to fetch those things from the ship 13
to get them on shore.

I hm] the. l>iggre<t nmgazine of all kinds
now th: at evuru'm laid up, I helium forone
man , but still I "as not s: Lti'sfied, forwhilc

 

 

the ship stood iilll'l("iiia in that posture, I
thoughfi I mntht to rut excurlzino out of
lwr l ((Hll(i. 'lu\_~', m;- low watL'IT,

"cut on hoard, null limunht. mun some.
filing or other; but. paulicnln the third
time I \\'ent,I ln'oughl- mm} .L' much of
[he rigging as I could, as also all the. small
rope nnd rope twine Iconhl gel,\\'ith a
piece of spare cauv s, which was to mend
thcszlils upon occasion, and the. barrel of

SO ('\ I"

   

 

 

 

 

wet gunpowder.
away all the sails, first and lust; only leI;
I was thin to cut. them in pieces, and bring

_--I

 

 

ROBIV SON CI": 38014}

 

us much nt- :1. time us I could, for they were
no nun-e useful to me for sails, but as mere
canvas only.

But that. which comforted Hm more still,
was, that. at last of all, after I had made
live or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that was worth my meddling with
\, alter all this, I found :1 <<refit hogs.
hand of bread, tlncc huge runlets of rum
or spirirs, n. in ol? line sngnr, and a harml
of fine 'llour; this was surprisi g to me, he-
enuee I had nix'cn over expecting any more
provisions except what was spoiled by the
water. I 80021 emptied the hogtiehead of the
ln'uml, and wrapped it up, purlzz'l by parcel,
in pieces of the Sn IQ which I cut, out; and,
in 9. word, I got all this on shore also,
though mi sm'ernl times.

The next day I made another voyage, and
now, having plundered the. ship of what
was portable, I cut up the cable in pieces
that I could lil't, and gathered all the iron
nor]: that I could move. I cut up the
yard: nnd made a rah to fake it :lli ashore
lml. \ihen I got into the little core, the ruff;
upset and my load all "out, to the bottom.
llowerer, when it was low water, I got the
most- of if. out.

If it had remained calm, I verilybclievo
that. I would have cut up the whole ship
and got. it ashore. The twelfth time. that
I went on hmml, I found some money and
The former was of no worth
to inc, lmt l 'iook it, and us the wind began
to rise I hurried on shore. It. blew very

 

 

 

some knives.

; hard that night. and in the morning there
In a Word, I brought i was no more ship [0 be seen.

I now began to think of securing mysell
ngninst wild beasts and savages, by build-mnl l rl-snlrwl in make me

 

in! n. li\\'l'illll
bath 3 1041111 :1ml :1 cur", and I srf- nlmnt
fillillll: :1 more healthy nml sui'mhlc spnt
than where l. Lln'n \' .

I consulted several things in my 'itum
lion, "hivh 'l l'nnnll \vnnhl lu'.l)il)1)EURl'fnl'
Illl'l fix-<r, lwnlth nml frush water; sacmnlly,
$ln'llul' frmn Lln', heat of 11m sun; lhirtlly,

 

 

 

N'l'lll'll'y 'Ernm ravenous creatures. whether
man or hensl. ; fullrlhly, a View to line sen
find. if (lull wnt any '
nut lu _ any mlmnr
DI \'n'hmh I was not. Willing to bar $h my
uxIn-Hnliwn \'rt'.
of a plum. prnpcr for this, I
'Inlnnl :1 liHIu plain on the sinlu of n rising
hill, "'llUMJ front [OVVHJ'dE this little plain
sievp :14 u hunsc side, so that; nothing
uunhl (-unm down 11pm: me from the top.
On the he of thu rock there w n hmlnw
Ilium-l, min! a little Way in, l the en-
rmn-n m'rlnol' of :i. (:n\'c;.l)l1u [hem \l':|<
nut reunlr .'.uy care, or way inm the rock,
ill all.

On line llni. 0f thy. green, just. below this

hallnw l Iz'usulvwl in pitch in_\' tent.

     

In srnrcl

 

 

   

 

 

 

'l'hiq lvluin was not nlmre n hunnlrcul yards

'iruml, and about. rwir: as lung, and lav
like a grew haiku-e in); door: and, at tho.

ROBINSON UH USO Ei

_...

 
  

(Hill of ii, demanded 'irregill: lv every wuy,
down into the low gmnncl ? the. son--side.

"Flore '1 set. up n _ 1 drew n half-
circle before. the. hollow p'rms, mnl in this
half-c I, I pitched two rows of Eli-0113
slakes,(lrivi ' them into the gmnml till
the}- strand very firm, the h'a'qcut- end being
our. of the ground nlmre .I\'('. feet ("111 a
half, nml sharpened on the top. The two
rows (lid not atnml nhm-e six inches from

   

   

 

 

 

(HIC- mm .

Then I took the pieces of cable which I
haul on: in the"
upon one another, within the circle, ho-
lwecn these two rmvs ol' mikes, up to the

 

lip, and laid them in rows,

 

 

stakes! in the insizlq
lazining :r_. nst then), about two feet; and a

.,

half high, like n, spur to n pnst: and tibia

'fop, placing other
 

 

I .
fence \'m' so strong, txmtum hcrnmn 1101' 3131' are very Violent there. I made. Lt

129215: couiCi get into it 01' over it. double viz, one smaller lent within, and

The enhance. into this place I made toll one. larger tent above it ; and covcml the
396,110tl)yatloox',bub byn shorblm'hlei'to uppermost part of it. with :1 large tar-
go over the top; which lmlt'lcr, when I was puulin, which l. hml snvml among the. sails.
in, I lifted over after me; and so I was When I hm'l done all this, I (lug L cave
completely fenced in and fortified, as I in the hill-side, piling the earth and stones
thought, from all the "'m'lll, and con-5c- within in}; fence so as to mise 'Lhe ground
quently slept secure in the night, which nearly Lo the Lop. Before 1 had (lune all

    

 

 

 

otherwise I could not have 11mm: though; thi"
as it. appeared aftcrwmxla, them "'21:: no ' ling oi" lighrning, frighrcncd me very
need of all this caution from the enemies 1 much for fear that my powder would take
tlmtInpprehumlm'l (hunger from. ilim. As 3001) as the storm \vn-I ni'ur, l.
Into this fume, m'fnrtr with inf'nitc I went to work and sqml'utwl me pou-'(lel'
la.bur,Ic iiml allmy riches, all my 1mi- intn small parcels and liltl it, away in
visions, ammunition, and stored; and l (.lill'ez'uul. lililceslll the Inclis.
made mu alm'ge telltnlso, to {re GI'W', me in the interval of time while (his wan
'emm the rains, that in one part. of the doing, 1 went out at lcnat once every (my

'1 tlllll)<<lt'-I'>>.~'fm'n'l, nrnompnniwl by"

     

 

H:
"'ltll my gun, as well to divert. myself, as and I was upon the rock; they took no
to see if I would kill nnything fit for food; notice of me; from whence I concluded.
mnl, as nearns I could, to acquaint myself that by the position of their optics, their
with what. the ixlmul produced. The first sight was so dinected downward, that they

 

 

"all l
II" I", I

 

 

 

time I went; out, I discovered that there did not readily scu- objects that were above
were gents in the island, which was it great them; 5:0 afterwards I always climbed the
sntrslnctiun to me; but. they were so shy, rocks first, to get above them, and then
i=0 subtle, nut so swift- uf fnot, that; it was had t'reqnentl)r :'tfair mark.

the most difficult thing in the world tn! The. first shot I made among these areal
come at them; but I was nut discouraged Lures I killed a sheAgont, nhich had .1 littltI
at this. I nhserved if they saw me In the kid by her, which grieved me heartily; for.
mlleys. though the}r were upon the. rocks, ; when the old one fell, the. kid stuud stock
m'mv would r: rmrny, us in :7. terrible fright; i still lzy her, till I mum: and took her up:
nu: xl' they were feeding in the valleys, J and non only so, but when I carried the36

old one with me upon n1ysl10uldem,thc
kid followed 1110 quite to my enclosure;
upon which I laid down the 1111111, and took
the kid in my arms, and carried it over my
11:110., in hopeu to have bred it up tame;
but it would not eat, so I was forced to
kill it 11nd eat it. 111}'sc:lf. 1

After I lnul been there about tan or
twelve days, it came into my thoughts that
I should lose my reckoning 11f thne,:n1d
should even forget the Sabbath-day from
tho working-d: 1'5; but to prevent this, I

 

cut it with my knife upon a large post, in
capital lettem, and mnkingit into 11 great
cross, I set it up on the shore where I first
hnnlerl, \'i:/,., "I came on shore here on the
80th of Se} >tcml1er,165'l"

Upon thiz sides of this sqnzue post I cut
evmy d: 13* -1 nulcl) with my knife. mul' '1
e1 e111 sevruth not: 11 11': 1s :13 loxw again as '
thr rest, and e\ my fih't day of the anionth'
11% hug :1 Lin 41s H1111; long one; and thus I 1

 

 

   

I. had bitunht from the ship some pens,
ink and paper, and while they lasted 1]

 

ROBINSON CE USO E.

 

kept 11 strict account of everything, but
the)r were soon gone. \Ve had on the
ship two cats 11nd :1 (lug, and I had brought
11111.11 of the cats on shore. As [or the dog
he swam ashore, and became my trusty
servant for many yours.

The wm1t of tools made every work I
did go on heavily; and it wns near awhole
your before I had entirel}r finished my
litLie pale, or surrounded habitation. The
piles or strikes, which were as heavy as I
could well lift, were a long time in cutting
and preparing in the woods, and more, by
far, in bringing home; so that I spent
sometimes two days in cutting and bring.
ing home one of those poets; and 11 third
duy in driving it into the ground. But
what need I have been concerned at the
tediousnexs- of anything I had to do,sccing
I had time enough to do it in? nor had 1
any other e111ployinent, if that lmd been.
over, at least that I could foresee, except
the mnging the island to seek for food,
and climbing the high rocks to see if any
vessel was within sight.

Iluving' 110w lu'oughl.' 1113' mind :1 little
to relish my condition, and given over
looking out to sea, to see if I could spy a
ship; I some airing or er these things, I
begun to upply 111v self to .11.;01111110clare1ny
\\ {IV of living, and to make things us ensv
to me :15 I could.

I have already described my lmliitntiuu,
which was a tent under the side of a rock,
surrounded with :1. strong 111119. of posts:
and cables; but I nught 110w rat-her cull it-
:1 wall, for I raised 11. kind of wall up
against it of tnrls, about two feet thick on
the outside; and after some time (I think
it was :1. year and 3 1151101 raised rafters[i' 0.81 LVSON'

CIdUb'OE.

 

from it, leaning to the rm-k, and thatchrz! I
or covered it with houghs of trees, and
such things as I could get. to keep out the.
rain, which I Inuml :ii. smunv. limes of the
year may violent.

I have already observed how I brought
all my goods into this pale, and inn.>> this
cave which I had made behind me. But. I
must ulis Te, too, that at first this was a
confused hm .p of goals, which, as the} fly
in no order, s0 they took up all my plum.
I had no romu to turn myself; so I set. my
self to enlarge. my care, and worked Iai-
thnr iutn the earth, far it was a loose.
sandy reek, which yielded easily to the
labor I bestowed on it; and so when I
found I was pretty safe as to beasts of
pray, I wurked sideways, to Ll]: right.
hand, in") the melt; and than turning to
the right again, Worked quite nut, and
made me a door to come out on the out-
side. of my ride 01' fortification.

And nmr I began to apply myself to
make such nuce' ry things as I found I
most; wanted, particularly a. chair and a
table; for Without. the-3e I was nut able to
enjoy the few cunifurts I had in the world.
I could not write, or cat, or do several.
things with so much pleasure without: :1.
table.

I had never hnm'liud a 1:001 in my life;
and yet, in tin-.0, by labor, application, and
contrivance, I found. at last, that. I wanted I
nothing but I could have made it, 05110
ciully if I had had the tools. However, I \
nmrle abundance of things, even without.
tools; and some with nn mom tools than
an adze and a hatchet, which, perhaps,
Were never nnule that way before, and that
1min infinirc 1almr. Fur example. if II

 

   

 

 

 

wanted a. board, I had no other way but to
cut down a tree, seL it on an e before
me, and hen; it flat on either a \\ iLh my
axe, till I had brought it to he as thin as a
plank, and than duh it smooth with my
alizc. It is true, by this method I could
make but one board out. of a whole tree,
but this I had no remedy fur but. patience.

However,I made me a table and a. chair,
in ths first place; and this I did out of the
short pieces of lmnrds that I brought on
my raft from thu ship. But when I had
u-'rought out sumo boards as above, I made
large shelves, of the breadth of n fuot and
an half, (me over another, all along one
side of my care, to lay all my tools, nails
and iron-work on; and, in a wnrd, to sepa-
1ing at I' 'I'c iuin their IIIIM'"
that I miaht come easily at them; also I
knocked pieces into the wail oi the rock,
to hang my guns and all things that would
hang up; so that had my care been to In-

 

 

 

rnie (we '38

Hum, it looked like u. genernl nungnzinc of
all necessary thigs; and I had everything
no read),' at my hand, that it was a great
pleasure to me to see all my goods in such
order.

  

As long as my ink
lasted I kept u. jour-
nal of all that happened to me, of which I
will now give u pmt, for much that I wrote
at that time I have already told, and need
not repeat.

September 30, ]659.---I, poor, miserable
Robinson Crusoe, lacing shipwrecked, dur-
ing a. dreadful storm, in the offing, name on
shore on this dismal, unfortunate island,
which I called "The Island of Despair-g"
all the rest of the ship's company being
drowned, and myself almost (lend.

All the rest of the day I spent in afflict-
ing myself ut the dismal circumstances I
was brought to; viz,I had neither food,
house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to;
and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing
but death before me: either that I should
lie devoured by wild beasts, or perish h}.-
starvation.

00!. 25.--Il} ruined all night and all
day, with some gusts of wind; during

'A'llirll time the Ship broke in pier-es, the:

win-1 blowing a little hnrdcr than before.

 

ROBIIV'SON OR Ub'OE.

and was no more to be seen, except the
wreck of her, and that only ut low water.
I spent this day in oovering and securing
the goods which I saved, that the rain
might not spoil them.

Oct. 26.--I walked about the shore
almost all day, to find out. a place to fix
my habitation), greatlv consumed to secure
myself from any att. k in the night, either
from wild he. i or men. Towmds night
I fixed upon a proper place, under in rock,
and marked out a semicircle for my on-
(uunpmenl, which I resolved to strengthen
with a work, wall, or fortification, made of
double. piles, lined within with cables, and
without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th,I worked
very hard in carrying all my goods to my
new hahitation, though some part of the
time it rained exceeding hand.

A'Vov. 1.--On this day I made a strict
division of my time, fixing the. hours which
I would devote to my several duties, viz;
every morning, to walk out with my gun
for two 01' three hours, if it (lid not ruin;
then to employ myself to work till about
eleven o'clock: then to eat what I haxl to
're on; then to lie down and sleep, the.
weather being very hot; then to work
again. The working [and of this day wns
who")r employed in making my table.

.3701; 5.--This day I went a n-oud with
my gun and my dog, und killed a wild cat;
her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for

 

 

 
 
 

 

nothing. Of every creature thnt I killed.
I took off the skin and preserved if.

Coming back by the seushorc, I saw two
or thrue seals, but not well knowing what
they were at first, while I stood gazing at
f thennrhey got into the sea and escaped me.
 

A7072. 17.--This day [began to dighehind worked it by little mnl little intn the form
my tent into the rock, to make room for ', of u shovel or spade; the handle exactly
my flu'ther conveniency. shaped like ours in England, only that the

N'ota--Threc things I wunted exceed. hcmid pmt having no iron slmd upon it at
ingly for this work, viz., n. piclmxe, 9.
shovel, und :1. wlxeclburruw, or basket ; so I 3
desisted from my work, and began to con. !
sidur how to supply that want, and make
me some tuols. As for the pickaxc, I
made use of the iron crows, which were
proper enough, though heavy; and the
next. thing was a shovel, ()l'sl)n.(le. This was
so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I'
could do nothing effectually without it ; hut '
what kind of one to make I knew not>>

' You. 18.--The next day, in sem-chhg
the woo<ls,l found a tree of that wood,
or like it, which, in the Emails, they call
the irontree, for its exceeding hurdnexq ; of ,
this, with great: labor, and almost spoiling
my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it- honw, ,
with difficulty enough, for it was exceed-
ingly heavy. The cxcc ivu lnu'dness of
the Wood, and having no other way, made bottom, it would not last me so long; how
me a long While upon this machine, for I ever, it served well minugh for the new

 

 

which I had occasion tn put it- to; but
neverwas a shovel, I believe, made after
that fashion or so long making.

I Wns still deficient, for I wanted a
basket, 01' a "-'lugnllnu'rmv. A basket: I
could not make by any menus, having no
with things; as twigs that would bend to
: nmke: \\'icl{el'-\\':11'LL:LL least, none. yet tmmd
out; nnd us tn the whrell):1rro\\', I fancied
' I could make all lmt rhn u-ln-ul; but. that
' ' I hnd no notion of; neither did I know
how to go nhout it; hes-idea, I had no
possible \mytn make iruu gmlgeuns Im'ihe
spindle or axis of the wheel to run in; so
I gave it over, and so, for carrying away40

tin: earth which I :1" P out- of the nave,
math: :1 thing iiiu- n hull, \\ liich the iztboi'em
curry moi-tar in, when they serve the brick-
layers.

 

ROBINSON CR U80 I45.

 

it: "light- 110111 "1"" gUiHIS (:()Hill'lc>tii0\1$1V.
Abm--During all this time I wm-kmi (in
make this room, 01' cave. spaciom enough

 

This was not. so diflicult to me us the
making ihe shovel; mid yet this and the
shovel,un:1 the attempt \\hich I made. in
vain to make at \\-'hveii):u'row, took me In.)
less than four (in I mean always except-
ing my morning K \\ .ilk with my gun, which
I sehium Li'lliit'li, and very schiom failed
also of bringing home something lit. in em.

 
 

 

 

' nthm' work having stood '

to accommodate me as n wait-house, or
magazine, :1 kitchen, a dining-room, and n
ceiim'. As for :1 Judging, I kept to t-hu
tent; except that sonmtimes, in the wet
season of the year, il; mined so hard, that I
could not keep my 1. E dry, which caused
me afterwards to cover all my phwe within
my Pith) with long pixies, in the form of
rafteis, leaning against the rock, mul [and

still, because (If my making these tools, i kui Wifh flags nnd hu'ge iczn'es of trees,

working <<wry day, as my strength and
time nihnvc-nLI slwnt eighteen (lays entirely

win-n tin-y were iinisiu-(i i went on, and .1 iike a. "with.

DEC. 10.-- i begun mm' to think my cave
or vault finished. when an n. suudeu {'3'}li' 0 If [AGSUN ( 'R US( ) '19. 41

 

 

seems I hzui mmic it (00 huge), :I. grant I hiin upnu sumo gmnifl. hut. [hey it." Inceii
quantity of earth fell i'luu'n from the top. lulJuul'; upon him? and he know his ilnngx-i'
I now hall :1 grunt (hull (if work to (10 0\ er :unl would not mun; mmr them.

again, fun- I haul the. loose earth (0 (: 1'3; ' All this time it mined hard nwn'h- . wry
nut, and Linen I ligul to prop mi The. ceiling. ; tiny. I innslo rounds in the woods 1'0 .

 

 

 

 

Dec. 11.----'Ihis day I went to work and when the min [JCY'Ellif-LCKI inc, and made fro:
gob posts pitched upright to the top, with queni. dis :wei'ies in these walks of sonic-
boaflls across (H151- tench lop, and in a. \x'eek Lhing mother to my :ul\ amuse; lmi'liculzu'iy
I hail the i'onf secured. I 'l'uuntl :I. liiinl OI wild lvigrons', \vhivh

Dec. 2T.--I\'illeii nynung gnnt-, and lmnml build, not as wood pigeons in :1 mm, but
another, $001an catehcwlizaud lad it home | i-nthcr ns hnust: pigeons, in the huh" of the
1'1" string. When I had it. home,I bound ', . ks; and taking 5mm: young on V, I en-
rnnd splintered up its leg, which wuss broke, (leau'm'ull to breed them up (nine, 21ml (lid

ABM--I took such cure of it rim?- it} sn; hlzr- \\'ill'H they grew (!l{l('l' rhvy flew all
11 I, " Tong ups was :it first for Want.
By nursing it so long, it gmw tmnu zunl nf femling than). for I hml nothing (0 give
would not go away. This led me to think (hem; hmvever, I frequently Imnnl fin'ir
of tmning more goa s. 1xests,mnl got their young nm-s, which wane

.fll-fl. 2.---'Went out with my dog, aml sm- . very goml meat.

 

 

     

    

and the: in; grew" ns min". l away, which IIGI'4'2

ROBINSON 013' USOE.

 

 
 

And now, in the man 'ngm)r household
afi'airs, I found uiyse nanting in many,
things, which I tlumght. at. first it. was im-
possible. for me to make; as, indeed, as to
some of them it was: for instance, I could
never make a cash to be hooped. I had a

small runlet or two, as I observed before;
hut. I could never arrive to the capacity of
making one. by them, though I Spent, many
weeks lll)()tlh it; I could never put in the

 

 

which was generally by seven o'clock, I
was obliged to go to bed. I remembered
the lump of l)ees'-wax with which I made
candles in my African adventure ; butIhad
none 01' that- now. The only remedy I had
wns. that- n'hen I had killed a goat, I saved
the talluw, and with a little dish made. of
clay, which I linked in the sun, to which I
added a wick of some oakuui, I made. me.
a lamp; and this .w: molight, though not
It clear, steady light. like a candle.

In the middle- of all my labors, it hap-
pened that, runnuugiug my things, I found
a little bag, which had been filled with corn
for the. feeding of poultry. "Unit. little. rc-
iuainder of corn had been in the bag was
all dewmred by the rats, and [saw nothing
in theibagr but husks and dust; and lining
willing to have, the bug for some other use,
I shook the. husks of corn out. of it on one
side of my fortification, under the rock.

It was. a little before the great; rains just
now mentioned, that- I threw this stuff away,
inking no not-ice of anything, and not. so
much as rememl )cring that. I had thrown any
thing there, when, about a mouth after, I
saw some few stalks of something groan
shooting upon the ground, which I fancied
mighthc some. plant. I litul not. seen. But I
was surprised when, after a little longer
time, I saw about. ten or twelve ems come
out, which were. pm'iet-t green lmrlcy, of
the. szllm' kind as our English barley.

It is impossible, to exln

 

s the astonish-

 

"unity and confusion of my thoughts on this

heads, not join the staws so true to one an
otlw to make them hold water; so I gave
that. also over.

In the. next place, I was at a great lc's

for candles: so that as soon as it was dni

 

  

occasion. I hurl hitherto noted upon no re.
ligioas foundation at all; indeed, I had
7few notions ol' rul' 'ion in my head,
. nor had entertained any sense of anything
that had hefnllen me, otherwise than as u
chance, 01, as we lightly Say, what- pleases:
God, without so much as inquiring into the
end of Providence in these things. But

after I saw barley grow there. in a climate"

which I knew was not proper for 1:01-11,u11d
especially that I linew not: how it (game
there, it startled me strangely, and I began
to s st. that God had miraculously caused.
this giain to grow without any help of seed
sown.

This touched my heart 9. little, and
brought tears out- of my eyes, and I began
to bless myself that such a prodi t-
Nature should happen upon my . .:oun1.;
and this was the more strange. to me, he.
cause I saw near it- still, all along by the
side of the rock, straggling stalks of rice,
and which I knew, because I had seen it
grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.

I carefully saved the ears. of this corn,
you may he sure, in their season, which
was about the end of J unc; and laying 11p
every corn, I resolved to sow them all
again, hoping in time to have. sufficient. to
supply me with bread. But it was not
till the fourth year that I would allow
myself. the least gmin of this corn to eat,
and m 0.11 then hut spurinfrl';
that I sound the fixst . son, by not
observing the proper time; for I sowed it
just before the dry season, so that it never
came up at all.

Besides this barley, there were twenty
or thirt)r stalks of rice, which I preservet'l
with the same care, and whose use. w
the same kind, or tn 'the same purpose,
via, to make. me bread. or rather food;
for I found ways to cook it up without
baking, though I did that. also after some
time.

 

  
    

   

 

  

 

  

for I lost. all '

~13

But to return to my Journal :--
| '1]nv.'/lt3.~--l finished the ladder; so I
iucnt up the ladder to the top, and then
pulled it 11p after me, and let. it down on
the. inside: Ihis "as 11 <<011111le cntlosure
to me; for within I had room enough. and

. nothing could come at me from without,

unless it: could iiis't mount my wall.

 

The very next. day after this wall was
finished, I had almost had all my labor
overthrown at once, and myself liilled.
The case was thus. As i was busy in the
inside of it, behind my tent, '11st in the
entrance into my care, I was terrihly
frightened with :1 "ION": dreadful surpris
ins,>> thing indeed; fo1, all on a sw.l.:lui. I
found the eaith came tumblinrr down lJ'UnI
the. not of my cave, and f1 om the edge of
the hill over my head,and two of the posts
i had set up in the cave cracked in :1 fright,
fill HIHHHH'. l was heartily x ml; and for

 

 

 

- fear I should he buried in it. I ran forward

to my ladder, and not thinking 1113'sclt .' for.
there. neither, I got over my wall for fear
of the pit-ms of the hill, which I expected
might- roll down upon me. I was no sooth-r
, stepped down upon tin: firm ground, than
5 I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake:44 RUB -'\"S0.\" O'RL'JSOIL'.

for run ground I stood on shook three
tinn'gwith such shocks as would have
<<.wcrlurnuil [he strongest building that
could he summsml to have stood upon the
earth; and a great piece of the top of the
rock, which stood about half a mile from
me, next the sea, fell down with such a.
terrible noisi- as I never heard in all my
lifiz. I puruvived also the very sea was put
into a violent motion by it.

I was so amazed with the thing itself"

having never felt the like, or dismurscd
with any one that had, that I was like one
(lead or Stupelied; and the motion of the

 

eaflh made my stomach sick like one that
Wu!) tossed at sea. But the. noise of the
falling of the rock awaked me as it were,
and rousing me from the stupefied condi-
tion I was in, tilled me with horror, and I
thought of nothing then, but the hill fall-
ing upon my tent and all my household
goods, and burying all at. once.

\Vhen I found there were no more shocks,
I hogan to fake mun-age, but I was for a
long time afraid fa get: over the wall for
foal-the hill would fall on me. To make
my siiuatinu wome, the rain began to fall
down in torrents, and there came a terrible

 

 

 

hun-icane of wind. The sea was lashed to
foam; and trees were torn up by the. roots,
and, in short, it was a. dreadful storm.

In about three hours the wind abated,
but the rain continued all night and all the
next. day. As Lhere were no more shocks,

'I climbed over the wall and went; into my

cave to escape the rain, but still in great
fear that it would fall upon me.

This led me to a. resolve that I would
iind a new place [or my home, where an
earthquake could not ham) mo, and I find
thin in my journal:

April --I hogan to consider of means
to put this resolve in execution; but I
was at a great loss ahont my tools. I
had three large axes, and abundance of
hatohets (for we Gill'l'ltfl'l the hatchets for
traffic with the Indians); but with much
chopping and out-ting knotty hard wood,
they were all full of notches and dull;
and though I had a grindstone, I could
not turn it and grind my tools too. At
len; h, I contrived a wheel with a string,
to turn it with my foot, that 1 might have
both my hands at liberty.

ATOM--l had not seen any such thing in
England, or at least not to take notice how
it was done, though since I have observed
it was very common there; besides that,
my grindstone was very largo and heavy.
This machine cost me a. full week's work
to bring it to perfection.

April 28, {ML--These two Whole days 1
took up in grinding my tools, my machine
for turning my grindstonu performing very
well.

April 30.--Having perceived my bread
had been low a. great while, I now took a
survey of it, and reduced myself to one. ROBINSON 01: 0501;: 45

biscuit-cake. a. day, which made my heart dizzy 5.--Worked on the wreck; out
very heavy. another hemn :uuuder. and brought. tlnee
Jl/[ay 1.----In the. morning, looking tmvnnl great fir planks fmm of? the Llcckx "111m 1
the sea-side, the tide being low, I saw tied together, and made swim on snore
sonmllllng lie on the shore like In. cask; i when the tide of llood came in.
when l mum: to it, I found a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the
ship, which were driven on shore by the

 

 

 

late hurricane: and lookng towunls the
wreck, I thought it seemed to lie higher
out of the water than it used to do. I
examined the barrel which was driven
on shore, and soon found that. it; was :7. bar-
rel of gunpowder; but it had taken water,
and the lunrderwas naked as hard as a
stone; however, I rolled it further on
shore for the present, and went on to look
for more.

When I came to the ship, I found that
the earthquake or the hurrienne had cast it.
so close to the shore that I could walk
quite to it at low water. The wreck was
also much broken up, and many things
were "'lh'lltftl anhoru.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from
moving my lmbit'ntioxnaud I busied myself
mightily to make my Way into the ship,
which I found was filled with sand. This
I could not do, but I resolved to pull her
and to that end I worked every I
day. . fling (L--M'orked on the wreck; got

filmy 4.--I went :vfishing, hut caught I several iron hulls, and other pieces 01' iron-
nnt. one fish that I <<.lurst out of, till I was \rorl'; worked rc-ry luml, and came l)o'._2.;
weary of my sport; when, just going to ' much Lil-ed.
lam-o oft, I caught a young dolphin. I had filing 7.---4\\r"ent to the wreck again, with
made me a longiline of Home rope-yarn, but. an intent not tnwm'k, but. found the weight.
I had no hooks; yet I frequently caught of the wreck had broken itself down; that
fish enough, as much asl cared to eat; all several pieces of the ship Seemed to lie
at which I dried in the sun, and ate them loose, and the inside of- the hold lay so
dry open that I could sue into it.
 

 

filmy 8.----Went to the wreck, and car-
ried an iron crow to wrench up the deck
which 11131 now quite clear of; the water or
sand. I menched open two planks, and
brought them on shore also with the tide.

Hay 9,--Went to the wneck, and with
the crow made way into the body of the
wreck, and felt sevcxal (tasks, and loosened
them with the crow, but could not break
them up. I felt also :1 roll of English
lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy
to more.

11/111 10,11 12,
(lav to the 11 rock , and got a good deal of

 

13, l4.--\Vent everyi

 

the first I hall seen, which, it seems, was
only my misfortune; for had I happened
to be on the other side of the island, I
might have had hundreds of them every
day.

J (1116 17 I spent in cooking the turtle. I
found in her threescore eggs; and her flesh
WM to me, at that ti1ne,tho most savory
and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life,
having had no flesh, but of goats and
fowls, since I landed in this hornble place.

J1me 18.--l{ai11ed all theday, and Istayed
within. I thought, at this time, the rain
felt cold, and I was aomethinw chilly,

pieces of tin1he1-,z1nd 110111 ds, or planks, and 11 inch I knew 11- as not usual in that latitude.

$110 or thico l1unllied11'9i1"ht of non.
11/[111/ 1). ---I (1"1111ied two hatchcts, to trv
if I could not cut 11 piece 01f tho loll of

 

June 19 ---V' cry ill, and shivering, as if
the wenthei in 1d been cold.

Jun/1 20. ----No rest all night: violent

load, but as it lay about a foot and a half.1 pains in my head, and fev eiieh.

1.11 the water, I could not make any blow to 1

dlivo the hatchet.

May 16.----It had blown hard in the
night, and the wreck appeared more broken
by the force of the water; but I stayed so
long in the woods, to get pigeons for food,
that the tide prevented me going to the
wreck.

I continued this Work every day to the
15th of June, except the time nccewiry to
get- f11ml,1vl1icl1 I ahvays appointed, during
this part of my employment, to he when
the tide was 11p,th:1t I might be ready
"hon it 11:13 Gi)i)0t1(nlt;illl(l by this time
I had (1111' en timber, and plank, and 11011-
11o1k enough to have built a good boat, if
I had known how; and also I got, at seve-
ral times, and in several pieces, near one
hundredxwight ot' the shoot-lead.

J mw 16.----Going down to the semside, I
found a large tortoise, or turtle. This was

1711111 21 ---V e1 3' ill; flightened almostt>>
death with the apprehension of my and con?
dition--to be sick, and no help; prayed
to God, for the first time since. the storm
oi? of Hull, but scarce knew what I said
or why; my thoughts being all confused.

J1me 22,--A little better; but under
dreadful apprehensions of sickness.

Jill/.1} tea--Very had again ; cold and
shivering, and than a violent headache.

June 2L--Much better.

J1me 25.---An 11gue very violem: the fit
held me seven 11111113; cold fit, and hot with
faint sweats after it.

June 26. -- Better; and having no
rictuals to eat, took my gun, but found my-
self verv \1e11k; hower ex, I killed :1 she
goat, and 11 ith mac -h tliflicult3 got it home
and l'noiled some of it, and ate~ I woum
fain have stewed it, mid made some brim"
hut had no pot.4".

Jam; '37. ----'l'he ngnt}. agnin so violent; that
I lay a-bed all day, and neither ate nor
drunk. I 'wns randy 11; perish with thirst;

 

but so weak I had no strength to stand up, .

or to get myself my water to drink.
.l'ru._wd to God again, but was light-headed ;
and when I was not, l was so ignorant. I
know not what to say; 0111)' I lay and
cried, "' Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity
IHL' ! Lord, have 111t'1"'\-' upon me i" I sup.
pose l did nothing
hours; till, the fit won 5 011', I fell asleep,
and did not awake till :n' in the night.
thn I :l\\'0l\'('., I {ound myself much-re-
freshed, but: weak, and exceeding thirsty;
lii)\\1'\'t'l', as I had no water in my "hole
habilalinn, I was forced to _\:_3 (ill morning.
and wait to sleep :1 iin. in this seconil
sleep, I had this for ' dream: I thought

so for two or three

 

   
   

   

 

that I was sitting on lhe ground, and that

1 mm :1 man (l4'.~'('{'llll from :1 great blind:
:loud. in :L bright flame of fire. IIis

fi-fi-llllrt'zlfulck' was nmsi- dreadful. ""hen he

11' 0 7i TNSO.' " (.'16 USOE.

 

 

"worn out by eight

 

stepped upon the ground, I thought the
earth trembled, just as it had done in the
earthquake. Then I lnenrd a voice so
terrible that it is impossible to express
the term of it. All that I understood
was this :--" Seeing all these things have
not brought. thco "so repentance, now thou
shalt (lie . at which words, I thought he
lifted up the spear that. was in his hand to
kill me.

No one that shall 69'81' read this account
will (expect that I should be able to de-
scribe the horrors of my soul at this terrible
vision. Nor is it any more possible to de-
scribe the impression that remained upon
my mind when l nwukcd, and found it
was but a dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What
1 had r, ed from n'n' fan-her had been
_ us of seafa'n'ing
\viclmdness. During all that time I had
never thought seriously of God, 1101' hail l
been thankful to Him for His groaning-1
(ties. But now I h n to yr" tor the
first time 5". many ycaz , after "Inch I fell
into a refreshing sleep.

J1me 28.--Fccling much better, I arose
and cooked three of the tnrtlc's eggs in
the ashes, and ate fl! m. I tried to walk
about with my gun, but was too weak to
go far. and I sat down to think. I knew
Ihnt the agar: would return the next day,
and then I run boned that the Brazilians
Look tobacco fossuch (.istcmpers. I had
some tobacco in one of the chests that]
had saved, and I Went to get: it. I was
directed h)- henven, no doubt, for I found
in the chest a cure. both {or soul and body.
Packed in with the tobacco was a Bible,
which I had foigotten all about, but which
i. was now ovtenyed to find. I took it in
my table and read from in a long lime, and
having taken a dose of tulmeuu steeped ll]
rum, I went to bed.

The. next day I had the fever, but 1101.er
bail, ill]L1Jlll_)-' 3d I missed it for good and
all. I was, lIou-'ovcr, so weak for many
dnys that I could do bufi little more. than I
sit in. the mom-h of my cave and try (0'
make baskets.

If. was fhe 15th of July that I began to]
take a more particular survey of the. island
itself. J went up the crock first, where, 3'!
I hinted, I brought my 1
found, after I came about two- miles npfi
(-hnL the tide. (lid not 110211. an;r higher; and
that it was no more than a little brook.
On its banks were many nIeIIIlnws covered
with glass, and on the higher parIfoonnd I
tobacco gran-ins: There were Inanyotherl
plants that I had never seen hehne.

On IlIe ne.\I. day I went falflthel the same
Way, and, much to Inyj'I-,1'<IIIIIII melons
upon the ground in gre- ahIIndauce, and.
grapes hanging in great clusters from the.
branches of the trees. I staid there all:
zhat night, sleeping in a. tree a! when I.
first landed. In the morning, I tr.- 'elcd on 1
some four miles farther. Here I found a '5
delicious valley where everything awn: 'eIl !
so fresh and a eeu that it looked like a'
planted garden. III-re were orange, lemon,
lime and cocoa trees, but few of Lima bore
Fruit. I gathered some green limes, and:
mixed with water, I found their juice very '
JelINhing I 1'9\()l\ ed to lay up a store of
all for the net season.

In oldcrto do this, I gathered a. meat
heap of gxapes in one place, alesscr heap
in another place, and a great parcel

"Ii-S on shore.

 

 

 

 

   

 

GEL-"SOP. 4:!

llllfl'h and lemons iII :Inniher place; and
taking a few of l'm'll with Inc. I traveled
home, hut. hefm'u I gut thilher, the "rapes
\I'uI'LI illoilml; the riehuess 0f the fr , and
the "eight of the juice, having broken

    
  

. them and bruised IlIenI. they \I'ere good for

little 0: nothing. As r'anz limos, thcywcre
good, hub I cmihl brimr but :I it":

The next day I went back, having made
Ine qu smali In is to bring home I)!_\' har-
' zen; but- I \\' . Irlu'ised, when, coming to
my heap n'F grapes, I found them all spread
abroanih trudden to pieces, and dragged
ahoulnsrjuue here, some there, and :Ilnmtl-
anoeemen and devoured. By this I con.
cluded there Were some wild creatures
Ihereabouta, which had done this; but
what. they new I hueu' not. llowevcr,l
took anothei course; [m- I gathemd a huge00 R OBJNSOZV (.'R ZI'SOE.

quantity of the grapes, and hung thcml
upon the out branch of the trees, that pn. l:, in that pleasant, fruitful Part of
they might cure and dry in the am ,- ancl the and.
as {or the. [inn-s and lemona, I carried as a, This thought. ran long in my head, and
many )JL \. as I could well stand under. i 1 mm exceedingly fund of it for some time,
When I came home from this journey, I l the ploasantness of the place tempting me;

unltcmplutod with great; pleasure the fruit- ' but when I came to n nearer \-"l0\\' of it, I
l'ulnees of that ram}, and the pleasantnees considered that. I was now l ' the Si .side,
of the eituuliun; tho. Surnrit'y from storm when: it; was at least pm,il)lc: that some-
nn that. side 0!" the water, and the wood; thing might. happen In my su'u'autagc,
and cont-lulled that. I haul pitched upon a and that the same ill fate that brought:
plat-e to fix my nbodv, which was by far me hither, might. bring some other un-
fln; Worst part of the country. Ume the. happy wretchcs to the same place ; and to
wlmle,l begun to consider of removing my , enclose myself among the hills and woods.
habitation. and to look <<ml. for n ace,n the centre of the island, was to antici-

l

l

l

a

 

 

equally safe as where now I was situate, if

 
   
    

 

 

pate my bondage, and to render such an
all'air not only improbable, but impossible;
and that therefore I ought, not: by any
means to remove.

However, I was so ennnu'n'ed with
this place, that. I spent. much of my time
therefor the whole remaining part. of the-
month of July; and though, upon second
thoughts, I resolved as above not, to remove,
yet; I built. me a little kind of a bower, and
surroumlud if. at- a distance with a strong
fence, being a double hedge, as high as I
could reach, well staked, and filled between
with brushu-ood; and here I lay very
secure, smnet'imcs two or three nights to
gather, always: going over it with a laduer
as lmfm'n; so that l fancied now I had my
country house and my sea-coast house.

The End of August, I l'nund the grapes I
had hung up were perfectly dried, and
indeed were excellent good raisins of the
sun ; so I began to take them down from the
trees, and it was very happy that I did ac.
for the rains which folloived would have
spoiled them, and I had lost the better part6?: 160131 \'

of my wintc fowl; for I hml .I

hundrml large hunches 111' them. No sooner
1

 

SI).

 

' (JR USOE.

 

 

 

    

In": two l food was re._ululeil thus :--I ate :1 bum-h of
.11s for 111Vbrenk fist; a piece of the
hail I taken them all 110117". 111211 carried won. ~: flesh, or 01' the rile, for my dinner,
inn-:1 Ufilltlllllnmcl.011'1_\-'C:1\'e, hutit began lunile11(fr.,n' to 1m; g1" at. misfortune, I had
to rnii null it. rninnil, mom or less, every ' no 11155111 to boil or stew anything), and
(lay, 1111 the ini1l~lie n1" (Ember, 111111 Home- ' two or three of the turtl 3 eggs for supper,
tinqu' >11 \'iult-iirly,ti1ar l ('mlltl not. Ntll' out i 1-..' l.
of my cave:- for several - l happv .1111111'e1vu 1' of 1111' landinw. I cast
lap ihn notches on past, aml found
gj . 1 .~ , _ I haul been on shore iln'ee. humlm'l and
' ""livt' (1111's. I kept. this day as a solemn
f: t, settiny it 11131111 for religious e:
1 pinstr' If on the. gmund with the
' most $6111) humiliation, confessing my
sins to (71ml,u('.i(ll()"'lPS'-llging his righteous
judgment upon me, and pin) ing to him to
have mercy upon me. through Jeeus Chrint;
,. and having 111111. tasted the least refreshment
'for twelve hams, L'. on till the going down
01' the sun, I rhen ate a l itcakc and a
bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing
.:.I11.<<:n T was much surprised. with the clay as I began it. I now set off every

In this
the. increase. of 1111' family. I 111111 been con- .' seventh (1111' as the: Snbbnth (lay.
earned for ("he loss of (1111-1015 my cats, who '1 My ink IrIue out a lmut this time, and I
ran away from me. antl I heard no more gave 1111111 101111111]. After a time i learned
tidings other, (ill, to myastonislnnent, he . how to d ale (he rainy season from the.
(211111}. hmnc about the end of August, 1 tn flry s Isnn, but at first the 1:14:11 of this
three kittc ' I afterward came to be 1'11) knowledge came near costing me dear, for
pcstcred with 1-. t5, 1.11:1'. I 1 for :11 to I sowed my grain before the. dry s 513011
kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and and not :1 stalk came up. Fortunately ]
to <<hire (hem from my house :13 much as had not sown it all, and I sowed the. few
possible. grains let'L hell-Ire the rainy season and it

1Irun1 the 14th of AI .1Ir11:~.'L to the 261.11, grew very 117173, though it was several yams
incessant 1.. that I 0111111 nut . I, aml bcfcre I had enough to make a crop.
was now \'1-1'1' varnfu: not to be. much \1 (31. After I hail found, by experience, the ill
In this rnnlinemvnl',I119111111 to he: Init' nonsmuences oi beiun abroad in the ruin,
(Incl. for fmul; hut. wntnr 11.5 out twice, I we to Iiurni .1 myself with prov?
our nlny killed :1 goat; and the last. <<lay, siuns before hand, flat I might not be
which was the. 213th "11111111 :1 1'01"; large obliged to go out, 31111 I set. within (1001's

~1 tome. \\ lllLll 11 as :1 trzmt to me, and 11:" as much as possible during the wet 111011th

 

 

 

 

ID
1
1

 

 

l.--l \1'n-1 now come to the. un-

   

 

   

 

   

 

Hg H) "In this time I found min-h i-mplnynwnt
and very suitable also to tin: tinie,1'<<.>r I
founri gi'mf (mansion nf' nmngrhings whit-h
l lnn'l. no way to furnish 1n .clf with but
i3)? lini'il Inlmi' nml constant. :ippli(-.:Lrim1;i
particularly, I had tried many ways to
nmlm ni'
conhl gt.

 

 

 

1' a luuket, but nil (he. twigs l I

 
   

01' the pnivnsu ln'm'r-Il m ln'ithltz

that- thcy \voultl do nothing. I

 

It. (came. iniu my mind Linux fin: t\\' of
that tree from whence l vnt my stakc t mt
grew might: possibly be as Lough us i113
sallows, willows mnl nsicrs in Enghunl,
and I resolved in try. Accouii-UI), the.
next (in); i went tn my country-house, as! I
called it, and cutting some of the. smaller
twigs, i found them {.0 my purpose asmllcil
as I could desire. Dining the next seuwn:
l employed myselt in making, as "12.1 as
I could. a great. many hush-3L, both to.

 

 

ROBIN-90' ' CRUSH lu'.

53$

 
  
 

irth or lay up anything is I hml
<<in; 'nni Hning'h I tliil nor. lini~>h (hum
f lnnn wi- I nnulv them sniii-
civnily imhlv for my :nnl
thus, .nflei'nanlsfl tank van,- nurcr to in:
niiln'mi. them; anni us my \\'iclwr~\\2ire

 

lsiinn-ly,

 

 

pnrlmsr;

 

<<lennycil, I manic: mow, calm-hilly .xn'nng,
(in; p baskets tn place '11:, corn in, instead of
sac!

 

 

, u'lwn I sliouhi come to have any
quantity of ir.

I now 1- wlved in ii'm'el quite across to
the other side (if the island, 30, taking a.
hatchet with m _
quantity of powder and shot tlmn usual,
and
two biscuit cakes in my punch, l begun
my journey.

I Saw nhlnnlmme of pau'i'ois, :unl filifl
\wuld I have. caught one, if puwihlc, to
have. kept. in to be trump, 'lan taught it. w

 

 

1111 and (nag-mini n Im'gcr

 

and putting a gram hunch OI 1 :3
Ji? 0 [2' I ;\'.S();\'

 

0R USO E.

 

 

speak to me. I did, after some painstak
iug, catch a young parrot, for I knocked it.
down with a stick, and having" recovered
it,I brought it home; but. it was some.
yeais before I could make him speak;
however, at last, I taught him to call me

by my name very familiarly.

 

As soon as. I came. to the senslm't'cgl was

 
 

surprised to n- that I had taken up my
lot. on the w st- side. of the. ishnu'i,for
here, indeed, the shore was rovered with
innumerable turtles, whereas, on the other
side. I had found but. three in a yearand
a half. Here was also an infinite. nnmlu-r
of fowls 0:" many kinds, some of which I
had not. seen hefore,nnd many of them
very good meal, hut. such as I knew not
the names of,< 'eiept those called penguin-3.

I could have shot as: many as I pleased,
but was very sparingI of my powder and
shut, unil therefore had more mind to kill 3
a silo-goat, if I could, which I could hatter
I'm-d on; and though there were many
goat's here, more than on the. other side of

 

the island, yet. it. was uith much more;
liillieuliy that I euuhl come near them, i
I confess this side of the country was

 

- much pleasanter than mine; but yet I had

not; the lest inclination: to remove, for, as
I was fixed in my habitation, it. became
natural to me, and I seemed all the while
I was here to he as it were upon a jour-
ney, and from home. However, I trav-
eled along; the shore of the. sea towards
the cast, I suppose about. twelve miles, and
then setting up it great polo upon the shore
for a. mark, I concluded I would go home
again.

I tool: another way going home, and
lzecnnie bewildered and lost, so that. I had
to go hack to my post and start again. In
thi: i01n'neygny dug snrpi sad a hid, which
I caught. and led by a. string till I came to
my bower, where. I left. him unruly tied.
I sati. ~tion when I
came tn what'- I culled my home. and threw
myself in my hammock. I had been gone
a month, and it all appeared so (:mnlbn'nlde
that. I resolved never in leave it for so long
a. time again, while I renmiued on the
island.

It. was now that .I began sensibly to feel

 

   
  

rannot express: my

: how much more Imppv [he life I now led

 

was, with all its mi. ilde circumstances,
than the wicked, ahominablc life I led all
the past- lnu't of my (lays; and now having
ehang
Jny very de
u w. perfectly new Irma what they wem
at first coming.

Before, us I walked alxmt, either on my
hunting, or for viewing the country, the
anguish n!" my soul :LI.' my condition would
lu-eal; out upon me on a sudden, and 1in
veryheart- would die within me, to think
of the woods, the mountains, the deserts l
was imand how I was a prisoner, locked

    

I both my sorrows and my joys;

   

res altered, and my delightsRD 13' 'I'NSON (Ilr' L-"S()E.

55

 

up with the eternal bms and bolts of the
ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, with-
out redemption. In t'hc.
greatest composures of my mind, thiz
would l'muik out upon nu}. like a. storm,
and make me wring 1nyhands,uud weep

midst of thei

would go nfi", and the grinf having ex-
hnustwl We}! \wuld :dmte.
Buiv now i lmg'nu m vxm'ci' . "
with new thought... I daily rear] Elm. XV
of (ind, and applied ull line (:tunl'm'lfl of 1!.
One inurning, being

 

   

in my present stat-s,

 

Sonmtimes it. would tnlcu mt:
in the middle. 0': my Work, and I would sit:
dawn and sigh, and look upon the ground
for an hour or two fugmdier; and this
Wm; still worse to me, for if I muld Inn-st
out into tum, or vent myself by words: it

like a child.

\'I'l'y sud, l opened lln: Dildo. ulmn these
nwn'ds, " T will nm'ur lame they, never [1le
Fake: thee." Inuimdiun-ly it occurred that
these words Here to me; why otherwise
should rlw_\_' he directed in sm-h :1 :uzunwr.
ljusi. at>> the moment when I was mourning5|}

m'vr my rum-lilinu, its our flhlfillken of God I

and mun? "\Vull, r'hr-n'" Snill i, "if God
dm's nut. l'niruhe me, of "hut ill Unifie-
quencr can it he. orwhut 'mnttL-is it, though I

 

{hr \wn'ld hllfllllll :ill forsake me, seeing, on
")0 other hand, if I hml all the world, mad
should lose the favor and hh's'sing of God,
there \Hmhl he no cumpari'on in the lass ?"

 

From this moment- I h gun to conclude:
in my mind that it was possible for Hm in
he happy in this t'nixnhvn, mlitui'y condi--i
tinn; and l \\':x-' going In gin: thanks {0'
God fur hring ' v me. to thisplnco. Iknow
not. whnt if ".13, but suiuethiug shocked in};

   

 

.li' ()BINSOA" (,'R USOE.

mind at that thought, und 1 din-st not
speak the words. "' How canst thuu become
such it liyliuurilxe," said Levon audihly, "to
pretend to he thankful for a condition,
which, however
thou mnyst en-
(luavm' to he con-
tented with, than
\ronldst rather
pray heartily to he
delivered. from Z "
So I stopped
there; but though
I could not my I
thanked God for
being there, yet
I sincerely gave
thanks to God for
opening my eyes,
bywhate rulllict-
ing pmvidcnces.
to see the formrr
cmnlitiun of my
life. and to mourn
for my wichuil "(ESE
and repent.

Thus 1 begun
my third year. I
was seldom idlg
dividing my time
according t0 my daily eraployineuts such as,
first, my duty to (wind, and the rcnding the
Scriptures, which I always set apart some
time for, thrice every clay; secondly, the
going ahrond with my gun for food, which
generally took up three hours in every
morning, when it (lid not rain; thirdly,
the ordering. curing. preserving and cook-
ing what I had killed (ii-caught for my
supl'uly. These took up great part of thv
 

 

 

(lay. Also, it is to be considered, that "
the middle of Lhe (lily, when the. sun was
in the zenith, the \'iolcm-e of the heat was
too (11'an to stir out; so leL about four
hours in the (evening was all the time I
could he supposed to "wk in, with this
excoptionfihat smnntinws I changed my
hours of hunt-lug and working, mid went".
to work in the morning, and abroad with
my gun in llue ulilxerrcon.

\Vhilc iii-(loom, during themins, I talked
much to my parrot, which nuw lrnrnud he!
own name. and son-11ml to relu-ut it. for my
(live

 

in", us. il; Illmsud nu: gran.

 

I was now in the mnnths of - ovember
21ml Dvi-cmlwr, iexlnxrling my <<hip (if barley

and .I'lcc. The. grnund I had dug up for

 

them was not great; fuz- my seed of each
was nui. nlmnx half :1 pork, for I had lost

hue. Wholl' crap lu_\' smxing in the dry sew '

sun; but non my (1'01) lnmnlrsvd very well,
when on a suildrn l l'nund I was in danger

 

* of losing it. all again by enemies of several

sorts, which it. was seal-(201;; possible to keep
from it ' as, first. the goats, und wild crow

mrcs which I milled hm which, tasting
the sweetness of the blade, eat it- so close
that it could get no time to shoot up into
stalk.

This I saw no remedy for, hut making
an inclesurc nlwul'. it. u ilh n he(lge,n-'hich1
h a great deal of toil, and the more,
fired :1 deal 01' speed;
3; my corn. How-

 

v

 

did \s'..
l liecause if. r,
' the (:ruuturus duily spa!

      

h

(1\'('.l',llSS my arable land was but $1113.11,
united to my crop, I gut>> it tots well
fenced in about- ill weehs' tune; aiul
shooting some of the creatures in the day
time, I Set- my dog to gunn. it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at- the- gatc. Where
he would stand nml him-k all mghL long: so
in n little (lime. the enemies fm'srmlc tleP
place, and the corn gnaw very strong and

 

 

well.

V But now I lmd e>> an greater trouble to
keep the bird's from eating all of the
ripening grain. I finally shot. three of
them, and hung them up us scnrcm'uws.
This hml the efl'ecl. I (lesired, and kepb the
'hirds away. In thclnfficr end of Decem-
ber I reaped my corn.

I was .wlly put h: lb [or a scythe or
V kle in cut. it down, soul all I could do
I was in make one, as well as I could, out of
- mu: nt' the broml-swurds, or cullusses,
which I saved among tn: arms mm". of the.

 

 

ship. Ilmn-vvr, us my crop was but
'smzlll I haul no great difficult-y to cutit
. down; in slim-L, I reupyd il. in my war, for
I out. nothingr off but the ems, and married
:urm in :1. great lmshel which I had

made, and. so rubbed it out wifh nwlmnda',
and at the end of all my harvesting, I
found thnt out of my hnlf~pcck of seed I
had near two bushels of rice' and above

two bushels and a-half of barley; that. is ,

to say, by my guess, for I lnul no measure
at. that time.

I hnd lung studied, lay some means or
ather, to make my-aelf some earthen veaels,
which, indeed, I wanted 50ml}: I did not
doubt but. if I could find out any (:l: ', I
might lmtuh up some such pot as might,
being dried by the sun, he Inn-d enough
and strong cmugh to hear handling, and
to hold anything that- wm: dry, mnl re-
quired to he so; and as this was neces any
in prepnring corn, meal, data, which was
the thing that I was upon. I resolved to
make some us large as; I could. and fit only
to stand like jam, to hold what should he
put into them.

It would make the. render pity nm, or
rather laugh at me, tn tell how many nwk>>
wnnl Wu 5 l tool: to raise thii paste; what
odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fell in, and how many i'ull
out--the clay not lining stiff enough to
hear its own we'ght; how many crm 'ed
by the 0\-'cl"\'i()lt'.llt haul: olf the sun, lining
set. out too hami
pieces with and
as after they \
how, after having labored hard to find tho.
(llllV--tl) dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it--I could not make,
above two large earthen ugly things (I catn-
nut-cull them jars) in about two months'
labor.

However, as the. sun lurked these two
very dry and hard, I lifted the-m Very
gentlv up, nnd set them down again in two

 

 

   

removin is well hel'uie

   

0 dried; and, in :1 word,

 

' and how manyfull [n _

:39

great wicker baskets, which I had made on
purpose for them, that- t'lmy might not
break.

'i'lmugli ininrnrrit'tl so much in my design
|for large pots, yet I made several snmller
things with better success; such as little
round pots. flat dishts, pitchers and pipkins,
and anything my hand turned 1'0; and the
heat of the sun halted them strangely hard.

 

But all this would not. answer my end,
which was to get am earthen pot to hold
what was liquid, and lwnr the: firm which
none of these could do. It lutmn-nud after
some tinw.7 makingr u prvlu' large lire, for
cooking my mtrnt, when i wont, to put- it
out after 1 hurl done with it, I found a
brkcu piece of out: of my enrt-henwnm new-
in the fire. lmx-nt "A hard as n. Stine,(50

 

 

 

. . I
and n-d as :1. tr] . ily fillijll'ISCil
to me it, and s _, ,lI that t:vl'iait)l_\-'
tin-y might he. made to hnrn whole, if they

  

\\'(I|.lltl lJtn'n ln'olcen.

Thin .uut 1m; to study how to order my
fire 50 as. [0 lllillie ii; hurn me some pets. I
1le no notion of n lciln,sntzh us the putters
lmrn in, 01' 0f glazing them with lead,
though I had same load to do it with; hut
I 'Plut'vd llll'm': large pmkina, two or three

 

pots, in r. pile, one upon another, and placed
my lit-enmd all round it, with a heap of
embere under them. I plied the fire with
fresh fuel round the outside and upon the
top, till I smv the pots in the inside red-hot.
quite through, and observed that the}; lid
non-rack at all; when I saw them clear
red, I lrt them stand in that heat about
fire or ' houra, till I found one of them,
though it. did nu: crack, did melt or run;
for the Sand which was llliXWl with the
rl:l_\f nwllt'd \\'ilh lllt' Violence of the heat,
and Would have run into glam if I hnd
gone m1. Ho 1 . .'lu-'d nlyiiru graduallylill
the puts lilcgan tn alum: of the red (0101',
and trait-hing them all lni lift, that I might.

 

 

  

 

 

 

RU RINSON 6' R USOE.

 

not let the. fire. almte tun 'Fnsi', in the morn-
ing I had ihre \' _, good (I will not sny
handsome) pipknis, and two other earthen
Pots, as hard burnt. as could. he desired. and
one them perfectly glazed with the running
of the sand.

After this experiment, I wanted no sort
of earthenware for my nae; but I must
needs any as to the shapes of them they
were very indifferent, :Is nny nnv may sup-
pose, when I had no way of making them,
but. as the children make dirt pics, or as a
woman would make pics that never learned
to raise paste.

I now thought to dig out n stnne, and
"Nike myself a mortnr; butv,nftcr searching
a long while I could find no stone hard
enough," all the rocks on the island were
soft. and crumbling. I got instead a great
block of hard \rund, nnd with much labor
I rounded the outside, and then, with the
hell) of lire. made a hollow place in it, as
the Indians in Brazil nmltc their canoes.
Then I made a heavy pestle of iron-wand,
and laid them both by till I hml my next
crop of corn to grind or pound into flour.
W'ith some muslin taken from the ship,I
"14'!th SUHIG \'Qr-\,r (EUR001! SIPVK'S.

The baking part was the. next thing to
he considered, but I managed this also.
I made some hollow earthen vessels, which
nerved ns hearlhs. In there I built hot
fires. Then, raking the ashes and cmhcm
ofi clean, I put in my loaves and covered
them with earthen jam.

All the while these things were doing,
you ma},r he sure my tlmughts run many
times upon the land which I had seen
from the other side of the island; and I
was not, Without secreL \xishes that I was
(3'1! USO/5'.

 

on shore there, fancy-lug that I might find
some "'21:; or other to convey myself ' r-
ther, and perhaps at luxt find some meaum
of escape.

But. all this while I made no :lllownm-e
for the danger! of such it condition, and
how I might. full into the hands of sav-
ages, and perhaps such as I might havel
reason to think far worse than the lions
and tigers at Afrien; that if I once mine
into their power I should run it hazard of
being killed. mid perhaps of being eaten;
for I had heard that; the lieoplo of the
Caribbean consts were cannibals, or men-l
esxten's, and I knew by the lntitudc, that I
could not be far eff from that shore. Ail
these things, I say, which I ought to have >>
considered well of, and I (lid (522";- up in
my thoughts afterwnrdu, yet tool: up none
of my apprehensions nt first, and my head
mu mightily upon the thought of getting:r
0'. er to that shale.

New, I wished tor my boy any and
ill>> lung-hunt, with the SlN)llliifllHJf-Hlllttoll
sail, with which I sailed above a thensnnd
miles on the coast of Africa; but this was
in min. Then I thought. I would go and
leek ut our ship's: hour, which was blown
up upon the Shore 3 great. way, in the
storm, when we were first. can't away. She
lay almmt where she did at first, but not
quite, and was turned, by the force of the
"'3ch and the winds, almost- hot-tmn 11p-
warci, against the high ridge of rough
hand, but in) water about. her as before,

If I had had hands to have refitted her,
and to have launched her int-0 the wntery
the heat; would have done well enough,
um]. I might have gone back into the

   

 

.mziis with her easily enough; but I

 

might have easily foreseen that I t-unld no
more turn her and set her upright upon
her bottom, than I could remove the
islund; however, I went to the wood, and
cut levers and rollers and ln'ungllt them to
the boat, resolved to try what I could do.

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece
of fruitless toil, and spent, I think, three
nr'four wee about. it; at. Inst, finding it
ilnliow .t tn ln-nve it up with my Iittle
strength, I fell to digging away the sand,
to undermine it, and so in umlw it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust;
mid guide it right in the fall.

But I was unable to stir it, or to 9:6!t: ROB T:\"SO;\"

C R USOE.

 

under it, much l0>>: to more it, forward {0'
; an i was forced to give

 

'n' rds the \\'a
it over; and yet, though I gave over the
hopes of the beat>>, my d'-sire to venture
over for the mainland increased.

     
 
 

This at length set me
upon thiuhng whether
it \ '
canon, 01' pet'i:
those ('Iimatrs mu ,,
or, as I might say, without hands--q ..
of the trunk of a great free. ThisI not.
only thought pogyilfle, lJut e: y, and pleased ,
mysselt' extrenuely with my thoughts of,
making it, and with my having much more

(-mn'r-nienee for it than any of the. Negroes

or Indians; lint nut. at all considering the

particular inconveniences which I lay'

under more than rlm Indians did, \-
want". of hands to more in into the water V
when it was made.

I wont. to work upon this heat ihu mn=t
like a fool that ewr man did, whn had any I
awake. I pleased my self
with the d 7 without determining
whether I "as ever able to undertake it;
not laur- that"- {hc difficulty of launching my
lmzit came otteu into my head; hut I put
a hii'lt to my inquiries into it>>, liy l'his'

 

even without male,

 

 

 

 

 

ui' his sense

 

 

foolish anawrr which I gave myself: " Let
me first. make it; I warrant. I shall find

some way to get it along when it is done." .
i

This was a moat- prcposterous method,
but. the eagerness of my fancv prevailed,
and to Work I vent, and tel d a cedar-
tree I question much whether Solomon
ever had such a one. fur the. building the

 

' Temple of Jet salem. It was fixe feet ten

inches diameter at The lower part, and four
feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty 'wofiaet; after which in lessened
for a while, and then parted into branches.

 

_ It was not without infinite labor that I

felled this tree. I was twenty (lays hunk.
ing and hmring at it at the. bottom; I was
fourteen more-getting the branches and
limbs and the. vast spreadinghcnd of it cut
oft, which I hacked and lieu-ed through
with my axe and hatchet. After this, it

met me a month to shape it. to something

like the lmttmn (if a heat. It. cost me
nunr three months more ta clear the inside,
and work it out so as to make an exact
boat of it. This I did, indeed, without fire,
by mere mallet and chisel, and by f-hc (lint
of hard labor, till I had brought. it. to he a
very hand-mine lie] . um, and big enough
to have an led six-and-twenty men.

\Vhen I had gone through this work, I
was exti'euuely delighted with it. The
heat was really much bigger than ever I
saw a. canoe or puriagun, that was made of
One, true, in my life. Many a weary Sf-i'nlm
it, had cost, you may he sure "for there
remained not-hing but to get it into the
\m ; and had I gotten it into the water,
I make no qua, ion, but I should have
begun the maddest voyage, and the most
unlikely to he performed that ever was
undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the
water failed me. It lay about one hun-64

 

 

111-1111 yard-1 from 1.111: \1'1111-1- 111 not more;
but the first introuvuuinutze 11 it. was up
hill towards the creek. \Vell, to take
tliiq lIlSt'Ulll'fl"Cln('-lli'., I resolved to
dig into the surf: (11' the ezu'tl1,:;ut'l so
111nkc 11 declir' This I hcgn11,n11d it
cost me a prodlgious (111111 of pains: (but.
who grudge pains that have their deliver-

 

 

it "'51):

 
 

('9

11111111 in view C); but when this 11-115 worked ' ll

tltrouglt,:11nl this diliiculty 1111111:1ge1'l,ih was
still much at. one. for .I could no more stir
the 011111111 thuu l the other host.
Then I 111e11su1'ed the distance. of ground,
and l'L:.\Hl\'('ll to cut 11 dock or canal, to
bring the \1'11ter up to the canon, seeing I
(-ould not bring the (1111100 down to the
\1':1(1C/1'.I lie-12111 this work, but upon (111.1-
1-11111ri11g the 1111101111tot' diggi and 1111111;
I could do 111 11 (1111', I found it would take
twelxc years to finish it, so I 11 as obliged
to abandon it.

111 the middle. of this work I finished my
fourth year in this place, uud kept: 111_1=111111i-
versnry with the sumo. devotion, and with

rould

r

  

   

as much comfort 1191. ever before; for,b_1,'
11 must: mt study and serious application of
the \\ 01d of God, and by the 11' ' 111121: of
1115 grnuo, I gained :1 tlil'l'tumt- knowledge
from what I had before.
upon the \\ orld 11s 11 thing remote, which I
111111 nothing to do with, no expectation
from, and, indeed, no desire about; in 11
\1'11111, I 111111 nothing indeed to do with it,
nor was ever likely to have.

The next thing to my ink being wriated,
was (11:11.11? 111ybrc11d.I mean the hi 1-1111
which I 111'1111:_"l1i'.1111l: of the. ship. Il'his I
111111 llllslrnllllul to the lust degree, allowing
111_\"-it 1111(- kit of l) :111 11 day for
1111111? :1 year ; and yet I was quite without

 

I looked now

 

 

0111'. 1':

   

11? OBI NSON

  

(JR US OE.

 

bread for a year before I g1 11; any corn of
1113' ()\VII.

My clothes, t00,be<1'1111 to demv mightily ;
:13 to linen, I had had none for 11. (mod
while, except some shirts which l had found
in the chests of the other seamen, and
Wllit'll 1 carefully prnncrr .d; because many
l times I could bear no other clothes on but
shirt; and it \rns 11 very great help

to me that I had, among 1111 the men's
clothes of the. ship, almost. thme dozen
l of ithirts, There were also several thick
watch--coma of the scnmcn's, which were
left: behind, but. they 11' too hoi- to wear;
so I set to work, tailoring, orrather, indeed,
bombing, for l uuu'le most: piteous work of
it. However, I made shift to make two or
three waiscoats, which I hoped would serve
as for breaches 01

 

 

 

 
 

me 11 great while;
tli'awci 1 111111119 but :1 very sorry shift till
afterwards.

1' I have. unautiouecl tlntt'. I saved the skins
of all the creatures that I killed,I 111111111
tour-footed ones, and I 111111 hung them up
stretched out with sticks in the sun, by
which 1111111113 some of them were so dry and
hard that they were fit forlintlc, but. others,
it seems, were very useful. The fimt thing
11111110. of th wag n grunt. (:rtpiioi' my head,
with the 111111' on the outside, to shoot 011'
the: min; and this performed so wail, that-
nftcr,' I made me 11 suit- of clothe wholly 01'
thoee skins. I n1u~i1t not. omit to - know-
_ lt'tlfl't: tin-y were "iciclmdly 111: ulc; fol if I
- 11115 11 bad 011113011101 I was a. worse tailor.
' However, the; 11 e111 such :15 I made 11 wry

good shift with, and when I '{1-'1'18 abroad, if
i it happened to ruin, the hair :37. the wuist-

coat and cap being outermos '1, I wee ken':
i very dry.Alter this, I spent n grem- (haul of time
and pains to maxe an umhrulln. I was, iu~
deed, in great need of one, and had :1. great
mind to make one. I had seen flmm made

in the. Bl'azils, who-m they are \' 'J'y u~'el'ul '

lit the great: heat-ii which are thorn, and I
felt the heats every jot. as great here. and
grentel'too, being nearer the. equinox; he-

IfOB] Nb'UN (I If

  

"501;. :;5

it spread, hut if it did not hat (imru mo,
and draw in, it \ruuld not lil' purluhlc for
me any way but just over my hund, which
would not do. However. at. la. 1'! I said,
I nuuhe mm in nusu'm: I (:m'm'eil it. with
skins, the hair upwari so that in :nst off
the ruin like u. penthouse, mid l'mpt all
the sun so i!fY=(C/(:\'.tiilll}', that". l itmihl \vnllc

 

 

 

 

sides, as I was obliged to be much nhrnad. out in the hnltnst <<sf The u'mflhrn' with

 

 

it Was. :t most useful thing)r to "115,513 "01]
for the mint ' the heutst
of pain>>: at 1 , and was a great while before.
I could mulue anything lik ly to hold ' my,
after I thought I had hit. the way, I spoiled
t-wr.>> or three before I made one to my mind.
But at last I made. one that mswm'ml indif-
ferentl)r well; the. main ililliculiy I found
was to make if. to let. down. I could make

   

 

 

I took a wm'hl "

greater advantage than I Ltuuhl before ix
l1}. coolest.

Thus I lived mighty cmufm'tahl)', my
mind lacing Entirely comprtwod h}; J'csi. Hing
tn the will of (lull, :uul lhmuiug myself
wholly upon the Illspclfifll "F llis' pruviduuce.
T his made my life hettei'_tln111 sociahlc; for
when I began to regret the want of conver-
sation. I would ask myself whether thus"'1

mnversi 11g mutually with my own thoughts,
INI (as i. hope I may say) with even my
Maker, hy ejaculations and petitions, was

not better than the utmost enjuynmnl; of.

human society in the world?

I cannot say tlmt,afn-1' this, for
vcms .my extiaor'dinai 1- thing happened to
me, but I lived on iu the same comsv,
the same postuie and place, just as befo1e.
The chief thing I was employed in, besides
my yearly lalmr of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins --nf both which
I always kept. up just enough to have.
sullieient; stock of the year's provision
beforehand --I had one labor, to make me
11 canoe, which at last I finished; 50 that,
bydiggiug :1 canal to it of six Feet Wide
and four feet deep, I brought it into the
creek, almost half a mile.

ii ve

 

 

In building this hont I was wiser than '

in building my larger one, and I built it
small enough to get to the sea. I was near
two 3; s in building it. but. I
grudged my labor, in hopes of having a
boat. to go off to sea at last.

However, though my little pcringua was
finished, 3et. the size of it was not at; all
answerable to the design which [had in
View when I made the first; I mean of
venturing over to the so that".
dcsrgn was given over for the present. As
I had a boat, my next. design was to make
A tour round the island.

For this purpose, I lifted up a little mast
1:1 my boat, and made a sail to if out of

 

 

never

111ainl:1.n(l,

 

 

Some of the little. pieces of the ship's sails _
-thc wind blowing pretty fresh at ESE,

which lay in store. I tried the boat, and
found she Would sail very well. Then I
made little lockers or boxes at each end to
F11. .tion. etci,

 

provisions. :1:

11' (H.113 .80 \" CI?l.-';SO1'..

kept (In, either fiom lain or thcs p1 av of
the sea. I made also, :1 little, long, hollow
plane where I could lay my gun, making a
flap to hang down over it to keep it. dry.
I fixed my umbrella at. the stern, to stand
over my head like an awning All now-
heing ready, I loaded my ship for the voy-
age, putting in two dozen loaves of barley
bread, an earthen pot Jr'ull of parched
rice, :1 little bottle of rum, and half a goat,
powder 1nd shot for my gun, and two
large coats, one to lie upon and one to
cover me in the night, and thus l are sail.

""hen I came to the east side of the
island, [found a great ledge of rocks lie
out about two leagues into the sea, and be-
yond that, a shoal of sand lying hall: 11
league. more. I was afraid to go so fIH'OIIil
to sea, for fear I could not get. back again,
so I anchored my boat, and, taking my
gun, went. on shore and climbed a big hill,
to get a View of the other side of the
ledge.

From the bill I gun'rnivcd a. strong and
intricate current, which would be very
Iil: ' to prevent. me from being able to
make the island again, And, indeed, had
I not got first upon this hill, I believe it.
would have been so; for there was the
same curlent 011 the other side of the
island, only that. it. set (111' at a farther dis
tanac, and i saw there was a. strong odd}
under the shore; so I had nothing to do
but to get our. of the first. current, and i
should presently be in an eddy.

I lay here, however, two (la

 

 

 

', because.

 

and that being just contrary to the current,
made a great- breach of the son upon the

he. I point; so that it, was not. safe for me 1.11-
 

keep me close to the Shore 1911' the breach, with such violence that all I could do
1101' to go too fm' off, because of the stream. could not keep her so much as on the edge

The third day, in the. morning, the Wind of it ; but- ] fonml it hurried me further
having abated overnight, the sea was calm, and further out. fn'nn the. eddy, which was
and .1 ventured. But I zunnwarning-piece on my left hand. 'l'ln-n- was no wind
to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no stirring to help me, and all [huh I could do
sooner was I (201119. to the point, \vlncnl with my Innhllus signified nothing. Alnl
was not even my boat's length from the lnow I began to give myself over for lost;
shore, but I found myself in n gn'ent depth ' [01' as the current wui on both Sides of the
of w;1l.'e1',:n1d:1 current like the sluice of I islmnl, I knew in n. few leugues' dislanue
a mill. It cm'riml my boat. alung with it i they must join again. and than I was irre-J10

0/11 \"b'()-\

     
  

_ 1"o\'1':1'111 1>> 311110; 5111111111.
'1' 1 had no plospcct 111:-
1'111'1: 11:1: 1111!. <<If. 11131111111 _ not 111 the Sea,
'1'111'111111. "1151.111110111111; 1 11115 of slarrnw
1'1'11111111111111-1'. 1 11.111, i1i1l1:'111, tom: 11 a t111~
tniso 1111 the shore, as 111 11l1111'1~'L as I could 1
lift, 111111111111 loxwd it. into H111 11111111; and 1,
111111 agrirat jar of fresh water, that is (.11
rrhrn pots; but what
all this to heing driven into the vast.
there was no
1'11 11111i111and or island, for :1 1111;111:1-
and miles at least?

And 1111\\' 1 saw how eauy it was {111' the
providence of God 111 11111111: the most mis-
1'1'111111: condition that mankind could he in
worse. Sow I looked back upon my (1030'
111111, snliiary 1111111111 as the 111051: 1111:; 11.111:
111111111 1'11 the world, and ad the happiness
my heart Could wish for was to be there

A

 

 

 

 

5' ' 111112. 111' my

   
  

"1

11091111, ulnar, 11) he: sure,

5111111:

 

 

 

    

again. I stretched out my hands 11) 1,;
with e: =r\\'1.<h1:1\'. "O happv desert'"

said I, I shall never see 1.11111: more. 01
miserable L mature. ' whither 11111 I "111111" 3' ' '

I still w-mkml hard to gel. 111\ 111111t1'1ut!
1.1' the current. About noon, a breeze
sprang up from the S. S. E,whi1:h cheered
111yl1c-art a little, and especially when, in
111111111. hallf an hour 111111'1' it blew a pretty"
51111111, 111 1111'. gale 11} (his time, I had:
got. :11. a l'. ghlful 111. 111-11 t10111 1111:, island;
and had 1111:11-11st12111u11y 111' hazy weather

:aiervened. I had been undone anotheri

 

    

URLSOE.

' way. too; for I had 1101:11111111155 on hoard.

 

11.111 11111111 never have known how to have
steered towards the island. if I had 1111:.
once lost Night. 111' 1L. B111. [1111 \reat'nex
1111111111111113' clear, I applied myself to get
up my mast again, and spread my sail,
standing away to the. non-h as 111111111 as
Possible, to got out of the current.

I made such good headway that I 11111111
found an eddy which carried 11111 11110111111.
league 1111 111_\-'\v:1'\-' back. The wind c1111-
tinningi l continued to 111:: 11' the island
and soon g'ot to land. When I was on
shore, I fall 1111 my knees and gave God
thanks for my deliverance. After which, I
drew my boat. into :1 link: core 1111111:r some
tre , and laid me down to sleep, being
quite spent. with Lhe fatigue of the voyage,
which I resolved not to reheat.

I was now at a great loss which way to
get home with my boat. I had run so much
hazard, and knew 1:111) 111111111 of 11 1111511, to
think of attempting it 1.1)r the way I went
11111.; 111111 what might be 81. the other side: 1
know not, nor had I any mind to 1'1111 any
more renlures. So I resolved, on the next.
"1011111)", to ll'lfllfl' "1V \\'L|\" we'd-ward 111011"
the shore, and to see if there was no creek
n'heu' I 111' it lav 11p 1nyf1igale 111 safety
so as to haw her anahr if I wanted her.
1'1111111111LLli1ee mil .,coastin1r the 111111111. I
12111111, to a xcx <<mud inlet. 1"11 hay, almut a
mile over, 111111.11 narrowed till it came L1) :1
very lith-e rivaled; 111' brook, where I. found
a. 5 convenient harbor for my boat.
11219 I put in, and, 11:11 ing stored my 1111111:
vary sal'r: l \\'1'.11t11111~'h1)r1: to look about
.1110. and see where I n '1:

I 3111111 10111111 I had but a little passed by
the 11111111: where 1 had been before. when I

'illl',ROBIAZSv/(V' ('12' USOE. US)

 

u'm'cllvu0111}va L0 that 31011:; 84:, taking Eam' In) [mll sitting; on the for of the
Hill of my hum. but. my gun :uul herd}; 'n-l lnmwull.m-lv le'\\' that it wns
d. spuke LU lnu; fur just in such
i'nm'ful'f- lmnaaning lnnguugo. I 1qu used to lillh

 
  

 

nothin

 

 

umh . L, for if. was exceedingly hot, I he L
Iii-gun my Inurch, The way \va
uhIc enough alley such :1 \'Uyuge :13 I hmI to him :mll IL"
bum: upon, and I reached my nhl lmu'cx- in Howe _ ; m'C-n lhungh l knew it was lhe.
lug, where I found everything :L, mul that hula-<1 in (mild he uulmdy
.u mu: 5. grand "Illle lwfm'c I tuna-Id
cmuyuae my. 1f. Irwl'llng um, lily-hand,

 

 

uh him.

 

 
 
 

 

Lhe m
SSfirllltll11f as l loft. ilz.

I got over the frame, and laid me down
to rust- nw hm'ns', for I was
very we and fell asleep.
But jmlge' 1:, if you can,
what. a sm'l me I must have
bean in when I \V'flb mvnkml
out. of my sleep by a \'Ulcc,

  

 

 

 
  
  

 

 

callingme . mynnme so"
and him " Robin, Rubin,
Robin (311. <<.2! your Robin
Crusoe! \Vhem are you,
Rubin Cr sou! "Flu-u. rm:
Wm? Where have 3011
been .l'l

I wns so (lead ushcep :11.
first, being l'm-iguefl wirh
mwing the fimt 1mm". of the
day and walking the http:-

 

   

   

part, thnt l (lid not awake.
thorough"; and (lazing hr-
Lween sleeping nml waking,
thought I drummed that.
smnuhmly spoke to me; but

(is the vulva continued L0
repeat, "Rnlnu Crmoc!

I

Rubin Crusoe 1" m1 l:x~:'
began to mvuhe more 1
ftarttly, 11ml was at first
dreadfully frightened, and
stmted up in the utmost
constcmntiun. No sooner
were my eyes open, but Iand lling him by his mune, "Poll,
sociable creature. came to me, and sat upon

,.,

     

mv thumb, as he! used to do, nml continued I give life and liher
talking to me, "I'nul' Robin Crusoe! and I no rclmls among all my Suhj ts.

how did I come here! and where had I
been '1" just as if he had been orcmjoycd to
see me,
along With me.

I had now enough of rambling to sun for
some. time, and cunngh to do Iormany days
to sit still and :lctlect upon the danger I

 

 

had been in. I would have lmen verv glad
to have' had my boat again on my sale of
the island; but I knew not how it. was
practicable to get it about. As to the east
side of the island, which I had gone round,
I knew well enough thoro was no ventur-
ing that. \\'a\-'; my very heart would shrink
and my Very Idoml run chill, l'mi'. to
think of it ; and as to the other do of the
island, I know there "as a current there.

   

quite. as dangerous.

L began to '1
for go.d's 'llesh when my powder should be
all gone. "l'o nu=ke provision for this, I set
trnlis, and caught some young kids, which
I tamed, keeping them in ala enclosure,
sevnrely fenced ahout. It. would have
mad.- a stoic. smilr I') see me and my lit-LIE"
family sit down to dinner. 'I'here was my

 

 

majesty, the prince and lord of the. whole 1

R OB INSON IR USOE.

Hindu; and so I carried him home

nk now what I should do

 

he I island. I had the lives of all my subjects

at. absolute (zomnmnd; I could hang: draw,
- and take it away, and
Then to
see how like a king 1 dined to, all alone,
attended hymy servants! l'ull, as if he
had lmen my favoun'tc, was the only per-
son permitted to talk to me; my dog, who
was now grown very old and crazy, sat
always at my right hand; and two cats,
one on one side the. table, and one on the
other, expecting now aml then a hit, from
my hand, as a mark of special favor.

I wanted the use of my boat very much,
but I was very 10:11 to run any more risk
at sea. One. day I resolvw'l to go by land
to the little hill on the other side where I
had observed how the shore lay and the
current set, and so I started, following the
edge of the shore. Had any of the penule
of England met. me at that time, I should
either have frightened them or raised a
great deal of laughter.

I had a great, high shapcleas cap, made
of goat's skin, with a. flap hanging down
behind, as well to keep the sun from me as
to shoot: the rain 01! from running into my
neck; nothing being so hurtful in these
climates as the rain upon the llesh under
the. clothes.

Ihad a short jacket; of goat's skin, the
shirts coming down to about. the middle
of the thighs, and a pail of open-knead
breaches of the same. The breaches were
made of the . (in of an old hegont, whose
hair hung down such a length on either
side, that, like: pantaloons, it reached to the
middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I
had none, hilt had made me a pairof some-
things, I scarce know what to call them,ROBL-

    
 

 

1111~:1<in<, in 11:11) over 11 legs, 111111 1:11-12

shes, 11111. 01: :1

 

on either aide.
111036 11:11-11
the 11-91:- of my Ethos. .

1 111111 1111 1L 1)1'u:1r1 111111. of gnaLl's skin
(ix-1&1, "111111 1 111'1111' 1111""1'1101' \1'11'11 1.\\'o
111111133- (11 the game, 11151111111 111' buckles;
{11111111 :11\1'11<'1 of 11. {mg on (111.1 '1' side Of

:1 311M?

   

s 511111.1-- 1111 indeed were 1111

 

 

   

 

this, . . 11-11101. 1111\1'01'11 211111 dagger, 111mg
1111:1112 '1\\-' 111111 1'1 hatchet, (1111:1111 111111511115,

cm: on the other.
so 111111111, 111111 1.
which 111mg 1>\'I.-:'111y 1411011111017 11,1111 at the
and of it, under my left arm, hung two
poncho: 1111111 1111111151115 goat's skin tut), 111
one of which 111mg my pow11cr, iu the
other my shab. AL my 1111111: I c: vied my
bu. 1t, 1211 my shouhler my gun, 111111. m-'m'

 

 

 

03" CR LISOE.

I 11:111 another 111511: 11111. -
Lem-11 in the same Hummer, '

 

 

 

111;; 11111111 :1 group hmlsy. 1:<_;Iy gonhskin
11111131151111, 11111.- 11'111c11, flel' 1111, W115 The
must. necessary thing I 111111 111101.11 me next
LU my gnu.

1V1 1'1 I 11111011811 1.116 11.1" I 111111111 the 5'11
111111? 31111, which nonvinmnl 1111: that 1-110
c111'1'eu'.:\\':L-1 [01111911 by the ebb 211111 flow
of the tide. Still I 1'cso1vc11 to have the
110111 [111' 011 1111111. side of 11.16: i.i!:1.11d,:1111'1
11') make 1111). aunt-119.1- 110." to use on my
home 5111a.

It- happened one day, about 110011, going
{inwards 111;! 110.11,, I "'11:! exceedingly sur-

 

 

 

 

, prised with the print of a man's naked foot

011 the Show, \1' 1111311 was very 131311: to be)
sccn on the sand. 1. stood like. one thun-
de1'sti'11ck,01' us if I had seen an appur-
1111111. 1 1131311111211, 1 10:15 (1 11111121111 11111,, D1111RDBLYSOA' ('1? USOE.

I <<$01153 henr nothing. nor see anything; I
Weill fly to :1 rising gmnnnl, to look fur-
ther; I went. up flue shunt, and down tln:
short, but it was all one: no
other iiuln'r'inn but flint one. I "Milt 'm
it again to me if than? were any nmnl, and
to observe if it might not be. my fancy;
but there was no room for Uni for than;
wns exactly the. print of :L font--rues, heel,
and ev 1 l: of a foot. How it (:znntj:
thither I know not nor could in the least
imagine. But miter innumerable fluttering
tilmughts, like. mun perfectly confused
and nnt of my; ., I came. home to m)- for-
tification, not feeling,
as we :4 ', the ground
I Went on, but terri-
fied to the last (19.
grcc, looking bcliini
me at. every two or
three steps. mismking
every bush and tree.
and funcying (:vm'y
stump at. a distance
to be :1 man. Kai-ii; it.
possible to (l
how mam; various
ShHPHS 1")" HR!
imaginationrepresent-
ed things. to me in;
how nniny wild idcns
were formed every
moment in my fancy,
and what strange un--
accountable\\-him.<eys
came into my thoughts
by the way.

When I came to
luv (:35th (for so i

think I called it e\ e1

I could sou:

 

 

    

 

 

pining-at:
"g ""

flu: - '

   
 

 

had

7:!

 
 

:Ll'tnr ill I ilu-l intu it like one pur-
\\'hetlnn' I went lny the.
lmlnlvr, nn first. Conlrivml, 01' went, in at
the hole in the rock, which I cullt-(l :1
flour, Imnnntremember; 'Fnrnc - Jr'nghml.
lmrc llwl in cover, or Inn Ln earth, \\ill:

than I Allil to i-lllS

SlK'll. (H'Fl'

 

mun-5 ('H'nn' in: mind
1'11 mt.

l lnul no sloop that night, but luff
u-emlrlin: with flight and thinking who or
wlml iL- could visited the
island. l fancied all xm'ts of fixings, but.

finally concluded that some ._.+' the. Mix-ages

 

 

late that lnul

ul the. main land had been lere, and this74

x'.01)'l:\'S0.-\" CRUSO I'-.

 

did nut in the lvust allay my four, for attain
w.- '(ls l mm in cunstunt. dread that I
should meet them. "'hcn milki g m}-
goitts' ui' gathering ni_y l'rnit, it' I heard the
lat: .t
thing and like to my hunie'

Nuw I began surely to repent that I had
dug my ( \'H 30 large. as Lu bring :1 (luni'
tlu'tmgh un lmytnnl wh '0 my tm'tifix'n-
tiull julnvd to the Tuck. Therefore Ize-
snln-ul to (lmw nu: :L Slittlblltl tm'titit'nfinn, in

  

   

misc, I was ready m drop aw

 

 

   

the. <1!leHHUIIHH'U'F n. nnlivirrlvfi, at a dis-

tnncc frnln my wall, just. where l llml

 

lilflll'u'tl u Almxlde row of trees nlmut>> twelve '

yonm 1 More. These tr cs lmvingbeen pluntml
$0 thick before, there wanted hut few piles
to be driven between them, and mywall
would be soon finished. 50 that. l lunl
mm" :| double wall; and my outer \V'all
was. thickened with pieces of timber, old

 

cables, and eve {thing I could think
of to make it strong, having in it. seven
littln holes, about as big as I might put
In the inside of this, I
thickened my wall to about ten feet thick,
continually bringing earth out of my cave,
and laying it at the foot of the wall, and
wnlking upon it; and through the seven
holes I contrived to plant the muskets like
cannon, so I anuhl [in-e nll tlm scvcn guns in
two minutes' time. This wall I was many
a. weary month in fininhing, and yet never
thought, myself suite till it \s'ns (l0:

Ill)" 211'!" Out: Ill.

 

Then I planted the ground without as
full 0f tl't't'fi us could well stmnl nnll grow,

. so that, in two ycnrs' time, Ihad a grove so

thick that no one: would ever imagine there
was any human hahitntion beyond it.
\Vhilu I was doing this. I thought. much of
the safety of my glint. so I nnnlc :1. strong
 

cnmnsuru in a retired part of the island,
and removed to it ten she-goats and two
imgonts. and left them there.

One day as I wandered more to the west
part of the island, lieingon :t hill, I thought
I saw a boat far out at sea. but I was not
sure. On coming down from the hill,I

Was mmfnumlml :unl anmzed to see the
shore spread with skulls anti other huncs of
There was a place where
a fire had heen mmlc, and n circle dug- in
the earth, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat clown to their iuhnmnn
feast. W hen I reenveml from my horror
at such u sight, I began to thnnlc God that
I was cast ashore upon a. part 01' the island
that. was not visited by the. cmmibnls.

In this frame of thunkfulness, I went
home to my castle, and began to he. much
easier now, as to the safety of my circum
stances, than over I was before: for I
observed thnt these. wretchea ncvcrcztmc to
this island in search (if what they could
get; perhaps not seeking, not wnnting, or
not expecting, anything here; and having
often, no (lnubt, been up in the. covered.

human hml ien

 

wnmly part of it; without finding anything

to their purpose. I kmaw l lnn'l-Iheen here -

now nlmmt eighteen ycms, and never saw
the least funtatcps of human t'rcnturu there
before; and I might be eighteen )-
more as entirely concealed as l mu uoW,1f
l dicl not discover myself to them, which I
had 110 manner of on qiun to do; it huing
my only business to keep myself (entirely
com-.(mletl where I was, unless I found :1
better sort of creatures than (:uunibuls to
mnhe myself known tn. Yet I clltt'l'mimfll
such an nhhorreuce of the. suvuge \vretchcs
that I have been speaking of, um'. of the

 

 

 

CR US 0 fl}.

 

' l

wretched inhuman custom of their ilevuur-
ing and caring mm another up: that: 1 con:
tinned pen 've and 5nd, and luapt close
within my own circle for almost two years
after this \Vhen I say my own circle, I
mean by it my three ]_)lnnfuti0ns, via, my
i castle, in)- cnunt 1t (which I called my
'lmn'er'), and my enclosure. in the Woods;
1101' <<liIl I hmk after this for any other use
than as an enclosure fur my goals; for the.
m1-
n'retches wm such, that I (lid. not so much
n5 go in it": Her my boat in all this time,
' but hogan mthm t1: think of innkingine

 

 

 

 

 

 

10" which nature gave. me. to thosedestroying of these

 

 

another; for I coultl not think of ("V'Q'r
making any mun: attempts in bring the
othor hont round the ishnul to "K", hast I
should meet with ne of thrvsc creatures
ni- scn; in which ( 51"": l hztrl happened 10
have fallen intn flu 1r hnmls: i know whnt-
\\'uul(l lune been my 30:.

Night. and (lay. I ._ nlrl think . . nothing
now hub lnm' i llllf"lll- tlestw}; some 01'

 

 

    

those nmnstcrx. :nnl, if lvtwsihh', sure. the:
vierim thvy shnnltl bring hither to (learn-y.
Il- \wmhl mkt' 1111:) huprr \'(Jllllllt' than till-t.
whole work is llllt'lltlt'll tc luv, to set: (l0\\'ll
all the contriranws l llzll't'lll'd' ur rather
breathed upon, in my firs-tights, fur the

(-rt-zltni or at least.
frightening them so as
to prL-Ynnr- their running
hither any more. But
all was slim-five; noth.
lug could he 1':<':ssilrlc
to take cfiecf, unless I
was. to be there to do
it; myself: and what;
t'lO
:mmng niacin, when
perhaps there might;
he. twenty or thirty of

 

(zonhl nne mun

them, tugether with
their darts, or their

bows and arrows, with
which they prolmhly
could shoot- ns true to
n. innrk as I could with
my gun!

Sinimtimes I thought
of digging a. hole
nnt'ler the place where
they made- thcir fire,

and putting" in five. or six pounds of gun-
powder, which, when thvy kinilhul their
lire, u-mxhl comequently take fire,and blow
up all that was nmn' it: but its, in the first
place, I should he unwilling to waste. so
much pander upon them, my being now
within the qnnnfirynf one barre-51,50imither
' Could I he sure of its going off at any cer-
tain time, when it might snrprim: them;
and, at best, that) it would do little more
than just blow the fire about theirwirs :nnl
fright them, hu'. not. sufficient to make
them fmmkc the'plnce; so I laid it JLN'ltlQ'L
l continually made my tour every mornA

i ing to the try of the hill, which was frmuR031. -\' SUA

i

  
  

my onstle, :15 I called it,
:Iboul. Lhree miles or
more, to see if I could
olisurv eun'y ho:1t1~:1111on'..he smucuning near
the islnnd, or mnnding over tuwnrdsil; but.
I hogan Lo tire of this hard duty, after I -
lnul for two or three months constantly
kept my watch lmt.
without any discovery.

I began to think mo, that if. was not
for 1111: to judge these W rctohcs, and for a
year, I gave up watching for them. This
I did, however: I removed my boat. and '
hid it. securely the emf. end of the.
island, and I kept myself more retired
than ever.

1 believe the reader of this will not
think it straw-e if I confess these 1|11Xlt'-'
ties, rhea>>. constant fears I lived in, and
the concern that. 11:15 now upon 111e,pul
an end to all invention, nnd to all the.
contrivances that I had laid for my future
accommodations and (:cnvuniences. l hail
the care of my safety more now upon
hand! than that. of my food. I cared not.
In drive :1 mil, or chop a. stick of wood
now, for fear the noise: I should make

 

came alwngs back

 

()H

 

shodld he hem-d; much less would I file.
and, above all,

11 gun for the same Jenson' ,
I was intolcernhly unens at 11ml 7 1111';
fire, the smoke, \\ 1 i1 is visible at;

   

 

lost

OR I} SOB.

 
 

 

ngreat distance in the (hay, should betray
me. For this reason, I removed that part-l

 

 

of 1m- huiuncss wnich "Aquircd fire, such
1L5 burning ul 1101's and pipee, etc, into
my neur apartment in the woods; where,
after I had, been some tiuml found, to
my unspeakable consolation, a more nat-
ural cave in the earth, which went in a
vast wny, nnd when-1,I dare say, no sav-
age, had he been at Lhe mom-h of it, would
he so hard); :15 to \'Lenture in; 1101', indeed,
would :11_. an else, but one. who, like me,
wanted nothing so much as a safe retro-at
On (entering with n lighted torch, Int-12.111
bled over an old he-goat that had crept in
there to die, and who did die the. next day

The entrance Lo this'cave was a small
hole nt- the base of 3. large rock, but withil
it was large and roomy and quite dry. I
was greatly rejoiced at the discovery, and
I brought here my magazine of powder,
several inuskets and other things.}: 17B I MS'ON (JR USUE. 79

= R was How the mouth of Dm-umbcr in tmice from me of aimnr. Km. ni'n'e, towards
my tweutyi-hird year; and this, being the the (and of the ismuu "here I had 1. Ned
iouthem solstice (for winmr I cannot- call some savages had been, as hcfm-C/_ and not
:t), was the particular time of my harvest, 0n the other side, but, [0 my great nfiiic-
md required me. to be pretty min-h abroad tion, it was on my side. < f the gland.

m the fields, when, going out ear ' in the I I was, indeed, terribly surprised at. the
sight, mu] stopped Short "'ifhin my grove,
not (hiring to go out, leat- I might be. sur-

   

 

morning, I was surprised with seeing 1!
light. of mm: fire. upon the Show, at :1 dis-1H)!" '.S'O..-\" CRT-'b'l.)li'.

prm , my 11111::kets, which were mnunted

wu-nin, 1mm flm :qqnelicnsiuns I hurl upon my new fortifications, and all my

thal. if [hrse savages, iu rumhliug m'Lu' pishfdgund l'eiolved :0 defend 1n elf ['0
tln: Mm: -lmuld find my cum standing lln: hm. gimp--not fin-gutting seriouinl)r to

01' 0111.01" any of 1113' works. tln-y would L-mnmentl urysndl to the Divine protection,

and earnestly to prey to God to deliver

me out ui' the hands of Um hurhux'imla

.-'\1nl in this posture I cmuinued about.

two l1<1urs,u:nl luegan f0 lllf. impatient for

inh-lligcncc :1hroacl,for I had no spies to
send out. 1 W15 1101". able to hear sitting
in ignorance anv longer; so setting up my
ladder tn tln': side. of the l1ill,1m(l. then
pulling the ladder after me, I set it. up
uguin, :uul 111011111011 to the top of the hill,
and pulling out my pempecLiVe-glzm, I laid
me. down ilnt- on the ground, and began to
i10"k far the place. I presently found

'there were no less than nine naked 511':

layes Hitting: rullntl :1 small fire they had
1113110, not to "211-111 ll1em,for they hml no

I need of that the wenthcr ht 11w cxt'mmelv
hot, but, as I supposed, to (lxess some (if
their lmrlm-ous diet of hnmnn flesh which
they had brought with 1l1e111,\\-'he1her alive
or (lead I mnhl not lmnw.

i They lmd two canoes with them, which
they hurl hamleil 1111 11114111 flu-e slime; 11ml
us it \\n:~' than old) of tide, tl1cSS seemed to

Hue to nail. the 1etu1n of lhe llund [0 go

innnedintvly conclude that there Ware 1ch)- "\WW AS I Impacted, .n it proved ,

Ivle in the plnr-c, and would then never rest; for, $0011 :15 the tide made to the West-

till they had found me out. In this ex- \\':11'<l,l saw them all take lmnt- mul row

Iremit} I went hm]; directly to my castle, (or puddle, as we call it) away. I shculd

unt'l pullrll up the ladder "freer me, having hure observed, Llu'il for an hour 01' muro

 

 

 

 

'Ll.(l l__\': l, l innl no 111010. 11mm 5. \',

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mallL'. all things without Inuk as wild and before llsev went. all they "1111'. (limiting
mlluml1;\'I('11ul(l. 'ulnl I cuuld casilx- disceri} theis- nostmes

Then I prvpm-ml myself within. putting and gesluics l ' my g'
111331;" in in posture of delirium; I lmulell As #11011 as I ..~aw I. em gone, I took my
\il 1113' Gannonfits I called them--that is to | guns and pistols and went nwuy to the1601f] -\ 5'0- \-' Cl Ub'Ob'. 35

hill on the other 5 Isaw there had
been three canoes oI' savages there, and
the}, were out at sea, marking over for the
main. Going down to the shore I saw
with horror, the marks of their dreadful
feast. in the blood and bones of human
bodies.

idc.

I was so filled with indignation at this ,
sirrht, that I began to pondm how I could .

destroy them \\ hen they should come-
again. I. went often to the hill to look for

them, and if they had come, I should cer-
tainly' have attacker] them. But more than
a year elapsed and I saw no signs at them,
and I lived on very comfortably. I11 the

 

which

moantinm, an event happened
intensely excited me.
There had been 11. storm of wind all day,
with n g mt. deal ot' lightning and thunder,
and 3 v0.1 3; foul night- it was after it. As
I was residing,r in the Bililo, and taken up
with verv serious thoughts about my pres-

ent cnnd1t1un. I was surprised with the'

noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a diil'er-
e111; nature from any I had met before: for

the. notions this puts into mythoughls \\ ere. .
I started up in the '

of another kind.
greatest haste, and, in a tiicc, clapped my
ladder to the middle place of the rot-k, and

pulled it after me 3 and, mounting it the.

 

second time, got to the top of the hill the
111011111111. that :1 flash of fire bid me

 
 

listtn for a second gun, which, accordingly,

 

in about half a minute I heard; and by
the sound, know that it. "as from 111al part

 

 

 

. oi; the sen where I \\':|s(l1"\en (1111'. with the

current, in 1111* hunt.
sidcrcd that Is must be some. ship in dis-
tress. I had the presence of mind, at that
minute, to think that. though 1 could not
help thenr it might be they 111i'rht help
me; so I brought togethm :1." the. thy
world Iconld got at hand, and,1nal\'ing a
good, handsome pil e. I set. it on lire upon
the hill. The wood "as d1)',:111d blazed
freely; and though the wind hlew very
hard, yet it burned fairly out so that I
was certain. if them was anv such thing: as
11 ship, the)r must need see it, and no doubt
thzy (lid; for as soon as my fire blazed [11),
I heard anotlmr and then several
IHOI'B.

I innmdiately con-

 

5.51111

  

In the 1nor111ng I saw to my great sor.
row the. wreck of :1 ship upon the concealed
rocksfar out frnm shore. I cannot ox-
 

plain, by any lmssihlc. uncrg -' of \\-'0rds,l And now the thought :50 psted upon
what 1!. strange: longing I fell. in my soul "K'- night and tiny that [ must-go nit tothia
: :1 it, breaking out nmnctimes "Te-"k, that, at last, I ioaiifiii i host with
thus :-- " Oh, ('hnt {here lmd been but one everything i .ary and z ,I to sea,
or hm, nay, or but one son], saved out ut' after nmkimr l careful study of the (inn-
thir. ship, in ham: csunpwi [0 me that I gin-nus currents.

might but have hm}, nnc (:mnlmniun, one ""hrn I came close to the ihip, :1 dog
fuiluuw mmn-e, to have spuken to me and appeared upon her, who, seeingnne (mining,
to h: wnvc- .d with !" In nil the lime )'eiped and cried; and, as soon as I called
of my snlit.:ll')' lifv, I never felt, so cnl'nosf, him, jumped into the sea to come to me. I

 

 

upon Lhii

  
       

 

 

      

 

so strong a desire nfrerfhc societyof my ' tonic him into thte Inmi, hut- fnuuli. him
fuihi\\'v(~l'r:'liln'e5, 01' so <<1001) :1 regret at the almost dead with hung 'nnd tililfit. I gave
want of it i him :1 cake of my hnead, and he devoured.

Bin l-hem \" ' no Sign of any livin'v' . it like u X'.'I.VC/5l10lls"'()if Lhut hm! 1mm) starv-
_thin;~' on the wreck. and T hm] Uni)" the: ' ing :1 fortnight. in the snmr; I then gave
aiilicliun, sumo (1;. "1'1"; [0 509 the corpse {he lmor creature some fresh water, with
of r IIruwxn-J [my mum: on shore. He hand which, it" I wonhi hnvc let him, he would
nothing .'n his lmukvls but two pieces of have: Inn-ad. himself. After this I went on
eight. inn] :1 roimm'o pipe the lust was to hoard ; but the. iimt sight, I met \i/iLil was
mu nf Ion :imcs mnrc value. than the first. with two men drmvncd in the forcmstle.
'w-- v--.-m.--_... _

 

 

Besides the dog, then; was nothing left in I I found, lJesinlaslheae chests :1 little cask
the ship that had life; nor any goods, that II full of liquor, uf about iwwnty gallons,
I could see, but what we: Joiled by the which I got". .fu my lmat with much <<lim-
water. I saw sew "ll cl , whivh I 5 culty. There were several muskets in the
believe belonged to same of the scmnnn; I cabin, and a "real lunvder-lmru, with about
and I gob two of them into L118 boat, With- four pnumls of powder in it. As for the
out examining \vlm'u "ms in them. muskets, I had no occasion fur them, so .IS4

left them, and fuck the. Prus'der-lmrn. l
tank :1 fire shovel and tunrts, which I;
wanted ('Xtrcrnwl} an nlsu two little hm I
kettles, :t copper pot to make clumflntc,
und 9. gridiron; :Illll with {his cargo, and

   

 

R 0131 NS( )N CR USO E,

in me; and "bout a dozen anal l.'v luilf 0!
white linen handkerchicfs. Besides this,
when l mum to the till in the c I
found there three great bags of pieces of
eight; and in one of them. six doublzmna

 

 

 

lug I reached the island again, Wen
fatigued {0 the last degree. I l'eposed
night in the bent, and in the morning I got .
all my cargo on share. The ans]: of liquor
I found to be a kind of rum, not at- all
growl; 'huf. when I came to open the chests,
I found several things of great use to me.
Fm i.x:lm1)le, I found in one :1 fine. case of
bottles, filled with cordial "men's. I found
mu pots of very gmnl Kin-(radon, 0r sweat-
ments, so fastened on the top that the salt
watt-1' hm! nut hurt them. Ifound some
very good shirts, which were very welcome \

 

of gold, and HOIHH sumi'l bars of gold; I
suppose they mightnll weigh near :1. pound.

Upon the whole, I got; very little by this
voyage that. was of any use to inc; for as
tn the money, I hull no manner of omnision
for it; for It was to ma as the dirt under
my feet, and I would have given it all for
t-ln'ue 0r fttllt' lutir of English shoes and
stockings, which were things I greatly
wanted. _.I hnd, indeed, got two pairs of
shoes now, which I took off the feet. of the
['er drownml nmu whom I saw "I the
"rec ', and I found two pairs more in one
of the chests, which were very welcome toI found
this senman's chest
about fifty Pieces
of eight, in rink,
but no gnhl. Veil.
however, I luggeil
this money home.
to my care, and
lnid it up, 115 I had
(lone that. before
which I hml got.
in our own ship.
But it wns a great

me. in

 

 

 

pit-1f that the other
part of this ship hml not (:(mm to my
share; for I am satisfied I might. have
loaded my canoe times
with money; which, if I hnxl (Ivor escaped
to England, "01le have lain here safe

severnl over

    

(enough till I might have. come. again and
fetched it.

After (his event, I lived easy enough for
nunr two yen 2!, but I thought consmntly
of how I should get away from the islaml.
One night I th'cmnml thn+ one 01' the \'ic.~

 

' (Hints of Lhe cannilmls ran awny frum them
'aml t-mur in me.

"X'mv," thought- I, in
my dream, "I may veenture to the main
land, for this Sa\' .39 will he nnr pilot."
After fhis dremn, I wnlchell er any for
the Cflnnilmli', determined in capture one of
their Victims.

l hml "'iM'ClH'El thus for il'LlOut-a yam and

 

 

-a half. when I saw one nmrning no less

than five. mum-s on shore,:1nd there \rcro
about. thirty (If the snvngus dancing nruund
""hile I looked, l saw in

able '\-l'l,'ll'('ll('SS llrnggril from the lmate.

) miser-

 

n lire.

I One was lmm-lmil (lawn inunmlinlel)' :unl

rut up for llwir umlu-ry. while. the other
"'ns loft slnntliug ii)" himself till (ilk-y
wuul'l he l'uml)' fur him.

This we: wretch, ingj himself a little
at liberty, nn<l unhounrl, std.)
then), and ran with incredible s :ifmess

 

 

ted :1" ay fromalong the sands, directlyr towards me. I
was drmdfully frightened, when I Perceived
him i'llllllly'\\'1\)"' mid <<slitecinlly when, as
I thunghtJ suw him pursued by the whole
body. IIou'erL-rflny spirits began to re-
cnxer when I found that. there was not
nhm'n three men thnt {nilowed him; and
still more was I encouraged, when 1 found
that he outstrimted them exceedingly in
running.

There mm between them and my castle,
the. Cree--1:: hut he innde nothing 0}: it, but,
]'ulunging in, su'mn through in about thin'y
strukt's, lnndmi, and run with exceeding
strength and Ku'ifhn'sx When the three
113 H came to the 01'0qu fnund thuttwo
of {hi-in muld swim, but the third went no
farther, and snuu after went. softly back
again.
i-hunghh' that now was the time to get me
I1. N'i'vfillltf 31111 TNH'llfllls {L (llHHlHHliUH. 1
innIr-Iiiulv-i} ran d-m'n the. ladder, fetched
my i\\'n ~gun : and .L' 3; up again with
ihv snnm haste. to the [up of the hill, 11'
011' 'd imnlrdh the ML; and having 11

 

 

IT: L'ilille Very \"fll'llllj" "110" Ill-Y

   

   

ROBINSON O'RUSOF.

myself in the way behs'een the pursuera
and [he Furs Hi, hallucing aloud to
him thin; fled, who, looking buck, was at
'h'rsn) perhaps as much frightenud at me as
1 at them. But 1 beckoned with my hand to
him (0 cmne hack ; and, in the mean time,
rushing at (mm: upon the foremost, I
knocked him down with the stock of my
piece. I was lath to fire, because I would
not; have the rest hear. Having knocked
this fullmv (iownfihe other Shole-iil; us if
he haul been frightened, and I advanced
' towards him, But. us I (tame nearer, l per:
(:eived he had a how and arrow, and was
fitting it to shunt at me: so I was then
obliged to shoot-n1: him final, which I did,
and kiiled him at the first shot. The poor
snuge. who fled, hut had stoplmlnvas so
frightened with the fire and noise of my
Piece that. he stood stuck still. I hallowed
again to him, and made signs to come for-
wmxl, \xhich he easily understood, and

l
i

 

 

 

vex) shurL- wit, and all dmsn hill, clap'd88

 

 

  

0111111: :1. 1111.10 \\' 111111 15101111 trmnhlinu. I
amih-rl at 11111. 11161153111113 111111 1161;1{02911
111111 :11. length 111: , .e to 1111:, laid his
head 11111111 11111 ground, 111111 11111. my foot
upon it. This, it. 50121115, 111111111: 1hat he
\1'1111111 1'11: my slave f1)1'1:\'111'

But then: was more work to 111).
sen-'1 .113: 111111 I 11111.1 1:111I1he11 down 1.10-
c01111I. to himsu 11' {11111 5:11: up 1111 1.111-I $101 1.1111
My 5111-1131: 1111111111101 111111113 1.11.1311 0111111 my
sword, 111111 11-11111: I gave it. 1.11 111111 he run
quickly 111111 cut 1111' his head at nsingh:
stroke. "(111111 111: 111111 1.10111: this, he comes
laughing 1.11 1111-: in sign of triumph, and
brought.- me the award again. But- that.
which asmnisim! him most, was (.0 know
how I killed the 111.1191' Indian so far 1111'.
"511011 he. 11111111 1.11 him, he st111'11'1like one
111n:1ze11,looking at him, turning him 111%
011 one side, then 1111 the other. He took
up his how and 1111-11113 111111 came back ; so
I turned to go away, 111111 beckoned him to
follow me.

Upon this he made signs to 1119 that he
should hwy them with sand. that they
might. not 1111 seen 113' the rest, if they fol-
1011'1111: 11111150 I 1111111115191: to him again

    

.81".

The

 

 

 

111;]-

 

 

I10 3 T. N'SON Cl? USOlI}.

 

to (10 1'40. 111111 in an in-

He fell to work ;
stunt 111: 1'1111 scraped :1. hole in Lhe Stand
with his 1.1311113, 131g enough to bury the
first. in, and then dragged him into it, 111111
covered 111111 ; 111111. 11111 111) by the 1111191' 51150.

Then calling him away, I carried 111111, nut
(.11 my castle, 111111111111: away to my cave,
1111 PS111: further 111111. 111' 1.110 5.5131111. Here .1
gave 111111 1111:1111. 111111 11 1)1111<:i1 111' raisins to
out, and a. 11 '1111ght of water, which 1 fmiml
he was indeed in gm". distress for, and
having 10111.29 111.11 hi111,1 1111:1111: signs for

him 10 go and lie. 110111: to sleep, so the
1111m- 121'11111'111'1: 111V 111mm, 31111 wont to sleep.

He "117111, 11 1211111915 11111111501111: foilow, with
sh'nighf, strong limbs, 1.11.11 111111 well shaped;

111111. as I reckon. about twcnt

 

X years of
 

89

 

age. He had a very good countenance, not
a. fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to
have something very manly in his. face.
His hair was long and black, not curled
like wool; his forehead var}r high and
large; and a great vivacity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes, The color of his
skin was not quite black, but. ver)r tawny.
His face was round and plump; his nose
small, not flat; like the Negroes; .a very
good inonth, thin lips, and his fine teeth
well set, and as white as ivory. After he
had slept about half an hour, he awoke. and
came out of the cave to me : for I had been
milking my goats. When he espied me he
came running to me, laying himself down
again upon the ground, with all the pos-
sible signs of an humble, thankful disposi-
tion, making a great man)r antic gestures
to Show it: At last he lays his: head fiat
.upon the ground, close to my foot, and
sets my other foot upon his head, ui he had
done before.

I let. him know that, I understood him
and was very well pleased. In a little.
time I began to speak to him, and teat-h
him to speak to me; and, first, I let him
know his name should be mer, \\'lli('ll
was the day I saved his life. i called him
so [or the memory of the time. I likewise
taught him to say h'IaetH',:ui(l then let him
know that. wax to be my name; I likewise.
taught him to say Yes and No, and to
know the meaning of them. I gave him
some milk in an earthen pot, and let him
see me'drink it- luel'ore him, and sop my
bread in it ; and gave him a cake of bread
to do the like, which he quickly complied
With, and made signs that i t was very good
for him. I kept there with him all that

night; hut, as soon as it was tiny, I bet:-
koned to him to come with me, and let
him know I would give him some clothes;
all whivh he seemed very glad, for he was

 

stark naked. As we went by the plat-.6
where he had huricd the two men, he
pointed exactly to the place, and showed
lme the marks that he. had made to find
ithcm again, making signs to me that. we
should dig them up again and eat them.
At this I appeared X'cl'y angry, made as if
I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come
away, which he (lid immediately, with

 

great submission. I then led him up ta"(I

the: in]. ()l' thn hill, to see if his enemies
Wurc gone, and pulling out nn glass, 1 snw
lllillll _y the. plum: where they hznl lieen,l.)ut
no nppc-m'inme of them 01' their canoe.

"'0 visited the. place, and carefully
buried the remains of their horrible feast.
lt'i'iilny let me know that than: had been
a Ere-1t. hallle, and that four prisoners, of
which he was on>>= ".'(El'i' brought here to

 

130" {N80 3' C R USO E.

 

inside. As to the neapnns, 1 took them
nll into my lntl.>>itnti<>n every night. But I
needed name of all this precaution; fur
never man had :1 more faithful, loving,
FIIICICI'G servant. lL-llilll Fl'ldil'r' "('33 to "IE;
without passions, snllcnncss, or designs,
pert- l'y obliged and engaged, I'Iis Very
affections \\'I_'.l'0 tied to me, like those of 3
(MM to a. father; and I dare say he. would

 

 

be. men. 'Whnzn we. came back to our
castle, I fell to work to dress my mun,
Friday. I gave a I r of linen
(linwm's, and made him a j kin of gottls
skin, and a very good mil) of lizn'e's skin,
nnd he \' mightily pleased to see. himse. .
(-Iutlwd like his muster.

I tln-n made him [1 little tent between
my tn'n Iol'titicntinns, and. I fixed all my
doors so that I could fasten them ()1) the

  

him

 

  

have sncrifi Cd his life tn save mine,
upon any uc Izlou nhntsoever. The many
testimonies hi: gave me. (if this put it out:
-nt' doubt, and soon convinced me. tlmt I
needed no precmu-ions for my safety on his
ncuunnt.

I nus greatly delighted \n'th him, and
mat-:12 it my business to teach him every-
I thing that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful; 'but especially h1 1' (MM NS 0.-\"

CE USOE.

 

 

 

make him speak, and undoismnd me. when

I spoke. And he was the aldest scholar
that ever was; and particularly wzm so.
nntly diligent, and so pleased '
when he could but lnnleistand nugor make
me tunlerstand him, that- it was 7
am; to me to talk it: him.

After I. had boot: two or three days
returned to mymstle, i thought that, in
order to bring Frida)r ofi? from his horrid
way of feeding, and. from the relish of r.
cunnilial's ntomnolz, t ought to let, him taste ;
other flesh ; so I took him. out with nu; one,
morning to the woods. I went, indeed,

merry, 50 (tons

 

'_\.-' plaus-

 

 

 

 

intending to kill a kid out of my own
flock, and ln-ing it. home and dresg it; but
as I u as going, I sawa she-goatlying down
in the shade, and two young ki -sitting
by her. I. catched hold of Emmy and
made signs to 'him not to stir; immediately
I presented my piece, shot, and killed one
of the kids. The poor creature, who had,
at a distance, indeed, $0011 me kill his
hut. did not know could
imagine how' it. was done, was sensibly
surprised; trembled, and shook, nnd looked
so amazed that I thought. he would htwo
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot
nt, or perceive I had kil it,l)11t ripped
up his waistcoat, to feel whether he was
not. wounded ; and,as I found presently,
thought- .I was meiolrnd to kill him; for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embrac-
ing my knc * snid :1. great mnny things I
did not nnd . Amid; but I could easily see
the meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.

I soon found ll. way to convince him
that I would do him no harm; and taking
him up by the. hand, lungned tit him, and
pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which
he did; and while he was wondering, and
looking to sew. how the creature was killed,
I loaded my gun again. Bvond-Ly I saw;
a grant low. sitting 113701: J tree within;
shot; so, to let Friday understand a little
when I would do, I called him to me again,
pointed at the fowl, which was indeed '9.
parrot, nnd to my gun, and to the. ground
under th;l parrot, to let hun see I would
make. it full. I fired, and lmtlc him look,
and immediately he saw the parrot tall
He stood like one frightened again, not;
withstanding all I had said to him; and I

 

 

Cllfllll)', H( )l'"A, ..
:5"? .

IX"

4%
J;

1'
-. I}

SS

 

ROB (NSC; " CR USU D. 93

 

believe, if I would have let. him, he would
have worshipped nu: and the. gun. As for
_t.ho gun itself, he wnnhl not so much as
touch it for several daysl

When Friday tasted the stewed kid he
let me know that. he liked it vary much.
The next any I rnasted a piece; and when
Friday came to eat it he expressed grent
Satisfaction, and made me understand that
he would never eat; human flesh any mom.
1 taught him to beat and sift the corn and

to make bread, and in a short. time he was
able to I'll.) all my work as well as I could
(lo it myself, and we lived very lmppily.

I had a. mind once (4:: try if he had any
hankering inclination to his own country
ngnin; mul having t'nughb him English so
well that he could answer me ahuont any
question, I nslrml him whether the nation
he bulongud to never conquered in battle.
At which he smiled, aml said, " Yes, yes
we al\\-':1ys fight; the better.""0]" \SUN C'HUS'OE'.

 

   

JIa-yez-r--How ('111111'
you in lw. lulu-111 pris-
oner, ilwn ?

fi'l'l/(l.l_/--'l'l1('_\' 11mm many than my 1111-
tiun, in the place \1'ho1'eme mus; they take
0111-,twn, threw, 11nd 1110.; m}; nnr'inn m'rr-

lmuttliev|11i11tl1e yonder plug , where 1110:

 

nU \\'.
great thuu'

  

thorn 1113' inninn take (>11e,twn,
1d.

 

A," '(c vliut why did not \_-'0111' side re-
20\ er )1 11 f1 om \uur enemies'1 .

"I'zrlv/zr--thev run, (1111', two three, and
me, and make me. go in the canoe; my
nniinn 1111111 110 canoe that time.

1 zzsferuWell,
nation do with the men they take?
they curly them nun-1y and out them 2

E-izlrzg--Yea, my nation eat 11111115 100.

filaslclL-Where do they carry them 2

FriJa'y--Go to other place, where they
think.

fllsze'r--Do they come. hither?

E-z'rlug--Yes, yes, they come hither;
001110 other (also place.

Hagar--Ham you been here wiLh
the-1111? .

Friday--Yes, I been here (points; to
the N. "r. side (if the island, which, it
seems, was flu'ir side).

By this ll unllt'rstmnl (hut mun,
Fri(l1w,l1ml formerly been ilmOIlf" the
savages who used to cuxne on shore m1

 

Do

111 y

Friday, what does your 1

. "i the fnuher Dart of the island, on the said

Hum-eating net-:mions that he was now
broughL f and. some time. after, when
I took the coumqe to cum-y him to that
side, heing the same I formmly mentioned,
he pmwntly knew the plum, 11nd told me
he. was there Once, when they (mt up
twenty men, two women and one child.
He. cauld not tell twenty in English, but
he 1111111l1e1'e1l them, by laying so many
stones in :1 mm, and pointing to 11m. to tell
them over.

I nslce'd lih'idny 11 thousand questlons
about his country, and he told me 1111 he
knew. 110 said his sort. of people were
called Curihs; but further west there were
"lute-bearded men like. 1110,111111 that they
had killed "11111ch 111111115;" by 1d" of which,
I knew he. meant the Spunizmls whose
cruellies in A111eric11 had spread over the
whole country, and were remembered from
'fntlu'r to sun. As the time. passed away,
.1 (allied much to F1id \- about God and
thatK _.1Lvi0ur, 11nd l\"clihr believe that he
became a better Ch1istian than 1 "11s.
'Vv'hen he could undtrstnnd me well I told
him of the countries of Enropc,11.nd how
I came to "The" I
showed him the ship's boat which was
now falling to pieces on the shore, he told
me that such a. bout had come ashore in
his country with seventeen white men in it,
and that theme white men were than living
with his people.

It was after this some time, that being
upon the top of the hill, at the oust side of
the island, F riday, the weather being very
serene, looked v .ry eurnestly towards the
main land, then fell f1) duucingr and cried,
"Oh, joy! oh, glad! there see my country."

 

 

 

be 011 the island.ROBTNSO .\7 URL-"$017.3.

zld

 

 

 

 

 

That set: me to thinking \\-'huf.h(er I could '

not make: the vuyagc with Friday, or smnl
Friday slam, tn see if the white men were
Still ihere.

"'hcn I prnlmzx'ml to Fritlny that- he.
should go over alone to see his people, he
felt very badly, zuul said he would like to

go, but would not. leave me; so I resolved
to mnkce A huge canoe and main: the ven-
ture. \Vc 'l'ellexl a. large tree near tho
water, zuul. with :1. month's hard labor, we
shaped :1. very hmulsomo boat, and in an-
other fortnight we got. her into the water.
Though she was large enough t0 carry
 

twenty men, I was surprised to see with
"hat di..\1'erity 11nd how swift my man
Friday could manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along.
would, and it' we might ventme ever in
her. "Yes," he said; "we venture over in
hm very well, though great blow wind."
However, I had a further design that he
knew nothinu of, and that was to make :1
111213: and a sail, and to iiL her with an

anchor and cable.

 

I had my man
Frida}r to teach as to what belonged to the

After all this "'st (lune,

 

navigation of my 'mat; for, though he
knew
he knew nothing: of what belonged to n
sail and a 111ddex , and was the mosh
amazed 11 hon he saw me work the ho. 1t to
and again in the .en. hy the rudder, and
how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or
that way, as the course we. sailed changed.
Ilmrerer, with a little use I made all these
things familiar to him, and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the com-
pass I could make him understand very
little of That.

B)- 1l1e time I had the heat finished the

 

   

rainy 511114011 was upon us, and we had (.1) :

keep within doms. ""1811 we hegan toga
out "till, I sent Friday down 211 the shore.
one day to find a turtle. In :1 511011. time

 

he mine flying over my outer wall in 11 ,

So I asked him if we.

'1' well how to puddle the canoe 1

1-3 031N503"

 

' 0, master ! 0, bad 1"

C R USUE.

 

great fright, crying out Lo me, "0, "meter!
" What's the matter,
l"ri1.Iay?" said 1. "Oh! yonder, there,"
says he; "one, two, three canoes, one,
two, three l" " W'cil, Friday," says I, " do
not he frightened." So I heartened him
up as well as I could. However, I saw
the lmm' fellow was most terribly scared,
for nothing ran in his head but that they
were (some back to look for him, and would
cut him in pieces and eat him; and the.
poor fellow trembled so that I scarcely
knew what to do with him. I comforted
him as well as I could, and told him I was
in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat- me as well as him. "But, " said
i "l-ridzw, \1en1nst1-esolve to fight them.
Can 1011 figlit,r11da1"" "Me shoot, '
says lie; " hut them come many great num-
ber." " No matter for that," said I, again ;

' "our guns will fright them that we do not

kill." So I asked him whether, if I re-
solved to defend him, he wnuld defend
me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid
him. He said, " Me die when you bid die.

f master."

I loaded the 111-13 fowlingpieces with
swan shot as large as small pistol'bulleta.
Then I took four muskcts, and loaded
them with two slugs, and five small hullots
each ; and my two pistols I loaded WILD a
brace of bullets each. I hung my great
sword by my side, and gave Friday his
hatchet. When I had thus prepared my-
self, I tool; my perspectiveglass, and went
up to the side of the hill; and I found
quickly by my gins that there were one
and-hveuty savages, three prisoners, and
thnec canoes; and this: their whole busi-
ness seemed to be the. triumphant banquetIf 0131A" SUN 073' USO Iv}. W

 

upon these three human bullies. I ob. very (:lnearfnl, and told me, :is before, hr-
scrved also that they lauded, not. whem would die when I llill die.

they had done when Friday mmlc his In this lip of fury I gave Friday one Pis-
'mcnpc, but ncarcrto my creek, where tln: ; {501 to slink in his girdle, and three guns
snore was low, and where a th' -k wood upon his shoulder, :nnl [ took one pistol
came close. nlmosf. down to the 5(- This, and the other three lllj'h .lf; and in this

  
   

 

 

Wit-h tho nbhorrence of theinhnnmn errant]
these wrefches came about, tilled me with

POSi-lu'e "'6 liliLi'Cili'Hl Uill'. _l tflflix' 1| Siililil

liottlc of rum in my pocket, and gays
such indignation (-lmh i mum: down again i Friday a huge bug with more ponder and
to Friday, and fold him I was resolve-Ml tn ' bullets; "HI-l as tn orilfirs, ,l chnrgml him
godown to them, and kill them all; and to keep close behind me, and not to stir,
asked him if he would stand by me. He I or shoot, or do anything till I hid him,
had now got over his fright, and he was mnl in the meantime not to spcnk a word.98 1". 0131 33303" CR USDE.

i had just sent. the. other twu to butcher the
Poor Christian, and bring him perhaps limb
by liml) 1'0 their fire, and they were stoop

(Si ing down to untie the lmm'lsnt'. his I

_ '\ turned to Friday: "Now, Friday," aid I,

"51% "do exactly as you see me i'lo." So I set
down one 05 the muskets and the f'o'vlinw-

375a . . ='

:fl piece upon the ground, nud l"rnln.y the

like by his, nml with the other musket 1

In this posture I fetched n (:mnpuss to my funk my aim at; the final-gust hidding him

right huml of near a mile, as well [u get to do the like; t'hon asking him if he was

over the creek as tn get. into the \rum'l, so really, he said, "1 s." "The." fire at

that I might come wirhin shot. of them them," suit] I; and at the same moment I

befuru l shuulnl he (lisuwcretl, Friday [01- iirml also.

lowing rluse at my lueels. I mnrcht'tl fill Friday took his aim so much hatter than

I came to the skirt of the wood on the side I, that on the side that he shot he. icillcwl

which was next to them, Only thnt'. onc (201'-

ner of the wood lnybetwecn me and them.

Here I (tullml softly to Friday, and show-
ing him a great tree which was just at the

corner of the wand, bzule him go t0 the, tree,

and bring me word what they wane doing.

He (lid so, and czune iunmuliately lmck to

me, and told me that they were all about

their lire renting the 'h ufoneof t-llcirpl'is-
oners, and that :motherlay hound upon the
snml :1 little from them, whom he said the '
would kill next; and this lll'efll the x, _.
sun! within me. He told me it was not-
one of their nation, but one of the beanlml
men whom he hzu'l told me nfrthnt came to
their conntryin the hunt. Iwns filler} with
hL-rroz' at the very naming of the white
bearded man; and going to the tree, I saw
p'ninly a white man, who lay upon the
beach of the sen. Wit-l1 his hands and feet.
tied with thugs, or things like rushes.

I hml now not. a moment to lose, for
nineteen vi the dreadful wretches sat- upon

 
  
  

 
 

 

 

      

the ground, all close huthlletl together, amlnfUJJINSOlV (JR USOE. 99

two of them, and wounded three more; lets, we found only two drop; lmi so many
and on my side I killed one, and woundml were wounded, that tiny run about yelling
two. They were, you may he sum, in a and screaming like mad creatures, all
dremlful consternation; and all of them bloody, and most of them. miserably
that; were not hurt jumped upon their feet, wounded.

but (lid not. know which way to run, or "Now, l~'ri<lny," said I, laying down the
which "'1in to look Fridny kept his eyes discharged i'iicces, and taking up the inns-

 

close upon me, that, as T hml hid him, he kel. which was yet loaded, "follow me,"
might observe what I did; so, as soon as which he did with a great deal of coxu'age;
the fiist shot was made, I threw down the. ~ upon which I rushed out of the wood and
piece, and tool: "1' the fowling--picw, and showed myself, and Friday close at, my
Friday did the like. He saw me cock and foot. As soon as I perceived they saw me,
present; he did the same again. " Are you I shouted M loud as I could, and lmde
ready, Pridny 2" said 1. "Yes," says he. Friday do so too, and running as fast as I
_ "Let fly, then," said I, "in the name of i could. which by the way was not very fast,
God 1" and with t-hatI fired again among licing loaded with arms us [\ww, I mad:
the amazed "'l'CtCllcR, and so did Friday ; directly towards the poor victim, who was,
and as our pieces were now loaded with as I said, lying upon the beach. The two
whatI call swanrshot, or small pistol-bid- butchers who were going toward him
1-: OH I NSON (JR USO 'Ii'.

 

when we first fired had {led in [right in the
sea-side and had jumped into a canoe, and '
three more of the rest made the smue way.
I tuld Friday to run down and fir: at:

 

them, which he did, killing two and hadly
uounding a. third.

I cut the flags that humid the poor vita
tinl, and asked him, in the Portuguese
wngue. what he was, He answered, in
Latin, Christianua; hut wn." so faint and
weak that he could SK'HI'UB stand or spank.
I gave him a. drink from my bottle, and a

picre of bread which he quickly nte. Then .

I asked him what. countryman he was, and
aid Espagnolc; and being a. little
' .crcd, let me know how thankful he
in as: good

 

he

 

"Feiguiur," suid 1,
Spanish as I could make up, we must-
fight now. Tnke this sword and pistol, if
you have any slre qth left." He took
them thankfully and, as if they gave him
new \ igor, he flew upon his runrdererit like
u. fury: A powerful snrnge once threw
him on his hack and was "flinging my
swurd out. of his hands, when he Wiesel)r
quitred the sword and shot him through
the lmd)', lwfnre l, who was running up to
help him, could come ncnr him. "To
' 0:! them all except four who escaped in

 

 

 

the boat, whereof one wa s wounded, if not
dead.

; Those that were in the amine worked
,hmd in get (llli. of gunshot, and though
' Fr'day made two or three shuts ut- them, I
did nut find that he hit any of them.
Friday would faiu have lmd me to take one
(If their <<maven, 12nd pursue them; nnd,
indeed, I was very anxious about their
escape, inst, carrying the. news home to
their people, they should come back per-
haps with two or three hundred of the
<<mums, and devour us ; so I eminent/3d to
pursue them by sea, and running to one of
their ('nnocs, I jumped in, and bade Friday
: follow me. But when I was in the canoe,
I was surprised to find unnther poor crest
ture lie there, hound hand and foot, as th:
Spaniard was, and almost dead vii-h fem",
far he hud not been able to look Over the
side (if the hunt, he was tied so haul "('5ch
and heels, and had been tied so long, that
he had really little life in him.

 

 

linuucdiately cut the twisted flags or
rushes, and would have helped hinr up;
hut he could not stand or spunk, but
groaned most piteously, believing, it seems,
still, that he was only unbound in nnler
to he killed. ,W'hcn Friday came to him,
I bade him speak to him, and tell him of
his deliverance; and pulliugout my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram;
which, with the news of his being do~
livered, revived him, and he sat up in the
boat .Bui when Friday came to hear him
speak, and look in his face, it would have
moved nnynne to team to have seen how

im
into the boat, and out (if the hunt, a. great
many times; when he went in to him, he
would Sit down, open his breast, and hold
his father's head close to his bosom half an
hour together; then he took his arms: and
ankles, which were numbed and stiff with
binding, and ehal'ed and rubbed them wit-h
his hands; and I gave him some rum out
of my bottle to rub them with, which (lid
them a great deal of good.

 

I'Ylday kissed him, endn'nced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, lmllnoed, jumped

about, danced, sung; then cried again,
wrung his hands, beat his own face and
head; and then snug and jumped about
again like a distracted creatuie.
good while before I could make him speak

to me, or tell me What was the matter;

but when he came. a little to himself, he
told me um it was his father. He went

 

It; was 5:.

 

 

This action put in end to our pursuit of
the canoe with the other savages, "'llu
were new gotten almost out. of sight; and
in was happy for us, for it bhm so hard
within two hours after, and lJef 3:; they
could he gut a quarter of their "33-, and
continued blowing so hard all night, and
that. from the north-west, which was against
them, that I could not suppose their boat
could live.
 

 

The Spuninrd's limb-3 were as bad as
those of the savage, but. Friday picked
him up and carried him to the boat, and
paddled it along to the creek, and so we
gut home. Neither the snvmgc nor the
Spaniard could climb over the wall, so we
made them n good tent outside. But they
sonn gal: well and as strong us 11' ridny and
myself.

the (canoe, nnd their bringing the whole

nation to destroy us. His oixiuion was
thzit they could never live out the storm,
but, if they did, that they were so dread-
fully frightened with the manner of their
being list-naked, the noise, and the fire, that:
he believed the}r would tell the people
they were all killed by thunder and light-
11ing,1mt by the hand of men; and that

i had Fridny ask his father what he Friday and I Were two heavenly spirits.

thought of the escane of the savages in

_nr furics, wine liPS1\\'l| to destroy them.
 

This he said he know, because he heard
them all cry out so, in their lkluglulgfl, one
to another; for it was impossible for them
to conceive that a. num could dart: fire, and
speak thunder, and kill at a dishince. And
this old savngc was in the right; for, us
I understood since,by other hands, the
savages never attempted to go over to
the island afterwards; they were so ter-

 

 

103

state of great want. I resolved to increase
our stock of goats and grain, sufficient to
feed them nll, and then to send for them
At. the proper season we fell to work dig.
giug, and planted as much grain as we
could. We also gathered more grapes= nnd
caught :1 large. number of kids. At last, I
victualed the hunt and sent the Spaniard
and Friday's father over in the nmin,ugree-

 

 

rifled "-1le the :wcount-'s given by those
fnm' men (30" it seems they did escape the

son), that they believed "'llmn'el' went; to .
that enchanted island Would be destroyed

with fire from the grids.

ing upon 2!. signal which they ahou Id sh ow"
upon upln'mmhiug the island again.

It was no loss than eight (lnys I lun'.
mailed [or them, when a strange and unforc
soc-n accident intervened, of which the like
hns not, 1.1 )S, linen heard (if in his-

 

In my discourse with tho Spnninnl, he

 

told me how he and :hirLeen others had | t0l')'. l "'2' "is asleep in my huh-h one
been shipwrecked on the savage mast, and II morning, when my man Friday came run-
thai'. his companions were all alive but. in a | ning to me, nnul called aloud. " Muster.[I'M

"ulster. they are come, they are come I"
I jumped up, and went; out as soon as I
could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which. by the way. was by this time
grown to he a very thick wood. But I was
surprised, when. presently, I saw a boat
standing in for the shore, with a shoulder
Df-tnutton sail, (L3 they call it, and the wind
blowing prett)r fair to bring them in; also
I observed, preeently, that. they did not
come from that side which the shore lay
on, but from the southernmost end of the
island. Upon this I called Friday in, and
bndo him lie close, for these were not the

people We looked for, and that we might '
not know yet whether they were friends or

enemies. In the next place, I went in to .
fetch my perspective glass, to see what I
could make out of them. I had scarce set
foot upon the hill, when my eye plain];r
discovered '4. shiplying at anchor, not above
a league and a half from the shore. By my
observation, it appeared plainly to he an
English ship, and the boat appeared to be
an English hung-boutt

I cannot or E'CSS the confusion I was in,
though the joyoi' seeing a ship. and one
that I had reason to believe was. manned
by my own countrymen, and consequently
friends, was such as I cannot; describe;
bt.'. _vet I had. some scare"; doubts hanging

   

 

 

ROBINSON CR USOE'.

about mo--I cannot tell from whence they
came--bidding me keep upon my guard

I was full},r satisfied they were Engzish-
men, at; least most of them; one or two}

 

thought were Dutch, but it did not prove
so. There were in all eleven men, whereof
three of them I found were unarmed, and,
as ] thought, bound; and when the first
four or five of them were jumped on shore,
they took these three out of the boat, as
prisoners. One of the three I could per.
wive using the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, :dlliction, and despair; the other
two, I could perceive, lifted up their
hands sometimes, and appeared concerned,
indeed, but not to such a degree as the.
first. I was perfectly confounded at the
sight, and knew not what the meaning of
it should be. Friday called out: to me in
English, as well as he. could, " 0 master!
you see English mans eat prisoner as well
as savage mans." " Why, It'riday," says I,
" do you think the.)r are going to eat them,
then?"----"Yes," says Friday, "they will
eat them."--"No, no," 3.: s I, "Friday; l
mu afraid they will murder them, indeed;
but you may he sure they will not eat.
them."

All this while I had no thought of what
the matter reall)r was, but stood trembling
with the horror of the sight, expecting
every moment when the three prieoners
should be killed: nay, once I saw inc of
 

105

 

the villains lift up his arm with a great Ethey pleased; but the)r sat down all three

cntrlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to
strike one of the poernien; and I expected
to see him fall every moment; at which
all the blood in my body seemed to run
chill in my veins. I wished hem-Lily now
for my Spaniard, and the savage that- was
gone with him, or tlmt I had any way to
bnw come undiscovered within shot of

"pun the ground, very pensive, and looked
like men in despair.

it was just 8h the top of high Water
when these people came on shore; .mnl
while theyr rumbled about to see what kind
of n. place they were in, they lull carelessly
Stayed till the title was Hpexlt.len\'ing their
lumtngmnnd. They llild 101'".qu men in

 

 

them, that I might have secured the three 1
mcn.for I saw no fire-arms the)r had among I
them; but it fell out tn my mind another
way. After I had observed the outrageous
usage of the three men by the insolent see-
men, I observed the fellows run muttering
about the land, as if they wanted to see
(he ceuntry. I observed, also that the
three other men had liberty to go where.

the limit, who, having drunk a little too

much brandy, fell asleep. "Then they
awoke and found that. the heat was too
fast ngmund for them to stir it. they hul~
loeed out for the rest, upon which they
all came to the limit. rl'hen I heard on!) of
them 5:: "Let her alone, Jack; she'll
{lent next. hide,"

I knew in \vnuld he ten hows before thobunt would float again, and by that lime it
would be dark. SO I kept close. I fitted
myself up for hntilo as before, and waited
in my castle. About. two o'clock, how-
ever, when they had all struggled into the
woods and out of sight, I resolved to
disclose myself to the three distressed
men, who were seated undera tree but a
short". distance uiI.

Friday and I went out, and when we
(tame near them I called out, "What are
ye, gentlemen 3" They all started up, and

were very much frightened at. my uncouth '

But I calmed their fours with
a few words. and told them I was ready to
assist them. " "Ilia", is your case?" said I.
" Ourcnso is too long," said one, "to tell
you now, but, in short, I was commander
of that ship, ~ my men have niutinierl
nuni mt me; they have been hardly pie-
railed on notI to inurdei me, and, at last,

have set me on shore in this desolnte place,
with thcsu two men with mo----o_ne my
mum the other a passenger, where we ex-
pected to perish, believing the plum to be
uninhabited, and know not yet What to
think of it." "Where are these hrutes,
yourenenniest" said I. "There they lie,
six, said he. pointing to a thicket of trees.
"Have they any lire-arms Z" snid I. He
answered, " They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the bunk" "Well

['1] )ltftfll'flllcfl.

  

ROBINSOI ' CR USOE.

 

 

 

than." said I, "leave the rest to me. I see
they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to
kill them nil; but shall we rather take
them prisoners?" He told me there were

. two dosporntn villains among them, that it

was scarce safe to show any mercy to; hut
i." thoy were. secured, he believed all the
rest would return to their duty. "\Vell,"
snys I, "let us retreat out of their View or
hearing, lest they awake, nud we will ft)
solve further." So they willingly went
back with me.

" Look you, sir," said I; "if I venture
upon your delivcinnco, my wmlitions are
but two;1irtst,than while you stay on
this island with me, you will not pretend
Lo any authority here, and if I put arms
in your hands, you will, upon all occasions,
give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island, and in the

 

meantime be governed by my ordain;
sewndly, that if the ship is or may he
recovered, you will carry me and my man
to England, passage free."

He gave me assurance that he would
comply with these most reasonable do-

<<I

nmmls. "W'cll. then." said I. um; um.__._.

ROBINSON CR US 01').

it)?

 

three musket>>; for you, with powder and
ball; tell me next what you think is
proper to be done." He showed all the,
teatimun)r of his gratitude that he was
able, but altered to be wholly guided by
me. I told him the best method I could
think of was. to lire on them at once as
they lay. He said, very modestly, that ho
was loth to kill them, if he could help it;
but that those two were incorrigible vii--
laiue, and had been the authors of all the
mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped,
we should be undone still, for they wouldi
go on board and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all.

In the middle of this discourse we heard
some of them awake, and soon after we
saw two of them on their feet. I asked;
lum if either of them were the men who
he had said were the heads of the mutiny?
He said, "No." ""7011, then," said I,
"you may let them escape; if the rest
weape you, it is your fault." Animated
with this, he took the musket I had given

 

him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt,

and his two conu'ades with him, with each 1
man a piece in his hand. The two men'
who were with him, going first, made some

 

noise, at which one of the seamen started
up and cried out to the rest. But he was i
too late, for our party fired, and one of
the two leaders was killed on the spot and ';

 

the other lJaAli}.r \voumled. But he jumped.
up and called for help, and then, as I came
up, he, with all the rest, crin out for
mercy. The Captain told them he would

 

spare their lives if they would give up
their mutiny and obey his orders, which

they promised to do. I was Willing they
should be spared; but I told the captain
he should keep them bound while they
were upon the island.

"'0 now laid our plans to get pomeasion
of the ship. As we thought they would be
sending a boat ashore to look for their
comrades, we took ev "i-tliingfmm the boat
on shore, and dragged her up beyond the
reach of high tide and store a hole in he:
bottom, so that they could not use her.
After a While another bout put ell" from
the ship with ten men in her, all armed.
"lo put some of our pi'Leonem in the cave,
and some we kept with us, securely tied.
So now we kept cloze and watched the
sailors rowing ashcm.

As soon as they got to the place. when:
their other bunt lay, they ran their boat
into the bench and came all on shore. him}
ing the boat up after them They all mHm

1EUR()B.l."-"S0.-\" GR USOE.

 

to their other hour ; and it was easy to see 1

(hey were under :zgrent surprise. [0 find her
stripped of all tlmt was in her, and a great
hole in hel'builmn.

times. Finding that. they were not. answemd
they came to the conclusion that their com-
panions were all xuuidered, and they started

Afterihey luul mused for the shore resolved to go hack to the

awhile nl'u'm this; they set up two 01' three ship nml sail away without Lhemi

great. shout-5', to try if they could make

 

their companions hear; but all w . +0 no
purl'mse. Then they fired a volley of their
snmll arms; but it was all one; those in
the. cave, we were sure, could not". hear;
and those in our keeping, though they
heard it well enough, yet (lurst give no
nnsner to them. Then three man got intn
the hunt- nntl put her 01! a little \my from
the shore, while the other sm'eu shn'fctl to
liml l'lwir mmpnniuns.

It seems they were. too much frightened
to go [111' from the shore, but. the},' want to

 

As soon as I perceived them go towzn'ds

the shore, I inmgineil it to he as it really
was; l>uL I presenLly thought, of n strum-
gem to fetch them hzwk again, and which
answered 1113' end to a little. I ordered
Friday and the capbalu's nude to go over
the little creel: to in. rising ground, at about
half a. mile distance, and halloo out as loud
as they could; and that us soon as ever
they hmml the seamen answer then), they
should return it again; and than keeping
out of sight, trike a round, always answer-
ing when the others lmllnoed, to draw them

the top of :1 hill nnd hnllnoed several . us far intothcislaud as possible.They were just". going?r into the Loan,
when Friday and the mute hulloncd; and
they answering, rnn nlong the shore west--
ward, tow da the voice they heard, when
they wore presentlv. mapped by [.118 (511531;,
where, the water being up, they could not.
got :n-ur, and milled far the built 1.0 (101110.
up and set them over, as 1 expected. "Then
they hud 59f,- tlmmsulvt's or ',I observed
that the- lJoat being gone up :1. good wny
into the creek, they took one of the ihi'c'e
men out of her, to go along with them, :Lml
left only two in the hunt, linvingfnstcmcd
her to the stump of aliit-le tree on [he
This was what I wished for; mid

 

 

 

   

shone.
immediately leaving F'ridn)r and the car>>
tuin's male (-0 their husiu s I took the
rest with inc, and crossing the creek out of

 

ROBINSON (Z'RUSOIE.

 

 

 

 

 

109

 

their; :rhl, We surprised thahro men before
they were aware; one of them lying on
the sham, and the other being in the boat.
The follow on shore. was between sleeping
and waking, and going tn m up. The cup-
hiin, who was foremost, ran in upon him,
and knocked him (lnwn; nnd the" culled
out to him in the bout to yield, 01' he was
:1 dead man. Thom needed very fen" :u'gu-
menls Lu persuade a singln mm: to yield.

 

<<vixen he smv fine men upon him, and

down. In the
lilca'utimc, Friday and the mptuiu's 11min
sou-'91: managed their business with the
rest, that they drew them, hyhallooing and
n11$\\'exxlig_fi'oiii one hill to another, till
they not only heartily iii'ctl them, but left
them where they could not much back t6

isnr-- '

his (:oinrzuli: knockedthe bout before it: was (lurk; and, indeed,
they were heartily tired themselves also,
by the time they came hack to us.

When they came hack to the boat in
the dark, and found it high on the shore of
the. creek, and their two men gone, the)r
begun to complain that they were on an
Enchanted island.

I made the man theylmd left in tho
bout,\rho was now one of us, call them
by nzune, in try if I could bring them to
n lmrlcy. So he calls out as loud as he
could to nine n'.' tlmm, "Tom Smith! Tom
Smith 1 For God's Salimthl'ow down your
arms nud yield, or you are all dead men
this moment." "W'ho must we yield 1.017:

 

.E'. OBINSON (3'1? USOL'.

  

Where nre they 2"
says Smith quickly.
" Here they are:
says he; "here's our
captain and fifty men
with him, have been
hunting you these
two hours; the hunt
swain is killed, W'ill
Frye is wounded, and
I mu 2: pn'soner; and
if you do not yield
at once, you are all
lost"

Then the captain
called out tluxt if they
would lay down their
arms, the governor,
by Whom he meant
me, would spare all
their lives, except
flint of "fill Atkins,
who, it seems, wns the
flint mnu to mutiny
and in)? hold of the capmin. They all lay
down their arms at once, and we hound
them nud tool: some to the mum, nud the
others to my bower. I mended the hole
that we had made in the first; boat, and
after talking with the prisoners, the cap-
tain picked out those that he could trust
and started to retake the ship,re:whing her
about midnight.

Those that were on the deck were not
alarmed at seeing their own bouts coming
lmalc, and so the. captain, after at short
fight, captured them all and put down the
hatches. to lump the others below. They
then broke open the door of the round-
huuse where the new re'ncl captain lay,tu1d
as he tired upon them and would not sub-
mit. the mate shot hun (lend. The next
day his body was hung up at the yard-
mn us a warning to the rest.

When the captain czune back, he told!
me he had brought me some little. mfrcsh-
ments, such as the ship afl'mded. Upon
this, he called aloud to the boat, and bade.
his men bring the things ashore that wen:
for the governor; nnd, indeed, it was a
present as if I had been one that "'3! not
to he carried away along with them, but
as if I had been to dwell upon the island
still, and they were to go without me.
Filst, he had brought me a case of bottles
full of excellent cordial waters, six large
bottles of Madeira wine, two pounds of
eXCEllent good tobacco, twelve good pieces
of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bug of peas, and about a hundred-
wcight of biscuit. Ilenlso brought-me a
box of sugar, a. box of flour, a. bug full of
lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and
abundance of other things. But besides
these, he brought me six new clean
shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair
of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, nnd one
pair of stockings, and a. very good suit of

 

clothes of his own, which had been worn '

but very little: in a word, he clothed mo
Erom hand to foot. It was a very kind and
agreeable present, as any one may imagine,
to one. in my cimumstanccs; but never was
anything in the world of that kind so
unplensant, awkward, and uneasy as it was
to me to wear such clot-hes at their first
putting on.

After dresfiing in my new clothes, so as
to look more like a real governor than in
my goat skinsl had all the rebels brought

11)

before me, nnd I told them I had got a fun
account how they had run nwny u-iih the
ship, and were prnpnring to commit further
I let them know that by my

robberies.

 

direction the ship had been seized; that.
she lay now in the road; and they might
see thnt their new captain had received the
reward of his villnny; that, as to them, I
wanted to know what they had to say why
I should not execute them as pirates, us
they could not doubt. but I had authority
to do.

One of them answered that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they
were taken, the captain promised them
their lives, and they humbly implored my
mercy. But I told them I knew not. what
mercy to show them; for as for myself I
had resolved to quit the island with all my
men, and had taken 1'>>: ' . in go to
England. As: for them, they cuuhl not go
to England in the, ship, except as prisoners
in arm. and upon reaching there, the.)r
Would surely be hanged.

 

 

<<x>>.

Upnn this the)" lwggcd that I would let
them stay on the island, to which I gave
1y consent,
history, anll. how I had managed every-
thing. I left them all my flnearins and
alwnr. a l):

   

and I prev ned upon the captain to give
l

  

them i-wo els more and PSli1'0 some gar-
; Give them 31:30 the bag nf
. and the captain sent; them Lheirchests
nml v'mtlwsfl'm- \\'lllf'l'. thr)' seemed wry
thankful. And then I left. the island, after
being: upon if. eight-:uul-hvmlfi ' years, two
mnntns and nineteen days.

(32151] SPCA-i

h

 

Then I tnlrl them my whole .

'l and a half of gnnptm-'der, '

ROBINSON CK USO E.

""hcn I czune to England, I was a. per-
fect stranger to all f-ht. .u'n-ld. My father

 

 

 

and mother were dead, and all my family
except two sisters and two children of one
of my brothers,

The captain gave to the

 

owners a lmndsmne acmunt of my saving
the ship, and they made up n purse of
nearly PS200. With this money I resolved.
to go to Lisbon and see if I could get any
news fruzn my plnntntions in Brazil. ]
accordingly tnnk shipping and arrived in
Lisbon safely, Fridayr accompanying me,
and proving a. most; valuable so rant. Hem
I fmnnl my old friend, the "plain, who
took 1110 on the coast, of Africa. He was
an old man now, and he told me he hm:
not been to the Brazils for nine years, but
he assured me that when hewns here 13:53,
my Durtncr was alive, and he believed I
 

ROBINSON CR USOE.

 

would have a very good account of my 1 min, as wail because I was the oldest mm,
plantation. I prepared the necessary papers as because I had two servants.

and sent them by a ship sailing to the
Brazils, and in about seven months I

 

received n lnrge packet from my surviving
trustees giving :1 full account of my plan-
i'ution, which had been so improved that. I
was now muster of about 50,000 pounds
sterling in money, with a fine estate. The
trustccn sent me. besides the gold,_1,200
chests of sugnr and 80') rolls of tobacco.

I won 30 overcome by [his news, and the '
reception of 3:"; great riches, that I fell
sick, but soon recovered. I rewarded my
old bencflwtor, and appointed him receiver-
of the profits of my plantation. Having
settled all my affairs in Lisbon, I resolved
to return to Englnnd by land--that is,
except iron) Cnlnin to Dover. I engaged on-

other servant, and joined a Dart-3" of mcr } "

chants. who were going the some way.

In this manner I set out from Lisbon:%
"and our cmnpnny being very well mounted
and armed, \vc nnule :1 little troop, where-
of thev (lid me the honor to call me cup- 3

When we came to the Pyrencnn Morm-
tnins, I suflered much with the cold, and
there wns so much snow that we were
stopped ten days for want of a guida "'0
found one, however, and set out again.
We were descending on the northern side
of the mountains, when, our guide being
something beforo us, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them a bear.

Two of the wolves flew upon the guide,

and, hnd he been far before us, he would
have been devoured before We could have
helped him. One of them fmiened upon

_ his home, and the other attacked the man

with such violence that he hnd not time 0!
presence of mind enough to draw his pis-
fol, but hulloood and cried out to us most
lustily. My man Friday, like a bold
fellow, rode directly up, and with his
pistol shot the wolf in the head. The.
other, when he heard the pistol shot, fled
immediately.

But never was a-fight managed so lnn'dily,
and in such :1 surprising manner, as that
between Friday and the hour. Ar the

 

bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, n.nd does.-
non gallop as the wolf does, which is-
swil't and light, so he has two particular
qualities. First, us to men, who are not his
pmper prey: if you do not meddle with
him he will not meddle with you; but
then you must take care to be way civil to
him, and give him the road, for he is a
very nice gentleman; he will not go a step
out of his way for a prince; nay, if you
are really afraid, your best way is to look
another way and keep going on; for if you
stop, and stand still, and look at him, he
takes it for an affront; but if you throw
or toss anything at him, and it hits him,
though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he sets all other business aside
to pursue his revenge--that is his first
quality. The next in. that if he be once
aflronted, he will never leave you, night or
day, but follow at a good round rate till
he overtakes you.

When, on a sudden. we espiul the boar,
we were a little surprised. " Oh-oh, oh !"
says Friday; "oh, master! you give me to
leave, me shakee to hand with him; mu
makce you good laugh."

"You fool," said I, "he will eat you
up." "Estes me upl come we upl" says
Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him
up; me makes you good laugh; you all
stay here, me show you good laugh." So
down he sits, and gets his boots .iii' in n.
moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as
we call the flat shoes they wear, and which
he had in his pocket), give: my other ser-
vant his home, and with his gun away he
'lew, swift like the wind.

 

 

115

had, as we say, the heels of the. boar, came
up with him quickly, and took up a great
stone, and threw it at him, and hit him
just on the head, but did him no more

  

harm than if he had thmwn it againsua
wall. But. it answered Friday's end, for the
rogue was so void of fear that he did it
purely to make the bear follow him, and

The hear was walking softly on, and i Show us some laugh, as he called it. As

offered to mcddlo with nobody, till Friday -

soon as the hear felt the SiC|l19,:'_tlI(l saw

coming pretty near, calla to him, as if the i him, he turns about, and comes after him,
bear could understand him: "Hark ye, hark ' taking very long mines, and shuffling on
ye," says Friday, " me speakec with you." at a strange rate, so as would have put a
We followed at a. distance. Friday, who harm to a middling gallop. Aimy runsFrida' and seeing 9. grant oak-tree lit for

 

his purpose, he beckoned us to follow ; and
doubling his pace, he got nimhl)P up the
tree, laying his gun down upon the ground,
at nlmut live or six yards from the bottom
of the tree. The bearsoon came to the tree,
and we followed at n (listuuce. The first
thing he did, he stopped at the gun,

ROBTNSO V CRUSOE.

Finally, Friday crept to the end of the

limb and dropped to the ground, and the
bear begun to come down backward. Fri
day picked up his gun, und when the hear
was nearly on the ground he shot him
through the head.

The guide now pressed us forward. we
had one rlnngerous place to puss, and our

 

smelled ut it, but let it lie, and up he
scrambles info the tree, (:lillIlJillg like a
cat. though so monstrous heavy.

Friday went out on :1 long branch, and
the bear followed him. "Now," said Fri-
day, "see me make hear dance," and he
lmguu to shake the limb up and down, so
that the. hour lunl all it could do to lmhl
ma. When the bmr would move back,
Frid..y would sit; still and tell him to come
farther, anilthc hmr would start toward
him, and get another shaking us before.

'

i, ' J r>>)!
I _ I 7%
W Zr.

 

I41

_I

[guide tuhl us, if there w- re mom wolvu
: in the country, we should find them there;
i and [his was a small plain surrounded
' with woods on ever)r side, and a long nar-
row defile, or lune, which we were to pass
to get through the wood, and than we
should come to the village where we were
(A) lodge. It was within half an hour of
sunset when we entered the wood, and a
little after sunset when we came into the
plain. \Ve met with nothing in the first
.wood, except that in A little plain we Hawfive great woi v
one after another. Upon this, our guide,
who was but a faint--honrteul fellow, hid us.
keep in a ready posture, for he believed

 

   

as cross the road, full speed,

there were more wolves a~eoming.
kept our arnu ready and our eyes about us; "'lth thom. HOWCVUI', as they llnl not fall
upon us, we kept our way forward.

but we saw no more wolves till we came
through that wood, and entered the plain.
As soon as we came into the plnin, the first
object We met with was a poor horse which
the wolves had killed, and at lenst n dozen
of them at work picking his bones. We
had not gone half over the plain, when we
began to hear the Wolves howl in the wood
on our left in u frightful manner, and pros-
ently we saw about u hundred conning on
directly toward us, all in a body. I source
knew in what manner to receive them, but
found to draw ourselves in a close line was
the only way; so we formed in a moment,
butI ordered that only every other man
should fire, and that the others should
stand Judy to give them a second volley
immediately. However, at present, we had
no neecssitx ; for upon firing the first vol-
ley, the enemy made n full stop. Four of

 

ROBINSON ORUSOE'.

H7

 

turn about. I then ordered u. second volley
to he fired in their rear, which put them to
the gallop, and nwny they nent to the
woods. "'0 had lmt little more than londed
our fusess, when We heard a terrible noise
in the same wood on our left, on!)r that it.
was further ommrd.

The night was coming on, :unl the light
begun to be dusky, which made it the
worse on our side; and, on n sudden, we

 

, g; perceived two or three troops of wolves, one

on our left, one behind us, and one in our

""69 front, so that we seemed to lie surrounded

Ai

 

them being shot in the head, dropped; Janother opening of the wood, we hem-d
several others were wounded, and went the noise of a gun, and looking that way,
bleeding oil". I found they stopped, but out rushed n horse, with n dale and
did not immediately rot-rent; whereupon I u bridle on him, flying like the wind. and
caused all the company to hnlloo as loud sixteen or seventeen wolves: after him full
as we could ; and they began to retire and . speed.
But here we had a most horrible sight;

for, riding up to Where the horse came out,
we found the curcuses of another horse and

of two men, devoured by the ravenous

creatures. This lilled us with horror, and
we knew not what course to take; but the
creatures resolved us soon, for they
gathered about us presently, in hopes of

 

prey. it happened, very much to our
advantage, that at. the. entrance into the
wood, there luv some large timber-trees. I
drew my little troop in among those trees,
and placing ourselves in a line hehind one
long tree, I advised them all to alight, and
keeping that tree before us for a breast-
Work, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,

 

16 0B1 NS 03" CR USOE.

so, and it was well we (lid ; for never we,
a more furious charge than the creature:
made upon us. They came on us with .~
growling kind of a noise, and mounted tht
piece of timber. I ordered om' men to 111(-
ae before, every other man; and they tog}
their aim so sure that they killed several 6:
the wolves at the first volley; but there
was a necessity to keep a continual firing"
for they came on like devils, those behine
pushing on those before. I finally ordered
a train of powderto be poured along the
log, and I set fire to it. This frightened
them so that when we had fired anothe)
volley and gave a great shout, they a1
turned tail and left us, and we resnmet
our journey.

I reached England and made up my min:
to stop roving I mnrrietl a wife not to my
(lit irisfncfion, and had three children, two
sons and a daughter, and for seven yen!"
was contented Isold my plantation 1'!
the Brazils and was wealthy and happy
One of my nephews I bred up as a gentle
man, the other I placed with a Shir
captain, and being a bold and sensible
fellow, in live. years I gave him a got":
ship and sent him to sea.

But, my wife dying and my nephew-
coniing home with good success from
vo'ge 10 Spain, the old desire to g-
abroud returned, and in my after voyage
I luul more adventures of which I aha
give an account in a Second Part of n"-

 

 
 

inclosing our horses in the centre. ""9 did history.
 

 

PART II.

HAT homely prover-l1, thuf-
what is bred in the bone
--_ will not go out of the flesh.
'>> was never more verified

   

Any one would think that after
thirty-live yem's' aiilicl-ion, and :1
<<3k varictv of unhappy nircuuistmmcs,
hip}: > . ' _ .. _ ' _
which few men, it an}, ei-erucnt
through llcfm'c, and alter ueur seven yt. rs
of peace and enjoyment in the fulncss of
all things, nud grown old, that; the native
propensity' to rambling should lie worn
out, and I might, at sixty-one years of age,

 

Yet all these things had no client upon
me, or at least. not enough to resist the
strong incliuutinn I haul to go abroad again.
In particular, the desire of seeing nay new
plantation on the island, and the. colon}' I
left: there, run in my hcnd continually. I
dreamed of it all night, and my imaginn~
tiou mu upon it. :ill (lay; nnd my fancy
worked so steadily and strongly upuu it

' that l tallied ul' il. in my slurp.

in this kind of temper I lived some years
My wife, finally, told me very surinusly,
our, night, that she lutlitzvctl there was some
powerful impulse of Providence upon me

have been a little. inclined to shiy at home. to visit my island again, zunl that- .' ought
This nil}: tiountu behavior in my Wife
brought me :1. little out ol: the. vapors, and
I began to think serioust of my fully,
nud to give up 111:.- tlu.ughts of going:
away. I resolved to divert myself -\\'ith

to go.

 

other things,:1nd to engage. in some busi-
ness thnt might- cfi'ectuull)' tie me up from

 

any more excursions of this kind; for I
found that thing return upon me chiefly
when I was idle, and had nothing to do.
To this purpose, 1 hought 11 little farm in
the county of Bedford.
house upon it, and the. land about it, I
found, was capable of great. improvement.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled
my family, bought"- ploughs, hm'rows, :1

curt, wagon, horses, cows and sheep, and, .

setting seriously to work, became in one
half-year a mere country gentleman. My
thoughts were entirely taken up in munng-
ing m}- serrants, cultivating the ground,
enclosing. planting, etc; and I lived, nsI
t-houghl, the most :Lgreeulde lif e that na-
ture was capable of directing.

But in the middle of 1111 this felicity,
one blow from unseen Providence. un-
hinged me at once, and drove me into a

I had a little;

ROBINSON CRUSH E.

deep relapse of the wandering disposition,
which, (is I may any, being born in my
blood, soon recovemd its hold of 111-2.
'I'his blow was the loss of my wife, My
thoughts mu all away agnin into the old
nli'nir; my he: ul "us quite turned with the
whi1nse)s of foreign adventures; and all
the plenszmt, innocent amusements of my
farm, which before entirely possessed me,
were nothing to me, had no relish, and
were like music to one that has no ear, or
food to one t-hnt hns no taste; in :1 word, I
resolved to let my farm, and return to Lon-
don. When I came to London, l was still
as uneasy as I was before ; I had no relish
for the place, no employment in it, " *hing
to do but to saunter about.
It was new the beginning of t 1e yem'
1693, when my nephew, whom I had
brought up to the sea, was come home
from a short voyage to Bilboa. He came
to me, and told me that some merchants of
his acquaintance lmd been proposing to
him to go a voyage for them to the Emit
Indies, and to China, ns private trmlcis.
"And now, uncle," says he, "if you will
, go to sen with me, I will engage to Ill-"(l
you upon your old habitation in the island;
For we am to touch u.t- the Brnzils."
This so cxactlv hit with mv temper that
lIeonsented, but told him I would go no
further than my own island. He argued
against. this, but to little purpose. How-
ever, I and my mun l"ri1'l:|.y went on honrti
in the Downs on the 8th of January, 1693.
I took with me the frame of a sloop that
' could be easily put together. I also took
with me some servants whom I purposed
to leave on the island, among them two
carpenteis, a smith, a very handy

 

 

 

in-
 

 

 

 

gzuions fellow, who could do 11111.in things,

and n. tailor. In my cargo was an abuu~
dance of clot-119 :un'l wenring apparel, beds,
bedding, and household stnfi', particularly
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettlee, pewter,

brass, etc., and nem'nlmndmd pounds more '

in iron-Work, nails, tools of every kind,
staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary
l.hing I could think of.

I carried also a hundred spare arms,

xnuskcts, and fusces; besides some pistol-r, I

a musldemble quantity of shot of all
Sims, three or four tons of lend, and two
pieces of brass cannon; :1n(l,l.>ounuse I
knew not what time and what ext-remiti g
I was providing for, I curried a hundred

 

 

bm'mls of powder, besides swords, cub
lasses, and the iron part. of some pikes mid
lnLlhc-rfs. So t-hnt, in short, we had a. large
magazine of all sorts of stnres; and I
made. my nephew (awry two small quarter-
deck guns more t-lmn he. wanted for his
ship, to ham-'9. behind if there was occasion;
that when We came there, we might build

a fort, and man it ngninsl; all sorts of

enemies.

Contrary winds first put us to the north-
ward, and we were obliged to put in at
Galwny, in Ireland. Here I Look in sev-
and live hogs, and two cows with their
calves, which I resolved, if I had a good
passage, to put on shore. in my island _: but
we found occasion to dispose otherwise of I immediately ordered that. five guns
them. should be tired, one soon after another,
W'e set out on the 5th of February from that, if possible, we might give notice to
Ireland, and had a very fair gale of wind . them that. there was help for them at hand,
for some clays. As I remember, it might ,' and that they might. endeavor to save
be about the 20th of Februnryfln the eveu- ' themselves in their boat; for though we
ing late, when the mute, huviug the watxzh, , could see the ilmues of the ship, yet they,
came into the round-house, and told us he it being dark, could see not-hing of us.
snwa flush of fire. and heard a gun tired. _ W'e lay by some time upon this, only

 

 

 

This made us all run out upon the quarter- | driving as the burning ship drove, waiting
(leek, where we saw a ver_\,r great light, [or daylight; When, on a. sudden, to our
which we cuucluded must be some ship great. terror, though we had reusou to
on fire at. sea; null us, by our hearing the expect it, the ship blew up in the air; and
noise of guns just. before, we concluded in ut'ew minutes. the rest of the ship sunk.
that it euuhl not be Lu- ott', we stood About eight. o'clock in the morning, we
directly towurdsin. Tu uhuuthult' anhour's discovered the ship's boats, and found
suiliugfihe wind being fairnmlthe weather [here were two of them, both througed
ch- ' 1:; up :1 little, we could plainlydis- with people. "Ye immediately spread our
ceru that it, was it great. ship on lire. ancient, to let. them know we saw them.
 

 

and hung a waft. out, as a signal for them E It is impossible. for me. in expness the
to come on board; and then made more i several gestures, the strange ecstasies
sail, standing directly to them. In little I which these poor delivered people run into.
more than half an hour, we came up with There were some: in tears; some raging and
them; and, in a word, took them all in, tearing themselves, as if they had been in
being no less tha'n sixty-fum- men. wumeu the greatest :Lgonies of son-ow ; some stark
and children. ' raving and downright luuntiu; some v'a"12-!

H 0 5' I NSUN OR US 0 E.

 

 

about the. ship stamping with their feet,
others wringing their hands; some were

dancing, some. singing, some laughing,
more crying, many quite dumb, not able to
speak a. word; several swooning and rendy
to faint; and n. few were crossing thcm~
selves, zunl giving God thanks.

There were two Priests znnong thermone
much older than the other. This old priest
Went stark mad, but the young one was
very calm, and after he had fnllen on his
knees and given thanks, he did much to
quiet. the others. in it. little more than a
week, we met :1 lmrquc, which the French
people hired to put them on shore; nil
t'xm'pt the young: priest, who desired to go
with us.

""0 steered or. toward the. \Vest Indies
for twenty days. when we came up with a

 

 

ship with one must- gone, and quite help.
less. The crew were in grent distress,
being out of pri'irisions, and nearly starved.

There was a youth, and his mother, and
a. maid-Servant on bonril, who were passen-
gers, rind having no pmvisions of their
own, they were in It more deplorable c_on~
(libion than the rest; for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessitythum-
selves, had no compassion for the poor
passengers. We lay by the ship long
enough to supply them with provisions,
and help them put. up a new mast, and they
thought- tht'}: could continue their voyage
"'hile we lny there, the woman pnssengcr
died, and the son begged that we would
tnlte hint and the servant. on our ship.
which we did.

i shall trouble nobody with the little in-
cidents of wind, \t-'cathcr, currents, etc., on
the rest of our voyage; but, to shorten my
story, shall observe that I came to my old
habitation, the island, on the 10th of April,
"395. It was with no small difficulty that
I found the place ; for, as I came to it, and
Went from it, before, on the south and east:
side of the island, coming from the Brazils,
so now, coining,r in between the main and
the island, I did not know it when I saw it.

\Ve went, on shore on several islands,
but none for my purpose; only this I
learned by my coasting the shore, that. I
was under one grant mistake before, Vin, I
that the continent which I thought I saw
from the island I lived in, was realtyr no
continent, hut a long island, or rather a
ridge of islands.

Thus, coasting from out; island to rm-

5 other, at length I came- fair on the south

side of my islant'h nnd presently knew theR OBliV'SUN CR USO FL

12-5

 

very countenance of the place ; so I brought-
the ship sale to nu anchor, broadside with
the lit-tic creek where my old habit Lion
was.

As soon 11'! I saw the place, I called for
Friday, and asked him if he knew "-'llm'l'.
he was? He looked about- 11. little, and,
presently clapping his hands, cried, " Oh,

 

" Well, well." says I, " Friday, you don't
but slizdl we anyone
rI'hc follow, it moms, had better
eyes than I, and he poiu ii to the hill just
above my old house; and, though we lay
lmlf a league off, he cries out, "Me see,
me see, - 9,311.3, me see much man there,
and Lhere, and there!"

 
 

see else.

then .

 

 

m

yes; oh, there--oh. '15 ; Oh, there. point
ing in our old linhiiui-imi, and fell dancing
and cnpcring like, a mad fellow; and l lmd
much ado to keep him from jumping info
the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
"W'cll, Friday," says I, "do you think
We shall find anybody here? and do YOU
think We. shall find your father?" "N.>

no,"

 

 

Hi.

 

him more; no, never more see him again. not know of; but, we had no need of
II:- lonw arm die: he nnicli old man." wen )ons.
.-. n

.-'\.' soon ns l"ridn_\~' told nu- he Saw
people, l caused the English nncicnt to be
spread). and fired three guns, to give them
notice we were friends; and immediniply
ordered 1). lmui'. outY inking Fridnv with me;
and went- dimctlv on shore, taking with
In r. \Ve hnd, besides,
.015." men well armed, if we lznd

 

 

 

me the young
about

 

 

8 he, shaking his hem], "no see v' found any new guests there which we did
As we went on shore. the Hush man Il
fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard .
whose life I had saved. I ordeied nobody I
to go on shore at first- but myself; but
there was no keeping Friday in the boat,
fortheafi'ectionatc cvcaturc had spied his
father at. a distance, and if they had not
let him 50 ashore, he would have jumped
into the sea. He was no sooner on shore,
but he ilew away to his lather, like :u'.'
ul'rmv out of a bow. It would have. made

any man shml tears, in spite of the firmest
resolution, to have seen the first transports
of this poor i'ellou-'s joy when he came to 1'
his father: how he. embraced him, kissed
him, stroked his face, took him up in his

 

 

11?(')IS'I'.-\'S().'1V

CR US 0E.

Du

 

arms, set him down upon a tree; and lay
down by him; then stood and looked at.
him for a quay-tor of an hour together;
then lay down on the ground, and stroked
his legs, and l: ' al them, and then got up
again, and stared at him; one would have
thought the follow bewitchod. But it
would have made a dog laugh the next:
day to see how his passion ran out another
way. In the morning, he walked along the
shore. again with his old father, several
hoin's, always leading him by the hand, as
if he had been a. lady ; and every now and
then he would come to the. hont to fetch
something or other for him, either a. lump
of sugar, 9. dram, a biseuit cake, or some.-
thing or other that; was good. In the
afternoon, his frolics ran another way; for
then he would set the old man down upon
the ground, and dance about him, and
make a thousand antic postures and ges-
tun-s; and all the while he did this he
would be talking to him, and telling him
one story or another of his travels, and of
w .It- happened to him abroad, to divert
him. In short, if the same filial affection
was to be found in Christians to theirW" ....-...-

mnts in our pal". of the world; one;

would he hemptfi'l'l so say there would
hand); have been any need "(ti the. fifth
xommiinclxnenl.

The first Spaniard, whom i said, i knew
wen, Was he whose life I had saved.
{to name towards the bout-,and he. not only
did not, know me at first, but he had no

 

'1 NEON OR 080E.

 

then, beckoning to thcpc son thatnlte)
him, bade him. 50 and call out his <2.

 

 

! raider.

He then asked me if [would Will-E -'

! my oh! lmbitntion, where he'wouldgive ..

possession of my om. houm :Lgnin, So _
walked along with him; but, alas) I (:01. x
no more find the place again than if I L

 

 

 

thoughta no notion of its being me that.
was come, (ill I spoke. to him. "' Seig'uior,"
said 1, in Portuguese, "' iii) you not lino":
1110 3" At which he spoke not n-word, but
threw his nuns abroad, and saying some
thing in Spanish that I. did not perfectly;
hear, wine forward and embraced me, tell-
ing me he was inexcusable not to knnw that
face again that he had Once seen as if an
angel from Heaven, sent to save his life : .

never been there; for they hnd plant'cu

many trees, and in ten ycni's' time tr..-

wera grown so big, thanin short, the pa.
was inaccessible; except by such wind
and lilind ways: ns theytlnemselves <1-
who made them; could find.

I asked him what put them upon :1.
these fortifications. He told me 1 would 59
there was need enough (if it, when tln.
had given me an account how the; line
ROBINSOA' CRUSOE.

 

 

.. .
masters, but would be our murderers." I
answered, I was afraid of it when I left
them there, and nothing troubled me at
my parting from the island, but that, they
wele not come back, that I might. have put
them in 1.)o:~:'*':ion of everything first, and
left. the others in a state of subjection, as
they deserved.

While l wns snying this, the man
cmne whom he had sent. back, and with
him eleven more, In the dress they were
in, it; was impossible to guess what nation
they were ol'; but he made all clear both
to them and to me. First hutnrnetl to
me, and pointing to them. said, "These,
sir, are. some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to yuug" and then turning to
them, and pninting to me, he let. them
know who I was; upon which they all
came up, one by one, not as it' they had
been sailors, and ordinary fellows, but

passed their time. Nothing that ever befall | realljr as if they hnd been noblcmcn, and I

him in his life, he said, was so amiuting to
him at. first, as the disappointment when he
came hack to the island and found I was
not there.

As to the three lmrlyu'ians (so he called

them) that were left behind, and of whom, .

he said, he lmd a long story to tell me, the
mls all thought themselves much
better among the savages, only that their
number was so small; "and." sets he."had
, we had been all
long ago in pnrgmoi) and with that he.
(-1 l himself on the breast. "But, sir,"
says! he, "1 hope you will not: lietlispleaaetl
when l shall h-ll ynu hu\\'_.fort'ttd by neces-
sity. we wvru obliged to disarm them, and
make them our subjects us they would not
(:1: content. with being moderately our

  

S [my

 

they been fitrong enot

  

 

a monarch.BO 5' INSON CR USDA}.

L235

 

As soon :18 I 111141 retired with the Spau- 111w I bnkcd my l11 eiul bred

at) tame

E11111, lnnd him relate to me. all that had goats, and 1111111911 111 )1 corn; 11.1111, in :1.

nappened,a1ul iiist I asked him about nia
voyage to the main, as I then thought it,
Wit-'11 Friday's fat-her. He told me thcyhad
a safe voyage and his fiicnds were over-
jnyed to we him, and they had thought
him surelyr dead. They borrowed some
large canoes from the savages under the

\\ o11l av 01 vthmn' I did. They began to
live verv suci. Ll1l\' ; and the head Spnnimd,
11110 hnd see-11 pretty much of my methods,
and Frid "s {athei- together, managed all
their xifinhs; but as for the Englishmen,
they did nothing lmt rmnhle about the
island, shoot. parrots, and catch tomiises;

  

 

 

 

 

 

pretense of going "dishing, and reached the.
island in safety.

The only just thing the mgucs did was
that, when the Spaniards came ashore, thev
gave my letter to them, 111111 gave them
11rovisions, as I ordered them; also they
gave them the long paper of directions

smd when they came home at night, tho
Spaniards had their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would imve 1100.11 satisfied
with this, hnd the others but let them
alone, which, however, they could not, find
in their hem-ts {0110 long: but. like the dog
in the manger t1. .51 would not eat thc~1n

which I had left, with them1 containing seheg neither would the): let the othem

the par-ticuhu methods which I took for

1
|

managing every part of my life there; the ,

mt. The difference nevertheless "as 111:
fiist but: trivial. and such as is not worm
 

 

.L :'

~ but at lam. u.
and though i
"'2 it came f

  

broke 01:2

    
     
 
 
   
  

 

    

efol'e I come .
I mus' supply 2>>. defect in my
' ; this was, I fcrgo'a to |
4' the rest, that j'mt as wel
- a ' e Rachel-":0 set .4 , there
11>enml a. little (panel on board of our
'3: and the captain, 2n Repamfiug them,
'meatcncd again t0 hang them when he

1---

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

r

 

' stoie the ship's L unce,
and some other
_ y to their com.-
on shore. but the other rogues
0t have than to live with the"
'-e flag-2r; go and. build hnfs fur _
themselves. This they had done when the.
S: The latter gave them |
com to plant, and they began to live 5
lg well. -But the three rogues wo .
:3 let them alone, but tore up their crops
set their hilt on fire.
" hunt to crowd this part

w, the.

 
 
   

 

inn'ls came.

 

   
  
 
  
 
 

' h an m:
2311: of their roguei'ies,
torn, shooting

 

' time they had a fair opium-u"

 

three young kids and a. she--goat, which the
poor men had got to breed up tame f0>>
the store; and, in a word, plaguing thew
3:.g-ht mzd r! " ix: this m =2. 21', it forced the
two men to such a. duhjeration, that they
resolved to fight them all three; the first

 

  

 

  

It happened that the dsy he , two of
the Spaniards, having been in tl 0 Woods,
had seen one u? ti; two Etglishminl. whom,
for distiuailon, I cailezl the l' est men,
and he had inmle a sad complmnt to the
Spnxiimfis of the bm'hrsous use-gt; they had
met with from their three countrymen.
'V 'hcn the Spaniards 2 5 hey; at night,
and they were all u; h_._.)per,. 0, of them
took tl'e freedom to Iepl'OFC the three
gentle and
n how they

   

  
 

   
    

    

_ , and asked 1511'
could be 5:>> cr..cl.

One of the Englishmen teturucd very
briskly, "What had they to dc there? that
they came on shore wither? leave; and
that they' should not plant or build upon
the island; it was none of their ground."
""lhy," said the Spanim'cl, very calmly,
"Sei_ orlnglcse, they must not starve."
The Englishmzm replied, "They might
starve; they should not plan? nor build in
that place. They she-'7:1 be servauu,
and work for them."
Spaniard, "they are not bought with your

money; you have no right to make them .

sew/anti" The. l'luglisln'nnu answered,
"The island was thohs ; the governor had

"But," guys the[

13'.

 

the Spauin is hurl given notice 01" their
coming, and Atkins lu'upuset'i that they
should take revenge on the Spaniards.

As soon as they had madc-- this bloody
bargain, they fell to work with the. poor

  

given it to them, and no man had anything men's habitation. They did not sr-t fire.

 

to do there but; themselves;H and with
that, swote that they would go and burn
all their new huts. "W'hy." snitl the
Spaniard, " by the mune rule we wnnhl be
your slaves ton." "And so you shall,"
says the hold dog, "helm-e we are done
with yuu." With that, the)r strode olf with
their guns.

They intended to wait till midnight, and
then go murder the two men and burn
their huts ; but they fell asleep and did not
awake until their victims were gone abroad
in the morning. Then they concluded that

indeed, to anything. but they pulled down
both their houses, and pulled them so limb
from limh that they left not; the least stick
standing, or scarce an' '_;n on the ground
where they stand. The} .nre nll theirlittlo
collected household stuff in pieces, and
threw everything about in such a manner.
that the poor men afterwards found some
of their thingfl a mile off their habitation.
When the r lnul done this, they pulled up
nll the young trees which the poor men
had planted; pulled up an inclosure they
had mmle to secure their cattle and their
 

corn; and, in n word, arched and plundered
mung-thing as completely as a horde of
Tlu'tnrs would have done.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

  

The two men were, at this juncture, gone
to find them out, and had resolved to fight
them wherever the}r hnxl been, though they
were but; two to three; so that, had they
met. there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them, for the)r were all
very stunt, resolute, fellows, to give them
their (1 ue.

But Provhhnme took more care to keep J

Lhem asunder thnn they themselves could

, .

 

R U B TNSON 0R USOE.

(10 to must _: for, as if 'tlln)' had dogged one
another, when the three were gone thither,
the two were here; and afterwnnls, when
the two went- lmck to [ind them, the three
were come to the old habitation ughin. We
I shall See their (lilIerent conduct presently.
'When the three came back like furious
l creatures, flushed with the rage, which the
work they hurl been nlmllt had put them
into, they came up to the Spunimds, and
told them what they hnd done, by wny
of scolf and bravado; and one of them

stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if
they had been :1. couple of boys at play,
takes hold of his hat us it was upon his.
bend, and giving it a twirl about, fleering
in his face, snys to him, "And you, Sei-
gninr Jack Spaniard, shall have the same
sauce, if you do not mend your manners."

The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil
mm), was as brave a man as could be,
having no weapon in his hand, stepped
gravely up to him, and, with one blow of
this fist, knoeked him down ; at which oneof the rogues, as inaolent as the first, fired l
his pistol nt- the Spaniard immmlinmly. {Io I
miSScC/l his hmly, indeed, for [he bullets
went through his hair, lmt one of them
touched the tip of his: ear, and he bled}
pretty much. The blood ninth: the Spaniard '
believe he was more hurt than he reallyl
was, and that put him intu sun": heat, for
before he acted all in a perfect calm. But.
now, resolving to go Illimugh with his work,
he stooped, and took the fellow's musket
Whom he had klluclirll down, and was just i
going to shoot the man who hml fired at:
him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being
in the cave, came out nml calling to him :
not to shoot, they stepped in1 secured the
other two, and tool: tlmir arms from them.

The rogues went away swearing ven-
geance, but; when theyhacl wandered about.
for three days, they came back nearly .

 

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

133

starved, and begged to be taken in. So
tlm Spuninnlsfnul: lilmm in again, :Lntlgm-'a
them their arms, first". nmking them go and

 

lmild up the huts nnxl form's {hey had
destroyed. They llfld just begun to he in-
solent. again when an accident. happened
which made fluem lay by all Private resemb-
mcnts, nml look to the prescn-'zu'ion of their
lives.

The Spaniard whom I had Raced and
who was then the leader or the governor, I
feeling restless one night, gut up and'
"mulerecl abroad to see if anything was'
the matter. He had not gnnc far when he
was surprised to see several fires and a
great number of savages wnllcing 11hout
them. He went. hack and lnlcl the reat,
and they all kept very close till 111111'11ing.
It Set-111$ fl 1 ' the: savage-I. hatl luul :1 great:
lnuthe in th . 11ml britll 51'1le
hall mme have to eat their prlsnnors. But
neither phrty lumw that the. other was on
the i<l11111l. In the morning, wln 11 they
fnunll it nut, they 'l'ell to 11in" awain,
11ml :1. gmat 1111111l:-er were killml.'1l11ec of
thun 1'1111 1m'11y,1-i_5__{l1t into our habitation.
11ml were captured by the Spaniards.
When the battle "'11s on r the
mused n (rreat shout, and Look to their
ca11nei.:111<l shortly 11"lte1 the others fol-
lowed, none of them who went. away
having Imunl out that there \1'111'ci11lml3i-
tnnts 011 the. island. The. great danger they
had been in tamed (Well the three .I1E11glisl1
brute-1:1 l have been slmnlting of; and for a

 

    

 

1' turn c1n111lr_

 

 

 

 

 

ROBINSON

\'i(. 'tol's ' '

CRLA 'OE.

  
  

grub while hitter, they were tractable, and
went about the cannnou business of the
\"11018 S()(5l('.ty \\'Hll elKngll. lsllt HOlHC tl'nc
after this they fell into such simple meas-
1u'es again, as brought them into a great
(lo-Al of trouble.

They had taken three pmsonern as I
uhserved ; 11nd these thme lming lus-
young fellows, they made them servants,
and taught. 1.119.111 to work fur them; and
as slaves they (llll well enough. But they
(lid not take their "manures with them as I
(lid l1y my 1111111 Friday, 11ml so they" never
had them to 'st them and fightforthum
as l l1111l Friday, wlu; wns as true to me as
the very flesh upon my bones.

A1111 now they had smut-her broil with
the f-hrt'e. of whom.
being in a rage at one of the three slnvcs.

 

 

l'lnglislunen; one
 

 

because the fellow had not done some-I

i-liiug right which he hid him do, drew a.
hatchet out of a frog-belt, in which he
wow: it. and fell upon the poor savage to
kill him. One of the Spanianls, who was
by, seeing him give the fellow a harbarmxs
cut in his shoulder, placed himself between
him and the savage. The fellow, being
enraged the more at this, struck at the
>Spaniard with his hatchet, when the
Spaniard hnocked him down with a shovel.
The two other Englishmen rushed on the

Spaniard, and the ether Spaniards coming '

to the rescue, a. sharp fight ensued, and
then the three Englishmen Vi-'ere taken
prisoners.

Some of the Spaniards were then for
putting them to death; but the merciful
governor decided that they should be
turned away to live by themselves, and
forbidden to come near them under pain

 

 

 

of being shot. U0. gave them grain and
provisions and all else that. they needed,
except aims and ammunition, and 4.}
went and builded huts; on a. remote p:
the island. llere they lived for no.
year, when the}r came in one (la),r and
asked for a canoe and arms; and mid they
would go over to the mainland and seek
their fortunes. 'l'he. Spaniards gave them
arms and aunnnnitinn and some tools, and
having baked bread enough to serve them I battle were eaten, There had been a great
n. month, and given them as much gonts' light, and the king then lindn large number
flesh as they could eat. while it was sweet, waiting to be killed and eaten. Will
and a great basket of dried gmws, it put. Atkins in fun asked if they might have
of fresh water, and a. young kid alive, the)r some, and the savages broght down to the
bold If set out in the canoe fur a voynge hunt five women and eleven men.

wer the sea, where it was at least forty As brutish as these fellows were at home.
miles brand. The Spnnhmls called after their stomachs turned at) this sight, and
them, "lion veyajot'" and no man ever they did not know what to do. To refuse
though: of seeing them any more. the prisoners would have Jen the highest

 

 

But after two-nml-twenty (lnys' absence l affront to the savage gentry thnt could be
they all came buck, and upon being qnes- offered them. After some dcbn-te they
tioned told of their adventm-eg, They had resolved to mmept of them; and, in return,
reached what they thought. the main land they gave the savages one of their lmtchets,
and found it only an island. The snvnges an old key, a knife, and six or seven of
rushed down to the shore to fight. them, so their bullets; which, though they did not
they did not. land. They lnmled, however, I nudemtnnd their use, they sou-med particu-
at another island where they were well lnrly 1,)lcnsed with; and then tying the poor
treated. On that island, they were told creatures' hands behind tlietn,thcy draggeu
that only the mop and women taken in the prisoners into the boat fur our men.
 

'On the way back, they stopped at the
first island and set eight of them at lib-
erty, and the others they had brought to
our island and then hnd them bound in

Ioir huts, so they could not run mray.
Upon hearing such a. rcninrlmhle story, all
went over to the huts to look at them.
Here they sat, all of them stark naked.
First, there were three men, lust' comely
felloxvgwell-shaped, straight and fair limbs,
about thirty and thirtyvfivc yours of nge;
and five women, whereof two might be
from thirty 1.0 forty; two more not nhm-'e
four or iive-and-twenty; and the fifth, in.
tAfll,oomely maiden, about sixteen or seven-
teen. The women were urell-fuvure(l,agree-
able persons, both in shape and features,
onlyl tawny; and two of them, had they
been perfectly white, would have passed
for very handsome wornen,even in London
itself.

Only one of them, a woman, could
understand Friday's father, but through
her we soon made them understand that
they were not to be eaten, nor even killed.
At this, when we untied them, they all
fell to dancing, and then they all began to
take up things to signify that they would
work. As there were five- women and
five Englishmen, the Spnninnls let these
last cneh choose one for a wife, which they
did. And now each one built a hut for
himself, the two honest ones in one plnce,
and the three rogues in another.

Some time after this, five or six canoes
of savages came on shore. Our men kept
within (loom till the canoes were gone,
and then it wns discovered that they had
left three of their number behind, and
they lay under n tree fast asleep. Alter

 

consultation it was resolved to take them
prisoners; and they did so. The poor
fellows were strangely frightened when
they were seized upon and bound; and
afraid, like the women, that they should be
murdered nnd eaten for it "Gems those
people think all the world do be they do;
but they were soon made ensy as to that
One of them ran away to the woods
and was never seen again. He probabl'
 

 

 

escaped with some canoes that came ashore I When our men came out from the tree,
soon after. the savage who was not killed. began to

The first testimony they had that this make piteous moans for his life, so they
fellow had given intelligence of them was, tied him to .1 tree and ran on to their
that, almnt two months after, six canoes of ; wives. Soon after, the other savages went
savages cnme rowing along the north side away us they came. It was five or six
of the island, where they never used to months before they saw any more of the

 

come hcforemml landed nlmnt a mile from ' savages, when, on a sudden, they were
the habitation of the two Englishmen, invaded by a fleet of no less than eight:-
wherc this esmipml man had been kept mnlhvcnty cmmcs. The. snvngee mime on .
As they were coming <<lirecfly towards shore in the evening, so ourmcn had time
llwir huts the two men sent their wives to make preparation. In the morning
nnLl some. of their goods into the woods, they came ru 1g along Lhe shore. Our
and went a. little way themselve. mcl hicl army was smal , nlecfl. There were seven-
in a. hollow tree. The savages burned teen Spaniz'u'cla, live Engliahmen, old Fri.
their huts and then scattered about the day (or Friday's fnthcr), the three slaves
island. A munhvr of them coming up to . taken with the \vcunen, who proved very
tll!' lmlimv trim, the two Englishmen fired .3; aim-cs who iivci
mnl kilh-il all but one. Among the killed

Tn Mm these, they
was the savage who hull escuiiecl. five pistols. three
fowling-piecesi five musket>>; m- fowliug'
pieces, two swords and three old halherts.

To their slaves they did not give
either musket or fuaee; but they had each
a. long Htaili, with {L grunt. spike (if iron fas-
tened into each end of it, and by his side
a hatchet; also every one of our men had
n-lmtchet. Two of the women could not
be prevailed upon, but the}' would come
into the fight, and they had bows and

 

 

amm-'s, which the. Spaniawls haul taken
from the snvngus when the first net-ion hap-
pened, and the women had hatchets too.
The Spuniurd gnvernor (zmnmnnded the
Whole; and W'ill Atkins,wlio, though a
dreadful fellow fur wickedness, was a
most daring, hold fellow, (sommmulcd
under him. The savages came forward
likr lions; and our men, which \ms the
Worst 01 their fate, had no advantage in

 

  

their situation; only that W'ill Atkins,
who now proved a most useful fellow, with
six men, was planted just behind a. small
thicket of bluhes, as an advanced guard,
with onlcm to let the fihst of them pass by,
and then fire into the middle of them, and
us 5mm as he had lined, to make his retreat
as nimlily as he could round a. part of the
wood, and so come behind the Spaniam'ls.
When the savages came on, they mu

 

struggling about every way in heaps. out
of all manner 0f order, mid "rill Atkins
let about fifty of them pass by him : than
seeing the rest come in :wery thick throng,
he onleis three at his men tn fire, having
loaded their muskets with six orseven hul-
lets npienul How mnny they killed or
wounded they knew not, but the conster-
nation surprise was incxpressiifie
among the savages. They were frightened

illldROI"; '3th

()RUSOE'.

 

 

 

to the last degree to hear such a dreadfill
noise, and see their men killed, and others
hurt, but see nobody that did it; when, in
the middle of their fright, \Vill Atkins and
his other three let lly ngain among the
thickest of them ; and in less than a min-
ute, the first three being loaded again, gave .
them a third volley.

Had \Vill Atkins and his men retired
immediately, as they were ordered to do,
or had the rest. of the body been at hand,
to pour in their shot cmtinualiy', the sav-
ages had been ell'eetunlly rented; for they ;
thought the)' were killed by the gods with
thunder and lightning; but- smne of the
savages who were at a distance spying
them,came upon them behind, and wounded
Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow
Englishmen with their arrows, as they did
nftcrxvards one Spaniard, and one of the
Indian slaves.

 

Our men being thus hard laid at,
retreated to a rising ground in the wood;
and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys
upon them, retreated also; for their num-
ber was so great, and theyr were so desper
ate, that though above fifty of them were
killed, and more than as many wounded,
yet they came on in the teeth of our men,
fearless of danger, and shot their arrows
like a cloud.

The Spaniard governor having drawn
his little body up together upon a rising
ground, Atkins, though he was wounded,
would have them march and charge again
altogether at once; but the Spaniard re-
plied : "Seignior Atkins you see how their
wounded men fight; let them alone till
morning; all the wounded men will be
still and sore with their wounds, and faint
with the logs of blood; and so we shall
have the fewer to engage." This advice
 

(thin to see who hurt them, or which wrw
to ll}:

They fought desperatel". nut: so many
were killed and \s'ounde V that the rest
Soun fled to their boats and put to sun.
But a dreadful storm coming on that. even-
ing, mamyof the canoes were lost and the
others driven lmck to the island, seeing
which our men went. mer and fired guns
to frighten them, and they nll run into the
"nods. Our men then destroyed all their
boats, so that they could not got haul: to
their nation to bring another army. The
savages kept hid in the woods most; of the
time, but they managed to destroy the
crops: and do much damage. Having no
weapons, they were reduced to it deplor-
': good; but "lill Atkins replied mer. able condition, some of them even stalw-
rily, "That is true, seignior, and so shall I ing' to (loath. Friday's father then caught
m0; and that is thcreason Iwould go on one, and through him mrnngcmcnts were
while I um warm." <<"70", Seignior made by which they were given seeds and
Atkins," says the Spaniard. "you have, he- tools and a part of the island to live on,
haved gallantly,mnl (lone your part; we upon condition that they would not leave
will light foryon if you cannot come on; their bounds. The keyt their promise,
but Ithink it best to stay till morning." and became very good n-nd peaceful fel-
So they waited. lows.

But us it was a clear moonlight night, This was this condition of things on my
and they found the savages in grant (lis-
order about their dead nud wounded men,
and it great noise and hurry among them
where they lay,they nftcrwnnls resolved
to fall upon them in the night. They
came so near where the thickest. of them
lay, that, before they were soon or heard,
eight of them fired in upon them, and did
dreadful execution upon them; in half a
minute more, eight others fired after them, |
pouring in their small shot in such a'
quantity, that abundance were killed and
wounded; and all this while they Were not
 

 

return. My coming was n great relief to l I measured it by my steps; the walls wore
them, beca'w we illl'lllbllcll them with ascloseworkedasalnmket,and veryaL-Irug.
knives, Scissors, spades, shovels, 13ickuxcs,l Round the. top he laid strong pieces,
and all things of that kind w iioh they ' pinned together with wooden pins, from
could want. W'ith the help of those tools, which he raised a pyramid for roof, very
they came at last to build up their huts or handsome, I assure you, and joined to
houses very handsomely, rmldling or Work gothor very well, though he had no nails'

   

 

 

1113' it up lilce bnsket-work all the way and only a. few iron spikes, which he made
round, Our men were so taken with it, himself too, out of the old iron that I had
that they got the Wild savages to come and ' left there; and, indeed, this fellow showed
do the like for them; so that when I came abundance of ingenuity in several things
to see the two Englishman's colonies, they which he had no knowledge of. He made
looked, at adistancc, as if they all lived him a. forge, with a pull' of wooden hel
'lie bees in u. hive. As for Will Atkins, lows to blow the fire. He made himseli
who was now hccmne a very industrious chm-coal for his work; and he formed out
useful, and sober fellow, he had made him- of the iron crows a. middling good anvil to
self such a tent of buskebwmk as, I he- hummer upon. In this manner he made
hove, was never seen. I t wus one hundred many things, but especially hooks, staples
and twenty Paces round on the outside, as and spikes, bolts and hinges
 

{ had many talks with the Spaniards
about their adventures among the savages.
They told me they had given up all hope of
getting away. They were compelled to
go with them to their ware, and in one of
them the Spaniard, whom I had rescued,
was taken prisoner. They were very
grateful to me for standing for them, and
were very polite and kind in every way.
So I called them all together one dzty, and
showed them the stores I had brought,
and was going to leave them, for 1 had
not come to take them away. First, I
asked them, one by one, if they were
willing to stay, and would give up all
animosities, one to another. And each
told me he would.

Will Atkins, with abundance. of frank-

143

 

ness, said they had met. with affliction had brought with me. particularly the

enough to make them all sober, and one-

failor, the smith, and the two carpenters,

mies enough to "Hike them all friends; all of them most necessary people; but,

that, {or his part, he would live and die
with them; that they had done nothing to
him, but what his own mad humor made
necessary; and that he would ask them
pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and
hrutish things he had done to them; and
as for going to England, he cared not if
he did not go thither these twenty years.

I cannot cxpress what pleasure sat upon
the countenanees of all these poor men,
when they saw the care I had taken of
them. They told me. Iwas a father to
them ; and that having such :1 correspond-
ent; as I was in so remote a part of the
world, it would make them forget that
they were left in a desolate place; and
they all cngwed to me not to leave the
place without my consent.

ThenI presented to them the people I

above all, my general artificer, than whom
they could not name anything that was
more useful to them. And the. tailor, to
show his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made
them every one a. shirt}, the first thing he
did; and what was still more, he taught

! the women not only how to stitch, but he

made them assist to make the shirts for
their hushnnds, mid for all the rest.

As to the commuters} I scarce need men-
tion how useful they were; for they took
to pieces all my Clumsy, unhandy things,
and made clever, convenient tnhles, tools,
bedstcnds, cuplmurds, lockens, shelves, and
everything they wanted of that kind. But
to let them see how nature made artificcrs
at first, I carried the carpenters to see \Vill
Atkins' basket-house. as I called in: and
 

s"? A;

they both owned they never 851W an instance it, after musings good while, turningabom
of such natural ingenuity before, my :my- to me, "I am sure," says 1:91 "thnt man
thing so regular and handil)r built, at least has no need of us; you need do nothim
of its kind. And one of them, when he saw but give him tools."
140

 

The young man whose mother was
starved to death, and also the maid
requested leave to remain, so u. plot of
ground was given them and a house was
built for them tn live in. Before I left the
priest married the maid to my Jack-of-ull-
trades, as I call him, and the)' built another

somelliingof religion; that; notwithstand-
ing these English subjects of mine. as he
culled tlmin, had lived with these women
almost seven years, had taught them to
speak English, and that they were, as he
Imrceivcd, "omen cupnlrlc of instruction,
yet they had nut-t. to this hour, tin-glib them

 

house. This young Catholic priest had
so much true piety that he was beloved by
'1". He came to me one morning and told
me that the men I wns leaving behind
would not have God's hlessingif the)r were
not married to their wives, and further-
more that they should teach their wives

anything of the Christian religion--no, not
so much as to knuw that there was 11 God.
"I am pemumled," says he, "had those
men lived in the savage country whence
their Wives came, the savages would have
taken more pains to have brought them to
he idolntcis, and to woiship the devil, than
any of. these men, so far as I can see, have and urging how unchrislian and irrel'igious
taken with them to tench than the kmm'l- life it wns, I first uskml them if they were
edge of the true Got " I walked along married men or bachelors. They soon

 

 

 

 

toward the Englishman's houses, and he : showed final: two of them were widower;
walked with me, ("summing by the way. and the other three ware single men, a:-

When we came to the Englishmen, I he- bachelor; I asked them with what con-
gan to talk to them of the scnnrlulons life science they could take these women, and
they led, and gnvc them at full account of call them their wives and not be Iawz'mxg
the notice the clergynmn had tnkcn of it; . married to them.
 

 

They all gave me the answer I expected, i that Hm laws of man being otherwise, they
via, that then: wns nobody to marry them; might. desert the. 1mm" mum-n and children
that they ngxwd before the governor is hereafter; 11ml that their wives, being
keep them as their wives. and ('0 maintain friendlvsel and moucyluss. Woull have m-
them and own them as their wives; and I help themselves.

 

 

 

 

they thought, as thinn's stand with them, 1 All this went on as I Pxpectexl; and
they were as legally married as if tlxvy hml l tlwy mhl me, especially Will Atkins, wlm
been married by a parsnn. . mm' seemed to speak for flu :f,that they

I told them that no doubt they were low-{I their wives us well as if they hml
married In the :3 r{lit (if God, and were been lmrn in their own native. county-y'alnl
bound to keep thein us their wives ; but would not leave them on any zxcuouub what.
ever ; and they did verily believe that theirl But when the clergyman came to per-
wives were zu virtuous and us modest, and, form the duty which he had suggested, he
did, to the utmost. of their skill, as much I would not. do iL till he, had first awakened
for them and for their children as any \\'u- in them some sense. of their religious duty.
men could possibly (54.). And Wili Atkins, He talked (.0 Linen} with such efl'ect that
for his own particular, added, that if any two of them promised 10 live. religious
man would ()Llfcr to carry him home to Eng- Iivus and to teach their wives about God;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hill, and make hit-1 mpmin of the host and thy.>> priest married these two; but
mnn~0f-\\':u~ in rlm nan-y, he would not go "'ill Atkins said he would go and talk
with him if he might not carryhis wife with his wife about it. "This man.
and children with him. In :1. \rurd, they Atkins," snid the priest, " however wicked
all consented to be married by the priest. . he has been, will be a true convert."After this, in: 1!l(*l' nfnum, turning: to me,
said, "I ('Hi'l't'zlt you, ". let us walkout

 

and look: I duress.)r we shall find this: [1001'
man Somewhere In :ither talking wrinusly
to his wife, and t't-trxhing her already some-
of re

"he went out. together,
and 1 ml him :\ \v:|_\_-' which none. knew
but in. . . . and where. the tre _ were very
thick, when, coming to the edge of the
w-uml. I saw Atk'ns and his tawny with
sitting under the shade of :1 hush, very
t-ngvr in tlisrnnmu, pointing up to the. sun,
and to or quarter nf this hwavons, and
thou down to the. earth, then mil in the
sea, then In himseif, then to lit-r. to the
Woods, to the. trees. "Now," says the

thin:

 

gion."

 

  
 

 

     

    

' good.

'tioning him, he told um that.
j to tall; to hlfl wife about God.

 

HUb'le'ON CR USOE.

 

  

um, " you see W" worrls are made
The man preaches to her; mark him
now, he is telling her that our God has
ninth: him and her, and the hcmrcng, the
mirth, the sea, the woods, the tl'CCS, etc."
,' said I Immediately, we
perceived Will Atkins start upon his feet,
fall down on his knees, and lift up both
his hands.

"he went back. and after a while VVili
Atkins and his wife came in. Upon ques'
had tried
She would
not believe him at first, because she (timid

   

 

" I believe. he i.

 

. not understand why he dill not: worship so

great and good :1 being. This so shocked
him that ho realized what. it. great. sinner he
had been, and he had resolved to ho a
Christian. Bot-h he. and his wife were
ready to he baptized, and the priest per-
formed that. nttiuu, and then nnu'riwl them.

The last thing I did befure 1 went away
was to take a Bible to Will Atkins. The
innn was SO (3()11f()tliide(l,tlmt he was not
able to speak for some. time; but recover
ing himself, he taken. it. with both his
hands, and turning to his wife, "Here,
 

 

my dear," s: '5 he, "did I not tell you
our God, though he livee above, eunhl
hear what we have. said? l'lcere's the
book I prayed for when you and I
knecletl Llown under the hush; now God
has heard 119 Mid sent. it," "'hten hu hnd
said so, the man fell into translmrts of
passionate joy.

Having now tlone with the ishnnl, I left
them all in good circumstances, and in :1
fluillialting condition, and went. on [maul
my ship again on the Gill of May. I prom-
ised to send them farther relief from the

Brazils, and pm-tirulnrly I promised to'

send them snmc cattle, such ns sheep, hugs
and cows.
which I brought from Englautl,we hml
been obliged to kill them at sea, for want
of hay to feed them. -

hbont three d: after we had sailed.
While we were hualmt-xl, n grmf. fleet of

 

As to the two cows and calves '

mmocs were seen approaching us. I hml the
ship brought to an anchor; the hunts were
put m'erlxmnl ninl manna .forln'nsnfi'aitl
only that they would set the ship on fire.
When they CuHm nearer to use, the ' eemed
to be struck with \vtnnlerntnl nstunimnncnt,
as at a sight which <<lmihtlcss they had
never seen before. They came up, how
ever, very naar to us, and Set-'Hll'll to go
nlxmt ('1) row rmnnl us; but we (:ttllt'tl to
our men in the boats not to lut- them come
too near them. Our men beckoned with
their hzlmls to keep them hawk, which they
understood very wall and went hack; but
at their retreat about". fifty arrows omnc on
lmzml us from those boats, and one of our
men in flu}. longlmnt was \nmmlutl. lluw
ever, I called to them nut to fire by any
means; lmt we hamlet] down some don]

  

 

' hmmh into the boat,wnh which they made

a kind of fence to cover them. The}
 

 

rowed a. little farther out to sea, fill they
mum directly broadside with us, and then

rowed down straight- upon us. Upon this
[ordered all my men to keep close, lest
they should shoot any more arrows, and
made all our guns ready. I made Friday
go out. upon the deck, and <<all out". aloud
to them in his language, to know what
they meant; which accordingly he did,

\Vhetllez' they underituod him or not, that '

I knew not; but iinmedin ly Friday cried
out. the}' were going to shoot, and, unhap-
pily for him, poor fellow, they let fly
" about three. hundred of their arrows, and,
to my inexpt'essible grief, killed poor
Friday, no other nnm being in their sight. I
was so enraged at the loss at my old trusty
servant and connmnion, thntl innnediately
ordered five guns to be loaded with small
shot, and four with great, and gave them
such a broadside as they had never heard
in their lives before. They were not above
'naif a cable's length ott' when we fired;
ind our gunners took the aim so Well that
thirteen or fourteen of their canoes were
apiit and overset, and the men all set

 

g, the rest, frightenml out of
their wits, scoured away as fast as they
could, taking but little cure to save those
whose heats were split; or spoiled with our
shot; so I suppose that many of them
' were lost>>

""0 were now under sail again, but I
was the most disttonsolufi: creature alive

8-S\\'il'.lluin"' -

for want. of my man Friday, and would
have been very glad to have gone back to
the. island, to have. taken one of the rest:

- ,from thence for my occasion, but it could

not he; so we went on Poor honest
Friday! "'9, buried him with all the dc-
eeney and soleninity possible, by putting
him into a cofiin, 1nd throwing him into
the. sea; and 1 caused them to fire eleven
guns for him; and so ended the life of the
most grateful, faithful, honest, and. affec-
tionate servant. that ever man had.

""e arrived at the Brazils in about twelve
days' time. My old partner was glad to
see me, and sent me some very h;presents; and when I told him of the frame
of the sloop I had brought, and t. t was
my design to send some supplies to the
people on my island, he ofi'ered to amend
to it; for me.

Accordingly, he got. hands, and finished
the sloop in a. very few days; and I guru
the. muster of her such instruct! us that ln:
could nor, miss the pliwn; nor did ln is l
had an account. from my partner after-

 

    

 

.R OBINSON CR USOE.

 

 

, who wished to go the island with his wife

and daughters and we let. them go.
Annung rlne rust of the. suppliea sent. to
my tenants an the island, I sent them h)-
Lhe sloop three miltzh cows and five ca1\'c>,
about tn-'cnty-two hog' among them, rln-m-
sows with pigs, two mares, nnd a stalw-
hmsc. For my Spaniards, according to
my 1':romi. I engaged three Portugal "'0-
men 1.0 g0, and recunnmnnlml it to them in

 

   

 

 

wards. I got. him snon loaded with the
barge l sent. them; and one of our semnrn,
that. had linen on shore with me thorn,
oll'ered to go with the. slnnp and settle
there, upon my lettur lo the governor
Spaniard, to allot him a snfl'iuiunl'. quantity
of land for n. plantation, and giving him
some clothes and tools for his planting:
work. There. was also :1. man that; had'
fallen into the displeasure of the church, i

 

marry them. All fhis cargo arrived safe,
and was very weluonn: to my old inhalii-
lunli', who were. now, with this addition,
lwhraen 5' Sty and seventy people, lwsidvs
little. children, of while there were :1. grout
nmny. .I found harms at. Lnntlou from
them all, by WI" of Lisbon, when 1 came
back to England.

I have now done with the island. an": all
nmnnor of di :ourse about .

 

    

 

   

, and W110
1514

evc-r remiss the rest of my meinornmlums good rice, an: I might zllsu have. (lane in six
wuuhl (lo mall Lu turnhis thoughts entirely nmnths' time, and ordered my friends to
frum it, and expect to read of the follies of . have iltteil her out again for our supply, I
an Ul(l nmn, nub warned by his own harms, ' had at least acted like a man of. common
much less hy those of other men, to lm- sense; but I was lmssesserl of awaudcring
ware. spirit.

I haul no more business to go to the From the Braz ,we Went directly to
East ind-ins than n nmn at full liberty has the Cape of Good Hope, when we took in
In 3" to the turnkey at Newgate and Lle- fresh water, and then made the host of
sire him tn lock him up among the prison- our \u'xy to the coast of Madagascar.

 

 

~-

 

 

 

eis there and Riizll'Vfl him. Had I taken a
<<I from England, and gone
Lliructl)' to the isluntl; taken n. lunmnt from

"l'hough the people there are fierce and
'n-unchcruus. We trmlml some trill << such
4 us knives, scissors, etc, [or some fat hul-

snznll \

 

the ('mvarnnmnr- here to have secul'ctl my
property; hml I carried over cannon and
ammunition, servant-i :nnl peoplq to plant,
1|! ' ken 1m>> ssinn ol' the, plan-u, and in~
crawl. it with people, as [might easily
in.- 1: (2.31m; hml l then settled myself
were. and sent the ship hack lzulen with

 

 

' lou. S.
it happened one evening, when we went
mi shore, that a. greater number of their
people came. down thnn nslml, but all very
friemlly nml civil; and they brought s9"-
eral kinds of provisions, f0" which "'0
I satisfied them with such toys as we nail;the women brought us milk and roots,
and several things very 2 .ptuhle in us,
and all was quiet, and we made us a little
tent". or hut. of some hnughs, and lay on
shure all night. But. I was not. so well
sntisfictl to lie on show as the rest; nutl
I spread the sail on the bottom of the boat,
and lay all night in the. boat.

About two o'clock in the morning, we I
heard one of our men make a. terrible noise '
on the shore, (:niling out fm' God's ake to
bring the boat in, and come. filltl, help
them. At the same time I heard the fine of
five musket's, which was the number of
guns they hurl, and then three times over;
for, it. seems, the Inttivtes here. were not so
ensily frightened with guns as the sax-115 15
were in America, whcm I had in (lo with
them. All this while I blew nut What
was the matte); but rousing immediately
from SlL'L'p with the. noisu,l mused the
hunt to he thr st. in, :unl resolved, with
three fusees we had on bnm'tl, tn lnnti and
assist our nit-en.

"'2 got the hunt soon to the shore, hut. .
our men ware in too much lmstc; fur lining '
come tn the shore, they plunged into the
water, to get to the hunt. with all the
expedition they could, being pursued by
between three or bur hundred men.

 

 

 

  

 

ROBINSON CR USOE.

' g of the moon, :1. little sight of them, as fl: \

 

 

 

W'e took up sevrn of our men. and \
difficulty enough tut), thrtw of thrtn being
very ill wonntlcil; nml that which was
still worse was that while we stood in the
boat. to take our men in, we ware in :is
much tlnngcr as flit" were in nu shorts;
for they poured their arrows in upon is
so thick that we "are glad tn lnu'ricmle
the side of the bout up with twn or three
luose lmurtls, whit-h we lnul by Inert: :IL'L'l-
dent in the boat. We lnnl, hy the li-Vht

 

stood pelting us from the shore with Hurts
mul nrrmrs; mnl lnn-'ing got read)" our fire-
' arms, "'9 gave them 1'. vullt'y that we could
hear, by the cries of sumo. nf tht'r'. .".'.'l(l
wouinlml scvvrnl; however, they

551in nl
.

X

 

 

thus in battle array or. the shore x..l 19.21:
of (lay.
In this condition we lay, and (<<mm m
tell how to wuigh uur anchor, 01- seb up
our sail, because we must needs stand up
in the boat, and they were as sure to hit
as us we were to hit; a bird in a tree with
small shot. "'9. made :~'(mils of distreSs
to the ship and the c .lin, hearing nur
firing, Pretty ':.'r.ii annirrsttmd us; and
Weighing :un-hor with all speed, he stood as
[war tlm, :11 he Alumt with the ship,
and Ill"! Hunt out>> anolher hunt, with len

  

 

hands in lntr, tn :I.~.\l.~'h us, mid they tuu'ud
us hack in the ship.

"'8 soon lrnrned lhe cause of the fray.
it seems flint; 11. young wunnln had been
taken hyone of our sailors and carried into
the. \vondx. An old womnn, who was with
the young (me. made a great outcry, and
that brought; on the attack. "it! hml om:

[man killed, and the rest came nfi' free, e\- I

 

 

ROBINSON OR US 01'}.

 

celitthc one who was the cause of ms
trouble, for he. hud nut. come back from the
woods. The third night, in the dark. we
tun}; twenty stout felluws and went quietly
ashore to see if we could find the misxing
"'0 saw nothing of him, and I re-
sulved on going on hum-(l; but- the hour-
swniu and his party were resolved to make
a Visit to the Indian tnwn, \er'l'c these
is they milked them, dwelt, and asked
me to go along uiLh them; and if they
(-01th find them. :15 they Still fancied they
should, theydid nut dnnht of getting a
good booty; and it iuighL be they might
find 'l'oni Jeffry there ; that was the inan"-'
munc- u'c had lost.

I positively refused if, and rose up, for I
was sitting on the ground, in Older to go
Lu the bunt. One, or two of the men begun

Illllvll.

 

dnjl
 

m opportune me. to go ; and, when I re-
fused, began to grlunhle,und any they were
not under my command, and they would go.
" Come, Jack," wtys one of the men, " will
you go with me? I'll go fox-one." Jack
said he would--and then auother----and, in
a word, they all left me but one, whom I
)Wl'fst'mtletl. to 5533', and a boy iet't in the
boat.

 

When they came to the Indian town,
three of them, who were a little helm-e. the
rest, called out. and told them that-they had
found Tom Jeffry; they all ran up to the
place, where they found the poor fellow

hanging up naked by one arm, and his,

throat; out. There was an Indian house

just by the tree, where they found sixteen
01 seventeen of the principal Indians, and
two or three of them wounded by our shot;
and our men found the}7 were awake, and
talking one to another in that house, but
knew not their number.

The sight of their poor mangled comrade

 

 

so enraged them' as l'aefore, that- they swore
in one another to he t'et'eitgetl,zttill that not
an Indian that. came intotheir luntll~ should
have any quarter; and to work the;' we:
immediately, and in a quarter of an hour
they set the town on fire in tour or live
places, and mimic-red so many of tilt: in>>
ple that the rest; rest ran off to the. woods
When our men came hack, we set. sail bo
Bengal. On the. way I blamed the men
very much [or what they had done, and
this led to further trouble. I had gone on
shone nt- Bengal, and the men came and
told me they were tescilved to leave me
there, for it I went hack to the ship they
would all leave her. I sent [or the captain,
and told him ituwonld he so hard for him
to get Sailors, that I had hetter .'stay, so he
left. me, with all my good" und with plenty
of money.

Here I met. an English merchant, and to
gether we bought a ship and made trading
voyages to the Spice Islands and to China,
with great profit. W'e then sold out shin
 

 

resolved to voyage no more. But one day
:| Dutch ship came into port, and the man
who elnimed to he the. captain altered to
sell her to us cheap, and we bone t. All
the crew left, her, which we thought. very
strange, but we nfterwnnls leurned that-
they had mutinied and murdered the cap-
tain, and utter iling fl.- - a while..- ~1iimtus
had 50le the ship to us. "To. picked up
some English nnd mum Dutch ailon's, and
resolved to go to China aguhl.

In this m). w , being by contrary winds
obliged to been up n.;d down u great while
in the Straits of Malacca, and among the
islands, we were, no sooner gut: clear of
those ditlicult. s M, than we found ourship
hml sprung :1 1m ,uml we were not. ahle,
by all our industry, to find out where iL
was. This forced Uh to put into the river
of Cambodia. "-"hile we were here, and

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

going often on shore for refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, and
he \Vns, it xeems, a. gunner's mute 011 hunrtl
an English East India. ship, which rode in
the same river, and speaking English,
" Sir," saws he, " you are a strung r to me,
and I to you ; but. I have something to tell
you that very nem cuneemz's you."

I looked stead . it him ngond while,
and thought: at. fir I had known hzxn, but
I did not. " If it. very nearly (tuna-.1118
me," said I, "mad not yourself, what moves
you to tell it to me?- "I am moved."
says he, " by the imminent danyer you are
in, and, for aught I see, you have no know-
ledge of it." "I know no danger I am in,"
I, "but that; in; ship is leaky, and I
cannot find it: out; but I intend to lay her
"ground tomorrow, to e if I can find is."
" Do you know, [sir]l said he, "the town oi
 

, _.
Lamoodiu ties about. fifteen leagues up this
rxvor; and there we two large English ships

unout five leagues on this side, nud three .

Dutch?" I turned short. upon him, and
stud: "Sir, I u . you would explain
yourself; I cannot. imagine what 1 m l
have to be afraid of any of the. Cmnpuin 3
ships, or Dutch ships. \thit can they
have to say to me '5' " 1Noll, sir," says he,
"if m think yourself secure, you must.
take your chance; l mu sorry your into
should blind you against good advice; but;
assure you: I, if you do not- put to sun.
iminedintclv, next tide
be attacked by five lonm' no: full of men,
and perhaps, if 3,011 me taken, you will be
hanged for it pirate."

This led me to question him Jfurther, and
I found that he himself took us: for pirates,
knowing the stmy of the killinn' of the
mpmin and the sei/inq of the shii) by the
mscal who sold llcl' to us. As soon as I
reached the side ot' the ship, my partner
told me he. had stopped the look, mid we
ed anchor and set soil at once. Ii;
was not; long before we found ourselves
chased hyflve boats. As they came up
and were. making to board us, we poured
in u. broadside upon them which sunk one
boat, and running; out our two long guns,
we kept firing till the rest gave up the

 

 

    

 

 

 
 

 

 

chase.
and went on our we ', and reached the
coast of C:- :hin China. As we did notliml
the ship so perfectly tight and sound as we
desired, we rcscdred while we were at. this
place to l' y her on shore, and take out
what hem things we had on board, and
clean bk? bottom, if possible, to find out
where the

      

 

 

 

We. picked up three of their men '

 

 

The inhabitants, who had never been
ucmminted with such a sight, czuuo won-
dering down the shore to look at u. ; mid
'l(lL'. in
such :1 manner, and howling in townrds the
slu.-ie,:1nd notsming our men, who were
at. work on her lwttom with siugrfl and
the, pre-
.1> "us (tn 1";

 

  

ing the ship lie down on out:

 

      

"'ifli their limits on the oili-sitlr-
fly (<<included that the s
away, and lny st on the ground. On ,
suppositimr, tiiev all came about ' in two
orthmo hour time, with ten or twelve
largo limits, intending, no doubt, to llz'u'u
coiize on board :uul plundered the ship, and
if tin-v found us [ht-r0, to hurt: mrrii-u us
- for :- was to their king, or wimturer

 

     

   

 

 

 

 
 
 

"hiin they came up to the ship. :1. d
begun [010w round hex, they (1" owned
us iill hard at \\ 01k on the outside oi' rim
ship's bottom and side, washimr and gaw-
ing and stopping, as "Vary .141qu mm.:knows how. They stood for .1 while gim-
ingut us, uud we, who were it little sur-
prised, could not inmginc what their cle-
sign was; but being willing to be sure, we
took this opportunity to ~sjiet some of us
into the ship, and others to hand down

arms and mnmunition to those. that were.

at work, to defend themselves with, if
there should he ot-vnsion. And it was no
more than need--for they greed, it, seems,
thnt the ship wns reully n wreck, and that
we were all at work endeevm'ing to save
her. Upon this, they tool: it forgmnted
we all belonged to them, and away they
came directly upon our men.

Our men, seeing so many of thought-gen
to be frightened, and cried out to us to
know whnt the!)r should (lo. I inmudliutely
rnlled to the men to come on board; and
LI)". few who were on board worked with
ml the strength and hands we had to bring
we ship to rights. But. however, neither

 

 

' that work ;

 

ROBINSON GRUSOE'.

'n-

. the men upon the stgee nor those 1n tits

boats could do as they--were ordered, betnre
the Cochin Chinese were upon them; not}
two of their bouts boarded our long-bout
nnd begun to lay hold of the men as their
prisoneie.

The the: nnm they laid hold of was nu
English Seaman, at stout, strong fellow. He
grappled the pagan, mul drugged him out
of their boat. into outs, where, taking him
by the ears, be bent his heml inguinst- the
boat's gtnmel; and, in the meantime, a
Dutchman took up n musket, and with the
butt-end of it so laid about him, that he
knocked dewu five of them. But this was
doing little. tomnds resisting thirty or forty
men, who begun to throw themselves into
the long-boat, where we had but five men
in all to defend. it; however, the following
accident, which deserved our laughter,
gave ("ll' "IQ." 1| (.'(nlllliflte V'Kflfll'y.

Our carpenter being prepared to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay
the seams where he had caulked her to stop
the lenk, had got: two kettles just-let; down
into the boat, one filled with boiling pitch,
and the other with iesin, (allow, and oil,
and such stuff as the Shipwrights use for
and the man that attended. (3)6
carpenter had a. great iron ladle ill hit.R0 BLVSON (.'lx' USO E. 1'51

 

 

M

hand, with which he supplied the men that I "'hilc this \ being done, mv pawn-.1
Wen at work with the hut st-uii Two of | got the ship to righmf-nnl wettiho' n gun
the enemy's men entered the boat just ' in position, sent a charge of L-Imill shot
where this fellow stood, being in the fore- ' among their boats, which sent them :'uvnv
sheets; he immediately saluted them with i as fnst as they could pmhlle. The "0;:
a lwllcfnl of the stnfi, boiling hot, which i I i

so burned anal scalded them, being half-

 

 

 

duy We finished our repairs. and set sail,
keeping well off the wad of China, so as

 

 

naked, that. they ram-ml out like bulls, and, not to meet any English or Dutch ships.
enraged with the fire, lcnpml lmfh inm flue 3 ln latitude ()l: 30 (legret-s we stood in [or
sea. The cm-penter saw it, and cried out, i the slim-c, and n lmnt. came. off with old
" "'cll done, Jacki give them smne more Portuguese pilot, whom we funk on :
of in" and stepping : and himself. tnlws I told him that we wanted to go to Ann-
one 0f the nmps, ilm'l dipping it in the pitch- qnin, nt which he smiled and said we would
put. he and his mnn threw it. nnn'mg them find a betmr port 01' trmle at. King
sc- plentifnlly that, in short, of all the ant-n then go by the canal to see t-lm 51
in the three boats, there was not one that I of Pokin.

escaped being scallded and burned with it, | "W'ell," said I, "Se' {nior Portuguese,
in a most hightful, pitiful manner, and but that is nuil our businvss now; the.
made such n howling and owing that I: question i,, if you can can carry us up m
We: heard a "'Ofie noise. |' the great city of Nann'xin, from whence wetan travel to Pekin afterwards 1" He said
he could do so very 1111131111 that there
11:11: 11 great Dutch ship gone: up that 1111}?

just before. This gave me nlittle shock,
for 11 Dutch ship was 11011r 0111' terror. The
0111 man found 1111: 11 little. confused 111111
under some 1t'11111'eln when he named 11
Dutch ship, 111111 said to me, "Sir, you 11111111
be. under no uppichensions of the Dutch '
I suppose- they are not now at 11111- 11ith
your nation? You are 1111 111111113." ; 11 but
need you fear?" " Why, scigninr," 511111 1,
"I hope there are no pirates in these. sons.
"'1: are but 111 an ill condition to meet;
with 11111111, for you scowe have but 11. 511111111

force, 111111 are but very 11'1-11k1y 111111111011."
"011 sir," 3111's he, "don't be 1301111111911; 1 '

do not know 111.1t there 111-1111 been nm'
pirntcs' 111 these suns for fifteen 1'91111, 1- except
one, which 11:15 scen,11s 1 he1u', 1n the B11)r
of Si:1111,1111011t 11111011111 siure ;but31_1u 11.1111!
boa 1'1-11 51101:: gone to tile south" .1111
nor 1111s 5110 11 ship of any g1eat Iowa, or

 

 

11' OBJNSON CR USOE.

fit for the work. She was not; built t-'-" a
privatecr, but 11=nsi'11n away with by a run.
robnto crew that was on bonnlgitter thump-
tain 11ml some of his men 111111 been mur-
dcre1 ." " \Vliy,tlien," said I, " they deserve
death." "Nay," said the old man, "they
do deserve it, 111111 they will certainly have

 

I ithif thevliwht upon 111111 English 01' Dutch

ship; for they have all agreed together
that if they meet that rogue, they 11 1.51%
him no quar.ter '

After more 1111111 crsntion, I told him the
whole story of how 'we got the very ship
that he was talking of. He was gmul)
surprised, but he said 11' 11 11111 111011 to 0'11 to
Na11quin,for if 11-e fell into the hands of
the English or Dutch at that time they
would listen to no explanation. He 11d-
1'isc11 that we. 51:11 the ship at Nunquin and
buy 11 Chinese junk, and promised to assist.
us at both sale and purchase 1111 promise-11,
too, to see the Dutch and English masters

' 111111 explain 11.11. 311 thut the new owners of

111a_sl1ip should not have the some trouble
that we 111111.

\Vhilc these things were passing between
us, by way of discoume, we went forward
directly for Nnnquin, and in about thirteen
11113'5' sail came to an 11111211111' :11; the flout-h.-
11'est point. of the gmat Gulf, 11-'he1'1-1, 1113 the
"my, 1 came by acaident' to understand that
two Dutch ships were gone the length im-
t'ore 111e111111tl111t 1 3111111111 certainly 11111 into
their 111111115. I consulted my parrncr again
in this os';e11cy, and he was as much at 11
hm as I was, and \rouhl very 11111.1in have
been safe on shore almost anywhere; how-
111-<<.131 11'115 not in such perplexity neither,
but I asked the old pilot if there was no
creek or harbor which I might put info
 

183

 

. . . | . .
and pursue my businegw w1th the Chinese I hml any experience of,notlung makes mun-
privately, und he in no danger of the kind so completely miserable as that of be-

enerny. He told me if I would sail to the
southward about forty-two leagues, there
was alittle pnrt, culled Quint-hang, where
the fathers of the mission usually landed
r'I'cnn Macao, on their progress to teach
the Christinn religion to the Chinese, and
where no European sh'os ever put in. We
resolved to go so this place, and weighed
15 once.

ing in constant. fear. Well (loos the Scripture
say, "The fear of mm: briugeth u. snare ;"
it is a life of death, and the mind is 80 en-
tit'ely oppre l by it, that it is unpuble of
no relief. Providence hogan hereto clear
up our way a. little; and the first. thingthat
(Alert-Al was, that our old Portuguese pilot
brought. aJapan merchant to lls, who in-
quired- whet goals we had ; and, in tho

 

 

We did not come to the other port- (thc first place he bought- all our opium, an}

wind being contrary) for five dag.

 

' hutit gave us a very good price for it, paying us

was very much to our satisfaction; and I in gold by weight, some sumll pieces of
was joyful when I set my font on shore, , their own min, and some in small wedges

resolving, and my partner too, that if it
were possible to (li<1)t)se of ourselves and
eficcta any other way we would never set
one font on board that unhappy vessel
more. And indeed, I must. acknowledge, that

nf ten or twelve ounces each.

The Japan merchant Would not. buy the
Ship, but he made an Oil-(51' to hire her to
take home his wares. I luul :1. young maul
with me who offered to go in tho ship to

:d ail the circumstances of. life that ever I look after my interests, and to account for
cvmylhing to me, which he did. The

Japan merchant. treated him very fairly._

mending him with goods to the .Vlunillns,
where he treated with the Spaniauls and
brought back cloves and other spicex
Haring got a good acquaintance at
Mannilla, he got his ship made free ship,
and the governor of Mauillu hired him to
go to Acupnluo, on the coast. of Mexico.

 

He made the voyage to Acnpulco very
happily, and there he sold his ship; and
having there also obtained allowanm to
travel hy land to Porto Hello, he found
means, somehow or other, to get. to Jamaica
with all his treasure; and about eight, years
after came to England, exceeding ri---h.

'We Were; now on shore in China: if I
thought; myself banished, and remote from
my own country at Bengal, where 1 had
many ways to get home for my money,
what could I think of myself now, when
l was got about a thousand leagues further
off. "'0 went. ten d 'journey to the

 

 

city of Numpiin, a city well worth seeing, .
indeed. Thcysay it has n million of people '

in it; it is regularly built, the streets all
exactly straight, and cross one another in

ROBINSON C'R USOE'.

=dircu! lines, which gives the figure. of 54'.
great advantage. But when I came to
compare the miserable people of there
countries with ours, their fabrics, their
manner of living, their government, their
religion, their wealth, and their glory, as
some call it, I must confess that. I 'seareely
1 think it "'ul'Lll my while to mention them
here.

"'0 hnd made the ncqlulintnnce of 9
Spanish priest, called Father Simon, who
,was going to l'ekin, and upon his invits>>
tion, we ncomnpnnied him. \Ve were
fifteen d: reaching the great. city,
through a country infinitely populous.
'l'hough very poor, the people weie very
proud; and my friend li'nther Simon and
'1 used to be merry to see the licggnrly
pride of these people. For 0 ample,
coming by the house of a country gentle-
man, as lt'nther Simon called him, about
ten leagues off the city of Nnnquin, we
had first of all the honor to ride. with the
master of the house nhont two miles. The
stoic he rode, in was a perfect. Don Quixot--
n, being a mixture. of pomp mid poverty.
llis habit. was very proper for a merry-
andrcw, being a dirty calico, with hrnging
sleeves; tassels, and cuts, and slashes almo-'et
on every side. It covered :1 tafiety v0.
greasy as a hutchcr's, and which testified
that his honor must be a moat. exquisite
slow". llis. horse was but u. poor,stnr\'c4l.
hobbling creature, and he had two slaves
Jr'ollo'w'ing him on loot to drive the poor
creature along. He had a whipin his hand,
and he belalmred the in>> t. us first :ihout
the head us his slnvcs did about the tail:
and thus he rode by us, with about ten 01'
twelve servants, going from the city so
._,__ W. .-

 

his country, sent nlmut hnlf a league before and the other held the dish with one hail-i.
us. We traveled on gently, but this figure and scrupml off what. he let full upon
of a gentleman rode away before us; and worship's heard and tafleiy rest.

as we stopped at a village about an hour , Thus leaving the poor u'rebeh .30 please
to refresh us, when we mune by the cunn- himself with our looking at him, :16; if we,
my seat of this great man, we saw him in admired his pomp, though we really pitier'x
a little place before his door, eating a,mulwuw1nnedhim, wepunsued our jour-

 

 

 

rep-est. It was a kind of garden, but he 1 my; only Father Simon had the cnriodty
wus easy to be seen; and We were given to to stay to inform himself What dainties the
understand that the more we looked nticountry justice had to feed on in all his
him the better he would he plagued. He state, which he had the honor to taste of
sat under n. tree, something like the pal- and u-'ni h mix, I think, a mess of boiled
metto, which effectually shaded him over rice, w .32 a great- piet-c of girlie in it, we
the hand; but under the tree was placed a little h g filled with green pepper, am:
9 large umbrella, which made that gnu-L another plant which they have. there
look well enough. He mt lulling back in smnetiiing like our ginger, hut smelling
a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, cm'pu- like inn-3k, and tasting like nuishu-d. All
lent 1mm, nml iuul his ment brought him this was put together, and a small piece 25
"V Info u'oinen-slm-esr. He lmrl two more, lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his
we at wuom 1241 the squire with a spoon. |_ won'ship's repasL F our er five servant's;
more attended at n distance, who we sup-
posed were to eat. of the same after their
master.

At length we arrived at Pekin. I had :

nobody with It"? lutt the youth whom my
nephew the captain had given me to attend

 

trust ' and diligent; and my partner had
uuhody with him but one servant, who
was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese
pilot, he being desirous to set: the. mart,
we hare his charges fur h _ compan) and to
use. him as an interpreter, for he under,
stood the language of the euuntry, and
spoke good French tlllrl a little Etr ish.
And indeed this old man "as a most useful .
Linplentent to us everywln-re; for we had
not been above a week at Pekin, when he
came laughing: "All. Seigniur lnglese,"
'llt', "I have smnethiug to tell which
will make your lit-art glut ." In short, he
told us there. was a great caravan of Mus-
t-uritc and Polish nwrchants in the city.
preparing to set: out out the 'jutll'ne)' hy

 

 

me as a servant, and who proved very]
t
1

 

 

 

. ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

 

'-------------- 9----
land to Muscovy, within four or five weeks;

and he was sure we would take the oppor:

tunity to go with them.

I confess I was greatly surprised with
this good news, and had scarce 1D0'YCI'tO
speak to him for some time; but at last I
turned to him. " How do you know this 'e"
said I ; "tire you sure it is true?" " Yes,"
says he ; "I met- this morning on the street
an old :wquainmnce at mine, an Armenian,
who is among them." "'e then went to
Consult together what was to hetitnie; and
I asked in}: Partner what he thought of the
pilot's news, and whether it would suit
with his attains? He told me he would do
just as I would; for he had settled all his
all'nirs so well at Bengalmml left his effects
in such good hands, that as we had made a
grind voyage here, if he could invest it in
China silks, wrought and raw, such as
might be worth the carriage, he would be
content to go tn England, and then make
his \' ago back to Bengal by the Com-
puny ups.

The old pilot was of so much service to
us that We agreed to pay him a good price
to accompany us, to which ho conscnted,'
and we soon made our arrangements to
start. with the caravan.

It was the l) ginning of February, our
style, when we set out from l'ckin. My
partner and the old pilot had gene express
back to the Putt where we had first put
in. to d _ ose of some goods which we had
left. there ; and I, with a Chinese merchant
went to Nauquin, where I hought ninety

 
  

 

 

, pieces of line thunasks, with about two hun-

dred pieces of other very tine silks of sev-
eral sorts. some mixed with gold. Basides
this, we imugltt a vet'}r large quantity :1
raw silk, and some other goods. our cargo
annun1ti1m,in these yuocls only, to about
thme thousand llx-elnindxed pnunds stub
li1.,; which, togethcx n 1tl1ten and some
tixw L.1l1coes, and three camels lands. of
nmmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen
cmnels for 0111' share, lmsides those we rode
upon; which, with two or three spar
Inn-nu, and two horses loaded with 111-0--
visions, 111:1.cle us, in short, tWenLy-six
camels and homes in our retinue.

The. omnpuny was very g1'e:1t,and, as far
as 'I can rcnnnnher, made between three
and four hundred horse, nnd upwards of

 

one. hundred and twenty men, very wcll=

armed, 11nd provided for all events. The
cmnpnny consisted of 111001119. of several
nations; but; there were about sixty of
them merchants of Moscow; and to our
particular satisfaction, five of then) were

 

 

 

Scots, who appeared also to be men of
great experience in business, and of very
good substance.

"'hcn we had travelled one day's jum'.
ney, the guides, who were five in number,
called all the gentlemen and merchants---
that is to say, all the pni neg-11$ except the
servants--tn 11. great. (zonm- , us they called
it. At; this council, every one deposited
11 ccrtnin quaniih' of money to n cmnmon

stock for the net'essnry expense-1 ul' lmving
l"o1age on the \\n\'_. ""thc it- wns not other-

    
  

 

"ism to be Inn, and for satisfiing the
guides, getting homes, and the; like. and

here they constituted the jnurncy, us they
call it, viz , they nmned Captains and nfiiwm
to draw us all 111),:1ml gin: the word of
cmmmnn'l, in case of an attack, and give
every one their turn of cmmnund

In two days more we passed the greatChina wall, made for u fortification against-
the 'l'urturs; and a very great work it is,
going over hills and nmuntuins in a need-
less track, where the. rocks are impassable,
and the precipices such as no mmmy could
possibly Miter, or indeed climb up. They
tell us its length is near a thousand English
miles, but that the country is five hundred
in a str
bounds, Without measuring the windings

 

 

ROBINSON C R USO E.

 

remover to hear my opinion of it. I told him
it was a most excellent thing to keep out
the. antars; which he happened not to
understand as I meant; it, and so took it for
n compliment; but the. old pilot laughed,
" Oh, Seignior Inglese'" saw he, "you
speak in colors."

" In colors!" said I;
"what do you mean by that?" "Why,

 

 

'srht nmnsured line, which the wall you speak what looks white this way, and
; black that way--gay one way, and dull

 

and turnings it takes. It is about four
fathoms high, and as many thick in some
places.

I stood still an hour or thereabouts with-
out trespassing our orders (for so long the
caravan was in passing She gate), to look at
it on ovary side, near and fur oft--I mum
what was within my View; and the guide
of our ca 'avan, who had been extolling it.

another. You tell him i: is a good wall
to keep out Tar-tans; you tell me by that
it is good for nothing but to keep out
Tartars. I understand you, Seignior
lnglese; but. Seignim' Chinese. understands
you his own way." " "7911," says 1', "sei-
gnior, do you thinlr it would stand out an
army of our country people, with a. good
train of artillery? or our engineers, With

forthu wonder of the world, was mighty two companies of miners?- 'Vonld they
 

........_.

 

16!!

 

not batter it down in ten days, that. an ! us up in while, he asked it' we were. re.

 

army might enter in battnlm? or hlow it
up in the air-,fmnulntiou and all, that there
should he no sign of it left. 2" "Ay, 11y,"
says he, " i know that."

Soon after this, as 1!. party of us lmd
left. the enrnvun to hunt. wild sheep, we
met; about. forty Tartms, and as. soon
as they saw us, one of them blew a
kind of horn very loud, but. with a hair-
bm'ons sound. \Ve all supposed this was

- solved.

W'c told him we were ready to
follow him; so he rode directly (on'nrt'k
them. As sonn as they saw us advance.
thev let. fly their arrows, which, however.
mis ed us ' happily. It seems they mis-
took not their aimy but their distance; for
their arrows nil fell short. of us, but with
so true 1m nim,thnt had we. her-u uhout
twenty 'ds nearer, we must- have had
several men wounded, if not: killed.

   

 

 

 

 

 

to call their {fiends about them, and so it.
'was; for, in less than ten minutes, a troop
of forty or fifty more appeared, ut about.
a mile distance; but our work wasover
first. ns it happened.

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow

happened to he with us and as soon as he '
heard the horn, he told us that; we had no.
thing to do but to charge them innne-
llintely, without. loss of time; and drawing .

immediately we halted, and though it
wns at n great distance, we fired, and sent
them lendcn bullets for wooden arrows,
following our shot full gallop, to full in
among them sword in hand. As soon as
we. (mine up to them we fired Olll' pistols ill
their faces, and thru drew; but. they tied
in the greatest confusion inmginnlule.

""0 Wanted two days' journey of the
city of Nnum, on the frontier of theChinese Empire, when we met- messengers
from the governor to tell all caravans to
lmlt till theylnul a <<mud sent. fur them;
for that a lmrly 0f Tau-tars, making ten
thousand in all, had appeared in the way,
nhnut. thirty miles beyond the city. AC-
eordingly, two duyn ut'tei, we had two hun-

ROBINSON OR US 0E.

 

dred soldiers sent us from n garrison of the
Chinese, on our left, and three hundred
more from the city of Nanm, and with
these we advanced boldly. T he three hun-
dred soldiers from Nuum marched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our
men on each side of our camels, with our
baggnge, and the whole caravan in the
centre. In this order, and well Prepared
for hnttle, we thought ourselves :1 match
for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tenure,
if they had appeared ; ' the nevi: day,
when they did appear, it. was 9
other thing.

When we were entered upon a desert. of
about fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold,
by u. cloud of dust they raised, we saw an
enemy wus ut. lruud; and they were at
hand, indeed, for the ' came on upon the

I spur. The ('Jhim' uur guard in the
front, who hud bulked so big the day
 

 

)efoi'e, began to sngger; and the soldieis
frequently looked behind them, which is at
certain sign in :1 soidier that. he is just
ready to run :\\\':l:_'. My old pilot being
near me, called out: "Seignior Inglese,
those fellows must. he encouraged, or the-3;,r
will ruin 1:5 all; for, if the Tartars come
on, they will never stand it." "1 mn of
your mint," says I; "but what must be
done?" "Donel" snys he, " let fifty of
our men advance, and flank them on each
wing, and encourage them, and they will
fight like hmve fellows in hrnve company;
but without this, the}' will every man turn
his back." Immediately I rode up to our
leader, and told him, and accordingly fifty
of us marched to the ri'rht wing, and
fifty to the heft.

The Tartan: came on, and an innumer-

able company they were; how many wei

 

could not tell, but ten thousand, we
thought, was. the least. A party of them
came on first, and Viewed our posture;
and, as we found them within gunshot,
our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly,nml give them a salvo

' on each wing with their shot, which was

done; and tln-y went off, I suppose, back
to give an account. of the reception they
were like to meet with. And, indeed, that
salute clnycd their stomachs, for they
immediately halted, stood awhile to con
{sidcr it, and wheeiing at! to the left, they
gave over their design.

Two (lays "flier, we (mine (.0 the city 01'
Xauu, or Naum ; we thanked th: governor
for his Wife. (if Us, and collected to the
'ulue of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts,
which we gave tn the soldiers sent to guard

us; and here we rested one dny.
01? USOE'.

 

As we were riding through the Mnxco.
vim dominions, being n litrle way mi from

[

the caravan, I came upon some people wor-
shiping ini idol. It. had :1 head not rescui-
bling any cmnture that the world ever
suw; ears as big us grunts, horns, and as
high: sass big as a crown piece; a nose I
like u, crooked rmn's horn, mid :1 mouth ex
tended, four-cornered, like that. of a lion,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot-'3
under bill. It. was dressed up in the. filth-
iest manner that. you could suppose: its
linger gm'iiient mm of sheepskins, with the
wool outward; a great Tzirtiir bonnet on
the. hand, with two horns growing through
in It; was aboui. eight feet. high, yet had no
feet or legs, nor any other proportion of
parts. I rode up to the image or mUiiste'r
-----<:nll it. what. you will--and with my
3270M made a stroku at the bonnet thui
was on its head, and cut it in two; mid
one. of our men that was with me, took hold >>
of the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled
nt it, when, behold. a most hideous oiitvi'y

 

 

nnd howling run through the village, and |
two or three hnuth'ed people came about

 

 

my cars, so that I was glad to scour for it,
for we saw some had some hows and an
'I'UWS, We want. hack in the night and
destroyed the. idol with fire.

Wchmd hL-cn almost. seven months on
our journey when we arrived at T oholski,
and here I msolved to stop for the Winter,
and let the caravan go on.
the acquziinlunce of flu exiled prince, and
the. Winter, though very cold, Pihfi'll \
pleasantly. In the. month of .'Iiiy,I begun
to pack up to continue my journey with u
czirnvnn that was soon to slurb, and I wow
dered why the prince could not go with
But. my Wonder was over "hen I
Ciin-rt-d upon ihflt suleeCI. \vilh the. person
I have. mentioned. ."
said he, " the place where \\'U an ind,
secondly, thuoondition "'9 1m in.

lIvrr I made

  

Hie.

'Considi-r, first, sir

    

"'0 nre
snrroumled with stronger things than bars
or bolts; on the. north side, :in unnnvigzihie
(ic ' i, where ship never sailed, nnd 'boni
never swam: ever)r other way we 1):; <<a a
 

thousand miles to pass through the Cznr's but not- above two hundred over where we
own l'lUlllllliUHS, and thmngh the towns p-s'let'l it,so till we came past that; hor-
gnri-isoncd hy his troops: so that we could rible place, we found very little. timer-cum
neither puss undiscovered by the rond, nor between that country and the Mogul Tur-
sulisisr by any other way; so that it; is t: The people are mostly pngnns, nnd
Yum to attempt. it." However, I prevailed little better than the savages of America;
upon him to make the attempt to escape | their houses and towns full at idols, und
with me. ""9. did not start till June, and, l their way living was wholly barbarous,
after much hanlship and fatigue, we finally I except in the cities, and the villages near
entered Eim'upe, having passed the ri\'t1r| them, where they are Christizmsflts they
Kama, which in these par sthe boundary I cnll themscli (it the Greek Church, but
between l'lnmpe. and Asia. The fiist city 1 have have their religion mingled with so
un the European side \ milled Solo)r nuinyrelius of snpemtitiun .'hnt it is; scarce
Kamskni, which is as. much as to sny, the to he known in some places from nmre
great city on the river Kama; and here we sorcery and witchcraft.

thought to sue Sump, evident; niturutinn in ! In pa ng this forest, I thought.; indeed,
the llt'i'l'lt'. But we were mistaken: turns we must. (after all our (lungels were, to our
\\'0 inn] 3 ms; desert tr.) puss, which is near imagination, escaped) have been plundered
seven hundnrd miles long in some places, and robbed, and perhaps murdered; by a
175

 

two of thieves; of what country they
were, J am yet at n.10ss to know, but they
were all on horseback, nnd curried Imus
and arrows life were but sixteen men in
ah, but we drew up before our camels, and
they finally went oil' it little "my. We
moved to a little wood, and put upn barri-
(uulc of branches, and so wnitod for them.
About two hours before night they came
down directly upon us, when we. found
they had been joined by some mole.

Our old pilot. was our captain, and tie
sired us not to fire upon them till they
came withinpistol--shot, that we might. be
sure to kill. and that when we did fire we
should he sure to take good aim. "'e hmle
him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that- there were some of
them within two pikes' length of us when
we let. fly. We nimed so true that we

  

 

killed fourteen of them, and wounded
Ecvcrnl utllcls, as also several of tilt'll'
hors for we had all of us londcd our
pieces with two or three bullets at least
They were terribly surprised with on-
fire, and retreated immediately about". one-
hundrcd rods from us; in which Lime we
loaded our pieces again, and seeing tin-m
keep that. distance, we snllied out, and
caught four or five of their horses, whose-
ridcrs we supposed were killed ; and com-
ing up to the dead, we judged they were-
'1'm'tnl's, but. knew not how they came to-
make an exclusion such an unusual length.
W'e slept little, you may be sure, but-
spent the most part. of the night in
strengthening our situation, nnd barricad-
iug the entrances into the wood, and keep-
ing it strict watch. ""9 waited for day-
light, and when in came, it gum us a very
 

- - I. |
uuwulconm discovery indeed; for the'

cucim', who We thought were dismumgml
with the reception they met with, were
now greatly incremed, and hml set up
eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if they
Were res lvcd to hcsi are us.

However, as they did nut. attack us that
day, at night, we left our fire. burning in

  

 

Smut, and slipped out the mherside of the. '
wnud uml K0 gut nwuy. .v'\1. last we arrived .

Sail'q-ly :il. Archangel, where we: were obliged
to wait. eix works fu'n shill. Finally we
tun]; 1 :igu on a I'Iulnlflll'f and n . 'ed
'in (he l'Illw on (her. 18th nf tupfcnilicr, the
young Russian prince traveling safelyas
my steward.

Hum my partner and I l'unnd a very
gum] sale for our gondsms well those of
China as the snhles, etc, of Siberia; and,
dividinyr the produce, my shari- amounted

     

1? 013133303" CR USOE.

v

 

10 PS3,475 173. 31, including about. sax

 

--_----. I'M
huudmd pounds' worth of diamonds, which
I pumhused at Bengal.

Here the young lord took his leave of.
us, and went up the Elbe, in order to go
tn the court of Vienna, \Vli'fl'c he resolved
to seek protectimi, and could correspond
with those of his father's friends who were
left :Ilivc. He did not part without testi-
Innnius of gmtitudc for my services.

To conclude: having stayed new four
months in llmnlnu-g, I came from thence

; by him] +0 the Hague, where I embarked

in the packet, and arrived in London the
10th of Jnnnmy, 1705, having been absent
frnin England fun years and nine month.
And here I resolved to prepare for :1. longer
. . , . . -.'

Juurm'y than all these, naving lived n life
of infinite variety seventy-two years, and
lea ed sufficiently to knuw the value of

 

 

mtimmeut, and the bicwug of ending 0'
days in peace