36059385,

.. filustrgiifim
m
M
n

E

g ..,._
m
K .WSWISS

FAMILY ROBINSON.THE SWISS FAMILY
ROBINSON;

OR, THE

ADVENTURES OF A SHIPWRECKED FAMILY ON AN
UNINHABITED ISLAND NEAR NEW GUINEA.

A NEW TRANSLATION FROM THE ORIGINAL,
BY

MRS. H. B. PAULL.

may @tiginul QDquutzh fillugttatians
AND NUMEROUS WOOD ENGRAVINGS.

 

LONDON AND NEW YORK:
FREDERICK WARNE AND CO>>
1888.PREFACE.

HE numerous English editions of the " Swiss Family Robin-
son," which have been presented to the juvenile public
during.r the past fifty years, would almost appear to render an
additional one superfluous.
The translator of the following pages, therefore, wishes to explain
the motives which have induced her to attempt another translation.
In the editions referred to the translators appear to have fallen
into one or two errors: either the style of the original German
(which is at. times obscure and confused) has been too strictly
followed, and the idiom retained; or by an unnecessarily free
translation, and the alterations of conversations and events by
additions or omissions, traces of the original story have been in a

great measure lost.
In the following pages the translator has endeavoured to avoid
these errors, and to render the German sentences into good, simple
Saxon English, without altering the sense or meaning of the
original text.

In translating a work of this kind, it should also be remembered
that boys from ten and twelv', to fourteen or sixteen, do not use
long or pedantic words, neither should those who are represented
as living in the early part of the present century be made to utter
the slang of an English boy of our own times.

In this translation--which is made l'llli'I'L'ly from the original
German--the incidents and events are faithfully preserved un-
altered, with one or two atcccsm-ry but slight exceptions. N o inter-
polation or omission could possibly improve the tissue of wondrous
events, which are often described in the original with a graphic
power, and at times with poetic effect.

The author of the "Swiss Family lobinson" was JOIIANN
DAVID \VYSS, a descendant of an old citizen family of the town of
Berne, in Switzerland. He was an only son, and after completing
his education, obtained in 1766 the position of military chaplain, in
which it was necessary for him to preach in French and in German
His regiment was at this time on service in Sardinia, and while

here he not only acquired a knowledge of the Italian language, butI'REFA CE. vii

made himself acquainted with general literature and science, in-
cluding natural history, military tactics, and fortification. In short,
he acquired the knowledge of merchandise, seafaring life and its
technical terms, of various trades, of farming, and other information
which, as the author of the " Swiss Family Robinson Crusoe," he so
much required.

The story of the " Swiss Family Robinson " was originally related
to his four children, but he never had it printed; indeed, it is very
possible he had no intention of giving it publicity.

For our possession of it we are indebted to one of his sons, the
well-known Professor J OIIANN RUDOLF Wrss, who, with a natural
and praiseworthy ambition, placed his father's story in MS. (with a
few alterations) in the hands of a printer.

The first edition appeared in German, at Zurich, in 1813; but
the story at that time only extended over ten or twelve years, the
arrival of a ship from Europe at the end of that period enabling the
Swiss family to return to their native country.

Madame DE JMONTOLIEU, when translating this tale into French

in 1824, suggested to the author's son that he should make a

different ending to his story; but he was, as it appears, too
much occupied as Professor at the Berne Academy to un-

dertake such a task. The accomplished French authoress, how,-viii FREE-1 CE.
v\'('l'. sm-romled in obtaining his permission to complete the story
hursvl I'.

The writer of the fullmvin;r pages has strictly adhered to the
form of 'th tale as it appears in the German of M. sts, with the
additions- mmlo by tho Baroness MONTOLIEU in the more modern

( h-rman editions.CONTENTS.

 

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

SIIIPWRECKED AND ALONE - - - - - - - - 1
CHAPTER II.

A meow-rs Ismxn - . . - . - - . . 9
CHAPTER. III.

A VOYAGE 0F DISCOVERY - - - - - . - . 25
CHAPTER IV.

THE aomswnn JOURXEY - - - - - . . - 39
CHAPTER V.

A SUCCESSFUL VOYAGE - - . - - . . - 43
CHAPTER VI.

A LIVING FREIGHT - - - -- - - - - u 53
CHAPTER VII.

ANOTHER EXPLORING EXPEDITION - - - .- - O 62
CHAPTER \'III.

BRIDGE-BUILDIXG - . - . . . - . 68

i.\'
CHAPTER IX.

PAGE

THE JOURNEY TO THE \voanm-'L'r. mass - - - - - 7 6
CHAPTER X.

A xxcm's Lonmxo - - - - - - - - - 90

CHAPTER XI.

A CASTLE n: ma AIR - - . -- . - . .. 98
CHAPTER. XII.
'ms nsrr T0 zamnsm - - . - - - . - 110
CHAPTER XIII.
THE SLEDGE, rm: msquampn, AND THE HANG-ARGO .. .. - 121
CHAPTER XIV.
.\ VOYAGE TO THE "'RECK--THE RAFT - - -- - - 133
CHAPTER XV.
Tm: WHEELBARROWS AND THE TURTLE - - - - - 145
CHAPTER XVI.
THE mxxacs AND we PI-Z'I'ARD - - - - . - - 155
CHAPTER XVII.
THE WALK 1'0 THE CALADASII woon - - - - - - 161
CHAPTER XVIII.
TUE canons POW]. AND THE INDIA-RUBBER. TREE - . - 181
CHAPTER XIX.
CANDLE-MAKING--THE NEW CART - - ~ .. - - 191
CHAPTER XX.
TIIE BABY JACKAL - - - . . - - . - 212

CHAPTER XXI.
anxzzus's NEW FRIEXD . - - . - - - 236
CHAPTER XXII.

PAGE

spmxo DAYS AND THE SALT 0mm>>: - - - . . . 249
CHAPTER XXIII.

THE WINTER HOUSE IN THE GROTTO - - - - - - 267
CHAPTER XXIV.

LITTLE FRANK AND ma CALI" - - - -- - - - 285
CHAPTER XXV.

THE mscnmvous moxxms - - - . . - . 296
CHAPTER XXVI.

JACK'S ADVENTURE--THE STRANDED mum - - - - 312
CHAPTER XXV II.

Ron-m; BY "mummy--ms TURTLE - - . - - 331
CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE DREADFUL VISITOR--POOR cmzzm's mm: - - - - 341
CHAPTER XXIX.

momma EXCURSION--FRITZ AND THE [um - - ' - 358
CHAPTER XXX.

THE GREEN \'ALLEY- nu; BEARS - - - - ,. - 369
CHAPTER XXXI.

ms coxnon--nuxx nuns ma cucxoo - - - - - 384
CHAPTER XXXII.

mm 05111101! TRAINER - - - - - - . . 397
CHAPTER. XXXIII.

THE YOUNG RAT-CATCHERS--THE 0.;on - - - - - 410

CHAPTER XXXIV.
ms cnusmxa MACHINE--A PLENTIFUL HARVEST - - - 420
CHAPTER XXXV.

THE DRAWBRIDGE--THE HYEXA - - - - - 433

CHAPTER XXXVI.

FRITZ RELATES nu; ADVENTURES mr mam sxcvasmx - 441
CHAPTER XXXVII.
Arum TEX YSARS--PEMII. mn- - - - . - . 456
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
THE MYSTERIOUS MESSAGE--THE unxs - - - - - 466
CHAPTER XXXIX.
THE smncn FOR FRITZ--A VISITOR - - - - - - 477
CHAPTER XL.
THE ADVENTURES or I'nITz--mxxv's HISTORY - - - A 487
CHAPTER XLI.
Tm: WELCOME AT ROCK HOUSE--CONCLUSION - - - . 496Jan/c mounted on "Whirlwind" - - - - - Front.

Law/ring in every direction across the Ocean ~- ' - ~ 28
Jae/.2 and the Donkey - - - - . - - . 59
I trial in Vain - - ~ . . - - 89
The Pet Flamingo - - - - - - - - 113
The Tub-boat and the Turtle - - -- - - -- - 1'67
Jack and the Land-crab - - - - - - - 172
Ulimbiny for Cucoanuls - - - - - - - - 198
The Swarm of Bees - - - - - - - - 226
Smman's chest used as a trap for shellfish - - - - 266
Jllt'lfl riding "b'torm" the Bufl'alo - - - - - - 293
The Stranded Whale - - - - - - - - 326
The American Sailors aud the Pigs - - - - - 348
The Ostrich and the Eagle - - - - - - - 394
Fritz and the Walrus - - - - - ~ - - 427

Fritz's Postman - - - - - - - - - 465
 

INTRODUCTION.

HE story of the " Swiss Family Robinson " is founded on the
report of the captain of a Russian vessel, who, on one of
his voyages, discovered a group of fertile islands, situated towards
the south-east of Java, and not far distant from New Guinea. On
landing on one of these, the crew were greatly surprised to find it
inhabited by a family consisting of a father, mother, and four sons,
who informed the captain of the circumstances which had placed
them in such a position.

The father related that he had been a Swiss pastor or clerg 'man,
and in the Revolution of 1798 had lost all his property. He there-
fore resolved to become a missionary, and for this purpose proceeded
to England with his wife and family, and there obtained an appoint-

ment to go out to Otaheite, and establish Christianity among these

savage tribes. From thence he intended to proceed to Port Jackson

XVxvi INTRO/I I." 'TIUN.

in New South Wales (now 'l'nsmuniu), and remain to work his way
in that newly--formed colony.

He and his family sailed from England with other passengers
having a similar intention, and continued their voyage prosperously
till they arrived near the coast of New Guinea.

Here they \vere overtaken Ivy a. fearful storm, and it; is in the
moment when its fierceness is at its height that, the author has
chosen to commence his story.

The father of Lhe fannily tells the tale, and the vicissitudes
through which he and his wife and children pass, the wonderful
discoveries they make, and the dangers they encounter, form the

story of Lhe Swrss 1%va liomxsox.TUB WRHCK.

CHAPTER I.
srnrwnrzcxian ;\.\'n ALONE.

1111'} Storm, which had lasted for six long and terrible days,
appeared on the seventh to redouble its fury. \Ve were
driven out of our course far to the south-east, and all trace

of our position was lost.

Sailors and passengers were alike worn out with fatigue and
long watching; indeed, all hope of savingr the ship had disappeared.
The masts were split and overboard, the sails rent, and the water
in the hold from a leak made us expect every moment to be
swallowed up in the waves.

1 21c

SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

Nothin" could now he heard among the crew or the passengers
but earnest prav e1s to (1011 for mercy E--each L'onimen11ing_,r his soul
to his Maker, knowing that His po11L1 alone could sa1e them from
death.

My children stood clingingr to their 11111ther, and trembling with
fear in our little cabin, and I endeavoured to c'heet them by saying.

" My children, God c1111 save us if it is His 11111; if 11111, we must
resign oursel1es to 1111111. He judyes 13 best 101' us, and to die will
be to meet again in a better 11'o1111, 11'11e1e partingrs are 1111111101111

My poor wife on this wiped her tears and became L11l111, to 1wire
couraue to her bms; and yet I could scarcely restrain 1111' o11111r11L1'
even while endeavouring to comfort 111y1aniily.

At last we knelt together and offered our united prayers to the
Almightv for succ'otn. 1111' eldest: boy Fritz prayed aloud most
carnesth that. (ted would save his dear parents and brothets,
seemi1111 not to think at all of his 0\\'n.'s"11fe1\'.Allels'euds11111511111011
in the threatened 1111111re1', and yet; the e1 ident faith 1:1 childhood in
the pew L1 of the pray on; they utteted restored my own.

"Will not the Lord hear and answer these prayers," I thought,
" 11111111111 in such childlike trust 111111 confidence I"

All at once was heard above the fury 111' the storm the cry,
"Land! land!" At the same 1110111e11t we felt 11 shock so violent
that I believed the ship had struck on a rock, and would i111-
mediately 11111 to pieces. The sounds of cracking timber, 111111 the
rush of water over the decks, quickly proved that 1 was not
Ittistaken, especially when the voice of the captain made itself
heard in terrible tones, "We are lost! lower the boats!" and the
words struck like a sword to my heart.

" Lost!" I exclaimed, in my terror; but the piteous cries of my
children aroused me. I must not allow them to despair at this
awful 1110111ent. "Keep 111') your courage!" I exclaimed. God
can help us still if we trust in Him! I will go at once, and
try to discover whether some way of deliverance may not be left
for 11s."

I went 11p quickly on deck, but as I endeavoured to advance,
wave after ware passed over me. The first, for which I was 1111-
prepared dashed me to the :rround, but I struggled to withstand
the force of the next by clingin" to the side of the ship, and then
what a si1rht 111ese11ted itself'

One boat was far out at sea, and a sailor--the last to leap on
board the other boat--was about to cut the rope and let; it drift
away. \Vhen I realized the fact that they were escaping, and hadSIIII'IVRECKED AND ALONE. 3

left; me and my dear ones to perish, I raised my voice in earnest
entreaty. I cried, I prayed, I implored them to return and rescue
us. All to no purpose. My voice was lost amid the roar of the
storm, and even had I been heard, the fury of the waves made
the return of the boats an impossibility.

For a few moments I looked around me in despair. Then,
with a sudden hope, I observed the position of the vessel. The
bow had sunk forward, leaving the stern high above the water as
far as a kind of partition situated amidships, which separated the
captain's and the other -abins from the steerage of the ship.

Added to this, I found that the wreck was fixed in this position
between two rocks, and therefore likely to remain in safety, es-
pecially if the storm abated. A few moments served for me to
realize the absence of inmiediate danger, and then I turned my
attention towards the shore, which lay, as I supposed, to the
southward. A misty rain obscured the view, and perhaps made
it appear more barren and desolate; yet I determined to strain
every nerve in an effort to reach a spot upon which I now placed
my highest hopes of safety. Still, I had to restrain the troubled
thought that; all hope of human help had vanished, as I went
below to the cabin and addressed my dear ones hopefully.

"Take courage, my children," I said as I entered, " all hope is
not lost. The ship is fixed between the rocks, and this little place
of refuge is high above the water. To-morrow, if the wind and
waves subside, we may be able to reach the lant ."

The hopefulness of childhood enabled my boys to receive this
news with transports of joy. They passed all at once from despair
to unbounded confidence. All doubts and ditliculties vanished,
especially as the rollingr of the vessel, which had so often dashed
them to and fro, or against the side of the ship, had entirely ceased.
llut my wife discovered my hidden anxiety in spite of my calm-
ness; yet, while I saw this clearly, I knew by her manner that her
confidence in God was still unshaken, and this gave me renewed
courage.

Her first act was to search in the stewards room for provisions,
and with such success that a plentiful supper was quickly prepared
for us.

" Let us take food," she said: " nourishment for the body gives
strength to the spirit, and we may have a very disturbed night."

And so it truly proved. The three younger boys gladly retired
to rest after supper, and were soon fast asleep, overcome with
fatigue and excitement. Fritz, the eldest, a youth of fourteen,

2--2
 

understood otn position more (learlv 111.111 his brothers, and pre-
ferred to sha1e the watch with his parents. lie was 11 thoughtful
boy and we discovered after '111htle one of his reasons for wishing
to sit up with us.

As night advanced the storm still continued, aml the waves broke
over the lower part of the ship with undiminished fury. From little
to time 11 cracking noise told us that the planks and beams of the
wreck were strained by their form, and 11 continual trembling
caused a dread that every moment the vessel would fall in
piccos

It was after one of these. shocks that Fritz exclaimed,

"My father, do you think we could find any swimming-belts
on board for my mother and the boys? You 111111 1 could swim
on shore if anything happened to the wreck, but they cannot
swim."

"Not :1 had thought, my boy," I replied: " we will search at
once."

'111'1 no swinnning-belts could be obtained, and I determined
to contrive a plan which I hoped would prove successful. In
the stewards cabin we found a number of empty flasks and tin
water-cans strong enough to support a light person in the waves.
These we fastened to-rether with potket- hamlkerchiefs, and tied
them under the 1'-11n11-1its of the tlnee 111115 and my wife, who
willingly adopted this means of safety. "e also supplied our-
selves with knives, string, a tinder-box and matche:, and other
useful bttt not eumbrous articles, 111111 then seated ou1selves to await;
cahnly the result, hoping that, should the vessel fall to pieces, we
might be able to gain the shore partly by s11'i1mning and partly by
being borne on the waves.

Fritz, however, feeling more secure in the safety of his (lear'
mother and brothers, retired to rest. and slept soundly. I and my
b1'a1e wife 1emained awake in watchful anxiety, listenin'" to each
shock that threatened 11 (hanf'e in the position of the 1esscl. It
was, indeed, a sad nigvht for us both; we passed it; in pra) e1 and
consultation respecting our future, till with thankful hea1ts we
observed the first glimmer of daylight, and felt that we were safe.
As morning advanced the wind lulled, the sky cleared, and with
joyful eyes we gazed at the brilliant colours that glowed in the
east as the sun rose foretellingr a bright day.

In a cheerful voice I roused the boys, and led them with their"
mother 011 deck. Then for the first time they became aware that
we were alone on the ship.
g;-

y

" Oh, papa!' exclaimed Jack, "where are the sailors and the
other passengers? How are we to continue the voyage or get to
land ?--are they gone .1--why did they not take us ?"

"My children," 1 said, " our companions have left us to our
fate, but we must not despair. If we exert ourselves and do all
we an, God in His mercy will help us; still let; us trust; in Him
without; fear, and consider what is host to he done."

"Could we not make a raft, papa," said Ernest, "and get to shore
all together ? "

"It would certainly be an excellent plan if we had the materials,"
I replied.

" The sea is calm enough to reach the shore by swimming,"
remarked Fritz.

" Swimming would he all right for you," said Ernest, "but not
for us, who can't swim."

"Ah, yes, I forgot; but will those contrivances we made in the
night he safe for mamma and the hoys, papa ?" exclaimed Fritz.

"I would rather adopt some other plan," I replied; " and now
suppose we search the ship, and see if any materials for a. raft can
he found."

At these words we all dispersed in different directions. I
proceeded at once to the provision stores, which, to my great satis-
faction, were well supplied with hoth food and water. My wife
and the yt'inngest, hoy went to visit the animals; Fritz ran to the
armoury-romn, and Ernest to the ship-carpenter's workshop. Jack,
as he opened the door of the captain's cahiu, got a little fright.
Two large dogs sprang out, and, full of joy, hounded upon him so
roughly, that they threw him down, and covered him with their
caresses. This performance, however, startled the little man, and
he. at first cried out. in alarm. But soon rememhering that; the
poor doggies must. he hungry, he recovered himself quickly, rose
to his feet, and m' unting on the hack of the largest; dog, he rode
gravely towards me, just as I appeared coming up from the ship's
hold.

I could not help laughing even while I praised his courage, but
not without advising him to be more cautious in future with strange

' animals, otherwise it, might cost. him dear.

One by one we. returned to the cahin, each hringing what" he
considered would he the most useful in our position.

Fritz brought powder, small shot, hullets, and two sporting
guns. Ernest held in his hand a hatful of nails and a hammer,
while from his pocket, stuck out. a pair of pincers and a hatchet.6 SIP'ISS 1".'l.<<'llIL Y ROBINSON.

'Iven little Frank had a packet of fishing-hooks and lilies, with
which he seemed very much pleased.

"'.-\s to myself," said my dear wife, "I have only brought good
news, yet I hope it will prove very valuable. I am delighted to
tell you that there are still alive. on the ship a cow, a donkey, two
goats, six sheep, a ram and a sow. I was only just in time to save
them front dying of hunger and thirst." '

" You have all done Well," I said at last, "yet I am afraid Master
Jack has brought two tremendous eaters instead of anything use-
ful: we shall find it ditlicult to feed them."

"Oh! but, papa," excl- "med Jack, "when we get; on shore the
(ltr5s' will help us to hunt."

" Yes," I replied. "' but how are we to get there ?"

"('an we not sail in tabs ?" said Jack, "I have often done so on
the pond at home."

"Happy thought!" I exclaimed; "let us begin at once. Now
for the nails, a hammer, a saw, and a gimlet. "'e will see what-
cun be found in the hold."

My wife and the boys, excepting Jack, followed me to the hold
with tools, and here we drew from the water four large empty
casks. 'l'hese we dragged to the lower deck, which was .1 1st above
the water's edge, and discovered with joy that they were all made
of solid wood and bound with strong iron hoops. The water in the
hold on which they floated had prevented them from getting dry,
and proved that they were watertight.

I found them exactly suited to my purpose, and set to work
at; once to saw them apart through the middle. \Ve succeeded
at last, after great exertion, and then gladly refreshed ourselves
with the wine and biscuits which were contained in two other
small casks. I contemplated with pride the eight half-casks or
tubs as they stood side by side on the sloping deck, and felt quite
astonished to observe that my wife looked sad.

" I could never dare to trust myself on the open sea in one of
those things," she said with a sigh.

"Do not alarm yourself too soon, dear wife," I replied: " my
work is not yet finished; wait a little,----y0n will find that. these
tubs are much better for us than a wrecked vessel which is a
fixture in the rocks."

After a search I discovered a long and flexible plank, and upon
this [ fastened my eight tubs, so that the two ends of the plank
might bend upwards and form a keel. Two other planks I also
found, and these we nailed firmly to the tubs on each side, and
'I

brought together at the ends to form the stem and stern. In
reality I had made a narrow boat divided into eight compart-
ments. All was strong and well fitted, and appeared quite suitable
for navigation, at least on a calm sea and for a short>> distance.

hit, alas I when my wonderful eontrivanee was finished, it was
found so heavy that in spite of our united efforts we were not able
to move it 'an inch.

"Fetch me one of the capstan-rods,"it I cried, "I can use it as
a lever."

Fritz undeistood, and ran to find one. Then I cut off some
pieces of wood from the sail-yards-r for rollers, and lifting the
lower part of my boat with the iron bar, Fritz placed them under-
neath, and now we could move it easily where we pleased.

"How strange," exclaimed Ernest, " that one man can do more
with that thing than we could do with all our strength! How is
it, papa ?"

"If we get safely to land, Ernest, I will explain this to you:
the iron har forms a lever which is one of the six mechanical
powers. Now. however, I am too anxious about the boat to talk
to you."

While saying this I was fastening a rope to the tub-raft with a
strong knot, and after placing the two 1'()llCl'S under it and giving
it a slight push, we had the pleasure of seeing our little vessel
glide from the. lower deck towards the sea. lint she descended
with such rapidity that had I not taken the precaution to fasten
the rope to a beam on the wreck, she would have been carried
far out of our reach. I'ufortunately, the boat leaned so much on
one side that no one would have dared to embark in it 2 but I saw
in a moment'- what it wanted. I quickly gathered up all the heavy
things around me, and threw them as ballast into the tubs. The
boat immediately righted itself, and my children with eager joy
rushed forward, in their haste disputing who should first enter,
and forgetting all idea of danger.

int I hastily stopped them. I knew we could not venture to
put to sea with any safety yet, for I saw plainly that the slightest
obstruction would capsize the craft. To avoid this danger, there-
fore, I thought I might contrive to manufacture some of those
paddles which savage nations use to balance their canoes even
against adverse winds.

I again set myself to work to procure this happy means of

" An iron bar used to turn the capstan when raising the anchor. .
+Thc poles across the masts on which the sailors stand to unfurl or furl the sails.
safety, and with the help of 1-'1-it7. I succeeded. "'e found two
long,r sail-yards, which were fastened, one in front and the other at
the binder part of the boat, so that they could be moved without
in any way interfering with the progress of our little raft.

To the end of each of these we fixed two little empty casks
which were to serve as a counterpoise, and at last I believed
that our arrangements were complete and safe. It only remained
for me to ascertain the best means of escape from the wreck of
the ship to the open sea. I therefore embarked in one of the
tubs, and directing the boat towards a fissure in the side which
seemed to open a passage, I contrived, by the use of the hatchet
and the saw, to cut away the planks and beams which stood in our
way.

Nothingr now remained but to secure the oars {01 our \0\' age
on the morrow It "as late "hen all this was finished, and
impossible to attempt to go on show at that houi. "0 new
obliged, therefore, to pass another night on the wreck, which
threatened every moment to fall to pieces.

My wife, however, had prepared for us an abundant supper,
which we greatly needed, for in an eager desire to finish the tub-
1'aft, we had taken nothing but the \vine and biscuits found in the
casks.

At last we all gladly sought repose after the fatignes of the day,
but I took the precaution to desire my boys to attach the empty
cans and llasks to their arms as a means of safety, should anything
happen to the ship. I advised my wife also to dress herself in
sailor's clothes, as more convenient for swimming should she be
thrown into the water.

She objectly greatly at first, but eventually I convinced her of
the means of safety the dress would prove in case of accident,
and she retired from the cabin to make the change.

\Vhen she re-appeared, looking very embarrassed, I could not
help paying her a compliment, for the middy's dress became her
admirably. l'erhaps my bright hopes for the morrow made her
forget her boyish appearance, and she retired to rest in her berth
and slept peacefully till morning.w-uww--V_H_.... .. ,

 

CHAPTER II.
A DESOLATE ISLAND.

HE next morning at. daybreak we were all awake, for hope
as well as care is no friend to sleep. As soon as we had
knelt and ofl'ered our morning prayers to God, I said to my

children,

" I hope now, that with the aid of the Almighty, we shall soon
be out of danger. And, first, let; us provide food and water for the
poor animals enough to last; for several (lays; perhaps we may
be able to return for them, if we succeed in reaching the land.
And will you, my boys, collect together all that; we shall require
to take with us for our most pressing wants, while I attend to the
animals ? "

My first care had been to place on board our little barque a
barrel of powder, three fowlingpieces, guns, pistols, and a supply
of bullets, with 'a bullet--mould and lead to prepare more when
these were gone. To my wife and each of the boys I gave a
game-bag for future use, but now filled with provisions found in
the sea-chests of the ship's officers. Among these were tablets of
soup, dried meat, and biscuits.

1 also loaded the two unoccupied tubs of the boat with an iron
pot for cooking, a fishing line and rod, a box of nails, a hammer,
saw, hatchet, pincers, and a quantity of sail-cloth, with which to
erect a tent. So many things were at last collected together to
place in the boat, that I had to set aside the least useful for
objects more precious.

When all was ready, we knelt once more to ask protection on
our perilous voyage. I then placed the boys each in a boat, and
waited for my wife. Presently she returned from the cabin,
carrying a large well-filled bag, which she threw into the tub

910 S l I '1 SS FA M I I. Y R0121 N303".

with little Frank, and I imarrined that she onlv intended it to form
a more comfortable seat for her vonngrcst boy.

\\ 1- were about to follow the 1hildi'en into the boat, when all at
once the (11' 11s begun to e"1o11 and the hens to chick in such a
monrnful manner, that they appeared to be c0111plaining at being
left 11151111111.

" [ think we might- manage to take them with us," I said; " for
if they are not cared for new we cannot expect them to be of use
to us by-and-bye."

My advice was followed: two cocks and ten hens were placed in
the tubs, and I contrived a kind of latticework roughly from
splinters of wood, to keep them from jumping out. The ducks,
geese, and pigeons I merely set free, feeling convinced that they
would find their way to land, either through the air or by water.

At length, when we were all safely stowed away in 0111' tubs, I
cut the cable and placed myself at the helm. In the first tub was
my wife, close behind her little Frank ; the two next tubs contained
the a111n1unition, the sail-cloth, the tools, the provisions, and the
chickens; Fritz occupied the fifth: ]'rnest and JaLk the si\th and
seventh; and I had taken the last for my sell, that I 111ight guide the
vessel containingr 1111 fa1nil1'bv the stern oar, which served for a rudder

Each of my elder boys took an ear, and, as well as their mother
and little Frank, wore the s11'innning_,r belts I had contrived as a
protection in case our strange craft should he capsized.

It "as just half-tide as we quitted the vessel, and I counted
upon that to c:"111y 11s to land, and compensate for the weakness of
0111 1"o11ers. The eyes of my Lhildren were soon eage1ly 1'1tt1acted
by the green shore before them, and they rowed with all their
strength to reach it; but for a long time we appeared to make but
little progress.

Presently we were startled by hearing the two dogs, which had
been left 011 the wreck, whining pitcously; and in a few moments
they sprang into the sea and swam after 11s. They were too heavy
for 11s to add to the weight by taking them 011 board 0111' frail
barquc. Turk was a large English mastifl', and Floss, equally large,
a llanish hound. I pitied them, however, for I feared they would
not be able to swim for such a distance; yet, now and then, they
supported themselves very cleverly, by.resting their fore-paws on
the planks which balanced the tubs, and followed 11s as a rear-guard
without much trouble.

After awhile, finding we made but little progress, I took another
oar, and by guiding the boat into the current of the flowing tide,THE TUB-BOAT.

 

.13?! IA DI'ISULA Tl'} ISLAND. 13

 

our navigation became less difiienll', and we found ourselves n12-
pro-aching nearer to the shore.

 

.\ DESOLATE COAST.

Its aspect was not very inviting: barren rocks and the absence.
of all vegetation predicted for us a sad prospect of hunge' and
 

suffering. The sea, however, was calm, and the sky without a cloud,
and the waves rippled gently against the shore; while around us
floated chests, easks, 11nd bales of goods--the tlebris of the ill-fated
ship. In the hope that these stray casks might contain provisions,
I-'ritz 111111 I hooked some of them with our oars, and as I drew
them near, I told him to have nails and a hammer ready to fasten
Hunt to our raft.

As \\e1l1e\\'11e111'1',e the land lost much of its wild and sterile
aspett, and him, who has the eye of a falcon, deelated that he
could already distinguish trees, and amongst them palms and
cocoanut-t rees.

" ()h E " cried Ernest, who was fond of good things, " how nice it
will be to have cocoanuts! they are larger and better than the nuts
of J'Iurope."

A dillieulty now arose as to the most convenient point on the
coast for 11s to land, and I was beginning to regret that I had for-
gotten to bring the telescope from the captain's cabin, when Jack
drew from his pocket :1 smaller one, and otl'ered it to me with
delight at being able to gratify my wish.

This telescope enabled me to take precautions in avoiding
dangerous rocks, for the impetnons current seemed driving 11s at
its will. Presently I perceived a narrow bay, towards which 0111'
ducks and geese were rapidly swimming in advance of us, as if to
lead the way.

This creek in the shore presented also a much more pleasant:
aspect, and 11s I guided our boat towards the entrance, I found the
water only just suttieiently deep to float it ; and we arrived at last,
after some little trouble, at 11 spot where it was so shallow that the
shore was on a level with the top of our tubs.

"'11 all sprang out joyfully from the boat excepting little Frank,
who was obliged to be 1 "sisted by his mother. The dogs, who had
arrived as soon 11s ourselves, bounded with joy and barked around
us in the wildest manner. The geese and ducks quaeked loudly
to welcome 11s.. To this 111111 the batl1'iu_rt of the dogs were added
the cries of the tla111i11gvoes, who flew aw: ' as we appeined, minrrled
with the screams of the pcnrruins pciched on the locks. The
111111111111111111 of these wild birds was not; disagreeable to me: I
decided that. the land in which they found a home could not be so
sterile and desolate after all.

llut these noises and confusion of sounds did not make us
forg-et that we w11'es11lc; and our first; act; was to fall upon 0111'
knees and th 11111 (-1111 1111' havimr mercifully pieseti ed 11s in the
hour of danger, and pray to Him to continue to grant us His
protection.

"'e then commenced unloading the boat, and, small as our cargo
appeared, I considered we had saved a great deal, especially if we
included the cocks and hens, which were set free to roam for the
present and find food for themselves.

 

l-'LA M 156 01-35.

After choosing a suitable spot, we prepared to erect a tent as
a place of shelter for the night, and in this we quickly succeeded,
having all the necessary materials. One of the poles, which had
served to balance the boat, was firmly fixed in the ground, and the
end of another pole placed on the top of it, the opposite end being
fixed in a crevice of the rock.

Over this framework we threw our sail-cloth, stretching it out
as far as possible on all sides, and then fastening it firmly to the
ground with a number of stakes.

For greater security our chests and other heavy articles were
placed round the cloth to keep out the wind, and Fritz attached
hooks to the edges in front, that we might draw them together
during the night. Then I sent the children to gather as much
moss and grass as they could find, and lay it in the sun to dry,

 

l'ESGUISS.

sn that we might have something softer than the hard ground to
sleep on at night.

"'hih- they were thus engaged, I piled up a number of large
stones at some distance from the tent, to form a. fireplace, on the
borders of the little creek by which we had reached the land.
Branches of trees and dried wood I found readily, and gathering
arlnfuls, I placed them on my stone hearth, and presently a fire--
that true friend of man--rose sparkling and flaming towards the
skv.

Upon this I placed our iron pot full of water, and into it my
 

wife threw one of the tablets, for she intended us to have soup for
dinner. Little Frank watched the performance, and said presently,

"ill-111111113, what is papa going to stick together?" .

"Nothing, my boy: I am making soup."

" Glue soup, mammal 011, I shan't like to eat that."

"No," she replied, "meat soup; what made you think it was
glue 2'"

" It looks like it, mamma; besides, we can't get meat here, there
are no butchers' shops."

" Listen, my boy, "'said his mother: these cakes, that perhaps do
look like glue, are made of the jelly of good meat, "ell cooked, for
persons to carry with them to sea. It would be impossible for 11s
to take fresh meat enough to last for a long voyage, it would not
keep, so these meat and soup cakes are made: to supply its
place."

Meanwhile Fritz had loaded his gun and took his way along
the banks of the stream. Ernest, remarking that to seek for game
upon a desert coast did not appear very agreeable, turned towards
the sea, while Jack wandered among the rocks to search for shells.
1 employed myself in drawing from the water the two casks which
we had secured in our transit from the ship to the shore.

I discovered, however, that while the water at the spot 011 which
we landed was convenient for unloading the beat, it had not depth
enough to float it when heavily laden. While I stood considering
what was best to be done, I heard Jack cry out as if in terror.
Seizing a hatchet, I ran in the direction of his voice, and saw him
in the water 11p to his knees, and an enormous lobster or crab
holding him by the leg in one of his claws, while Jack tried in
vain to get rid of his enemy.

I at once jumped into the water; the crustaceous animal no
sooner perceived my approach than he let go his hold and tried to
escape; but to allow this was not my intention. I followed his
111ove111e11ts with my eyes, owing to the agitation of the water, and
at length disabling him with my hatchet, I brought him ashore, to
Jack's great delight.

Burning with impatience to show his beautiful captive to his
mother, he caught the creature in both hands; but hardly had he
touched it "han it struck him such a violent blow with its tail
that he tlncw it 011 the g1ound and began to cry.

I te11ibly offended him by laughing out1ight, and in his anger
he tIOOk up a stone: 21d stunned the fallen foe by a blow 011 the
1cm .

SS\
 

" It is not generous to strike a vanquished foe," I exclaimed.
" You should have approached the creature more cautiously."

lut Jack, finding the lobster helpless, paid no attention to my
words; seizing it at once, he ran in triumph to his mother, ex-
claiming,

"See, mamma! Ernest! Frank! look, I've caught a lobster--
such a large one! Where is Fritz ?"

 

JACK CAUGHT in" THE LOBSTER.

Everyone came round him and congratulated him on his
success; and Ernest suggested that the creature should be at
once cooked for dinner, and that it would make delicious soup.
But his mother decided that it should be set aside till we had
more need of it.

My four boys possessed different dispositions, as will be seen in
the story. Fritz, the eldest, was a manly intelligent boy of four-In a,"

u-

A DESOLA Tl!) ISLAND. 19

teen, quick-tempered, but generous to a fault. Ernest, aged twelve,
was more gentle and refined than his elder brother, but with very
little energy, and a tendency to indolence and self-indulgence,
which rendered him far less useful than even his high-spirited
younger brother Jack, a boy of ten. Little Frank, only six, was
the youngest, and rather childish, as the youngest of a family
generally is.

The reader will see as the story proceeds how greatly the position
into which we were thrown by certain events, tended to develop
traits of character in these four boys.

Jack's pride in the capture of the lobster made him forget his
alarm and cowardice.

"You see this monster!" he exclaimcd--" he caught me by the
leg with his terrible claws; and I believe he would have torn it,
but for my thick sailor's trousers. However, I soon settled him."

"Little boastcr!" I said to him, "you would have been more
likely settled by the lobster, had I not run to your assistance.
Your glory does not rest on a very firm foundation."

I acknowledged, however, that he had made a splendid discovery,
and promised him the claws of the lobster for a reward.

" Oh!" cried Ernest, "I think I have seen some animals quite
as good to eat as Jack's lobster; but I did not care to get any,
because I should have had to wade through the water."

"'What an excuse!" exclaimed J aek. "Afraid of getting wet!
and they were only mussels after all, I dare say, and not fit to eat."

"In my opinion they are oysters," replied Ernest, "and they are
not at any great- depth in the water."

"And pray, Mr. Philosopher, if they are oysters, why did you
not bring us some for dinner? In our present position every
sort of wholesome food is acceptable; and to fear getting wet
is absurd I You see that the sun has dried my clothes and Jack's
already."

" I forgot that, papa," replied Ernest, "or I could have brought
salt as well. I saw a great quantity in the crevices of the rocks,
left there by the sea, I suppose."

" Of course, my son. 1V ell, now go and fetch some of this salt,
unless you would like to eat your soup without it, Ernest."

In a short he returned with what was evidently counnon salt,
but so mixed with sand that I should have thrown it away had not
my wife prevented me from doing so.

" I can improve it," she said, " by dissolving it in fresh water, and
straining it through a piece of linen."

3--2
 

And so it proved, for the pure salt fell through, and my wife
threw it into the soup.

"Why could we not use sea-water ? " asked Jack.

"Because it would be too bitter," replied Ernest. " The bitter
taste is very strong when sea-water is boiler."

"Quite right, Ernest," I said. "Sea-water contains a bitumen
very disagreeable to the taste, which does not exist in crystall-
ized salt."

My wife now informed us that the soup was ready, but Fritz
had not returned. Where could he be? While we waited, she
remarked,

"How are we to eat the soup now it is prepared? "'0. cannot
possibly lift a great burning pot to our lips, nor fish out the
biscuits with our hands, and we have neither spoons nor cups.
I think," she added, laughing, " we are in the same predicament as
the fox in the fable, when the stork offered him his breakfast in a
jug with a long narrow neck 3 "

This idea was so comical that we all laughed heartily, especially
when Ernest said,

"If we only had cocoaunt-shells divided in two, they would
make splendid cups !"

" N o doubt," I replied: "why don't you wish we had a dozen
silver spoons at hand? Wishing is useless: can you not invent
something ? "

" Those shells I saw would serve us for spoons capitally 1" said
Ernest.

"A bright idea, my boy,--although, as our oyster-shell spoons
will have no handles, we shall be obliged to burn our lingers
in getting out the soup. However, oyster-shells are better than
nothing, boys, so run and get as many as you can."

Away started Jack to the place described. Ernest followed
slowly, and when he reached the spot, there was Jack up to his
knees in the water. As he stood still, dreading to wet his feet, Jack
detached the oysters and threw them to his brother.

" You can gather them up and help me carry them," he said,
"if you are so afraid of the water."

Ernest gladly assented, and they quickly obtained a sufficient
number; while he waited, however, he contrived to put a large
shell in his own pocket. Presently they appeared at the tent, car-
rying a supply of unopened spoons.

At this moment Fritz approached, walking slowly with his hands
behind his back, and his head bowed as if in great trouble.
"I have found nothing," he said, dolcfully.

" Absolutely nothing ?" I said.

"' N othing," was the reply.

But his brothers slipping quietly behind him exclaimed,

" Oh, Fritz! and you've got a little pig? \Vhere did you find it?
Did you kill it? Oh, do show it to us.

Fritz then, with a self-satisfied air, placed before me the first
result. of his hunting exploits.

"You have succeeded, no doubt, Fritz," I said gravely; " but I
cannot; allow you to utter falsehoods even in joke or to surprise us.
The habit of untruthfulness in play easily leads to speaking falsely
on serious subjects."

Fritz promised not to offend again. And then he told us he
had wandered to the other side of the creek, and found the vege-
tation very different; green grass, pleasant meadows, and such
magnificent trees to shade us from the heat.

" And, papa," he added; "there are chests and boxes and spars
floating about from the wreck. Can we not: go and fetch them?
If the animals were here that we left on board, it would be easy to
find food for them; and how useful they would be, especially the
cow, to supply us with milk. Don't let us stay in this barren
place."

"Patience, patience, my boy," I said. "One thing at a time.
To-morrow we will try what can be done. But, tell me, did you
see anything of our fellow-passengers ? "

"No, papa; not a single trace on sea or land. And, papa, I
think this place is an island; and," he added quickly, "there are
pigs here, because I have shot one; but; I don't think it exactly
resembles the pigs in Europe, for its paws are more like those of a
hare. I saw several in the grass: they had no fear of me, so I
ventured quite close, and saw them sitting on their hind legs, and
feeding themselves like squirrels. If I had not been afraid they
would all escape from me, I should have tried to catch one alive,
for they appeared almost tame."

Ernest, in spite of his indolent habits, had been a great reader,
and was perhaps the most intellectual of my boys. He had been
examining the dead animal carefully while his brother talked. .

" This is not a pig at all, Fritz," he said; "it has hair like silk,
and four large incisor teeth in front. I believe it is an animal I've
read about in my Natural History called an agouti."

" Indeed E " said Fritz; " listen to our great doctor with his
universal scientific knowledge. I believe it's a young pig after a ."
"Gently, gently," I cried; " don't be so hasty with your jokes.
Ernest, I believe, is right. I have never seen the agouti; but the
appearance of this animal corresponds entirely with the descrip-
tions I have read, as well as the pictures. The agouti is a native
of America. It inhabits hollow trees, is mild and gentle in its
nature, and forms excellent food."

While we were discussing this question, Jack was using his
utmost efforts to open an oyster with his knife, but without success.

"You will never succeed, Jack," I said, "unless you place the
oysters on the hot embers ; they will then open of themselves."

 

In a few minutes Jack brought me an open oyster.

"See, my children," I said; " this is considered a great delicacy
by cpicures; let us taste it." With these words I swallowed the
first oyster, not, certainly, without repugnauce, which, however, I
concealed from the boys.

" Do you like it, papa?" they asked.

' "'I have had enough for the present," I replied; " but I must
leave you to judge for yourselves."

The boys, after looking more closely at the glutinous object, ap-
peared reluctant to make the attempt, but they knew that they
must each eat one to obtain a shell for a spoon. Jack led the way,
performing the task heroically, and swallowing the oyster, as if it
 

were medicine, with all sorts of grimaces, while his brothers followed
his example, yet with evident dislike.*

The empty shells, however, were at last obtained, and we hastened
to put our new fashioned spoons in use, yet not without burning
our fingers as we dipped them into the soup.

Then Ernest brought from his pocket the large mussel-shell which
he had concealed, and filling it with soup, drew himself on one side,
and, laughing at our burnt fingers, set it down to get cool.

" You take care of yourself, my boy, at all events," I said; "I
hope you will procure dishes for us similar to that by-and-bye."

" There are plenty more where that came from," he replied,
laughing.

"I fear you are becoming selfish, Ernest," I said; "I think I
ought to punish you by giving that soup to the two dogs; you can
wait as well as they can."

\Vith all his faults Ernest was amiable in temper; he rose at
once, and placed it before the hungry animals, who swallowed it in
the twinkling of an eye. But what was that to assuage their
hunger?

Suddenly, while we were enjoying our soup, they spied the dead
agouti, and before we could prevent them they had devoured it.

Fritz started up in a rage, and seizing his gun, flew at the dogs
as if he would kill them, and when they rushed from him in terror
he threw stones after them, which caused them to howl with pain.

My angry voice recalled him to himself, and when his mge
calmed down, I talked to him seriously about this hasty temper
which so pained me, for it appeared to become worse instead of
better, as he grew older. I showed him that it had not only
caused him to utter rude and angry words before his younger
brothers, but had I not interfered he would have killed the two
faithful creatures who would no doubt be so useful to us. He
looked very much ashamed as I thus talked to him, and owned he
was wrong, and presently I observed him trying to make friends
with the dogs ; I hoped, therefore, that my words had done good.

As sunset approached, the poultry gathered round as and began
to pick up the crumbs, and then I discovered the valuable contents
of the bag which my wife had placed in the tub with little Frank.
She opened it now, and scattered oats, peas, and barley, which were
eagerly swallowed by pigeons and poultry. She showed me also a
quantity of wheat which she had brought in her bag, and while I

' The Swiss must differ from the English 1in disliking an edible which the latter consider
a uxury.
 

praised her thoughtfulness, I advised her to be economical with this
precious grain, which I hoped we might be able to sow if we had to
remain on the island. I promised also that, on my next trip to the
wreck, I would bring for the poultry the damaged biscuits. Our
pigeons after their supper took refuge in the clefts of the rocks, the
lowls perched themselves on the ridge of the tent, while the ducks
and geese went to roost among the rushes which grew on the brink
of the stream.

We also began to think about retiring to rest, but I first took the
precaution to load our guns and place them within reach, in case of
alarm. "'e then knelt and offered our evening player, thanking
God for His care of us during the (lay, and after asking Him to
watch over us while we slept, we entered the tent.

My children were astonished to observe that night came on
almost suddenly after very little twilight. This made me feel
certain that we were near the equator, or at least in some island
situated within the tropics. In countries near the Line the light
changes to darkness with great rapidity. I left the tent once more
to assure myself that all was quiet around us, and on re-entering,
closed the opening after me, while the cock, awakened by the rising
moon, crowed his evening chant. The heat of the day was followed
by a cold night, which we felt more keenly on our beds of moss.
My wife and the boys, however, were soon asleep. lVe had agreed
to watch alternately during the night, but in spite of all my efforts
I could not keep awake. Unconsciously my eyelids closed softly,
slumber fell upon me, and this our first night on our land of safety
was passed calmly and without alarms.A VOYAGE or DISCOVERY.

T early dawn we were aroused by the crowing of the cocks,
and my wife and I consulted together on the best plan to
adopt in our proceedings during the day. She agreed with

me that not only was it necessary to search for some trace of our
fellow-passengers, but also to explore the country before we decided
upon our future resting-place. She understood readily that it
would be impossible for the whole family to venture on such an
expedition. She proposed, therefore, that I should take Fritz, as he
was the strongest and the most- useful, and leave the younger boys
under her care. I was thankful to find her reconciled to this
arrangement, and begged her to prepare breakfast while I aroused
the boys.

" We have not much left for breakfast," she said, "only the
remains of the soup."

" But where is Jack's lobster ? " I cried, " what has he done with
it ? "

" Go and ask him," she replied, "while I light a fire, and place on
the water to boil."

The boys were soon awake, even Ernest did not require much to
rouse him, and then I inquired of Jack what had become of the
lobster.

He ran at once to fetch it from a crevice in the rock, where he
had hidden it for safety.

"I was determined the dogs should not devour it, as they (lid he
agouti, papa," he said.

" Certainly you take care of what belongs to yourself, my boy,"
I said, "but they are happier who care for the wants of others. I
think also you ought to give up to Fritz the claws of the lobster

25[O
C:

SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

which I promised you, to provide him with a dinner on his journey
10-day."

"A journey! a journey!" they all cried; "are we going?" and
they began to jump and dance round me like young kids.

" This time it is impossible," I said; " we know not what dangers
we may meet. Fritz and I have strength to struggle against them,
and to hear the fatigue of a long journey, which you could not.
You must stay here with your mother, in safety. "'0 shall take
Turk with us, and leave Floss to guard you. Such a defender and
a loaded gun are not to be despised."

Jack generously offered the whole of his lobster for our use on
the journey, but Ernest remarked drily,

" They will no doubt find plenty of cocoanuts, and that will be
far nicer than your lobster, J aek."

When I desired Fritz to take his gun and an axe, with a game.
bag, he blushed, and asked my permission to choose another instead
of his own.

To this I readily agreed, although I would not notice the blush.
I knew that he had injured his gun in trying to strike the dogs on
the previous evening, and I felt pleased to see that he still remem-
bered his outburst of temper with shame.

I told him, however, to place two small pistols in his belt, while
I loaded the game-bag with powder and shot, some biscuits and a
bottle of water.

lly this time breakfast was ready; it consisted of the lobster and
some biscuits. The flesh, however, of the fish was so hard, and of
such an unpleasant flavour, that no one regretted its loss when
Fritz placed what remained in the game-bag.

" "'e ought to start soon, papa," he said, " before the heat of the
day comes on."

"Quite right, my boy," I replied; " but we have forgotten some-
thing of great importance."

" What is it?" he asked; " to say farewell to mannna and the
buys '!

"I know," said Ernest,--" we have not had morning prayers yet."

"Yes, my boy, that is it. \Ve are apt to forget God too easily
while We are thinking of the nourislnnent of our bodies and other
requirements of this life, and yet we never wanted his succour and
protection more surely than we do now."

Jaek, who was behind me, forgot himself in a love of fun; he
pretended to pull a rope, and shouted, " Bim bom, bim bom, hibi-
bom! To prayers! to prayers ! " in imitation of the church bells.
I turned quickly, exclaiming, " Wicked child, to mix up jokes
and fun with sacred things; go away, I shall not allow you to
kneel with us."

Jack withdrew and knelt at a distance, and then, after beseech-
ing God in His mercy still to protect us, and especially to watch
over us while we were separated, I implored pardon for the little
one among us who had so thoughtlessly offended.

W hen I had finished, Jack came to me in tears, and expressing his
sorrow, asked me to forgive him, and promised never to commit such
a fault again. I readily pardoned him, and felt thankful as I reflected
that whatever might be the faults of my children, they were always
ready to acknowledge themselves wrong, and to seek forgiveness.

Before Fritz and I started, I called the younger boys round their
mother, and enjoined them to obey her in everything implicitly. I
reminded her also to be sure and keep a loaded gun close at hand,
and not to lose sight of our tub-boat, as in case of alarm it would
prove a place of refuge.

At last we separated, not without grief and hesitation, for we
knew not what might happen to us before we met again; Fritz and
I heard the sorrowful adieus of those we left behind till we reached
the banks of the stream which we intended to cross.

The ground here rose abruptly, and was so rocky and steep that
we were obliged to follow the current for a long time, to find a spot
at which to cross and get farther inland. I, however, rejoiced over
this proof that I had left my family safely protected by rocks as
lofty as I could desire for their defence.

After walking a long (listance, the stream grew narrower, and at
length we reached its source, from which it tumbled over rocks and
stones down a precipice, forming a. cascade in its descent.

Across the narrowest part we contrived to leap from stone to
stone, and after a struggle over broken rocks and tall withered
grass, we reached the opposite bank in safety; and by endeavouring
to descend towards the sea, I hoped we should meet fewer obstacles
to our progress.

We had not advanced a hundred steps, when we heard a strange
noise, and a rustling in the grass behind us. I stopped, and saw
Fritz fearlessly raise his gun and wait calmly for the unknown
enemy, which proved to be no other than our dog Turk. In our
trouble we had forgotten to call him, and he had been sent after
us. I overwhelmed the animal with caresses, and praised Fritz for
his steadiness and caution, for had he fired through fear he might
have killed the dog.
" You see, my son," I said, " how fatal our passions are if not
under control. Yesterday through your anger, and to-day from
fear, you might have destroyed our best and most useful friends.-"

While conversing thus we reached the sea-shore. Here we stood
still for awhile, looking in every direction across the ocean, in the
hope of discovering the boats containing our fellow-passengers;
but not even in the sand could we find any trace of the footsteps
of man.

" If I were to fire my gun from time to time, and they should
be on the land, they would perhaps hear it," said Fritz.

" Very likely," I replied; "but these signals might bring wild
beasts upon us, which would not be very agreeable."

"Why should we trouble ourselves about those who forsook us
so cruelly ?" asked Fritz.

" For several reasons, my boy," I replied; " and first, because we
ought always to return good for evil, and therefore if they could
not be useful to us, we might help them greatly, for they carried
nothing away from the wreck."

Silently reflecting, we continued our walk inland, and at the end
of two hours arrived at the entrance of a wood, not far from the
sea. Here we halted, and seated ourselves in the cool shade by a
rippling brook which flowed under the trees. Around us fluttered
happy birds of various kinds, twittering and singing joyously; but
they were less remarkable for sweetness of song than for the bright-
ness of their plumage.

Presently Fritz fancied he saw an ape among the foliage, and
the uneasiness of Turk, who barked furiously, confirmed him in his
idea. He rose to assure himself that he was right, and, while
looking up, and regardless of his steps, he struck his foot violently

. against something round which had fallen in his path.

He picked it up, and bringing it to me, he said, " What is this,
papa? I think it must he the nest of some birc ."

I smiled as I replied, " It is a nut, my boy, a cocoanut too."

" Some birds make round nests, I know," he persisted.

"Certainly they do, but that is no reason that this should be a
nest. Do you not remember that the coeoanut has two shells, the
outer one thin and covered with fibres, and the inner one hard and
containing a milky fluid? Break it, Fritz, and you will find the
inner nut or kernel inside."

He obeyed, but the nut was evidently an old one, for the inside
of the kernel was quite decayed and unfit to eat.

Fritz was disappointed : he had expected to find the sweet milk
and the white lining to the inner shell, and asked me a number of
questions respecting the nut, which I answered carefully; and
after this lesson in natural history I proposed that we should go
farther into the wood, where no doubt grew other cocoanut-trees,
and perhaps meet with a fresher nut.

We succeeded at last in finding another, but even this was un-
pleasant in taste, and contained no milk. '

A little farther on and the wood became so thick that we were
obliged to cut our way through with the hatchet. At last, when
the trees grew farther apart, we saw to our right, scattered here
and there, solitary trees of a peculiar species, which attracted the
notice of Fritz.

Presently his keen eyes espied two of such a singular appearance
that he stopped to examine them, and then criet , " 'apa, only look
at those trees, with large bulbs growing on the trunks: do come
and examine them."

I drew nearer, and found to my great satisfaction a group of cala-
bash--trees,loaded with fruit. Fritz could not understand my pleasure.

"Whatever can those excrescences be ? " he asked.

" We will soon discover the secret," I replied. " Gather one of
them, and let us examine the interior."

Immediately he placed in my hands a common gourd or pumpkin,
with a shell that seemed to me, however, unusually soft.

" This gourd, Fritz," I said, "has in general a hard, dry shell, of
whic'.' jcups, plates, and bottles can be made. The flexible stem of
the plant on which it grows winds itself round the trunks and
boughs of large and strong trees, from which the gourd is suspended ;
and can you guess for what reason ? "

" Yes," replied Fritz; " without this support the weight of the
gourd would break the branches of the plant on which it grows."

"You have guessed rightly," I replied; "and it will prove to
you how wisely all things are arranged by God."

"And are gourds good to eat ?" he asked.

"They are eaten sometimes," I said, " although they are not
pleasant to the taste. The shell, however, is very useful to savage
nations: they make clips, and plates, spoons, bottles, and even
cooking vessels of it." .
_ " Vessels for cooking ! " exclaimed Fritz; " why, that seems
impossible; the shell would burn it placed on the file."

"' Of course it would," I replied; " but they manage to cook
Without doing so."

" That is a curious idea, to cook without fire."
"My boy, you jump to conclusions too quickly. I did not say
they cooked their food without fire. I wish you would reflect
before you speak. Let me now explain. The natives, when they
use the gourd for cooking, divide the shell into two parts, and
fasten a handle on each. Into these they pour water, as we should
into a saucepan, and place in it portions of fish, crab, or anything
else that they wish to cook. Red hot stones are then thrown in,
which boil the water, and while the dinner is being quickly pre-
pared, the shell remains unhurt."

" Perhaps if I had reflected, I should have guessed how they
managed," said Fritz; " it is a very clever plan, certainly."

"And you are as clever as the friends of Columbus. After he
had discovered how to make an egg stand on its nan'owest point,
they said anyone might have thought of cracking it gently to flatten
it, as he (li( ."

"I suppose I am like the friends of Columbus," said Fritz,
laughing; " at all events, I shall be overjoyed at being able to pro-
vide my mother with spoons instead of oyster shells, as well as cups
and basins."

Fritz took up a gourd as he spoke, and attempted to divide it
with his knife, but without success. The blade appeared unable to
penetrate the shell, and after notching his knife and spoiling the
gourd, he threw the latter away in a pet, wondering at the hardness
of a shell which seemed so soft.

"Do not be so hasty, my friend," I exclaimed; " the shell can be
opened in another way; look here, Fritz."

He watched me with surprise as I tied a piece of string tightly
round the gourd, which slightly opened the bark; I then drew it
tighter, and inserted the point of my knife in the opening; it
became at once an easy task to draw the string through the softer

part within, and so separate the shell into two unequal parts, each
forming a useful vase like a basin.

"What a pretty little saucepan!" exclaimed Fritz. "Papa, how
came you to think of such a clever way ?" '

" From the accounts I have read of voyages and travels in savage
countries," I replied. " It proves the advantage of reading, for in
this way I learnt that the natives who do not possess knives always
open the gourds with a piece of string."

I then showed him how to form the shell into bottles, spoons,
and other articles, and as each appeared he expressed his joy at
the thought of the useful things he should be able to take to his
mother.A GLORIOUS PROSPECT.
" They appear very fragile," he said at last.

"That- is easily rectified," I replied; "fill them with sand, Fritz,
and bury them on the shore; the heat of the sun will soon harden
them."

Fritz appeared greatly satisfied after performing this task, for he
had no inclination to carry on our exploring expedition such a load
as the spoons, cups, and basins we had buried in the sand. But
we marked the spot, that we might find it again on our road home.

As we continued our walk, Fritz employed himself in trying to
form a. small spoon for little Frank, from a piece of the gourd he
had thrown away. I also endeavoured to fashion another from the
cocoanut--shell; but I must own that our productions were not
first-rate.

" We recognize the savages as our masters in this respect, Fritz.
Our spoons are very inferior to theirs."

" Never mind, papa; I shall keep them until we can get better."
And I quite approved of his intention.

\Vhile thus employed, we did not neglect to examine carefully
the country through which we passed; but its aspect was not
inviting. At length, after walking for nearly four hours, we
arrived at a kind of peninsula, which stretched far out into the sea,
and terminated in a small but steep hill, the summit of which
appeared a most convenient spot for taking a survey of the sea and
the surrounding country.

Up this we climbed with some difficulty; but when we reached
the top, a glorious prospect repaid us for our trouble. Before us
stretched the calm ocean sparkling in the sunlight. To our left
appeared a small bay, of which the encircling shore was lost in the
distant boundary of sea and sky; while almost to the water's edge
the rich verdure of the land, notwithstamling its want of cultiva--
tion, displayed treasures unknown in the continent of Europe.

After gazing with delight on this fertile spot, we turned towards
the sea, and examined with our glass its vast expanse, but no trace
of our companions could he discovered. The same result followed
our search through the glass over the inland prospect. No habita--
tions of man nor signs of his presence could he discovered.

The reflection that we were alone saddened me, even while the
appearance of nature in this fertile spot relieved us of all fear that
we might sufler from hunger. Yet this at last consoled me; and
I said, after some minutes of silence,

" Fritz, God has prepared for us another destiny to the one we
anticipated. He has chosen for us the life of colonists, and our

4
confidence in our heavenly Father has not been misplaced. He
orders all things for the best, and we will try to he as happy as
posslhle in our lonely island."

" It matters very little to 1110," said Fritz. "I would rather be
alone than have for our companions those who so cruelly left; us
11) our fate. "'0 boys will soon grow strong enough to help you,
papa, and God will preserve 11s."

"True, my son. [am glad to hear you say this: it gives me
courage. However, we must not: remain here any longer in this
hurning sun. Let us find a shady spot in which we may rest
while we take some refreshment."

As we descended the hill we perceived at some little distance a
grove of palm-trees; but: to reach it; we had to cross a large space
of ground thickly overgrown with tall reeds, so interlaced with
each other that our progress was most difficult.

"'e advanced slowly and cautiously, for at; every step we feared
that we should tread upon venomous snakes. I therefore sent:
Turk on before, that he 111ight give 11s warning ; and, as a further
means of defence, I cut from the reeds, which were tall and thick,
one of the shongest I could find, and carried it in my hand.

Yerv soon, to my astonishment, a "lutinous liquid ran hctueen
my ti11gers.I touched it with my lips, and its sweet; taste [11m ed
to me at once. that we had discm med a wild ov elgiowth of sugar-
caues. I tasted it again, and my certainty was continued, especially
as I found the juice very refreshing.

l'resently I told Fritz, who was a little in advance of me, to cut
a reed as :1 protection, but I said nothing of the sugar. I left to
him the pleasure of linding it out for himself.

He obeyed at once, seized the cane, and connnenced hrandish-
ing it over his head and striking the reeds right and left, to frighten
away the serpents. In so doing he broke it, and set; free an
abundance of the juice, which streamed upon his hands.

Without a word he tasted it, and innnediately sucked his fingers,
laughing and jumping for joy as he cried,

"Papal oh, papa! it is the sugar-cane! Only taste it! I am
sure it is sugar-cane. Ah, how delighted my dear mother and the
boys will he if I carry some home for them 5"

While C'XCltllllllllf' in this \1 '1) he broke the cane in pieces, and
sucked it so eage1l1, that; I was oblirred to check him, for fear he
should make himself ill.

' \\ e should take 111 111ode1ation any thing that pleases the palate,"
Isaid. " 01 what we long for Ver much may becon1ehur.tful"FRITZ RESTRAINED FROM SHOOTIXG THE MONKEY.
 

" I can, however, cut down enough sugar-sticks to carry with us,
to refresh ourselves on our way home, and that mamma and my
brothe1s may share in the pleasure of our discovery."

" I can have no objection, Fritz; but will it not be too heavy a
load to carry such a distance ? "

My advice fell powerless. Fritz cut down a dozen of the finest
and largest canes, and tied them in a bundle, which he took
under his arm. We then continued our way till the cane forest
came to an end, and we found ourselves in the grove of palm-
trees.

Seating ourselves beneath the pleasant shade, we were glad to
rest while partaking of our frugal repast. Presently a troop of
monkeys, alarmed at our appearance as well as at the furious
barking of Turk, sprang to the top of the trees with such rapidity,
that we could not follow their movements with our eyes.

As soon as they found themselves safe, they commenced jabber-
ing at us with all their 111ight, grinding their teeth and uttering the
most horrible cries.

I had only just time to notice that these creatures had perched
themselves on the cocoanut-trees, and therefore that I could make
them useful, when I saw Fritz throw down his bundle of canes,
seize his gun, and point it at one of the monkeys.

My hasty cry arrested his hand.

" \V hat are you about, Fritz? "'lmt advantage will you gain by
destroy in" ex tn one of those p001 animals. 9 "

"Why should they not he killed. 7" he said angrilv. "Just look
how they a1e showimr their teeth at 115.1 believe they are spiteful,
malicious creatmes."

" And do their menaces excite the anger of wise Fritz ?" I re-
plied. " I am indeed astonished. If an animal does as no injury,
its death is useless, except for food. "'0 ought never to kill them
for revenge; and I think I know a better way to make them useful
than if you were to kill a dozen. I am going to try, but take care
of your head. If my stratagem succeeds, they will give us a good
return for savingr their skins."

I pic kcd up some stones as I spoke, which I tlnew at the
111onke1s,hut not lllf'll enough to leach them. Their mge at this
increased to fuiy, and p1esentlv they plucked and pouxed down
upon 11s a perfect hail of cocoanuts. The nuts fell mound 11s in
every direction, and we had to save ou1selves as we best could in
the shelter of the trees, or by jumping.r aside to avoid them.

Fritz laughed so heartily, that he had scarcely strength left to
escape; but when the cocoanut shower ceased, he gathered up as
many as he could carry with eager satisfaction.

Then we sought for a spot on which to sit and enjoy our harvest
of nuts, the shells of which we broke with a hatchet; and by
makingr a hole at one end of the kernel with a knife, and another
on the opposite side, we were able to suck the milk from it.* It
was not exactly to our taste, but after breaking the inner shell we
found a white part inside, which, being easily scraped off with the
new spoons, proved very agreeable eating. The juice from the
sugar-canes completed our delicious feast.

The remains of the crab, now despised, were given to Turk, with
a few biscuits, and as even then he did not appear satisfied, we
threw him seine pieces of the sugar-cane and cocoanuts, which he
pounced upon eagerly, and crunched them between his teeth till
not a morsel remained.

After we had finished our repast, I selected a few of the cocoa-
nuts, the stalks of which still adhered; these I tied together, to en-
able me to carry them more easily. Fritz tool: up his bundle of
sugar-canes, and, thus laden, we started on our walk homewaul to
rejoin our family.

 

' The milky lullud is only found in the cocoanut while it is unripe. As the nut ripens
the milk congeals, and gradually grows Iirm and white. When over-ripe, this white sub-
stance is lianlnmnl very llnwllolcsome; but in its most perfect state, this lining of the
cocozumt shell ls Ilnn, soft, and sweet.THE HOMEWARD JOURNEY.

N a very short time I discovered that Fritz began to feel the
bundle of canes lie heavily on his shoulders. He shifted it
from one to the other continually, and at last, placing it under

his arm, with a sigh exclaimed,

"Really, papa, I never could have supposed these reeds would
prove so heavy; and yet I do wish to carry them home, that
mamma and my brothers may taste them."

"Patience and courage, my boy," I replied. " Do you not recall
the fable of fEsop, in which he speaks of a bread-basket, so heavy
at the commencement of a journey, and so light at the end of it?
Your burden will diminish in the same manner, for we shall have
occasion often to refresh omselves before we reach home. Give
me, therefore, at once a cane, which shall be to me a pilgrim's staff
as well as a cruise of honey; and I advise you to follow my ex-
ample. -Besides, if you tie the rest tightly to the end of your gun,
and carry it across your shoulder, you will find the burden much
lighter. Necessity is the mother of invention, and we need our in-
ventive power more especially when our strength fails."

As we continued our journey, Fritz remarked that I was sticking
the end of the cane he had given me, and appeared refreshed.

" How cleverly you manage, papa," he said; "I have tried with
all my efforts to obtain sugar from one of the canes, but I cannot
succeed." '

" There is a cause for your failure," I replied; "reflect a little,
and perhaps you will find it out."

After a few minutes of silence, he exclaimed.

"Papa, I have discovered the reason: suction requires air to
assist it. I believe if Imake a hole just above the first joint of

the cane. that the. juice will come."
39
 

While he thus spoke, he pierced a small opening with the point
of his penknifc, and the sweet liquid passed freely into his mouth.

"How wonderful it is, papa!" he said, as he walked on, much
1efrcshed; " but I cannot quite understand why it should require
this opening.'

' It is a natu1al la11',"I replied, " that nature ahhom a vacuum,
or empty space. The1efore, as by suction you draw out the air
from the hollow canc, the sugar juice rushes in to fill 11p the
vacumn. But. my boy, we must not be extravagant with our
refreshing liquid, or we shall have nothing,r left to carry to the tent
but (111 sticks. Do not let that trouble you, however, for the heat
of the sun will most likely turn the sweet juice sour, after the
canes have been cut and exposed to the heat of the sun. At all
events, I hope we shall have enough left to show what a discovery
we have made to your mother and brothers."

"And if not," said Fritz, "I have some bottles full of cocoanut
milk in my game--bag, tightly corked down, that will be a treat for
them."

"Don't make too sure, Fritz. You may find a. bottle full of
vinegar instead of cocoanut milk when we reach home. "'hen
taken out of its natural receptacle, it quickly spoils."

" Shall we try one now ? " he asked. " It would be unfortunate
to find nothing but 1i11er_{ar to offer to mamma."

A bottle was taken f1o1n the bay; and as we endeavoured to
fo1ce the cmk out with a penknife, it blast forth with an explosion
like gunpowder, and the contents flew into the air, frothing and
foaming like champagne.

"The movement in walkingr has caused it to ferment," I said
as I tasted the liquor,"and it is really very pleasant and refreshing."

l"1itz follo11cd 1111 example so cagetlr, that I 11as obliged to 11- am
him that drinkinrr too much would intoxicate him, and give him a
bad headache next 1110111infr.

" Mamma will like this," he said, as we continued our 11'a1.

"' I fea1 not " was my 1epl1'. "The heat will cause a 1epetition of
the fermentation, and the next stage pioduces vinegar}

ll hile thus co111crsingr,11e a1ri1 ed at the spot where we had left
0111 plates, basins, and spoons to ha1den in the sand \Ve found
them so dry and 11ell plese11,ed that they could easily be ca11ied
in the name bagr without 111con1 enie11cc.

\\ 0 had scaiccly entcled the 11 ood 111 which 11c had (lined 11 hen
Turk inshed past us,ba1king fu1iousl1 at :1 {110111) of 111011ke1s, 11110
11110 enjov in" thei 11 Irambols in pcifcct iqnotance of our approach.TIII',' IIOMIL'IVA RI) JOURNEY. 41

Alarmed at the barking of the dog, they sprang into the trees
out of his way--all but a female monkey, who carried a little one
on her back, and could not escape.

lefore We reached him, Turk had seized the poor animal, and
although Fritz rushed to the rescue, throwing off his hat and the
sugar-canes, he arrived too late to save her. The poor creature was-
dead, and Turk preparing to devour it.

"'ith angry indignation Fritz tried to drive the dog away, but
as I reached the spot I advised him to desist. The unsatisfied
hunger of Turk had remlered him savage, and therefore dangerous.
The conduct of the baby monkey at this moment also diverted his
mind from the sad spectacle, and caused me great amusement.

It had fallen on the grass when Turk seized its mother, and was.
looking at the dog and making all sorts of grimaccs. The instant
the little one caught sight of Fritz, with one spring he jumped on
his back and clung firmly to his hair. Neither cries nor blows on
the poor little creature could release Fritz of his burden; and
seeing there was no danger, the annoyance to Fritz and the
grimaces of the little monkey rendered it impossible for me to help
laughing heartily.

I hastened, however, to remove the unwelcome guest; and, by
caresses and gentleness, I succeeded in relieving Fritz of his-
lair-den. I took it in my arms as I would an infant, and my pity
rose for its helplessness. It- was not much larger than a kitten,
and evidently incapable of providing for itself.

"The little creature has lost its mother, and has taken you for
its adopted father, Fritz," I said, joking him. "I wonder what
resemblance he finds in you to his own family ? "

"The little rogue!" laughed Fritz. "I suppose he discovered
that I am a good natured chap and kind to animals, so he placed
himself under my protection; but he has pulled my hair terribly."

"What shall I do with it ?" I said. " If we take it home, how
are we to feed it in our poverty ?"

"Father," said Fritz, "do let me keep it and bring it up. "'e
can feed it- with cocoanut milk; or if we get the cow and the goat
from the ship, there will be milk to spare. And perhaps the tu-
slinct of this little creature may help us to discover it the fruits
and vegetables we find are fit for food."

"' I cannot object, my son," I replied; "' and I am pleased to find
you have no foolish resentment against the poor little beast. Y.""
shall bring up your pro/(PS76; and, according to the manner in which
it is trained, its instinct will be useful or hurtful."
Meanwhile, the dreadful dog tranquilly finished his horrihle
,meal. llut we did no: wait. for him, although he could sc rccly he
hlamed for his animal instincts; in fact, the dog was half starved.

Taking the hundle. of sugar-canes and the game hag, I allowed
the little monkey to resume his place on the shoulders of him,
and we continued our walk.

'l'resently we heard Turk trotting after us, attd although we
overwhelmed him with rcproaches for his cruel conduct, he did not
'trouhle himself, hut walked quietly hehind Fritz.

The presence of the dog alarmed the monkey, and in his fright
he crept over the shoulder of Fritz and nestled in ltis hosotn for
protection, heeotning at last very trouhlesome.

A sudden thought flashed across the youth's mind. He took a.
piece of string from his pocket, tied it round Turk's neck, and
,placed the little monkey on his hack. He then put the end of
the string in the fore paw of the tiny cavalier, and addressed Turk
in these pathetic words:

"As you have killed the mother, it is but fair that you should
carry the child yourself."

The dog at first objected to this arrangement, hut, by coaxings
and threats, we induced him to snhmit. The little monkey, who
.at first appeared to dislike his new seat, finished at last by making
himself comfortahle.

This scheme of Fritz amused me greatly; and presently I said,
with a laugh,

" ""0 are approaching our home like two mountehanks going to
a fair with a monkey and a performing dog. "'hat a clamour of
rejoicing there will he when the hoys see us!"

Still advancing on our way as we talked, we arrived near the
stream which we had crossed at the falls in the morning, almost
hef'ore we were aware. The dog Floss, which had hcen left at the
tent, scented us from afar, and saluted our approach hy harking
loudly. Turk harked in reply with all his might, and so alarmed
his little author, that he sprang front the dog's hack to the
shoulders of Fritz, and nothing could induce him to descend.
Then Turk, finding himself free, set ofl' to reconnoitre the country,
and crossed the river hy swimming, that he might the more quickly
join his companion and announce our arrival.

Very soon the dear ones appeared, one after the other, on the
opposite hank, to welcome our approach and to testify their joy at
-our happy return. We crossed the river at the same spot as in the
morning, and very soon found ourselves in the arms of each other.
hit the children scarcely gave themselves time to examine what
we had brought before they commenced jumping and shouting joy-
fully.

"Oh, a monkey! Fritz, where (lid you find it? Oh, what a
pretty little creature! I wish I knew what it could eat. But what
are those sticks for? And look at those great things papa is
carrying."

These questions and cries crossed each other so rapidly, that we
knew not which way to turn or how to reply.

'When the first transports were over and they calmed down a
little, I said,

" I am overjoyed to see you all once more, my dear ones. "'e
have returned in safety, thank God, and we have brought you all
sorts of good things; but we have not succeeded in finding any
trace of our fellow-travelleis, nor indeed any signs of inhabitants
in this island."

" Let us praise God for uniting us once more in safety," said my
wife: " and I thank Him that we can still be happy in our own
society and love. And first let us relieve you of your burdens."

Jack immediately took my gun, Ernest loaded himself with the
cocoanuts, Frank carried the spoons and plates made from the
gourds, and my wife the game bag. Fritz untied the sugar-canes
from his gun, and asked Ernest to carry them, while he again placed
the little monkey on 'l'urk's back.

Ernest, although he carried the cocoanuts, could not refuse; but
he appeared so laden, that his mother, out of pity, took the nuts
from him.

"Ah," said Fritz, "if Ernest only knew what he had given up, he
would soon ask for them again. They are cocoanuts, Ernest, the
dear nut-s that you are so fond of."

"Coeoanuts!" he exclaimed. "Ah, mannna, let me have them
again. I can carry them easily, gun and all."

"No, no, my child; I shall, perhaps, hear you complaining again
presently how the load fatigues you."

" I can throw away these sticks, then, and carry the gun in my
hand."

" Throw away those sticks, will you ?" cried Fritz. " "'hy, they
are sugar-canes. Come here, Ernest, and I will show you how to
get at the sugar."

"Sugar-canes! sugar-canes ! " was the general cry, as the boys all
clustered round Fritz, and begged him to relate how and where he
discovered them.
 

And so one thing after another was described and explained ;.
yet, after all, nothing gave more complete satisfaction than the
cups, plates, and spoons made out of the gourds from the calabash
tree.

\Vhen we reached the tent, I found a wonderful repast preparing
for us at the cooking place. -

Upon a large fire burning on the stone hearth stood the iron pot
full of soup. From a piece of wood, which rested at each end on
two other pieces fixed in the ground, hung a goose roasting, the fat
falling into dried oyster shells underneath it.

Several kinds of fish were cooking on the hot stones; and, best
of all, there stood at a little distance one of the chests I had saved
from the wreck. My wife and the boys had contrived to drag it
up from the river side and open it, and I could see it contained a
large number of Dutch cheeses wrapped in thin sheets of lead.

All this was very tempting to travellers whose hunger was far
from being satisfied.

" It appears to me, my dear children, that you certainly have not
been idle during our absence; yet it was almost a pity so soon to
kill one of our geese. I wished so much to spare the denizens of
our farmyard."

" Do not he uneasy, dear husband," said my wife; " that is not
one of our geese, but a wild bird with a singular name which Ernest
killed. and he assures me it is very good eating."

"I believe it is a penguin, papa," said Ernest; "and I called it a
l:nnl)_\' because it allowed me to kill it so easily with a stick. After
it was dead I felt sorry, for it appeared so tame."

"What sort of feet and beak has this bird .7 " I asked.

"It has the feet of aquatic birds," replied Ernest, "for all the
four toes are united by a membrane. The beak is long, slender,
and strong; a little curved at the extremity, and exactly like the
description of a penguin which I read in my Natural History at
home. I have saved the. head and neck to show you, papa."

" I do not doubt you are right, my boy; and it. proves to you how
much may be learnt by reading attentively."

"Come, now," said his mother, " let us drop discussion, do you
not observe how the eyes of Ernest are fixed on the cocoanuts while-
he talks? Let him have the pleasure of tasting as well as carrying
them."

" Willingly," I replied, " but Fritz must show him how to obtain

the milk by suction; and the poor little monkey must not be for-
gotten."
 

" But he won't take anything, papa," said Jack. " I have tried
him with all I can think of."

"\Ve must try him presently with the milk of the cocoanut," I
said. " N o doubt he will drink that."

My wife summoned us to supper, and we all seated ourselves on
the ground, with the spoons, basins, and plates made from the
calabaslr tree, which we found most useful. I broke the outer
covering of two cocoanuts for them, and they quite enjoyed the
white lining of the inner shell after I had extracted the milk.

Seine of this was saved for the monkey, and the boys, after
dipping the corners of their handkerchiefs in it, were delighted to
find that the little creature could suck them eagerly, for now there
was hope of rearing him to a. full grown ape.

I promised to show the boys how to make spoons and cups from
the cocoanut shells, which they were very anxious to do; and the
mother was delighted to find she need not again serve out the soup
in oyster shells. \Ve enjoyed our supper, although no one liked to
try the penguin till I set them the example. It had rather a taste
of train oil; however, we managed to eat some of it.

I forgot to mention, that while we were enjoying the fish, which
were very good, Fritz asked if his mother would not like to taste
the coeoanut champagne.'

" Taste it first yourself, Fritz," I said, " so that you may know
what you are about to offer to your mother."

"He 1" he exclaimed presently, with a wry face, " it is vinegar!"

"As I expected, my boy; but never mind, vinegar is very good
with fish," and as I spoke I poured some into my gourd basin,
and the rest followed my example.

Then, while we had for dessert, cheese, coeoanuts, and sugar-cane
juice, each related his exploits, and explained how the fish, the
penguin, the cocoanuts, the sugar--canes, and so on, were found.

It was near sunset by the time we had finished, and necessary,
therefore, to prepare our beds for the night. My wife and the boys
had provided a large quantity of dry moss and grass to spread on
the floor of our tent, and we expected, in consequence, to find our
beds softer than on the preceding night.

The poultry were already gone to roost on the ridge of the tent,
and the geese and ducks had betaken themselves to their night
quarters. And after ofi'ering our evening prayer, we entered the
tent. The baby ape entered with us, and Fritz and J aek took the
little motherless creature to sleep between them, to protect him
from the cold.
Mv wife and the boys lay down to rest, and after I had closed
the entrance to the tent, I followed their example, and, overcome
with the fatignes of the day, soon slept as soundly as they did.

\Ve had not been asleep long, however, when l was aroused by
the restless movements of the fowls and the barking and yelping
of the dogs. Seizingr my gun, I rushed out quickly, followed by
my wife and Fritz, who were also armed.

 

ln amazement I perceived, by the light of the moon, that a great
battle was going on at a little distance, between a number of jaclials
and our brave dogs. Already they had settled three or four of their
lilants, and those who remained surrounded them, hoping to
take them at a disadvantage; but the two courageous animals kept
them at bay, and would not allow them to approach. "'0 were
just in time to save them from being overpowered. Fritz and ITIIE H 0.11 E I! 3111'!) J (J URXE l". 47

 

fired together, two of the jackals fell dead on the sand; and our
set'nnd volley wounded others, while the rest took to Night.

The dogs quickly dispatched the wounded, and, after waitingr a
few minutes to see if any returned, we were about to re-euter the
tent, when Fritz asked permission to bring the jaekal he had killed
away from the dogs, who were proving their brotherhood to the
wild animals of their species by devouring their remains. He
wished to preserve it, to show to his brothers in the morning as a
proof of his prowess, and his mother readin gave him permission.
Not without great ell'orts, however, could he drag the (lead body of
the animal to the tent, for it was unusually large. He succeeded
at last in hidingr it among the rocks behind our tent, and then we
returned to the sleepers, who had not been disturbed by the un-
usual noise.

We fell asleep again almost, immediately, and did not wake till
the crowingr of the cooks announced the return of the sun.A SUCCESSFUL vomae.

Y first thoughts, on waking, made me anxious. So many
duties pressed upon me, that I at once began to consult
my wife, and seek her advice.

" What shall I undertake first to-(lay, dear wife?" I said. "I
know a voyage to the ship is absolutely necessary, if we wish to
save the animals from starving; and there are so many things on
the wreck that would be useful to us. On the other hand, we
have much to do here, and above all, to construct a new dwelling
place."

" Do not be uneasy, dear husband," she replied ; " with patience,
order, and persevering diligence, all will be accomplished in time;
and most certainly a voyage to the wreck is first necessary, for
should a storm arise, everything on board would be lost. 'Take
no thought for to-morrow, for [he morrow will take thought for
the things of itself,' said the great Friend of mankind, and
we must not anticipate evil, but trust in Him to guide us in
all we do."

This advice so agreed with my own wishes, that I determined to
follow it; and, after arrangingr that the younger boys should
remain on shore with their mother, and Fritz accompany me, I
roused the sleepers.

"Up! up! children!" I cried. "It is bright daylight, and we
have so much to perform to-day. ' The morning hour carries gold
in its mouth.' "

But the younger boys found it no easy matter to rouse them-
selves so quickly; they yawned, stretched, and twisted about, to
drive sleep from their eyelids, for a long time before they could
feel quite awake.

Fritz, who had an object in view, was ready quickly, and rushed

48A S UC'CESSII' UL V0 YA G E. 49

out of the tent to find the dead jackal, which he had concealed
among the rocks. The cold night air had stiffened it, so that he
could easily stand it on its legs at the entrance of the tent, like a
sentry. Then he waited impatiently for his brothers to appear,
and wondered what they would say.

But Fritz had forgotten the dogs. No sooner did they catch
sight of one of their enemies on his legs, than they rushed forward
to attack it, barking and yelping furiously; and it was only with
great difficulty that he kept them from destroying the animal,
which they supposed to be alive.

Meanwhile those in the tent were wondering what could be the
matter with the dogs. But they were still more surprised as they
came out, one by one, at the appearance of the strange animal
keeping watch at the entrance. The little monkey peeped out,
with a look of fear; but no sooner did he perceive the jackal than
he rushed into the farthest corner of the tent, and buried himself
in one of the beds of moss so completely, that he entirely disap-
peared from our sight, excepting the tip of his nose.

Many opinions were offered by the boys about the strange animal.
Ernest said it was a fox, Jack a wolf, and Frank called it a yellow
dog.

" Ho, ho! " cried Fritz; "my learned Doctor Ernest, you recog--
nized the agouti, but you are mistaken now. A fox, indeed l"

" I intended to say a golden fox," said Ernest.

"You might just as well talk of a golden wolf," replied Fritz,
with an irritating laugh.

"How teasing you are, Fritz," said Ernest, in a fretful voice,
"because I am mistaken for once: you would not have known
what it was yourself, if papa had not told you, I dare say."

"Come, come, my children, do not quarrel about the animal,"
I said; "Ernest, my boy, you must not be so sensitive when you
make mistakes; and, Fritz, your jokes are not always kind. Besides
your brothers were all right in one respect. The jackal is said
by naturalists to belong to the same family as the fox, the wolf,
and the dog."

My words produced peace, and then eager inquiries were made
about what had occurred in the night; and the boys listened to
our account of the battle between the dogs and the jackals with
great interest. Then we assembled once more for our morning
prayer, and asked God to guide and protect us during the day.

At breakfast we were obliged to content ourselves with biscuits,

which were so hard, that our teeth could scarcely break them. In
5
 

this extremity, Fritz asked for cheese, and went behind the tent to
procure some from tlte cask. Ernest: followed him, and presently
returned witlt a bright face, and exclaimed,

" ()h, papa, if we could only open that other cask E "

" What cask, and why ?"

"\Vell, there is a large cask just outside, and through a little
crack some grease runs out; and I am sure it looks exactly like
butter."

" If what you say is true, my boy," I exclaimed, "' you shall have
the first slice of bread and butter, as a. reward for your discovery."

\Ve all sallied out to examine this wonderful cask, and very
quickly proved that the boy was right. Another ditlienlty arose,
how should we contrive to obtain the butter? Fritz wanted at.
once to take off the first hoop, and open one end of the cask; but
I told him that the staves would become loosened and separate, and
the heat very soon melt the butter.

I resolved at length to make an opening, large enough to admit:
a little wooden spade, and with this take out as much as we re--
quired at a time. My plan succeeded, and in a few minutes we
obtained a coeoanut cup full of beautiful salt butter. We softened
the biscuits easily now, by coveringr them with butter aml holding
them to the fire till it melted, so that, after all, we had a delicious
breakfast. During our meal, the dogs lay quietly by our side, and
did not seem at all anxious for their share of our breakfast. Pre-
sently it occurred to me, that they could not; possibly have escaped,
in such a. battle as theirs during the night, with a whole skin. I
examined the poor animals, aml found that they had been bitten
and wounded in several places, especially about the neck. My wife
was touched with compassion at the sight, and she proposed to rub
the places with butter, as a salve. I spoke of the salt, but she
quickly overcame that ditliculty by washing the butter : then giving
it to Jack, she desired hint to take the dogs under his care, and
carefully anoint their wounds with the butter.

This plan proved successful: the animals very shortly cent-
menced licking their wounds, aml in a few days they were com-
pletely healed.

"If we cnld find sortie spiked collars on the ship," said Fritz,
while Jack entered upon his task, " it would he a protection to our
brave dogs; for the jackals, having,r once discovered traces of our
whereabouts, will be sure to pay us another visit."

"0h!" cried Jack, "I can make some spiked collars, and good
ones too, if mamma will help me."A SUUUESSI" UL VOYAGE. (.1

 

" I can promise you that, little boaster," replied his mother; " and
we shall see what powers of invention you possess."

" That's right, my little man," I said, "exercise the inventive
faculty, and if you produce something useful, all the honour will
be yours. But it is time for us to commence our work. Get ready,
Fritz; your mother and I have decided that you shall accompany
me to the vessel, to assist in bringing away what still remains, and
you, my dears, must stay with your mother. Be obedient to her,
my children, and pray to God to bring us back to you again in
safety."

While Fritz prepared our little barque for the trip, I planted
upon a rock on the shore a pole, with a piece of sail cloth attached
to it, to serve as a signal, to us on the wreck, from those on the
shore. It was agreed that, in case of danger, the flag should be
lowered, and a gun fired three or four times, to recall us.

I prepared my wife for the possibility that she would have to
remain with the boys alone all night, and begged her not to be
alarmed, because our work on the wreck might detain us too late.
But her courage continued unshaken.

\Ve took only our guns and ammunition with us, for we knew
that sufiieient provisions could be found on the wreck. And as I
was about to step into our tub boat, Fritz appeared with the little
monkey on his shoulder, being anxious, as soon as possible, to
obtain for the poor creature fresh milk.

\Ve left the banks of the river in sadness and silence, Fritz
rowing with all his strength, and I steering. When we reached
mid stream, we found that the river had two openings into the bay
and round a small island. The current in one being stronger than
the other, I endeavoured to steer the boat in that direction, and
with success.

This current carried us gently three-fom'ths of our way, with
very little exertion on our parts to maintain the boat in a right
direction, and by a far shorter route than we had taken when we
left the wreck.

\Ve arrived safely at last, and moored our little boat alongside
the vessel, which we entered at the opening already made when we
escaped.

No sooner had we reached the deck, than Fritz, with the little
monkey in his arms, ran towards the place in which we had left
the animals, which, by their bloating, lowing, and grunting, seemed
delighted to see us. Hunger could not have caused this evident
pleasure, for they had plenty of food and water.

0--2
 

\Vithout a word, Fritz placed the monkey near the goat, while I
looked on with amusement at his eager anxiety to obtain suitable.
nourishment for the motherless animal. He had not to wait long.
The goal: readily received it as her foster child, and in a very fe\v
minutes Master Monkey, with many grimaces, was enjoying a
delicious feast of goat's milk.

After we had supplied the animals with fresh food and water, we
connncnccd a search for provisions for ourselves, to give us strength
to work, and quickly found all we needed.

Then followed the question, \Vhat shall be done first? Fritz
proposed that; we should have a sail for our little boat.

" That does not appear to me at all necessary," I said, "at least,
when we have other things of ten times more importance to attend
to; but what- are your reasons, Fritz ?"

"Well," he said, "while we crossed this morning, I noticed that
the wind blew strongly in my face, yet the current carried us on in
spite of it. When we return, the current will not help us, but the
wind would, if we had a sail. Besides, our boat will be heavy,
when we have on hoard so many things, and my single oar will be
of very little use."

This idea of Fritz about a sail appeared so excellent, that I (le-
termined to take his advice. A sailyard was quickly found, of
which to make a mast, and another, thinner, by which I could
regulate the sail. While Fritz bored a hole with a chisel in one of
the tubs, I went to the sail room and cut oil'a piece of cloth, in the
form of a triangle, which I fitted with cords, pulleys, and rings, to
the mast, so that I could raise it and lower it at will. Then, with
the assistance of Fritz, I fixed it in our little boat, and fastened
ropes and cords to draw through the rings at the tops and sides;
and Fritz, when he saw it all completed, expressed his delight, and
declared that our little barque was now quite fitted for a long voyage.

He had taken a survey of the shore through his glass, and in-
formed me that all appeared safe among our dear ones on the land.
At the same time he brought me a little coloured silk kerchief,
which he asked me to fasten to the top of the mast, as a pennant.
I smiled to myself at this boyish vanity, in the midst of our pre-
carious position; but I did what he asked me, and presently the
little streamer was gaily waving in the wind.

" Papa," he said, after a few moments of silence, " you have given
me a sail to save me the fatigue of rowing, and now you ought; to
think of yourself. Can we not find some way to enable you to
steer with more case and safety ?"
 

" The idea is a good one," I said, "and I think it can be man-
agedf' so I attached to each end of the boat two thick cords, to
one of which was adapted an oar, and I found I could work it my-
self with as much ease as the tiller, and thus make my steering
more sure.

All this occupied a longr time, and I quickly found that, unless
we returned with an empty boat, we could not possibly reach the
shore before night. We had arranged, as a signal of our intention
to remain on the wreck all night, to raise a flag, and we hastened

 

BEACON LIGHT.

to do so while daylight continued, that it might he more easily (lis-
tinguished.

The remainder of the day was employed in removing from our
boat the stones and other useless things we had thrown in as bal-
last, replacing them with articles of more importance. To obtain
these, we plundered the ship like Vandals, and accumulated a rich
booty.

Forcsecing that we might have to remain a longr time in our Soli-
tude, we stowed away in our tub boat a large supply of powder and
shot, to serve us in the chase, and as a defence against wild beasts.
All the tools which had been stored in reserve appeared to us of
inestimable value?" It was, indeed, ditlieult to choose, amidst so
many useful articles. However, we supplied ourselves with those
most required in our present need. Knives, forks, spoons, and
cooking vessels, and some silver articles, which we found in the
captain's cabin, with a splendid telescope, several pewter plates and
dishes, and a case of wine, well filled; gridirons, a roasting jack,
saucepans, kettles, and frying pans,--all were carried to our boat
and placed in the tubs. Besides these, we provided ourselves with
a good supply of eatables,--two \Vestphalian hams, and several
bags of wheat, barley, oats, and other grain. In fact, I was anxious
to take as much as we could possibly carry, because the ship, being
so deep in the water, it was not unlikely that in the first storm she
would fall to pieces.

Fritz reminded me that our beds in the tent were hard and cold
at night. We therefore added to our cargo the contents of several
hammocks and a few woollen eoverli s.1"ritz, who seemed to
fancy we could never be snllieiently armed, carried to the boat a
gun, a sword, a sabre, a hunting,' knife, and a small barrel of
powder, while I discovered a flask of brimstone and a roll of sail-
eloth, which could not be left behind.

3y this time our little boat was so deep in the water, that I
should have been obliged to lighten. it but for the smooth and
tranquil sea; yet, as we determined to sleep on board the beat, we
provided ourselves with swimming vests, to be able to escape more
easily in case of danger.

As may be supposed, the night came on before we had quite
finished our work. I was therefore delighted to see the blaze of a
large fire on the rocks, which our dear ones had lighted to prove
that all was well. In return we attached four ship's lanterns to
the wreck as a signal that we were safe, and the report of two guns
from the shore told us that it was recognised and understood.

After our evenin},r prayer to Heaven for protection to them and
ourselves, we laid ourselves down to rest; aml although our posi-
tion in the little tub-boat was not quite comfortable, we slept
soundly from fatigue till morning.

   

'From the large stores on board. it m'ght appear that the vessel was laden with articles
to establish a colony in one of the South Sea islands; this is afterwards . atetl in the

(vrigipal Ccnnau as a fact, and accounts I' r the quantity ofncedl'ul things found in the
"TOG .A LIVING FREIGHT.

ARLY the next morning, before it was light enough to dis-
tinguish the opposite coast, I was up on the deck of the
wrecked vessel, and directing my telescope towards the tent

which sheltered my family.

Meanwhile Fritz prepared a good breakfast, and we placed our-
selves while partaking of it in a position to enable us to watch the
shore. Very soon I saw with joy my wife leave the tent and look
earnestly towards the ship. Instantly we hoisted a piece of white
linen in the ai ', and received in reply a triple salute from the flag
which we had placed on the shore. At this a great weight was
lifted from my heart, for I knew that all was well with those I had
left behind. As soon as we had finished breakfast, I said,

"Now, Fritz, I think we ought to lose no time in getting away
from the vessel; but as I am assured that those on shore are safe,
my compassion is awakened for the poor animals we are about to
leave on the wreck, and who are in danger every moment of
perishing with it. \Villingly would I give up some of the things
with which we have loaded our boat, could we manage to get them
on shore."

" If we constructed a raft, we might take them all," said Fritz.

" A raft is not so easy to make as you imagine, Fritz," I replied ;
"especially without proper materials."

After a slight pause, Fritz exclaimed,

"Could we not fasten round the smaller animals the cork girdles
that we made for ourselves? It would be great fun to see them
swimming like fishes."

55
"" It may he managed in some way, Fritz," I replied, eagerly.

" Let us make the attempt at once."
lut these girdles with the tin water flasks were too weak to
support. the larger animals, and another plan suggested itself.

Four empty casks were found, which we fastened together with
a piece of sail--cloth, not close to each other, but far enough apart
for the cloth to pass under the animal and support it, while the
casks hung on each side like panniers. These were placed under
the cow and the donkey, and the sail-cloth and the tubs fastened
by straps across their backs.*

Itonnd the horns of the cow and the neck of the ass was placed
a cord, with a piece of wood at the end, so that we might guide
them in the water.

For the sheep and the goat the cork girdles were found sullicient.
but the sow was very troublesome. and we had to tie her up before
we could hind the float around her. At last our task was com-
pleted. Each animal had a string attached by which we could
guide it; and then came the dilliculty of launching our livingr
freight into the sea.

\Ve led them to the lower part of the ship, and made the first
experiment by giving the donkey a push into the water. He fell
with great force, but recovered himself quickly, and began to swim
between his two casks with a grace and case that made Fritz clap
his hands in delight.

The cow's turn came next, and as she was of far more value to
me than the ass, I confess I felt very anxious; but I pushed her in
gently, and with equal success. The two casks supported her in
the water, and she commenced swimming with the sang/floul which
characterizes her species.

We managed the smaller animals easily, excepting the sow, who
resisted furiously; and when at last she was forced into the water,
she swam so quickly away from the boat, that to reach the guiding
string would have been impossible, so we were obliged to leave her
to her fate.

After this we did not lose a moment, but detached our cables,
jumped into our boat, and were very soon in the open sea, sur-
rounded hy the animals. We united all the strings and fastened
them to the boat, and connnenced our voyage towards the shore
with a favourable wind, which filled the little sail and carried us
forward pleasantly. In fact, we found the assistance of the wind of

' Just as the baskets in which little children ride are fastened on each side ot donkeys or
pmnes in England.
great service, for the animals weighed heavily upon our little skiff;
and without the sail, rowing would have been hard work.

All went on so favourably, that Fritz and I seated ourselves in
the tubs and took some refreshment.

While Fritz amused himself with his monkey, I again fixed my
telescope on the shore to observe my family. They had shown
themselves just before we started on our homeward voyage, but I
had seen no trace of them since.

 

WHITE SHARK.

But our exertions in savingr the poor animals from the wreck
would have been useless if the sharp eyes of Fritz had not dis-
covered in time a threatened danger.

" Good Heavens!" he exclaimed, all at once, " we are lost! A
monster fish is coming towards us !"

" Lost! How ?" I cried, half angry, half alarmed.

But as Fritz seized his gun and loaded it, I saw the creature
approaching, and followed his example.

" le ready to fire," I said quickly, as the monster with lightning
Speed drew nearer, as if about to seize the nearest sheep. At the
same instant Fritz, who is a good marksman, fired, and both balls
 

entered the head of the (1'eatu1c,11'hiL'h innnediately plunged and
disappeared. From time to time he rose to the surface at; a "reater
distance from us, showing; the shinimr scales on his body, 11l1ile :1
11111.;r track of blood on the water marked his course, and convinced
us that the shot had taken ell'ect. However, I looked around me
very carefully in case the monster should appear again, intending,
this time, to give him :1 double dose.

" He has had enough of it," said Fritz.

"You have been unusuall1 successful, my boy," I replied; "for
these animals are not easily f1i5rhtened, and it is 1"e1'1 ditlicult to
wound them 111th firearms. From what I could see of 11:, the
monster is, I. believe, a shark; :11111 this voracious fish will return
only too willinvly to a place where he knows that prey is to be
found. "

After this I ritz reloaded his "1111 and I redoublcd 1111' 11 :1tthul-
ness, but the monster thought, good to leave 11s at peace. I
therefore again seized the rudder, and as the wind blew favourably
towards the bay, 1 guided 0111' little ship in that: direction, and,
after a few turnings and windings, arrived at- :1 spot: from whence
the animals 111igl1t be able to land easily. I set them free from the
ropes; and while I 11.111'e1'ed the sail they scrambled (111 to the beach,
and presently our little boat lay alongside the old landing-place.

No one was there to welcome us, which made me feel anxious,
for night was approaching, and I knew not where to look for them.

But we had scarcely stepped on shore and relieved the animals
from the ropes that bound them to the boat. when sounds of iov
rang in our mm, and presentl1 :1 little band came jumping and
dancing towards us, followed 111' their mother.

After the first transports of joy at this happy reunion had
passed and we became cahn, I began to describe some of 0111'
exploits and the success of our expedition. llut to 1111' wife the
<r11-1tht woude1 appe 111'cd to be that we had managed to bring the
animals

" Fritz suggested the plan of 1.11'i11ging them 011 floats," I said.
" I must; give him the credit of that."

' 'ut you have carried it out f:11nousl1' " said 1111 wife; "and I
must thank you both, for you have saved that which appears to me
in our position the most 11eccss:1r:1' and the most 1alllable."

l 1'ese11tl1' little 1"'1ank disturbed our c0111 Llsation 111'1'1'111151 out,

" What a pretty little red lla'r 1011 11:11:: tl1ing at the top of the
mast, him! See how it flutters 111 the wind.' "D

Before Fritz could reply Ernest made his appearance. He
jumped on board and admired the mast, the sail, and the little red
pennant, and anxiously inquired 110w we had contrived to make it
so cleverly.

I interrupted the conversation by saying that we had our boat to
unload.

This was not the kind of work to please Jack, so he made his

escape, and ran to see the cattle.
' Fritz and I had only been able to release the cow from the casks,
therefore Jack found plenty of e111ploy111ent in taking off the
swimming-belts from the sheep and the goats. Presently, however,
he spied the donkey 11ith his tub panniers. These he tried in min
to 1emove; and finding it beyond his power he jumped upon the
donkey's back in spite of the casks, and rode to meet 11s in giand
style, fo1cing the animal fo111a1d with his hands and heels.

It was impossible to help laughing at the singular spectacle; but
as I lifted the little man down I felt still more amused. He wore
a belt co1e1ed with ban, in 11hi1,|1 was stuck a paii of small pistols.

" Where 011 earth did you find that smuggle1' s costume?" I
asked.

" I made it myself, papa," he replied. " And look at the dogs."

I turned at the words, and saw to my surprise that each of them
were a collar stuck full of nails with the points outward, and form--
ing an excellent shield against the attacks of wild beasts.

"Well," I said, "this is a clever invention, my boy. Is it all
your own ? "

"Yes, papa," said Jack. "Mamma only helped me when there
was something to sew."

"But where (lid youg net the skin and the needle and tlnead. ? "

"I brourrht needles and thread in my bag f1on1 the ship," said
his motherb- , "and the collars me made of the jackal's skin as well
as Jack's girdle."

Fritz felt ratl1e1 annoyed at l1ea1ing that Jack had cut 111) the
iackal's skin, but he concealed his displeasme as well as he could.
While Jack stood near him, how-ev e1, he exclaimed, sud1leul1,

" Oh, what an unpleasant smell! Where does it come f111m. ? "

"Perhaps it is my belt," said J aek. "No wonder it smells badly,
for you left the dead animal exposed to the sun to corrupt. My
belt will lose the odour when the skin is dry."

" Ah, well," I sai1, "till it is dry Jack must place himself to
leewa11l. "

At this the b0) s laughed, and ewlaimed, " To 1eewa1d,Jacl1'
to leewa1d,Jack!" But Jack did not trouble himself about sen-
 

sitive noses. lIe strutted 11p and down, quite proud of his gi1',dle
111111 assumed 11 111111'ti11l 11i1'11hi1h was most amusing

At; last 1 said, " (,'11111e, my boy s, Llnow the 11e111lJ-11ek11li11to the
sea ;. Jack's girdle will lose all smell when it is dry "

The boys readily obeyed, 111111 then I gave them another object of
interest. 1 perceived that my wife was 11111king preparations for
supper, and l whispered to Fritz to fetch one of the "Westphalia.
hams which still lay in the tub. I saw by the looks of the boys
that they longed to ask questions; but as Fritz in 11 few minutes
returned, there was 11 general cry,

"()l1,11'hatat1'eat! Aham!1111111111111,11l1a1n! How 1110c it looks.

"' Ah 2 " exclaimed my wife,' you must 1estr11in your longing till
to-morrow; it will be so 111111-11 nicer when it is cooked. Besides, I
have :1 dozen eggs for supper which we found 1111 our travels to-
day, and ]",rnest; thinks they are the eggs of a turtle. I shall be
able to make 11 splendid omelette, for we have plenty of butter, and
you have brought 11 frying pan from the ship."

"I 11111 sure they are turtles eggs," :11id Ernest; " for they are
like. a white hall, 111111 soft to the touch, like parchment; besides,
we found them 111111111g the sand on the sea shore."

" You are quite right, my boy," I said; "but hon' did you dis-
covre them. ' '

" ()h' .'zz1id his mother, " that belongs to the history of our day's
adventures, which you shall hear at another time."

" \'yer \1ell,"l said; "1111111 the omelette, and while we 111'-
supper we will listen to 1111 account of your day's performance.
our dc 'ert'. As 111 the ham, I assure you it is very good e1 e11 111w,
11s Fritz 111111 I found to-day by experience. llow'e1e1', I believe it
will be much better when cooked, so while you make your omelette
and 111' a few slices of the 1111111 for our supper, we will :10 and look
after the animals."

At these 11"011ls I 11150, and the 111115- 1111 followed me gladlx.
Jack had succeeded in setting them all free, excepting the sow,
who would let no one approach her. Ernest, however, called the
dogs, and they quickly checked her 11101'1-111e11ts by seizing her e111s
11nd holdimr her, while 111: lemov e11 the .'s'wimmint.r girdle; then we
letehed a low l1'11i1es, f01ks, spoons,1 and plates, ftonl the boat, and
returned to the tent.

0111' reth proved delicious. Fried ham, cheese, biscuits, and a
good omelette formed 11 splendid feast, and there was plenty to
spare 1,1'111' the d11gs,tl1e sheep and goals, the chickens and pitreons,
11ho quickly assembled nea1'1us, to gather 11p 11 Mt remained.

'21
sA L] l '1.\'U FREIGHT. 01

As to the ducks and geese, although they were close at hand,
they did not favour us with their society: they preferred the
delights of their own native element at a little distance, in which
they could enjoy themselves, and where they found a delicate feast
in tiny fresh water-crabs and worms.

After supper, I sent Fritz to the boat fora bottle of canary wine,
from the case we had found in the captain's cabin; and then I
asked my wife to relate the adventures and discoveries made by
herself and the boys during the day. So interesting was the
narrative, that no one seemed to care for the wine, until a pause
occurred in the conversation.

The narrative will appear in the next; chapter.
ANOTHER EX PLOlthG EXI'EDITIOX.

" 0W," said my wife, "I think you will be pleased to hear
my adventures. I have been ready to relate them all
the evening, but to get. in a. word in the midst of your

Wonderful descriptions was impossible. However. there is an old

proverb that says, 'The longer the water is gathering, the fuller it

will flow,' and 'lietter late than never.'

"I need not, say much about the occurrences of the first day of
your absence, for, in truth, I was too uneasy to commence any
undertaking with the boys, or to leave our landing-place.

"This morning, however, I was on the beach early, and noticed
your signal that all was safe, with great. joy and a thankful heart,
and after replyingr to it, I song-ht for a shady place, that I might sit;
alone and reflect before calling the boys.

" I found a quiet spot; near our tent, and, sitting down, began to
think earnestly of our position. It is impossible, I said to myself,
that we can remain on this part of the island, even in our tent,
exposed during the day to the burning heat; of the sun; for his
rays through the sail-cloth which covers it: are doubly opl'uressive.

"All at once I thought, "'hile my husband and son are working
all the ship, cannot I and the boys try and explore the country!
\\'e should gain courage and strength, and perhaps find a more
pleasant; and shady spot on which to dwell, than this exposed and
rocky coast. I recalled your description of the beautiful fields and
meadows through which you had passed, and thought we could find
the way by crossing the brook at the falls, as you had done.

"Havingr decided on this undertaking, I returned .to the tent,
and found the boys had risen, and Jack busy with the skin of 1-'ritz's

6:2
 

 

jackal. He had out several strips of it, about a hands breadth
long, and from this he was scraping the flesh. I advised him to put
it aside till after breakfast, which he willingly did, after nailing it
to a tree to dry.

"After breakfast he again set to work diligently. On the
stretched strips of skin he placed pieces of sail-cloth, cut to the
same size, and of triple thickness. These it was necessary to sew,
and he therefore came to me, with a request that I would sew the
skins and the sail-cloth together for him. I thanked him for the

~56>>;sz , .
xyewv) !
N, .

     

l i I. . I
>> tt-xk M--s"
"X @
034;)" V- .~
THE Sl'lKED COLLARS FINISHED-

llOllOlll' he proposed, but when he tried to do it himself, I took
compassion on him, and consented to perform the task, which, as
you may suppose, was not at all agreeable. This done, he obtained
a sullicieut number of nails, which he drove through with the
points outwards, and thus completed spiked collars for the two
dogs. But he was still unsatisfied; he required, he said, a belt for
himself, to hold two pistols, but I reminded him that the heat of
the sun would dry the skin and cause it to shrink, making it alto-
gether useless.

" Ernest, half in mockery, advised him to nail the belt and collars6-1 SIVJSJ FAMILY IUIIIXSUN.

 

on aboard, and expose tlrenr to the sun. Jack took the advice in
good part, and without dciguing to notice the mocking tone, nailed
the articles to a board, as his brother sugcrcsted.

" Then I told the boys of my proposed expedition, and they all
joyfully agreed to accompany rue. Without delay we prepared for
0111' journey. The boys collected and prepared their guns, and
provided themselves with annrrunition, a cutlass, and an axe. I
carried the provisions and water-flasks, as well as a light gun,
which I took from Ernest, giving him instead a fowling--pieee, that;
could be loaded with ball. 'l'hus armed, we started on our journey,
accompanied by the two dogs, and hopeful of success. Turk, who
had been with you, appeared to consider himself our guide, and
marched on before us as if to lead the way, and in a very short
time we reached the spot at which you crossed the brook, and
succeeded, though not without trouble, in reaching the opposite
bank.

"As we proceeded, I could not help reflecting that our safety
rested in a great measure on two young boys, because they under-
stood the use of firearms; and I felt thankful, dear husband, that
you had allowed your sous to be accustonrcd to these weapons from
childhood.

" After filling our water-bottles with water from the river, we
continued our march, and presently came upon a most beautiful
and fertile spot. The prospect on every side was glorious, and I
felt rrry heart open with hopeful delight. At a distance I could
discern what appeared to be a little wood,to which the way seemed
easy and straight before us; but we presently found ourselves in
the midst of tall grass, as hiuh as the boy s' heads, through which it;
was impossible to pass By turning to the left, near the 1i\ er bank,
we managed to avoid it, and were able to proceed nithout further
obstacle. Here we recognized your footnrarks, and followed tlrerrr
gladly, till we reached the little wood, and came again upon the
high grass, which obliged us to turn to the right.

" Suddenly a strange noise frightened us all, and in a moment, a
large bird rose from the grass at a little distance, and flew over our
heads. The boys hastily raised their guns, but before they could
the the bird was far away. ~

"'Oh, what a pity. " cried Ernest: 'if I had only had my light
gun, or if the bird had not tlown so quickly, I would soon have had
him down.'

"'Ah, yes,' I said; 'but a good marksman is always ready at a
moment's warning.'
 

" ' What bird was it, I wonder?' said Jack.

" ' An eagle, I think,' replied little Frank ; ' it was so large.'

"' As if all large birds were eagles 2 ' remarked Ernest; ' but we
may as well examine the place from which the bird rose, and (lis-
corer what he was doing there.'

"Jack ran quickly to the spot, when suddenly another and larger
bird rose, with rustling wings, almost in his face, startling the boy
with its unexpected appearance. He looked so completely struck
dumb, that I could not help laughing. However, he quickly
recovered himself, and we all went together to the place. Here
we found a kind of large nest, made apparently of thick dry grass;
it was empty, excepting a few broken egg-shells, from which, no
doubt, the young birds had not long before escaped, and from the
agitation of the grass I had every reason to believe that the brood
were close at hand. But it would have been impossible to follow
them, for the movements soon ceased altogether.

" ' Look here, Frank,' said Ernest, 'these birds cannot be eagles,
for they never build nests on the ground, but on high rocks; be-
sides, their little ones cannot run as soon as they are hatched, as
chickens can. I noticed, too, that they had white breasts, and red-
tipped wings, and feathers round the beak, so I think they must be
bastards, for that is the description I have read of the bastard.'

"'I am glad we did not shoot the birds, after all,' I said; for
what would the poor little ones have done without their parents?'

" While talking, we reached the grove of trees to which we had
directed our steps. A crowd of unknown birds seemed to welcome
us with their song, or flew round us gaily. The boys followed them
with their eyes eagerly, and seemed inclined to point their guns,
but- I prevented them from doing so.

"' You should never destroy God's creatures,' I said, ' excepting
for food, and then not cruelly ; besides, it would be foolish to waste
powder and shot, as well as a pity to kill those pretty little song-
sters.'

" But what wonderful trees they were in this grove! I have
never in my life seen such tall trees, and, far from being a wood.
as I supposed, there Were scarcely more than a dozen trees, but so
leafy at their summits, that at a distance they appeared like a forest.

"What astonished inc, also, was that the trunks seemed to be
supported by a kind of buttress. Enormous roots appeared to have
driven the thick stein out of the earth, and raised it to the skies.
However, it was firmly fixed in the ground, and where the roots

left it the thickness was immense. r
Y
" Jack climbed 111) one of the outer roots, and 111easu1'e11 the stem
with a piece of string. Its circu111fe1ence was about eighteen feet;
the height of the tree, from the ground to the sun1niit,1night be
about si.\ty y'a1ds. The 11.1111 cs 11 L1L large 111111 full, and the spread--
ing branches formed a delightful shade.

"The form of the leaf was like that ofo11r1111t--trces but 1 1'111111 1
discover no f111it. The grass 1,11'011'i111,rro1111d the roots is thick and
glccn, and there are no signs of thoi'ns or 11ndc1110od so that alto-
130ther this grove of trees terms a delightful 1'esti1i1,1-place. So
much did it please as, that 11c determined to stay there 111 the cool
shade, and rest in this palace of the grccnwood, while we enjoyed
our midday meal.

" The dogs, which we had left on the bank of the river, soon
found us out, and, to my astonishment, did not: appear hungry, but
laid themselves down quietly at our feet, and were soon fast asleep.

"I could not contemplate the richness 111111 beauty of this lovely
spot without the idea arising in my mind, that; if we were able [1)
establish omselves on one of these trees, we should be in perfect
safety. I had carefully examined the various scenes through which
wepasscd,b11t I could discover none so agreeable as this. I 1'11-
sol\'CLl,tl1ct'elol'c, to return to the tent, and if the time permitted,
collect some more of the debris which the waves had cast on shore
from the wreck.

" 011 our way home, I discorewd by what means the hanger of
the dogs had been appeased' they were catching (-rahs in the.
shallow water near the shore, and sepa11 11Ling the shells with their
paws, 1111iIc they eagerly devoured their contents.

" Presently, after turning from the river hank, we saw Floss
scratching out from the sand something round and swallowing it
with avidity. L111est, 111m was nearer to the dog, guessed what it
was 111 a Imment.

" 'It is the egg of a turtle,' he exclaimed; '111111 I dare say there
are more.'

"'Let us save what we can,' I cried, as we all 1'1111 to the spot ;
' it will make a splendid supper for us.'

"It, cost some trouble, 11011'c1e',1 to (hire away the animal from
her prey, but. we succeeded at last in rescuing a dozen eggs, \111i1h
we placed carefully in our pro1 ision hag.

"At this 1110111e11t I glanced towards the sea, and saw, to my
astonishment, a little boat with a sail rapidly approaching the
shore. I hardly knew what to think, although Ernest said it was
his father and Fritz in the boat.AXUTIII'II.' 1:'.\'I'LOI.'I.\"G EXPEIJI T101 ". ('7

" Frank was afraid it; would contain savages, who might land and
cat us up. At; last I perceived that; Ernest 1'as right, and then we
all turned to run round the rovks hastily, and soon found ourselves
in each other's arms.

"You have 111111' had 11 011111111010 description of our adventures
\'lee11l1\'" continued my wife; "and all I 01111 $11) is, that a 1111 el-
lingt 111 one of these trees would not oul1' he delightful, hut a 11111Le
of safet'v from the attacks of 11i111 beasts, and 1 hope that to- -'111011'ow
morning,r you will go with us to ex11111i11e the 111111de1'ful wees."

While listeningr to this recital night came on, and it; was time for
us to seek repose in sleep, after the t'atigues of the day.

"'0 arranged ou1'~.el1 as once more in our places as usual but
with much greater ocmfol't 1111011 the 111attresses, and unde1 the
soft: 11oolle11 co1erlets, I had blought from the wreck.
BRIDGE-BUILDING.

EXT morning my wife and I rose early, that we might talk
over the changes she appeared so anxious to make, before
the children were up.

In fact, I hesitated to decide, for to make a dwelling upon a high
tree in a grove seemed impossible.

" If we were cocks and hens, new," I said, "and could fly up and
most on the branches, the case would he diii'erent."

"0h, do no!- makc a jest of it," she replied; " there is nothing
absurd in my idea. At all events, now we are not safe at night.
from the visits of jackals, or other similar customers; and I know
that- iu our Fatherland I once saw a linden tree, on which persons
could ascend by a staircase to a pretty little bower, with a suitable
tloor between the branches. "Why could not we have something of
the same sort, and make a sleeping place in the trees of the grove?"

I (lid not answer my dear wife for some minutes, for her sugges-
tions made me reflect. At last; I said,

"I begin to think you are right, dear wife, for it seems to me

hat you have been conducted by Providence to the most eon-
veuient spot on this island, as much for our safety as for the
means of obtaining food. For if all that now remains of the wreck
should be lost by the destruction of the vessel, we might at least.
have a convenient place to reside in, and fertile ground to cultivate.
The rocks which surround it: will serve as a protection. But let us
have patience, and stay in our present position, at least till we have
brought frolu the wreck all the useful things we can."

"I do not think it is necessary to wait for that," said my wife;
" we have already more than we want for the present, and you do
not know what we sull'er here from the heat. of the sun, while you
are on the sea. Set aside your voyage for to-day, and let us go to<

68L'RI DOE -I1' UI LIJI N1 1'. 69

 

gether to this shady grove, where the rich fruits of 1110 earth and
the beauties of nature are ready to our hands."

" Your earnestness makes you eloquent, dear wife, " I said, "and
3"ou1 reasoning convinces 111e;but: 3011 forget that \11: cannot take
our cattle and 0111' other possessions to the opposite shore, without
building a br'idge.'

" Then we must wait; for ever," she replied, " if we wait. for that.
I thought; it; would be easy for the ass and the cow to carry what
we most needed across the river, and bring the other things 113'
degrees."

"We should have to do this even with a bridge," I remarked;
"and besides, the 1i1'e1'1niyht; 01'1,1H11\1 its bank, and render 11 pas-
save by any other means impossible. I and the bo3's, however, will
eonnnence at once to construct; a 11ooden bridge across the 11111'
1o11'cst part, if you will plepul'e bags and 11:11:11'i1ig-cases for 0111'
expedition."

"I must entreaL you to leave the gunfu'nrder behind in the
rot-ks," she 1'en1arl1'1-d. "I always tremble when i think of the large
quantity we have so near us."

"Certainlv," I replied "Gunpowder is like tire, a. {food friend
when used with caution, but a fearful enemy to those who are care-
less. After 110 are settled in our new home, 1 will blow up :1
portion of the rock, and bury the pow'del 111 the eaith so ca1'efull3,
that; not even a cat could scratch it 1111. And now all is arranged,
let; us call the children."

The 1103's were quickly :11'11nsed,and on hearing the plan of bridge--
building, were full of eager delight, and the idea of 1'e111o1'ing' to the
pleasant region of the grove made the younger ones jump and dance
for joy, and name it at 11111' e their new home.

After our 1110111inn' p1"113er we began to think of breakfast, and
while his mother prepared it, 1'1'itz took the lilll1' monkey to the
goat, for his 11101'11ing,r feast. Jack slipped 1111113'111 the cow, and
tried to milk her into his hat, but; as he could not succeed, he laid
himself under her, and she allowed him to draw from her a splendid
draught, of 11'111'111 fresh milk, as if he had been 11 young calf.

At last- he paused to take br,eath and ex1laimed,

"1'1'1111k, come, the milk' is beautiful; will 3ou ha1e some? "

These 1101'ds attracted our attention to him, and his 1r'0tl1e1s
lauuhed he 11til1' at his scheme; but his mothei repr'o1ed him se-
1'ionsl3 for bein1_,r "1"(20d3, 111111 not; waiting till the cow 11as milked.
She then took a vessel and c01111uenced milkintr the cow, and, as

Jack saw 110w cleverly she succeeded, he said,
 

"Ah, if I had only known how to do it like that 1 for I did feel
ashamed of lyingr down like the 1111111ke3'; hut I mean to learn hy-
and-bye, and then I can help 1111111111111."

"'hen the cow was milked, the mother gave a cupl'ul to each of
the children, and poured a part of what remained into 11 saucepan,
with smne of the hard hiscuits, to make milk soup for 0111' break-
fast. The rest she placed on one side, in :1 tin can, to preserve it
for cream.

Meanwhile I prepared our heat for a voyage to the ship, being
anxious to ohtain 11s many planks and heams 11s possible for build-
ing the bridge. Alter hreakfast, I went on heard with Fritz and
Ernest, for as it was necessary to accomplish our task quickly,
donhle help was needed.

The hoys exerted all their strengrth in 1"011ingr, that we 111i<<_;'ht
leach the swift current, which had already carried 11s on former
trips so rapidly out into the hay. Scarcely, howe1e1, had we 111'-
1'i1'cd at the little island that 1113' at the enhance, when I noticed a
tlock of sea-gulls and other hirds, flying here 11111] there, 111'cr 11 spot,
hidden 113' a heap of sand, 11nd utteringr cries and noises so hideous,
that we were almost deafened.

l'ritz would h: we tired amonust them, had I not p1'e1ented him:
Iwas 1111\ious to discover thec cause of such 11 great assemhly of
birds. I therefoie di1e1ted 11111'hoat towazds the sea, that we 11113-111
take the current, and hoisted the sail, to catch the sea-breeze at
the same time, while Fritz rowed 1111 quickly.

Ernest was ch1n'111ed with our little sail, and the pennant that;
waved from the top of the mast ; hut Fritz, whose eyes were fixed
011 the island, suddenly c.111ai111ed,

" '11pa, I l1elie1e that those hints are feastin" upon 11 la1'1re lish,
and have not had the politeness to invite us."

I approached nearer to the shore, 11nd sa11 that he was right, and
presently 111011'1ing our heat in shallow 11'1te1 111' means of an
enormous stone, I jumped on sho1'1,' followed I13 the hoys.

There we 111s1o1c1cd c.\tc11ded partlv in the wate1 and pa1tly on
the sand, the dead body of a monster fish, 1.111 which the hints were

regaliug themselves S11 eagerly, that they did not notice 11111'
approach until we were within gunshot, of them, and even then
only a few took to flight.

I felt astonished at the 1"o111cions appetites of the featheredtlotk,
as well as at their indilt'erenee, for so 1r1eed3' were they, that if we
had wished for a slice f1on1 the carcass ou1sel1' es, we could easily
have dcst1o1' ed the intruders e1'en with a stick
" Oh i" exclaimed Fritz, " how could such an enormous body get
lusrc? who could have dragged it to the shore? yesterday there was
no sign of such a creature to be seen 2"

" Why, Fritz," cried Ernest, "I am sure this must be the shark
you settled so bravely yesterday; see, he has three great holes in
his head."

"I believe it is, Ernest, for my gun was loaded with three
bullets."

I readily confirmed their suspicious, as I pointed out the
gigantic size of the frightful throat aml jaws, from which we had
mercifully escaped.

"Why, the creature must be twenty feet long at least,"I added.
"We must have a piece of the skin, which I think can be made
useful; but first let us get rid of these greedy birds."

Ernest immediately drew out the ramrod of his gun, and struck
at: them right and left, and some were so voracious that they
remained on the prey, and were knocked down and killed, while
feasting, by Ernest. The rest flew away, leaving a space from
which Fritz could cut a few strips of shark's skin, as Jack had done
with the jackal. Then we returned to the boat with our booty.

()n reaching the shore, I saw with joy that a number of planks
and beams had been loosened from the wreck, and east on the
sands by the wares, which would spare me the trouble I anticipated
of seeking them on the vessel. I immediately determined to
choose those most suitable for building our bridge, haul them in by
means of a'boat-hook, and attach them to our little skill in the form
of a float by ropes.

We again put to sea with our floating cargo, and with the wind
in our favour.

While steering carefully homeu-"ards, however, I advised Fritz to
nail the strips of the shark's skin to the mast in the sun to dry.
lle readily obeyed, while Ernest, after examining the birds he
had killed with his ramrod, exclaimed,

"Papa, what can we do with these birds? are they good to
eat .7"

" Not- very, my child: sea-gulls are birds that live chiefly on the
flesh of dead fish, aml they have in consequence a fishy taste when
cooked. There are several species of these birds, and some of
them are so voracious, that in the whale fisheries flocks of them
will settle on pieces cut from the whale, with such avidity, that
they will allow themselves to be killed rather than quit their
prey."
" No wonder I killed them so easily just now with my ramrod,"
replied Ernest, " it' they are. so greedy and stupid."

" l'apa," exclaimed lt'ritz, interrupting his brother, "why did you
tell me to nail the shark's skin on the mast? it; will dry quite
curved."

"Perhaps it may, Fritz," I replied; "but; "111ch it is rendered
hard by drying, we cannot make it; useful, and being curved will
not matter, for it will he as useful as if it were flat. \Vhen the
rough points are ground oil', and the skin smoothed and polished, it:
forms a beautiful material called shagreen."

"I thought," said Ernest, "that shagreen was made of ass's
skin."

"Yes, Ernest, you are right. In Turkey, Persia, and Tartar-y,
the host shagrcmr is made from the skins ot' the wild as It. is
harder amt thicker than that of the shark, but they soften and
polisli it by several processes, which gives it; a beautiful surface, and
the colour is a bright. green."

\Ve were now approaching the shore; I lowered the sail, and
presently we lay alongside the old spot, having returned in less than
four hours from the time we started. "'e were not expected, there-
fore none of our dear ones were there to welcome us, and this time
1 was not alarmed at; their absence. However, we raised our voices
loudly in chorus, and the sound was echoed back front the rocks in
every direction. Very soon the mother and her two boys came
running towards us in surprise at our speedy return. They each
carried a large and well filled pocket: handkerchief, and Frank
dragged after him a fishing net attached to a long wooden rod.

\V hen they reached us. many questions were asked in wonder at
our returning so soon; but Jack, who could not, restrain himself,
interrupted these inquiries by opening his handkerchief, and
allowing to fall on the ground before our eyes a number of magnifi-
cent fresh water crabs.

The mother and Frank followed his example, and there they lay
in a sprauding heap. Finding themselves free, however, they
waddled away, right and left, with all their might, and the boys had
enough to do to prevent them from escaping; but the leaping.
steeping, and laughing, created a merry outbreak of fun beyond
description.

"0h, papa E" exclaimed Jack, " are we not rich? There were
such a frightful lot, more than a thousand, I think, and we have
caught. at least; two hundred. Are they not large? and what; claws
they have 2 "BRIDGE J} U] L DIN I. 73

 

" But who discovered them ? " I asked; " Jack, I suppose it. was
you ?"

'N o, papa, it; was our little Frank that performed this exploit.
I will tell you how it; happened. \Vhile mannna was sewing, I took
the little monkey on my shoulde1, and went with Ft ank to the
1i1'e1', to try if I could find a good place for our bridgre. Frank
anmsed himself by picking 11p pebbles and tlno'u 111g them into the
water, but evcty now and then he would run to show me some
more prettily 111arked than others. All at once he came rushing
back, exclaiming, 'J :u-k E Jack! come and see, there is such aswann
of crabs sticking to Fritz's jackal 2' I followed him to the water,
and there I saw the dead iaekal 13 int' in a shallow spot, and a
whole legion of 111agnificent crabs feasting upon it. Iran to tell
mannna, and she b1oufrht a fishing net, but we took as many in our
hands as by the 11et',without any difficulty, and if vou had not
called us 11c could ha\c taken many more.'

"There are quite enough, Jack," I replied, " not- only to make a
delicious supper, even if you throw the little ones back into the
water, which I should advise you to do, but. also to provide 11s with
an unexpected store sufiicient for several suppers. Let; us thank
God that He has not only given us what; is necessary, but enough
and to spare."

After relating our own adventures, Ernest showed his mother the
sea--gulls, and she proposed to prepare the 111i1l-day meal, while I
and the elder boys went. to the shore to bring away the floating
planks and beams. It; proved a difficult task, for our united
strength was far from sutlicicnt to draw these heavy beams even
out of the water.

I had given up all idea of 111aki11g the ass or the cow help us.
when I suddenly remembered the plan adopted by the Laplandcrs
with the reindeer who (haw the sledges, and I was determined to
try it. I placed a cord round the horns of the cow and the neck of
the ass, and then passed it: between their legs, and fastened the end
to a beam firmly. 111 this way we not. only brought piece after
piece 011 shore, but; were able also to drag them to the spot chosen
by our little engineer as the most suitable for the bridge, and,
indeed, so it, appeared

The opposite banks app1oached each other closely; they new.
film and of equal height, and the trunks of old trees which stood
on each bank 111'0111isc11 to form an excellent; support on which to
rest. the foundation of the bridge.

\Vhilc examining the spot, a question suggested itself.
"Boys," I said, "suppose our beams should not be long enough
to reach to the other side--the eye cannot measure the distance
exactly, and we have no mathematical instrume11ts--wllat shall we
do ?"

"Mannna has some paekthread," said Ernest; "could we not tie
a stone to one end, and throw it across the river? "'1: could easily
measure the string when we drew it back, and that would give 11s
the exact width across."

" An excellent; idea, Ernest," I replied; " r1111, Jack, and fetch the
packthread."

Jack quickly returned, and by the contrivance suggested by
Ernest, we soon discovered that the distance from one side of the
river to the other was eighteen feet.

it appeared, therefore, quite necessary that the beams should
have three additional feet restingr on each shore, and this would
require the under one, at least, to measure twenty-four feet. Hap-
pily, we found more than one which exceeded this length, and fully
answered our expectations.

'l'here remained now only one difficulty to overcome. The ques-
tion arose, "Now could we throw such longr and heavy pieces of
wood across the water .7"

\Vhile considering the. subject the dinner hour arrived, and find-
ing nothing more could he done, we returned to the tent.

Our good housekeeper had prepared for 11s a dish of crabs, which
was very tempting. lint before we commenced dinner, she wished
to show me the needlework which had employed her the whole
morning.

She produced two immense bags, which she had made out ota
piece of sail-cloth. and sewn with packthread.

"I had no needle large enough to hold the thread," said the
mother, " so I contrived to sew with a nail, and by patience and
perseverance l hare tinishcd these travelling ban-s. They will hang
across the donkey's back like panniers, and contain a great quantity
of a1titles, when we change our home" ,

I expressed 1m pleasure and praised my deal wife for her in-
:rcnuity, and then we all seated o1usel\ cs to partake of the dinner
she had prepared tot us.

It "as passed o\ L1 as quickly as usual, fo1 we had no time to
lose, and then I and the boys returned to \1 0111 As we approached
the spot, :1 pl 111 suggested itself which got 11s out of all our difii-
Guides.

I' tirst placed a beam behind the trunk of a tree, to which IBR] "GE-II U1 LDI NC.

'I

at

 

fastened it- at about four or five feet above the ground with a strong
cord; to the other end of the cord I tied a stone, and throwing it
across the river, I waded through the water after it. To a tree on
the opposite bank I adjusted a pulley, over which I threw the cord,
and returned with the end in my hand.

To this extreme end I tied the ropes which were still round the
necks of the cow and the ass, then passing the beam round to the
front of the tree, I led the animals away from the water. As they
moved slowly forward the beam rose gently, and then sank gradu-
ally, guided by the pulley, till the end rested on the opposite bank.

No sooner was this accomplished, than Fritz and Jack sprang
boldly on the beam, and danced lightly and rapidly across the new
bridge. I trembled as I saw them, but I refrained from uttering
a word of caution, lest they should fall from sudden fear.

Now the first beam was laid, the difiiculties of the work were,
greatly removed. The second and t'iird, and fourth soon followed,
and the foundation of our bridge lay ready before our eyes.

\Ve then cut a number of planks, of about eight or nine feet-
long, to place across the breadth of the bridge, but I did not. nail
them down iirmly, as I wished to be able to remove them from the
bridge quickly in case of danger, to prevent the passage of enemies,
whether men or wild beasts.

It now seemed in every point perfect: the supports were firm.
and the passage across complete.

But the great exertion necessary had exhausted our strength,and
as evening approached, we were glad to return to the tent and seek
the refreshment and repose which we so greatly needed. Once
more we knelt to offer our evening prayer, and to thank God for
His merciful care of us during the day.
THE JOURNEY TO THE WONDERFUL TREES.

N wakingr the next morning my first; thought was to warn my
0 children of the danger they would incur if they crossed the
bridge carelessly, as they had done on the preceding night.

" And you must; remember," I said, "that we are now going into
a region unknown and less protected by nature than this. "'0.
know not what kind of animals we may encounter, nor whether it
is inhabited. It is therefore necessary to be on our guard, and
keep close together in case of danger or attack."

After this caution we knelt and oll'ered our morning prayer, and
then proceeded to breakfast, which was no sooner finished than I
and the boys commenced preparations for our journey.

Our lirst act was to load the ass and the cow with the travelling
bags containing our provisions, our tools, cooking utensils, and
other useful things, the case of bottled beer from the captain's
cabin, and a store of butter from the cask not; being omitted. At
last I was about to add some hammocks and bed coverings to the
donkey's load, when I was suddenly checked by my wife, who said,

"We must not leave the chickens and pigeons alone here all
night, or there will be an end of them. Iicsidcs, I hoped that; you
would that room for little Frank on the donkey's back, and also for
my bag. "'e know not how soon we may need it."

.It was rather annoying to have to unpack, but fortunately I had
left; a space between the two sacks which the ass carried, and the
bed coverings would make a soft; seat for little Frank. So I placed
him on the donkey with the bag, which already bore the name of
the Magic Bag, placed behind for him to lean against, and he salt
as safely as if on a saddle, and without fear of danger, even shoiud
his steed take it, into his head to gallop.

In the meantime the boys had been endeavouring to collect the
fowls and the pigeons by driving them into one spot. But all in

76THE JOURNEY TO THE WON/Mililv'lx'l. 172151219. 77

vain. To catch them was impossible; and they presented them-
selves empty handed and looking very much discomfited.

"Leave them to me 2 " exclaimed the mother; "I will show you
what to do."

At these words she called the chickens to her in coaxing tones.
throwing from her apron a few grains of peas and crumbs of
biscuits. They all came round her quickly; and still scattering
peas and barley from the magic bag, she attracted them nearer the
tent. The rest; of the corn she threw into the entrance; and as the
feathered tribe rushed in and pounced upon it with eagerness, it was
easy work to close the tent and make them prisoners.

Then Jack carefully crept in, and, catching them one by one,
passed them through an opening in the tent to us. Fritz and I tied
their legs together and placed them in pannicrs on the back of the
cow.

To protect them from the sun we arranged some sail-cloth over
the two halves of a cask-hoop, which formed an arch, and the
darkness also kept them quiet.

The packing being finished, we collected all the articles necessary
to leave behind, at least those that could be injured by the heat of
the sun or spoiled by rain, and placed them within the tent, closing
the entrance carefully.

To make it more secure we barricaded it with the full and empty
casks that remained, and left our store to the kind protection of
Heaven.

I then arranged our little party for the journey. "'0 were all
well armed, young and old, and full of spirits.

Fritz marched at the head of our procession with his mother,
followed by the cow and the ass and his cavalier, little Frank. The
goats, led by Jack, formed the third detachment, the little monkey
looking droll on the back of his foster mother. Ernest followed
with the sheep, and I walked last as the rear guard. The dogs
rushed here and there as our adjutant-s.

As the procession moved on slowly, Ernest remarked,

"Papa, I think this is a delightful way of travelling, and it is new
to us. Are there not people who always travel from place to place
in this manner?"

"Yes," I replied; "even now the people of Tartary, Arabia, and
other tribes follow this sort of life, and are called nomadic races.
They use horses and camels, however, which enable them to
advance more quickly than we can do with our crawling ass and
our loaded cow. The patriarchs of whom we read in the BibleTS b'H-'ISS lt'.-t.lIII.Y ROBINSON.

travelled or wandered from place to place after this fashion. For
my part, 1 shall be glad when our wanderings are over."

"1 hope," said my wife, "that our new abode may prove too
delightful for us to have any wish to leave it. At.- all events,
the fault shall not be mine if we are elliged to take another
journey."

Thus conversing, we arrived at the bridge, aml at: this point the
sow joined our procession. "'e had fottud it impossible to make
her follow the other animals from the tent; but when she dis-
covered that; we had really left her behind, she hastened to over-
take us, and we all happily L'l'u' 'ed the bridge together without
accident, the sow grunting her ( ... pproval of the whole affair.

0n the opposite shore a new dilliculty presented itself. The
grass looked so fresh and tempting, that; our troop could not resist
the temptation, but scattered themselves right and left to feast upon
it. "'e should have been quite unable to place them again in rank
and tile but for the. help of our dogs, who, barkingr and chasing,
brought them again into order.

To avoid a second interruption I told Fritz to turn to the left,
towards the shore, through a part: of the country overgrown with
tall, rank grass not in the least. tempting to the animals.

We. had -arcely proceeded any distance when the dogs suddenly
started forward and disappeared in the thick grass; and presently
their furious barking became mixed with howls of pain, as if they
were wounded and struggling with Some wild beast.

Fritz hastily advanced to the spot; with his gun raised and his
finger on the trigger; Jack followed him fearlessly, carryingr his
pocket pistol in his hand; while Ernest, who was nervous aml timid,
ran behind his mother, yet making ready to fire in case of danger.
For my own part, I felt. .the necessity of being cautious, and fol-
lowed the boys anxiously with my gun in readiness, for it appeared
probable that the dogs had attacked a strongr and furious beast,
which might overpower them. The boys, in their eagerness after
any novelty, reached the spot before me, and the next moment:
Jack cried out.

" I'apa. eonte quick 2 it is a large porcupine! Such an enormous
beast ! Make haste!"

I saw as I hastily approached that he was right, although his
description was a little exaggerated respecting the size of the
animal, whieh the dogs still continued to attack, yet; retiring from
their attempts in useless rage at, being wounded by the sharp
points which protruded front its skin. They could not: approach itTHE JOURNI'.' Y TO THE III'OXDEIIII'UL TI'IL'IiS. '75)

without receivingr a number of small wounds, which bled terribly.
Their howls, in consequence, were most horrible to hear.

Jack, without thought of consequences, at once drew his pocket
pistol from his belt, raised the trigger, and, going as near the
animal as he dared, took aim at the head so correctly, that the
creature fell dead at our feet before we knew what the boy was about.

A shout of joy from the boys at this removal of their alarming,r
enemy followed Jack's exploit, although Fritz looked a little morti-
lied at his younger brother's success, and asked him why he was in
such a hurry rather indignantly; hut Jack was not easily otiiended,
so he turned oil' the inquiry with a joke; in fact, he was so anxious
to secure his booty, that, after giving it two strokes with the butt
end of his gun to make sure it was dead, he attempted to draw
it from the spot with his usual carelessness.

The next moment he threw the dead animal from him in haste,
and stood with bleeding hands, lookingr terribly embarrassed. But
Jack was not one to be easily conquered; and in his anxiety to
show his prize to his mother he wiped his hands, and then, tying
his poeket handkerchief round the neck of the dead porcupine, he
dragged it by the ends to his mother.

"Look, mamma!" he cried; "isn't this a beautiful prize? I
killed it myself with my pocket pistol; and it will be useful, for
papa says the flesh is good to eat."

Crnest approached coolly to examine the animal, and said at
last,

" The creature has incisor teeth, and ears and feet something like
those of human beings"

" Ah, yes," said Jack; " but did you not see how he rustlcd and
bristled his quills against- t'he dogs? He is a frightful creature."

" Papa, did you notice the tuft of hair on his head .7" asked Jack.
" What is the use of it ?"

"Only to give it the name of the tufted porcupine," I replied.
'- But tell me, Jack, were you not afraid that the creature would
shoot his quills into you ?"

"I never thought. about it," he replied; "m' if Ihad, I should
have known that the superstition about porcupincs shooting their
quills is t'abulmts."

His mother and I were seated on the ground while we talked,
drawing out the pointed quills from the muzzles of our brave dogs.

" Look here," I replied, holding up five or six quills which we
had extracted. " these were stuck in the dogs, J ack."

"I can quite believe that," he replied ; " but they attacked hint
closely, and of course the quills stuck to them and wore dragged
out of his skin while they struggled."

" You are right, my brave little man," I said. " The porcupine
has no power of shooting his quills like arrows. But now tell me
what- we are to do with your game. Shall we take it with us, or
leave us hehind !"

" ()h, we must take it with us, papa I" cried Jack. "Besides, it,
is good to eat, so please let us take it."

I could not resist; these entreaties, I therefore unwound the hand-
kerchief from the animal's head, wrapped it in grass, stroked hack

 

l'OIlCL'I'lNl-Z.

the quills, tied it. up in some of our bed-clothes folded three times
doulfie, and fastening the bundle across the hack of the ass hehind
1' rank and the mother's wonderful hag, thought all was safe.

After this we collected the animals and proceeded again on our
journey.

"'e had scarcely, however, advanced a hundred steps before the
ass- began to bray, and presently to leap and bound in the most-
comical manner, as if he were mad, causing us all to shout; with
laughter, till he ended at last by dragging away the bridle h)' which
my wife led him, and started off at full gallop.

The danger to Frank now stopped our amusement. Making a
Sign to the dogs, they started after the ass at once, and brought him
to a standstill before we could reach him._!PS?Il|s
_

 

 

 

A FORM 1 DADLE [KEN Y.THE J 0 U RN E Y TO THE ll"01\'Dh'11'l"L'L it'lu'lz'ls'S. 8:?

"Oh, what a splendid gallop!" exelainu-d l"rank 11s we arrived
at the spot.

"Yes, my child,' I 1e11licd; " but \10 ought to thank God that
you did not fall off and -'lneak your limbs. What could ha1"e 111-
1111ced this quiet, patient animal to 1'1111 away I cannot i111agine."

But, on examination of the animal's burdens, I soon disco1e1'ed
the cause. The pointed quills of the 1101c1111ine had piclccd the
11iple coverinrr , and penetrated to the skin of the 111101' animal in a
must unpleasant manner. No wonder he leaped and bounced
undei such sharp, tickling; sensations. The e1il was soon removed
I placed the porcupine 1111011 the magic bagr 2,111111 under it I laid a
thick bed-co1er double; and telling little l'rank not to lean back,
we restuned 0111' journey.

Fritz marched in advance of 11s,111th his gun always 1eadyi1,
the hope thatt, as a recompense for losing the honour of killimr the
po1cu11ine, he should meet; with some bust-axds, with which his
mother could prepare such a splendid dish.

"'0 followed quietly, and arrived at: last. without further
incident; in safety at the " Promised Land," as the boys called it.

"Oh, what magnificent trees 2 " exelahncd Ernest. " And look at
their height 2"

" Indeed, they a1e 111a1'rniticent'" I cried. "I have never even
imauined the existence of such trees! I own, dear wife, that this
is a wonderful place. If we can climb these trees. and establish
111115111 cs upon them, we may feel perfectly secure against; any
animals, for I defy even a bear to climb trees so high, especially
with trunks possessing such a smooth bark as these."

We i1nn'1ediately commenced 1eleasinrr the animals of their load,
and settinrr them free to feed with the sheep and goats. Their
fort-legs were tied loosely together with co1ds,tl1at-degthey might
not 111111de1 far from the spot. The sow we left- to do as she
pleased.

As to the fowls and pigeons, they were at- once set at liberty, to
their great relief. We then seated ourselves to rest 011 the soft
green turf, and to consult 011 our future (111 elling-place. And, fiist
of all, it was 11ecessa1y to 111epa1e a lodging, not only as a protec-
tion from the cold night air, but also as a security from the attacks
of wild beasts, to which we should be exposed if we 1e1nained on
the ground. I knew, tl1er',ef01e that by some means this lodgin"
must be made on the branches 01' roots of the tzees.

While discussing the subject 11itl1 my wife, I'ritz had 11'111Lleled
out of sight, and suddenly we heard the report of a gun just: behind

7--0
 

us, then a second 1'epo1t, and the words " He is hit 2 he is hit 1" ex-
plained "hat 0111' youn:r 31"1111t3man 1111s about.

I11 a few moments he 1e11ppeared,ear'1yin:r bv its hind legs an
e11o1mous tiger- cat, which he held 11p l.1ef1_1re us all prnoudly

" Bravo, Master Sportsman E" I cried; " you have rendered good
service to 0111' fowls and pigeons: your friend there would have
made sad havoc in our farmyard this night, if you had not; de-
111olished him. rl'hese animals, however, are seldom alone, so you
must keep a careful watch for any of his c0111pa11ions who may be
prowling about."

" I wonder why God created such dreadful animals?" said Ernest.

" It is always difficult for as weak mortals to understand why
(iod has created this or that; but He is so wise and good that we
know there must he excellent reasons for all He does, although we
are unable to explain or understmid these reasons to our own satis-
fa..1ti1'1n You are aaptainted with one thin-r useful even in the
tiger -(11t, Ernest, and that is the skin; and you also know how
many beautiful 111111 \111rm furs a1e obtained fo1 winter 1-11.1thing
from the bear, the wild cat, the ermine, the Siberian squirrel, 11nd
many other animals which inhabit cold regions in the North."

"And is not the seal- skin \er1 useful?" asked ] rnest.

"10s," I replied' "11nd although this creature is by nature as
vo1aci0us amongr fish as the wild do" oriUinalh \1 as on land; still,
he has been tamed 111 1111111 to become, like the house 11112311 faithful
and attached f1 tend. 'nt', him, now tell me how you managed to
kill this beast; 11f prey, and where you found him."

"I saw a 111(11'cment', first among the foliage of a tree. I went
quietly and stood at the foot, and there, 011 a branch, I saw this
monster 'Ihe first shot- brought him to 1111' flee, but he "as not
dead, and as he tried to rise I fiied a second time, and he mmed
no more."

"You may think yourself fortunate," I said, "that the creature
did not fly at; you after the first shot; these animals will defend
thei1 own lives fieteelv. I think the one you have inst; killed is
the marfrav, a species of tigrer -eat very eonnnon at the Cape of

(-0011 Hope 111111 in South America, and so voracious, that even our
sheep and goats would not be safe against such a formidable enemy:

" Well, papa," said Fritz, " now I have killed the animal, can 110
not make use of this beautiful skin? Look at the glossy black and
11"1111111 spots on a "olden yellow <<1 011111 2"

"Indeed you can, 'I replie1, " if you strip off the skin carefully,'
exeeptinrr from the lows; of these you can make cases for knives, forks,THE TIGER-CAT.'I'IIE .II/UI.'.\-'EY Tl) TUE WONDERFUL TREES. 85

and spunns, and of the tail a hunting-belt to carry your
pistols."

" Hut, dear papa," said Jack, " what; is the use of the percupine's
skin 1' "

" Why, my hey, it can he made very useful with a little trouble,"
I replied. "The quills form excellent packing needles and arrow
heads. \\'e can also construct another enllar for each of our dogs
to wear when they ge to battle with wild beasts; indeed, we might;

 

l2l:.\llX

easily provide them with it kind of urmeur like coats of mail; the
sharp points of the quills would keep their enemies at a. distrmce."

"That'- wuuld he fun," cried Jack, " to see our hrave dogs dressed
up in such a fashion."

After this the young people gave me no rest till I had shown
them how to remove the skin from the wild cat; and the pnl'l'lllfilli'
witheut injuring it>>. I advised them to tie each animal to the
hranch of a tree, by the hind legs; and by carefully separating
them from the flesh with a knife, the skins of the porcupine and
the tiger-cat were removed and nailed to a tree 10 dry.
Meanwhile Ernest and little Frank were husily employed, one
in ,I'I'atheriny,r stones to make a cooking place for their mother, and
the other in collectingI dry hranehes of trees for a fire. Ernest
quickly aeernnplished his task, and while I showed him how to
arrange the stones for 11 hearth, he questioned me ahout the trees.

"Do you think these are nut trees, papa?" he asked; "the
leaves are very much like those of our walnut."

"'l'lauts whi1-h have similar leaves do not always helong to the
same fa111ily," I replied; "and in other respects the trees on this
spot appear to differ from ours; the leaves are of a paler green, and
ahnost white on the under side. I helieve them to he mangroves
11' wild ties, for the roots form a kind of arch or curve, and the
trunks rise to a height almost heyond the power of the eye to
reach."

" I thought that mangroves grew only near the borders of rivers,
or on 111arshy ground," said Ernest.

" You are partly right, my child," I said ; "' hut. this applies only
to the dark 111angI1'ov1-s, not to the red, \vhieh hears little hel'ries,
and 11e\"1-1 rea1 hes to suth 11 IIieat height."

1' resentl) little l'1ank appeared with his arms full of dry wood,
and something.r in his mouth, whieh he was eatingI with a great
relish.

" I've found something so 11i1-e;" he cried, wi1h his mouth full,
"' oh, so niee I "

"' My 1-.hild what are you e1tinII?" rried his mother anxiously,

"it may he poisonous, and make you die. (1i\e me what you have
in vom mouth. for Heavens sake, and do not swallow the s111allest
111e11" "

lIrank in a fright allowed his mother to take from his mouth
what appeared to he the remains of a small fig.

" "'here did you get this?" she asked.

"Yonder, in the IIrass," replied 1I'1 'ank, " them are thousands of
them; the fowls and the piIIeons are eating such a lot, and the one
I tasted "as so nice, that I thought it; wouldn't do 111131 any Inn 111.

" Do not he alarmed, my dear, I trust there is no danger," I said
to my wife, as she looked at me inquiringly: "these trees are a
species of mangrove, and hear a kind of fig: which I believe is
wholesome; hut, JI'rank," I continued, addressing the child,
"rememher you must never eat the fruit you find, or even taste it,
till you have shown it to me. As a rule, however, we may consider
any kind of vegetable or fruit eaten by birds or 111011keys, as
wholesome food."
" But, papa," said Ernest, "cocoanuts are good, yet the birds do
not eat them."

" Their shells are too hard and too large for birds to manage," I
replied; "besides, Ernest, there is no rule without an exception."

Frank, however, had no sooner heard my statement about the
monkeys, than he ran off in triumph to a tree near those on which
the skins of the porcupine and the tiger-cat were nailed. Upon a
root of this tree the little monkey was seated, and Frank, who had
two figs in his pocket, presented one to Master Nip.

He seized it hastily, and began eating it with the most comical
expressions of delight and the greatest. eagerness.

In their satisfaction at this discovery respecting the figs, the boys,
with Frank as their leader, shouted " Bravo! bravo 2 " with all their
might.

Meanwhile our clever housekeeper had lighted the fire, and pre-
pared for us a dinner of soup from pieces of the porcupine, which
I had divided into halves; one to be eaten fresh, the other salted.
The flesh of the tiger-cat we gave to the dogs. Until dinner was
ready I employed myself in forming needles of the poreupine's
quills. To produce the eyes I made a nail red hot, and pierced it
through the thickest end of each quill: in a very little time I had
manufactured a packet of needles, which gave my wife a very
pleasant surprise.

I remembered, also, that we had no harness of any sort for our
beasts of burden. and I resolved by some means to supply that
deficiency. But, like many other important wants, I knew it must
be deferred to the next day.

After finishing,r the needles, I and the boys made choice of a tree
which I considered would be the most suitable for our future
dwelling. I then tied stones to the ends of pieces of rope, and tried
to throw them over the lower branches. The boys also exerted
themselves, but we were too tired to succeed. It seemed impos-
sible, therefore, to establish our dwelling in the tree on that (lay,
and, after markingr the spot with a heap of stones, gave up the
idea. Very soon my wife called us to dinner. \V e truly enjoyed
the excellent soup, and the flesh of the porcupine she had boiled
for us, with biscuits as a substitute for bread.

Vt? W
UL) ,
".46 2s . ~.1 .\'11111'1"s LODGING.

Fl EAR we shall he Uhliged to sleep on the ground, after all,"

I lsaid to my uife after dinner, " fo1 wilh all out: efforts we

cannot 1'1'111 l1 e\ 1-11 to the lo\\ (.1 branches of these trees. How-
1-,\ er, as he shall want to harness the animals, that they may b1i1151
wood and heams from the. be 11h will you make some straps and
hreasthands of skin 111111 sail- cloth, that they may be ready for us to-
11101'1'ow ? "

My good wife set: herself to work innnediately, with the needles I
had fashioned from the poreupine's quills, to make what I required.
Meanwhile I fastened the hammocks to the arched roots of the
tree I had chosen, and stretched over them a large piece of sail-
vlot-h, to protect 11s from the night (lews. And then, satisfied that
we should at least; lune :1 shelter for the 11i<rht,I hastened with
|'1'itz 11nd Ernest to the hea1-,h hoping to discover some suitable
matelials with \1hi1h to tonstruct a 10110 ladder.

The shore. was strewn with heams and planks from the w.1'e1 l1;
hut these were too I: e and heavy for mv pu1pose, and would re~
quire so much pr1p.111uion that. I herran to tear disappointment,
when Ernest suddenly 1lis1-o1'1-1e1'1 a number of hamhoo canes, half
huried 111 mud and sand.

"'ith the help of the hoys l joyfully disinterred the useful reeds,
and after scrapingr and cleaning them, found to my great satisfaction
that they would fully ansu'er my purpose.

I then cut them into lengths of about: four or five feet each, and
tied them into three hundles of equal thickness, for myself and the
he) s to carrv. I chose also 11 few thinner canes, of which I intended
1.0 make arrows for another purpose.

At a little distance from this spot we came to 111a1'shyg1'01u1d,
on which men a thick hush of :rl'een reeds, and as they appeaied
likely to become useful, 1 determined to obtain a supply. According
to our custom, "e u'e1e all well armed, and the dog Floss, who

90A NIGHTS LODGING. 91

accompanied us, appeared to consider herself our leader, and

marched in front. ,
As we approached the marsh, she suddenly started forward as if
she were mad, barking furiously amid the reeds. The next, moment

 

FLA M l Nouns.

a flock of superb flamingoes, which Floss had put to flight, rose in
the air with rushing wings above our heads.

Fritz, alwaysalert and on his guard, instantly raised his gun and
fired, bringing down two of the himhnnst. One of them fell dead
at a little distance, but the other, which was only slightly wounded
in the wing, rose quickly, and used his long legs as if he were on
stilts with the greatest swiftness.

Fritz started forward incautiously to secure the dead bird, and
at once sank up to his knees in the marshy ground. "'arned by
his example, I followed the wounded bird by a circuitous route,
softly but as quickly as possible; yet I should have failed to ever-
take him had not Floss rushed forward, and seizing the bird by
the wing, held it firmly till I came up to them.

The flamingo fought bravely for his life, beating me with his
wings with great force; aml it was only after a struggle that I
succeeded in mastering him.

I took him gently under my arm, and returned to the place
where I had left the boys.

"Oh, papa 5" exclaimed Ernest, "have you caught him? Is he
alive? 0h 2 1 hope we shall he able to make him tame l"

Fritz was examining the dead flamingo, and presently he said,

"Papa, the flamingo is web-footed, like the goose, and yet he
has long legs, and can run like the stark. Is this not unusual ?"

" No, my boy; there are many birds which possess the swinnning
feet, and yet have long legs."

"Have all llamingoes beautifully coloured plumage like this?"
he asked again. "1 fancied as the birds flew that some of them
had not purple and rose-colom-t-d wings."

"Probably not," I replied, " for I believe the young flamingoes
while growing are of a greyish white. It is only when full grown
that their feathers assume such brilliant colours."

While gathering the reeds, I remembered that the savage nations
used them particularly for pointed arrows; yet the larger ones
might prove useful in another way. I therefore cut a few of the
longest I could find, saying,

" "'e shall be able to measure the height of the tree with these,
my boys."

They laughed ineredulously at this assertion, and Ernest said,

"Why, papa, if you were to tie ten or a dozen of those paltry
reeds one upon the other, they would not reach the lowest.
branch."

"Have patience," I said, with a smile; "you will learn what I
mean to do in time,"

Presently we arrived at our resting place, laden with the canes
and our booty, and were received by Jack and Frank with outcries
of delight, especially when they espied the living flamingo. The
mother only did not share in their joy.
"I fear," she said, " that with so many living animals we shall
find our supply of food for them quickly disappear."

I did not reply, for I was anxious to examine the wounds of the
poor flamingo. Unfortunately, I found the outer pinion of both
wings injured, one by the shot from the gun, the other crushed by
the dog's teeth, where she had caught it.

I managed, however, to anoint the wounds with butter, and after
binding them carefully with pieces of old linen, I fixed a stake
firmly in the ground near the river, and tied the bird's leg to it by

 

llEEDS.

a rope long enough for him to walk about on the beach and to
reach the water, then I left him to his fate.

By this time the boys were trying to measure the height- of the
tree, by tying two of the longest pieces of cane together; but they
hardly reached the highest point of the arched roots. I could see
how impatient they were for me to commence my measurement,
even while with youthful jokes they laughed at the idea of my
success.

They watched me with amusement and surprise, as I placed tall
reeds in the ground at equal distances from each other, tied strings
here and there, till I formed angles, right angles, and at last right
angled triangles.

Fritz looked on with deep interest. I knew he had learnt Euclid
at sehm 11, and had a sulliL-ient knowledge of trigonometry* to com-
prehend what I was about. 'l'herL-fore. when my arrangements
were completed, I said,

"W ell, Fritz, can you tell me now the hei-rht of this lr.ee 7 "

He looked thoughtful for a few moments, and then said,

'1 thL1e the height of this tree to the first; branch is three times
the length of the middle string which is fastened to the trunk."

" (Quite. right," I replied. " X ow, Ernest, measure the middle
sningr with 1111 foot rule, and tell me. the height to the branch."

" \e: 1er fort) leet, papa : three times thirteen are thirty-nine."

"'\\ ell, e.\'Llai1ned1.laelt, that is wonderful! What a good
thing' you know it all, papa."

"' I learnt it. in my young days, Ernest. Ah! my hays, youth is
the. lime to learn ; it is too late after the cares of the world full on
our shoulders."

" llut, papa," said Ernest, "' this does not help us to climb the tree."

"Perhaps not yet, but it decides that we shall want eighty yards
of rope for the two sides of our ladder. Measure the pieces which
form the triangle again, l1oys, and then Jack and Frank can wind it up
into a hall and take it to the. mother, whileI prepare smnething else."

Frit/ and 13111est hastened to obey, while I seated my self 011 the

s, and hastily formed a how with one of the bamboo canes and
:1 strong1 cord, and half a dozen arrows from the pointed reeds. As
they appeared too light, I tilled the hollow Lanes with wet sand.
and attached feathers of the flamingo to the lower end, so that tln
arrow might; lly straight in the air. " hen this was ready, I felt
with satisl'action that 1111' purpose was actomplished.

'l'he a'ppeuance of the how and ar'ro11 l1rou1rht all the young
people round 111e, exelain1in,g1r in joyful accents,

'011! a how' a 11011 and armws' "'hat are you going to do,
papa .7 Oh! let me shoot, and Inc, and me. ' "

".l'atience, 111) children!" I cried; "this time I must take the.
precedence; besides, it is work, and not: intended for amusement.
but; use. Ask your mother if she has a hall of strong coarse string'r
to give us."

111 a few 1110111ei1ts my wife appeared with her magic bag.

"I will examine what, it; contains," she said, with a smile, as she
put her hand in, and, drawing out the required hall of string, she
oll'ered it to 111e,sa)'i11g, " Ther,e my husband, is just 11 hat you want
a whole skein of strong and coarse string from my enchanted bag'"

 
 

  

av

 

" The art of measuring 11y angles or triangles.
"Ah, mammal" laughed Ernest, " that certainly is wonderful
magic, to bring forth from a bag what you have put there yourself 1

" There is really no mystery in it," said his mother. " If we are
thoughtful at the right time to place anything useful where it can
be easily and quickly found, that is at least the best magic."

At this moment Fritz appeared, and informed me that the cord 1
had used measured more than a hundred and forty feet, which was
longer than we needed for the ladder. I, however, took an arrow
and fastened it to one end of the skein of thread, which the boys
unwound, and, placing it on the. how, after one or two trials I drew
it towards the tree in such a direction, that the arrow passed over
one of the branches and fell on the other side, carrying the string
with it, and leaving it suspended in the air.

Carefully holding the end of the string, I fastened a rope to it
and passed it over the branch. The two ends I nailed to the trunk,
to keep it from slipping off while we crmstructed our rope ladder.

First I cut off a length of about a hundred feet from the rope,
and divided it into portions of fifty feet each. These I laid side
by side on the ground at about six inches apart, the boys eagerly
assisting me. Fritz cut the bamboo canes into equal lengths of
two feet each, Ernest brought them to me, I placed them between
the two ropes, fastened them tightly at each end, and then desired
Jack to drive a nail through the fastening, to keep them from
slipping; and thus we completed a rope ladder with forty strands
in a very short time, to the great delight and astonishment of the
mother, who was looking on.

I then attached firmly this wonderful construction to one end of
the cord which hung over the branch, and by the means of the
other end drew it up till the top of the ladder reached the bough
and hung suspended from the tree, while the children in delight
uttered shouts of joy.

Each of them wished to mount first, but I chose Jack, as being
the lightest of the three elder ones, and the. most agile ; and I knew
he would not try the strength of my ladder so much as those who
were larger and heavier.

The youngster scrambled up as swiftly and saueily as a cat, and
reached the top in safety.

I now believed that Fritz might venture; and when he a15o
reached the top and made the ladder fast to the tree, I resolved to
follow him myself and arrange what was still necessary. I took
with me a pulley, and, by means of a strong card, I fastened it to
the highest branch I could reach. This I knew would enable me9:5 SWISS FAMILY 1301;]; 'Sth.

next day to draw 111) the beams and planks which I 111ight 1er111ire.
This work was finished hy moonlight, and with it the hardest. day's
work we had performed since our shipwreck came to an end. I
descended the. ladder, satisfied with my success and full of con-
fidence in the future.

l'resently I missed Fritz and Jack. and for a moment; hegan to
feel anxious, till I rememhercd that, while 1 had heen finishing my
preparatitms at the top of the ladder, they had climbed higher 111)
the tree. At the same 1110111ent; there fell upon my car from the
topmost hranehes the harmonious tones of two young voices sing-
ing the Evening Hymn. I listened with a lightened heart; and
when it ceased 1 called to them to come down to help me to collect
the animals, and to gather wood for a fire to burn all night, and
protect us from wild heasts.

They descended quickly 3. and after I had fastened the lower end
of the ladder to one of the roots, we attended to the wants of the
animals aml the poultry, who were assembled round 11s asking for
food. After they had eaten a good supper, l was pleased to see
the poultry and pigeons perch themselves to roost: on the rungs of
our ladder, and the four-footwl heasts creep under the arched roots
of the tree, near our hammocks, and la_\' themselves down, perfectly
free from care. The llamingo was not t'orgotton. "'0 gave him
some milk sop, placed him in a corner near the trunk of the tree,
and tied him to a root, where he soon put- his head under his right
wing, stood upon one leg, with the other tucked up, and in that
position slept; in comfort.

By this time 110 rrladly welcomed the hour for food and 1';est
and while my 11il'e prepared our s11p1.1(1 we gathered a quantity of
11ood and a1ra11ged it; in a cilcle lound the tree, for I had deter-
mined to have fires lighted as a. protection, and to keep awake my-
self during the night; to replenish them.

By the time all this was finished my wife. announced that supper
was ready, and we ran hastily to partake of it, for indeed we were
almost. starving.

The boys brought; in a supply of figs, which they had picked up
during the day, and these formed an excellent dessert.

We had, however, scarcely finished supper hefore one after
another hegan to yawn; and at last, after a short prayer, I sent; my
wife aml the children to their ha1n111ocks, which hung from the
arched roots.

Then 1 lighted the wood which lay around its, and prepared to
watch the fire all night. Presently from the hammocks came
sounds of murmuring and woe. I inquired the cause, and was told
that to lie in a hammock was like being in a sack--they could
neither move hand nor foot, and that it was dreadful.

I laughed at their complaints, and told them how to place them-
selves more comfortably.

. "Lay yourselves across," I cried, "from one corner to the other,

wrap yourselves in the bed-covering, and you will soon be asleep.
If a sailor can sleep in a hammock, I should think a young Swiss
boy ought to be able to do so."

After a few sighs and attempts to place themselves right, all
became tranquil; and before long I knew, by their gentle breathing,
that my children were in the arms of sleep; but I slept not.

During the early part of the night I was very restless. I could
not satisfy myself of our security from danger. From time to time,
if one of the logs of wood burnt out, I lighted another. At first it
seemed easy to descend from my hammock; but after midnight I
felt so unwilling to move, that I contented myself with merely
looking over to see if all was in order. At last, towards morning,
sleep overpowered me so completely, that I did not awake till late
in the day, and found that my wife and the boys had left their
haunnocks and were busily employed in preparing breakfast.A ('11s'1'1.1: 1.1 THE 11111.

N descending from my hammock after that anxious night, I
found that my wife, when she had milked the cow and
attended to the animals, had harnessed the ass with the

straps she had made the day previous, in readiness for a journey to
the beach, as she intended to fetch the planks and beams for
erecting our house in the tree.

After breakfast and our morning prayers, she proposed to take
the younger boy s, Ernest. Jack, and Frank, with her for this pur-
pose, while I and F1it7. 11 1:11. making all the 111easurements and
pr'epmations in the tr.ee

I hesitated at first to allow her to undertake such heavy work;
but as she said truly it 11 ould save time, and with the help of the
ass and the assistance of the three 1101s them would be no difficulty.

As soon as they had sta1',ted Frit/ and I ascended the two, and
found that the centre of the trunk from which the curvinrr in Inches
sprang was in e1' cry 11 '1) suitable for our purpose These b1a11ches
were strong, thick, and close together, and near the trunk, before
they bent 11011'1111'ards, almost horizontal for a considerable length ;
I decided, therefore, to use these as beams for a flooring.

011 the upper branches, at about five or six feet above us, I
determined to hang our hammocks, and over these a little higher
up to stretch a large piece of sail-cloth as a ceiling and roof for 0111'
aierial castle.

The space between the sail- cloth and the floor I elea1 ed by cutting
away branches that grew across it, and by the time my wife and
the boys le'turned with their first load, e1' cry thing 11 as in readiness.

By means of a pulley and a rope, which I had fastened to a
b1anch the night. before, we won: able to thaw up piece by piece
the 11 ood suitable for our Homing.

95A CASTLE IN THE AIR. 99

To make it secure I placed double planks, and when this was
completed, Fritz and I erected, with pieces of wood of about three
feet long, a hand-rail all round it, forming an enclosure which
already appeared like a room, though without as yet walls or
ceiling, excepting those formed by the foliage of the tree.

The whole morning was occupied in this work; my wife and the
boys having in the meantime brought up three loads of planks
and beams from the beach.

No one had even thought of dinner, so we were obliged to be
satisfied for this time with the cold remains of last night's supper.

After our repast we returned to our work in the tree, and,
slinging up the hammocks on the branches, prepared to raise the
sail-cloth over all as a ceiling. This was a far more dillicult task,
and but for the help of the pulley, which we had to move for the
pin-pose, would never have been accomplished.

At length, to our great joy, we succeeded, and managed to draw
it over the upper branches; and then, by fastening the corners to
our hand-rail on three sides, we were able to leave the fourth side
uncovered as a means of entrance and light; and thus before sunset
this wonderful resting-place in the tree was completed to our great
satisfaction.

\Vhen Fritz and I at last desisted from our work, and descended
the rope ladder, we found several small planks which I thought
would be suitable for a table and two benches. Tired as I was, I
at once set to work, and by nailing the planks on the highest parts
of the roots for a table, and on the lower curves for benches, I
succeeded in forming a most useful addition to our arrange-
ments.

Throwing myself at last on one of the benches I had just finished,
I wiped the perspiration from my forehead and said,

" Dear wife, I am really tired of this hard work, and I mean to
rest all day to-morrow."

" You not only can rest," she replied, " but it will be your duty
to do so. I have been calculating the days, and I find that to-
morrow will be Sunday. \Ve have already passed one without
keeping it, for you were hard at work on the wreck."

"I am indeed thankful to hear such good news," I replied;
"and to-morrow the day shall be properly remembered. Indeed,
now that we are settled and, for a few months, in comparative
safety, it would be ungrateful in us not to lift up our hearts in
thankfulness to God for His protection hitherto, and to render to
Him more service on His day than our daily prayers."

8--2
 

"I shall rejoice indeed," replied my wife, " for this day of rest
without trouble or anxiety. The aerial castle which you appear
to have so solidly constructed takes away my greatest fear, and
deserves my warmest thanks, dear husband. I mean to-night, for
the first time, to venture to mount to 0111' new sleeping quarters,
for at least we shall be safer f1om the attacks of jackals or other
111111 beasts. "'e need not tell the children to- night about to-
n1or"1o11 being Sunday," she added; "it will be such a pleasant
su1prise to them. And now suppe1 must be 1eady. "'111 you call
the 1101's 11hi1e I p1epa1e it on our new table. 7"

In a few moments they eagerly a11swe1ed the call, and then the
mothe1 appcaied 111111 a la1ge earthen pot, 11111111 seemed to contain
a mystery--quickly solved, however, as she removed the cover and
drew from it with a fork the flamingo shot by Fritz.

"I intended to roast it," she said, " but Ernest reminded me that
it was no doubt old and tough, so I have stewed it."

The idea of the young scholar advising his mother 011 the subject
of cookery greatly amused 11s, but we found the advantage of his
advice, for the stewed ilamingo was so palatable that we ate it with
extreme relish, every bone being picked clean.

While we were at supper we were pleased to see the wounded
flamingo mixing in a most friendly manner with our poultry, who
came as usual to beg,r for crumbs. we had found him aheady so
tame, that during the afternoon I gave him his liberty It 11113
ve1y amusing to see him walking about quiteg mav ely. and 111aking
no attempt to run away.

Even the little monkev was overcoming his shy,ness and amused
11s with 11 thousand <<rrimaces. He was not forgotten by the 11111 .
who laughingly 1ewa1ded him for his tricks now and then with
some nice little pieces from their 01111 share

"'e had nea11y finished supper when our sow, which had not
been seen all da1',c11111e to pay us a visit. Her friendly grmu
seemed to express he1 pleasure at having found 11s again. Mva wife
after milking the cow and supplying Cthe boys with their usual
quantity, gave the remainder to theD sow, hoping to attract the
animal to remain near us. I felt inclined to find fault with this
apparent waste; but she said, rightly, that as we had not enough
vessels in which to preserve the milk, it was better to obtain it only
as we required it; and if the supply was greater than we needed,
to give it to the animals, for in such a climate it would quickly
turn sour.

" Besides," she continued, " I am able by this to save the salt andA CASTLE IN T1115 [II/t. 101

 

grain, which is decreasing veiy fast. By -and- bye we may become
c101 e1 enough to make butter and cheese and const1uct vessels to
110111 the milk. "

"Salt is easily obtained from the rocks," I said; "and on 0111'
next voyage to the wreck we can b1ing you plenty of grain. "

' "Oh, dear. ' " she e.\clai111ed,"'11w'1ys that dreadful ship. There
will he no peace for me till those voyages are over! I am in agonies
all the whileyou and the boys are away.

" But, my dear," I replied, " there is no necessity for such
excessive fear 011 your part. I should not venture unless weather
and sea and sky are quite calm. And while the way is open for
11s to save so many useful things which still remain on the vessel,
we ought not in 0111' present position to neglect it."

While we thus conve1sed the 1101's lighted a fire 10111111 our tree,
to protect not only ourselves, but the animals, who again sought
shelter under the 1'.oots Indeed, 110 were all ready for sleep and
rest. The three elder boys ascended the ladder with lightning
speed. Their mother followed slowly and not without some fear,
but she arrived safely at last.

Little Frank still remained ; and after unfastening the lower end
of the rope ladder from the roots, that I might draw it 1111 after me,
I took the little one 011 my back and prepared to ascend.

0111' double weight caused the unfastened ladder to swing slightly
in the air, and rendered the ascent difficult.

Happily, however, we reached the top in safety, and, to the great
satisfaction of the children, drew 11p the ladder after me ; and they
declared that they could fancy themselves in a knight's castle of
olden feudal times, with the dra11'bridge raised as a protection from
the enemy.

After the tranquillity of the preceding night I felt itunnccessary
to worry my self about keeping 1111 the ti1e.\\e pr'o1ided ourselves
however, with firearms, that we might be ready to assist our 11 ateli-
fnl does 111 case of alarm I laid my self to rest in peace; indeed,
we 11 ere all so fatigued, that 111 a very few minutes we were sleep-
ing sweetly 111 our r>l1an1n1ocks, and did not 11 al1e till the sun was
1115311 111 the heavens.

After such a ninht of refreshing sleep the boys arose full of
spirits, and inquired eagerly,

" What are we going Dto do to- -day, papa 2"

" Nothing, my boys , not a single stroke of work."

"Ah, dear papa, you ale joking!" c1ied one. "You 1111: making
fun of 115'"
 

" No, children," I replied, " I am not joking; it is Sunday to-day,
and 11e will keep it 1110perl1'. "

" Sunday" cried Jaek' , " that is good news. I can use my bow
and a1'",10\1 take a walk, 01' be lazy, just as I please."

"That is a wry improper speech, my bo1," I said. " Sunday is
God's day, which He has fixed for us to worship Him, serve Him,
and otter IIim ,thanks."

" But, papa," said little Frank "there is no church I;1'e1e so we
cannot go and hear the sol 111011, 01' listen to the organ playing."

" Just as if our father couldn't preach us a sermon, or help 11s to
sing without 1111 organ I " said Jack.

"Quite true, my child," I replied, " and you know that. God is
everywhere; and if we sincerely wish to serve and praise Him and
to do His will, we can do so amidst the beauties of nature and
beneath the blue vault of heaven, which He has created, quite as
acceptably as in the most splendid cathedral made by man. And
now let us consider seriously what we are about to do. First we
will sing 11 11111111 and offer our morning prayeis, and then I will
relate to you a parable."

" A pa1able' Oh, a parable from the Bible, papa ?"

" \Iy I1o1's,11'e l1a1e not a Bible, 1':et but I hope in my 11e\t
visit- to the ship to bring away a I10\ of books from the captain's

cabin, and no doubt a Bible is amonfr them."

I saw E most 3 e1' es spaikle at the idea of having hooks, but he
did not speak, and as I knelt to oil'er our prayers and thanksgivings
to God for His memiful cale, the boys followed my evuiiple 111
silence.

Then we sang one 01' two hymns which we all knew by heart;
and 1111 wile and the 1101's seating themselves 011 the ground
beneath our tree, I related to them my par.able

'l'llF COLONISTS OF A GREAT KING.

Once upon 11 time there lived a {neat Monarch, a portion of
whose kingdmn was entitled the Rt'ulms of 111mm,, 07' the Day
because there the purest and brightest light shone continually, and
darkness was unknown. There also existed no idleness, but all the
inhabitants were active and constantly employed.

I'pon the distant frontiers of this country, and 011 the northem
coast, was another division of the Great King's dominions, so ex-
lvllsive that none could imagine or describe its bounda1ies; yet
in the eternal archives a plan had been preserved, known only to
the King himself.
 

This second dominion was entitled the Kingdom of Inscnsibz'l-ily,
or Dru-knees, because all who dwelt in it were in a state of gloom
and inactivity.

In the most fertile and most agreeable portion of the Kingdom
of Day the Great King had a Palace, situated in a beautiful place
named the Celestial City.

Here he dwelt and held his court, which was more brilliant than
imagination can form any idea of. Amidst his guards and his
servants exalted in dignity who were around him, the Great King'
sat, while each waited to receive his orders, and to obey them with
pleasure and delight.

Those of his attendants who were highest in office were clothed
in robes of a texture as soft as silk and white as the snow, for
white, the image of purity, was a favourite hue with the Great
King. Others carried in their hands two-edged swords, that
glittercd in.the light, and their attire presented all the beautiful
colours of the rainbow. Each and all of these royal servants held
themselves in readiness to perform the will of their Great Ruler,
at the first signal, and with the rapidity of lightning.

Their happiness was increased when admitted to his presence,
and their countenances, resplendent with sweet joy, bore the
impress of peaceful calm and serenity.

All sin, all uneasiness and trouble were absent; between them
was one heart and one mind, a fraternal regard for each other
uniting them in one bond of. union, and entirely preventing rivalry
or jealousy.

The rest of the inhabitants of the Celestial Oily, as well as others
who were not so closely associated with their Monarch, were still
good, loyal, and happy, for they were enriched by benefits from
the Great King, and received without ceasing marks of his good-
ness; for all his subjects are equal in his eyes, and he loves and
treats them as his children.

Besides these great countries, the Great King had a large and
uninhabited island belonging to his dominions, which he desired
to cultivate; for at present it was a species of chaos or confusion.

This island he had destined to be for some yeais the residence
of a number of his citizens in the Land of Darkness, whom he in-
tended after a few years to receive into the Celestial City, it they
rendered themselves worthy of such an honour by their obedience
and good conduct.

This island was to be their terrestrial home for a certain time,
to give them an opportunity of obtaining such a glorious reward.
 

:l'o carry out this intention, the Great King equipped a fleet of
ships, to convey these new colonists to the terrestrial island from

 

WEEDI .\'U 1.": GARDEN.

the Land qf Darkness, and thus awarded to them as his first benefit the
enjoyment of the beautiful light of nature, to them hitherto unknown.

We can imagine what pleasure this afi'orded them, especially
when their eyes became accustomed to the light, and the objects
 

 

it disclosed. They knew also that the opportunity of being
admitted to the Celestial Oily was now open to them, and what
was required by the King,--to cultivate the land and render it
fertile, never to relax in their efforts for this purpose, and strictly
to obey his commands.

To assist them in their duties, each received, on arriving at the
island, a portion of ground for himself, and all the. necessary tools
and implements required in his work; and at various times instruc-
tion was given to all by the Great King's messengers, who were
sent as teachers and guides.

All the colonists seemed quite ready to obey the commands of
the Sovereign at first, and made the most earnest promises of ful-
iilling the purpose for which they were placed on the island.

But this state of things did not last long: many became idle and
indifferent, neglected their fields and gardens, sowed inferior grain,
or allowed weeds to grow which choked the flowers in their growth,
lost their tools, and altogether forgot to obey the commands of the
Great King.

In vain the King's messengers warned them that they would be
sent back to the Land (f .Darlnwss, and punished for their conduct;
the rebellious colonists would not listen ; and at last the day arrived
when the King required an account of their doings,and came him-
self to pass judgment upon them.

All their excuses then were of no avail: the disobedient were
condemned to banishment to the Land of Darkness, while those
who had obeyed the King's commands acconrpanied him back to
the Celestial Oily, and became either happy citizens or were admitted
as members of the royal household, and raised to positions higher
or lower according to the pleasure of the Great King.

I paused as I finished my parable, and asked Fritz,

" Well, Fritz, what strikes you most strongly in this alle-
gory ?"

D "The goodness of the Great King, papa, and the irrgratitude of
the colonists."

"And you, Ernest ?"

" Why, papa, I think they were most foolish people to act as they
did, when they knew what an agreeable life they might have in the
(Lt-[cstvial City, if they were obedient."

"If I had been there," said little Frank, "I would have tried to
deserve those beautiful dresses like the rainbow. Ah 2 how grand
they must he I"
" Ah 3 my children," I sait, " I have tried to represent to you in
this allegory the conduct of God towards men, and their behaviour
towards God. You know we are placed here on earth by God as
llis colonists; we know that we shall be judged by Him at the last
day; and those who have done good will be received into the
kingdmn of heaven, and those who have done evil will be sent into
eternal darkness. "'e have to cultivate the mind and the so11l,and
to root up all those weeds of pride, envy, hatred, angry passions,
disobedience to parents, and many other wrong inclinations to
which grown people as well as children are liable, and if these are
not conquered or uprooted, we cannot expect to be admitted even
as citizens to the Crh'slial City."

With these words, and a short earnest prayer, I closed the
services of this our new Sunday worship.

For a time our young people appeared to be thinking seriously
over what they had heard, and asking each other questions, and at:
last they dispersed in dill'eicnt directions.

I noticed how'e1er, that they were unsettled, and at a loss for
e111ploy111ent , and 1e111en1l 101mrr that 11 e had 011 this island no books,
or Sunday ~schools, or places of 11 o1slnp to engage their attention,
I called them round 111e, and told them they might employ the
lest of the day in innocent 1He01eations,11l11cl1 would be less sinful
in the sight of (-011 than idleness, quarrelling, or 11aste of time.
They were at liberty, therefore, to choose their own favourite
occupations. Little Frank came to me at 011cc with a request that,
as he was not allowed to have a gun, he 111ight try to shoot with a
bow and arrow, and asked me to make a little one for him.

I could not refuse him , but first I had to grant Jack pennission
to let him t1 y to use my laige bow, and also to fix 011 the tips of
the arrows some. porcupine's quills as points.

I acceded to his request, and showed him how to fill the reeds
with sand, and bind the points strongly with packt-hread.

"It would increase their strength if you could glue them 011 as
well," I said.

" I wish I only knew "llOlC thev sold glue 111 this country" he
leplied, with a laugh; " I 11011111 soon go and buy some.'

" Ask mamma for one of those pieserv ed soup tablets," said
1" rank. " She says it sticks to the fingers just like glue."

"What 1" cried Jack; "do you, with your little empty head,
know better than we do ?'

"The idea is not hat," I said; " and we should listen to good
hints from whatever source they may come. Many famous inven-
 

tions owe their origin to sources even more simple than the sug-
gestion of little Frank. Go and fetch one of the tablets. "'0 can
boil it in a cocoa-nut shell, and discover what is the result."

While Jack was making this experiment, came Fritz with a re-
quest that I would show him how to proceed with his knife-and-
fork case, which he wished to construct of the skin of the margay.
I advised him first to clean it thoroughly, and then at length
scat-ed myself on the grass to cut out and make a bow and arrows
for little Frank.

 

BLUE "TIA.

While thus employed I reflected on the advantage it would be to
my sons if they were able while young to use these weapons, for
sooner or later our powder might fail, and then our means of
obtaining food in one way would be lost. If the children of the
wild Indians at a very early age could bring down birds with
arrows from the tops of high trees at a distance of thirty or forty
paces, why should not mine acquire the same skill with similar
practice?

While thus reflecting, and busy at the bow and arrows for little
Frank, Ernest passed us; and at the same moment Fritz showed
me the wet skin of the tiger-cat. I did not notice which way he
went. -
 

 

While I was giving new directions to Fritz about the case, his
mother said,

" I think we should be very careful of the captain's silver knife,
fork, and spoon; and if I were you, Fritz, I would not; wear the
case in my girdle, for fear of losing it."

"But we saved it!" cried Jack. " It would most likely have
been lost in the wreck else; so it; would be silly to give it bac 2"

" That; may be your childish opinion, J aek, my boy," said I, " but
it would be by no means honest."

 

ORTOLANS.

At; this moment we heard a shot fired above our heads, and
suddenly at our feet fell two dead birds.

Half angry and half alarmed, I looked up, and there stood Ernest
at the fence of our tree-castle sleeping-apartment, and cryingr out
triumphantly,

"There! there! Have I not aimed well? Isn't that a good
shot .7"

He came down the rope ladder with unusual haste as he spoke,
and ran with Frank to pick up his prey, which he brought to me.
I found that one of the birds was a kind of thrush, and the other
a species of small pigeon named by the ancients the ortolan, and
highly appreciated as a delicacy on account of its fat and exquisite
flavour.
I advised the boys not to shoot any more at present, as the wild
figs when ripe would attract huge flocks of these birds, and provide
for us a new and agreeable means of subsistence. The ortolans, if
placed in casks with melted butter poured over them, will keep
good for a length of time.

Very pleasant also was it to reflect that the figs would supply a
large quantity of food for our chickens and pigeons, for I con-
cluded right-1y that they would eat the fruit which was so alluring
to wild birds. I spoke of this to my wife when I took her the
two birds which Ernest had shot to be prepared for our dinner,
and she was as thankful as I was at one anxiety being thus partly

removed.('IlAl'TER XII.

THE \'lSl'l' T0 ZELTHEHI.

IIILE waiting for dinner, Jack was eagerly trying his bow
and arrows, and shooting in every direction. I had
already completed a small bow and arrows for little

Frank; but when I hoped to be able to rest, he came to me with
an earnest request that I would also make him a quiver.

" You know, papa," said the little man, "it is quite as proper to
have a quiver for the arrows, as a powder and shot-pouch for a
gun."

I gave way to his wish, and stripping some flexible hark from
the branch of a tree, I glued it together in the form of a quiver,
which I hung across his shoulder, to his great delight.

"'heu I had finished this, Fritz appeared with his tiger-cat's
skin and another inquiry ; but as at this moment the mother called
us to dinner, the boys gladly threw aside their various employ-
ments, to seat themselves at the table. During the meal I made a
proposition which I thought would be quite to their taste.

" My boys," I said, "would it not be very convenient if we were
to give names suitable to the ditl'erent spots we have visited since
we landed here? "'e do not know the real name of the country,
nor whether it has been already visited by some clever traveller,
who has named it and placed the name on a map. But we can do
this to those spots in which we have taken shelter, or where any-
thing remarkable has been discovered by us; so that in future we
may understand each other when speaking of them. In time, also,
we may fancy ourselves in a country well inhabited, and in places
which we have known for a long time."

" Oh 2" cried Jack, "what a capital plan! where shall we begin?
at the hay in which we first landed?"

"That should be named 'Oyster Bay,' cried Fritz: "don't you
remember the quantity of oysters we found ?"

noTHE VISIT T0 ZELTHEIJI. lll

" N 0," said Jack, "'Crab's Bay' would he the best, because one
caught hold of my leg while we were there."

" I think," said his mother, "we ought to prove our thankfulness
to God for saving us by calling it Dt'l-ivwancc Bay."

This name was highly approved of by all, and then I proposed
that our first resting-place should be called chlhc-i-m-, or our Tent
Home; the isle at the entrance to the bay, upon which we had

 

JACK WAS EAGERLY TRYING HIS BOW AND ARROWS.

found the dead shark, was to be named (Haififclm'mcl) Shaw's
Island ; and the marsh where Fritz had killed a flamingo (Flamamt
Zmnpf) Flamingo Marsh.

"And now," I asked, "what title shall we give to our aerial
castle ?" .

Many names were proposed, but mine at last set all others aside. '
I decided that (Falkonhurst) Fulton's Nest was far the most appro-
priate, as well as being a poetical name.

It was easy to give names to the remaining places after this.
The promontory 011 which Fritz and I looked in vain for any
traces of our fellow passengers we named 1"r1lsc Hope Point, and
the river near our tent home, where the jackals fought with our
brave dogs, Jar/1'11] 131' ('17-.

After this arrangement was completed, dinner being ended, we
each returned to our work. "'hile Fritz proceeded to finish his
skin case, Jack came to ask my assistance in making a coat of mail
for Turk out of the skin of the porcupine.

I iirst showed him how to clean it with sand and ashes, then I
assisted him 111 tuttingr out and forminfr bands of the prickly skin.
The 111ne1'sidc,11hile onlv half di 1' was placed 011 the back of the
patient Turk, and fastened round his body. Thus attired, he pre-
sented 11 most remarkable appearance; and in such armour it
seemed 11s if not even a hyz'ena would be able to overpower him.

Floss, however, greatly disapproved of Turk's attire; for if he
approached near her or attempted any playfulness, the points of
the quills pricked her so sharply that she howled with pain, and
kept at 11 respectful distance. I therefore removed the coat of
mail from Turk's back, until another could be made for his com-
rade, and desired the boys only to put them 011 at night, or when
any danger of attacks from wild beasts rendered it necessary.

Jack decided to make a cap for himself out of the poreupine's
skin, as well as Floss's coat of mail; so he stretched the remainder
111e1' the ioots of the two to 1111, that it 111i1r|1t be ready when he
had leisure to use it in 111al1'i11fr these articles.

Meanwhile Ernest and 11r1111k were busy with thei1 bows and
arrows, and becoming quite e.\pei;t, sometimes assisted by l1'1it/
and Jack ; but as the afternoon passed away, and the heat became
less oppressi1',e I invited my family to accompany me in a walk.

"Let 11s grive up1 amusinrr ourselves," I said, "and close the day
snilablv by enioyinrr the freedom of 11at111e, and tracinrr the wood-
ness and 11' isdom of it's Creator. \\ hich road shall we take. 7"D

"To Zelthcim, I think," said Jack; " for we shall want more
powder and shot by-and-bye, to enable us to lay up a store of those
beautiful birds on the fig trees."

"And I vote for Zeltheim also," said his mother. "Our butter
is nearly all gone, Fritz has used so much for his tanning perform-
ances, and the young gentleman endeavoured to persuade me that.
to use rrood and savoury fat for cooking was much more economical
than using: buttei."

" \1h,1 " said Ernest; "and if we could manarre to brimr over
a few 111icl1s and geese from the brook, that would be capital. ' "_ .__.__'__AY= '4_.___1
" Your reasons are all of importance," I sair, "so we will turn
our steps towards Zeltheim: not by the old way 011 the beach,
however: we must try to find a new route in the shadow of the
ridge of rocks which borders our river. 'We shall then be shaded
from the sun till we reach the point at which the Jackal Brook
falls over the pebbles in its course, and that is not far from Zel-
theirn. It will be nearly sunset 011 our return, and we can cross
the bridge and come back by the old road 011 the beach. If we
keep a good look-out on the way we shall r10 doubt make new dis--
COV er ies."

My proposal was greatly approved, and we were very quickly
ready to start Frit/ new a girdle of the tiger cat's tail; but his
knife-case was not yet completed sufficiently for him to wear it.

Jack marched proudly forward, his head covered with the half--
fini'shed cap of the poreupine's skin. We were all armed in case of
danger: even little Frank carried his bow in his hand; and his
quiver full of arrows at his back. My wife alone was unarmed
exceptingr with a large jar, to be re--filled with butter from the cask
at Zeltheim.

Turk, wea1i11g again his coat of mail, marched 1n front, 111 a well-
behaved and quiet manner. The little monkey, who preferred to
ride on Turk's back, with his usual fancy for accompanying us,
sprang to his accustomed seat before we could prevent him , but
no sooner did he feel the sharp points of the quills, than with sur-
p1 rse and a terrible outcry he jumped to the ground chattering and
she" 111<r his teeth sav agely.

He (1 111 not intend, however, to be left behind, and therefore, with
some hesitation, and to the great astonishment of Floss, he leaped
011 her back, and seated himself so firmly that no efforts of the
animal could shake him off: Floss at last gave way, and submitted
\1ith good temper to her irnpertinent rider.

I "as still more amused at finding that our good flamingo had
also joined our walking party in the most familiar manner; and
,when the child1en teased him 111 play, he came to put himself under
my protection, and followed me closely with a grave and measured
step.

Our walk by the brook proved most unusually agreeable. During
the whole route we enjoy ed the pleasant shade from large trees in
full foliage, or from the ridge of rocks which extended c,for a long
distance between the beach and the stream Tire soft grass under
our feet formed a far more pleasant path than the pebbles and sand

of the shore Altogether the place was so attractive, that my wife
9

I .
 

and I did not hurry ourselves, but sauntered along at our ease,
while the boys rambled hither and thither in search of new dis-
(-overies. So we came to the end of the wood, and I was about to
call my young people and collect them together before continuing
our way, when I saw them approaching at full gallop, and this time
the deliberate Ernest arrived first, but gasping for breath with joy
and haste, and unable to utter a word for a few moments respecting
the green roots which he held before my eyes.

" Papa!" he cried at last, when he recovered his voice, "look!
potatoes E potatoes 1 "

" What! what, my boy?" I exclaimed: " that is too good news
to be true, I fear; but let me examine these roots, I cannot believe
it possible that you have really found such a precious fruit 2"

"I know they are potatoes, papa," said Fritz, confidently; " and
Ernest has been very lucky to discover such avaluable plant for
us."

"I am still afraid," said his mother, "there may be other plants
in this country with bulbous roots, resembling potatoes. "'0 are
so ready to believe what we earnestly wish for."

" Let us go to the spot in which Ernest has found these bulbs,"
1' said.

And with eager haste the boys led us to the place. A few
moments served to convince me of the joyful fact that a little forest
of potato plants in full flower lay at our feet; and humble as the
llowers might be, they were of far more value to us than all the
roses of Persia. A portion of the plants had run to seed, in another
part they had withered; but most of them were in full bloom, and
here and there young plants were sprouting from the ground.

"Oh!" cried Jack, "I knew they were potatoes! Oh! what a
treat for us!"

And as he spoke be rushed forward, and kneeling down, began
lo scrape away the earth and dig the roots up with his hands.
Master Monkey instantly sprang upon the ground and followed his
example; but he scraped and dug more quickly and cleverly than
Jack, for he picked out the most beautiful and the ripest, and after
smelling each he threw it aside, so that in a very short time quite
a large heap of potatoes had been gathered up. At last little
Frank look upon himself the task of running after the mischievous
animal, and drove him away.

The boys continued working some time longer with their hands
or a knife so diligently, that at last our sack and game-bag were as

full as possible of the valuable vegetable.
 

 

Then we continued our walk toward Zeltheim.

Ernest, however, proposed that we should at once return to
Falcon's Nest, for two reasons: first, because the potatoes were a
heavy load; and secondly, that we might cook them for supper,
and have a feast. But I reminded him that there existed still
stronger reasons that we should go on to Zelthcim. So we con-
tinued our walk pleasantly and in good spirits, in spite of the heavy
load.

" Children," I said presently, "how can we thank God in the
best way for all His benefits to us ?"

"Oh, I know," said little Frank: "we can say our grace as we
always do, 'W'e thank Thee, O God, for all Thy gifts; bless them
to us for Jesus' sake. Amen.' "

" Oh, no, Franky, that is not long enough," said Fritz; "besides,
our best way of showing our gratitude to God is to love Him with
all our hearts, and obey Him cheerfully. You know if we said to
papa and mannna, 'I thank you for all your kindness to me,' and
yet were disobedient and made them angry, our words of thanks
would be useless.

"Quite right, my dear Fritz," I said: "the benefits we receive
should awaken in our hearts love for the Giver, and that love would
make us always willing to serve and obey His commands. People
never willingly oll'end those whom they love and who are dear to
them."

While thus conversing we arrived at the rocky source from whence
our little river rippled softly with a murmuring sound over the
pebbles, forming as it fell a charming cascade. But to reach the
Jackal Brook we had to struggle through the high grass with the
chain of rocks on our right, and as we emerged from it a beautiful
prospect lay before us, very different from anything we had hitherto
seen. The face of the shelvy rocky wall presented a sight of
wonderful magnificence, resembling greatly a European conservatory.
The ledges and Chris, like the shelves of a hothouse, were rich in
rare and blooming plants; not, however, placed here by the hand
of man, but growing wild in rich luxuriance.

There were tropical plants of all descriptions, prickly shrubs and
flowers of every hue, which could only be reared in hothouses at
home: the Indian fig, the aloe, crested with white blossoms, the
tall stately cactus, with its prickly leaf and amber flowers, the
creeping plants winding their tendrils over every stem, and
spieading perfume around us from their many-coloured blossoms.

But above all we were delighted to find fruit trees, and among

.- u
v ..
others, to our great joy, the royal anana, which has been named the
king of fruits.

After this the boys seemed inclined to disregard the other rare
trees and prickly grasses which grew near, for they quickly recog-
nized the costly fruit, and knowing they were good to eat, began to
gather them eagerly.

The monkey, however, was beforehand with them, and while
perched on the tree and greedily eating, his grimaees and chatter
proved his delight.

The boys also devoured the delicious fruit; with such avidity, that
I found it necessary to warn them that by eating too many they
wuuld make themselves ill, and their pleasure would be changed to
pain.

l'resently I discovered among the various priekly--leaved plants
a karatas, a kind of aloe, partly in bloom, but chielly covered with
young shoots. This plant was to me a welcome sight.

"See, boys," I called out; "this is a much more valuable dis-
Covery than the ananas. The under foliage of this plant resembles
the anana, but the stem is far more elegant: observe how slender
and upright it grows, and then what a beautiful blossom E "

" Oh," exclaimed Ernest, " all that is nothing if there is no fruit.
The ananas are far more valuable, 1019a ; we will give up willingly
all these flowers and leaves to you,'n..,"'e may keep the ananas."
And I could see by their looks that all the .est agreed with him.

" Greedy boy," 1 said with a laugh ; "you are like the rest of the
world; you give up a true and lasting advantage for the sake of a
passing enjoyment. However, we will talk about>> this by-and--bye;
now I want a light. Will you strike one {or me, Ernest? the flint
and steel are here." *

"lint, papa, there is no tinder here, nor a match," said Jack;
" we can't get a light."

" Of course not," I said ; " but. tell me, Ernest, supposing we had
no tinder, and our supply was all used up, how should we obtain a
light .7"

We should be obliged to imitate the savages, and rub two pieces
of wood together till they caught fire."

"A ditlicult performance," I replied, "especially for those who
are not accustomed to it. I have no doubt that after rubbing the

" This story was written in the German Ian uage long before lucifer matches were in-
vented or known even in England. A tinder- 2: containing half-burnt. mg, with a llint
apd steel, and matches tipped with brinxstone, were the only means of obtaining a light in
I lose l ays.
wood together for a whole day, you would not succeed in getting a
light."

"I suppose, then, we should have to wait patiently till we found
a more suitable tree, with the wood already prepared."

"Not e1'e11 then," I said. "\Ve burn linen now in a tinder-hox,
but we cannot continue to do so here, for linen is useful for hotter
purposes, and we have not more than we need; would it not be well
for 11s to find 0111' tinder ready prepared and growing,r .7 "

With these words I broke otl'a thin hranch of the karata-tree,
peeled off the outer bark, took out the pith, and then laying a piece
on the tiiut, struck it with the steel, and in a 11101110111; the new-
l'ashioned tinder was in a flame.

The boys looked on astonished for a few moments, then they
cried out joyfully, " 011, how wonderful E Hurrah 3 Long li1'e the
tinder-tree E "

" That is not the only use of this wonderful tree," I said; " and I
am glad to he ahle to inform your mother that when she wishes to
mend our clothes, I can supply her with thread."

" Ah! indeed that will be a treasure to me," said my wife. " It
has tronhled me greatly for a long time to have only packthread to
sew with."

" Your trouhle will he o1cr 110w, " I said, " for in the leaf of the
karata 15 found all that 1'o11 require.

"1th this I split a leaf 111 her presence, and drew out a quantity
of very stron1r yet beautifully tine tl11ead; ce1tainly not longer than
the leaf, yet still long enough to fo1n1 a needleful. These I placed
in her hands, to her great satisfaction, \1hile I 1'e111a1'l1'1-d to the
hoys, "You see, children, it is not safe to judge hy appearances.
The karata, which you despised, proves far more useful than the
dainty ananas, which only tickle the palate."

" Yes," cried Ernest, " I'll own that now; hut what is the use of
all the other prickly plants that grow here in such ahundance ? "

"They are all useful in some way, no doubt," I replied, "although
we may not unde1stand how. That plantain is a most 1'aluahle
tree," I continucd, pointing to it as I spoke : "it flourishes best on
dry barren soil, and produces the largest and most iuicy lea1' es. It
appears, indeed, to deii1'e its nourislnnent more 110111 the air than
the e11r,th and hears a species of fig, which in climates like this is
1"c1y wholesome and 1efreshing, and 1s of cou1se agreat advantage."

lIa1'dl1' had I utteled these 1101'ds,\1he11 Jack 111shed fo11'1a1'd 111
haste to fill his pockets with the figs; hut,hein1_: sunounded by
piicl1'l1' 1e11' es, the points of which ran into liis fingers, rushed back
crying.r and shakin5_r his hands most pitenttsly. I laughed at ltitn for
his imprudent haste, while I drew out the. thorns from his fingers,
and then showed him how to handle tlte fruit.

I shook down a ripe fig into my hat, cttt with my knife the little
sprouts from each end, then holdingr it between my finger and
thumb at these two points, I pared oll' the. prickly rind with my
knife, and gave a piece of the fruit to the hoys to taste, which they
approved of most highly.

'l'o gather some themselres in this novel fashion was now a most
attractive performance. l'rttx stuck one on a pointed stick, and
after stripping oll' the peel as he would front a radish, politely
offered it to his mother, who praised hitn for his attention.

Meanwhile Jack, who lteld a It;' on the point- of his knife, was
turning.r it round in every direction and examining it' attentively.

" l'apa," he said at last. "there are such a lot of little insects crawl-
i111.r about on this fig, quite at their case, and they are as red as blood."

 

(.'(K'IHXEAL l.\'> Ht TS.

"A111 another discovery," l. exclaimed: "let me look at. them.
"'hy, my hoy, they are coehineal, most truly aml surely. You have
found out a most protitalulc use of this lig-trec, at all events."

" lint what are coehineal 3" he asked.

" Insects that live on the leaf of this plant, which contains red
sap, or on the I-lood-rcd herries, from which it obtains that; bright.
red colour. They are collected principally in America, where
people shake them from the trees into a cloth; they are then dried,
packed together, and form a very important part of the colour trade,
as front these insects is produced the richest; and most beautiful
scarlet."

" Well," said l-'ritz, "that fig-tree is a wtmderful plant", and we
hare already discovered two advantages it possesses over the sweet-
tasttng ananas.'

" I can tell you of a third advantage belonging to our fig-tree," I
said: "its hranches are often used to form a thick shelter and de-
fence against wild heasts, or even to Serve as a protection from theTHE l'JSI'l' TU ZIL'LTIIIL'IM. ll!)

attacks of men; and although the enemy might be able to cut down
this fence, yet the performance would take a longtime, and give
those in the house an opportunity to escape."

"Oh!" exclahned Jack, disbelieving, "I should think the branches
were too soft and weak for a fence: " and as he spoke the little
1111111 took 11p an axe, and cut at. a branch that lav on the mound
near with all his 111ight.At the same moment a half-withered leaf
flew down, and stuck through his thin t1ousers into his leg with
such force, that. he uttered a loud cry, and washed he had never
touched the pr1i1kl1' nuanate.

I could not. help laugrhin'1r at the bo1"s1nistake,and told himthat
to (at; branches in pieces and to folm a fence of such plants as
these. was no easy task . and even when erected by half-naked
savages, it could only be broken into by civilised men fully pro-
1.'i1lcd with firearms.

" Ilut papa," said Jack, " what is the use of those plants which
heal no fruit; nor feed insects .1"

" I cannot. be supposed to know the use of even' pl: Int " Implied;
'1 but no doubt the\ me lonncd by the Ute 1t Creator for some wise
11111posc. 'lhese t1ees, for instance, with tall stems and branches
growin1r high, appear of the same species as those described by
Bruce 111 his Travels in Abyssuna. The high and thick branches
form food for the elephant and the giraffe, who are tall enough to
reach them. Besides, do you forget that the camel and the ass are
fond of thistlcs 111111 thorns!"

"Oh, I forgot that," said Ernest. "One would suppose their
throats and stomachs were lined with iron, and that the thorns only
tickle their palates as they go down, and taste very nice."

While thus talking we reached the shallow part of Jackal Itivcr,
and stepping cautiously over the pebbles, soon arrived at: our tent.

Everythingr 1cmained as we had left it, and in a very few minutes
we set about the business which had brought 11s to the. spot.

Fritz ran to obtain a supply of powder and shot; my wife and
little Frank hastened to till the jar with butter from the cask ; while
Ernest. and Jack repaired to the pond, and tried to catch the ducks
and geese. But the creatures had been living alone so long that they
were quite wild, and would not even allow the boys to approach them.
They found at last- that' to catch them they must use stratagent

Crncst had in his pocket 11 piece of chees11,11l1ich he luoke into
small portions, and tyingr them to the end of long threads tlnew
them into the water as bait In a few minutes the geese and
ducks "etc d1. 11111 on shore.
I could not help laughing at this droll eontrivance, but I also
advised the boys to draw out the thread from the throats of the
deceived creatures cautiously. They attended to my request, and
performed the operation with such care, that not one of the
animals appeared to have suffered the least pain.

\Ve then covered up each of our prisoners with our pocket-
hamlkcrchiefs, so that only their heads and necks were visible, and
fastened them in pairs on our shoulders outside the game-bags,
where they travelled very comfortably.

Our supply of salt was less than we had intended to carry back,
for the bag destined for the salt was new full of potatoes; but we
managed to fill up the spaces between them with salt, and hoped
to make that quantity last till we could again visit the tent. I
was, however, obliged to remove Turk's coat of mail, and fasten on
his strong back the heavy sack of potatoes and salt. The mail
coat was left behind, as we hoped in a day or two to visit the tent
again for the butter-cask and a larger store of salt.

A whistle and a call from me quickly assembled our party, and
laden with the rich spoil, for which we were very thankful to God,
we took the road to Falcouhurst.

Our little caravan presented a droll appearance; the stretched-
out necks of the (hicks and geese on our shouldeis, who kept up
a continual gabbling, added to the ridiculous spectacle.

The gaiety and gladness of our hearts made us forget the weight
of our burdens; and we made no complaint till we arrived at
Falcon's Nest, and the cause was removed.

Then our joy was doubled, and all fatigue forgotten, for the
mother, without delay, prepared to light a fire and cook the
longed-for potatoes. The delighted boys ran here and there, eager
with coaxing words to help their mother as well as they could;
while I milked the cow and the goat, so that we might have
pl zasant drink to add to our enjoyable supper.

While the meal was preparing, I set at liberty the imprisoned
ducks and geese; and after cutting the large featheis of their
wings, to prevent them from flying away, I left them to become
accustomed by degrees to the new locality.

At length the much-praised and delicious potato supper was
ready, and we enjoyed it quite as much as we had anticipated.
After supper, not without heartfelt thanks to God for His mercies,
we retired, fatigued and sleepy, to our airy castle, and enjoyed
refreshing rest and repose till the morning.

I'1'111; strum-z, THE MASQUERADE, A.\'D '1'111: KAXGAROO.

HAD noticed on the way home many things lying on the

strand whieh'had been washed in from the wreck, especially

some pieces of curved wood, which appeared to me suitable
to form a sledge, which would enable us to bring the butter- cask
and other a1ticles to F 11con' s Nest with ease. I innnediately
resolved to rise early next 111o1'11i11g, proceed to the shore, and bring
away whatever appeared useful for that purpose.

I decided also to lake Ernest with me. He was by nature
indolent, and unwilling to rise in the 11101'11i11g early, unless some
strong motive for so doing presented itself ; and I could leave Fritz
as a protection to his mother and the younger boys.

At the first rrlimmer of dawn I aWoke, and roused E111est, who,
at the p10speet of gain!1 \\1th 111e, rose hastily; and 111 a \"e1y short
time we descended from the tree, unnoticed by the happy sleepers
whom we left behind.

I decided to take the ass with us; and that he should not go
c111ptv,I cut down a strongr branch of a tree and fastened it to
him by ropes, that he might draw it to the beach, where I had no
doubt it would he found useful.

011 the way lashed Ernest if he did not regret being awoke so
earlr, and whethe1 he \\ ould have preferred to remain, and Join his
brothms 111 their shooting.

"011,110, papa!" he replied; " now I am up I don't mind it a
bit: besides, I like better to be with you, and there will be plenty
of birds left, for I am almost sure that their first shots will fail."

" And why, my boy ?" I asked, surprised.

"\Vcll," he replied, "because they will forget to draw out the
balls from the guns and to replace them with small shot; and if
they do, I believe the balls will fly too low, and not reach half-way
to the top of the trees."

" I dare say you are right, Ernest," I replied. " There is nothing

121
better than thought and reflection before we undertake anything of
importance; and yet in life 11 decision too long delayed is often
fatal. Those who in 11 moment of alarm or danger retain their
composure, aml see promptly what they ought to do, possess that
most precious quality called presence of mind."

'J'lms conversing, we. arrived at the shore, and came upon the.
spot on which lay the curved wood, and for the present terminated
(illl'jtllll'lltl'y. Very quickly these hoards were laid on the blaneh
of .1tr1-e brought b1'tl11ass,1\hile the smaller twigs which "re"
from it sci1ed to p1e1ent the wood f1o1n slipping

\s anulht't means f-oi this ptupnse 11c placed upon it: a sea--chest,
which lay half-buried in the sand, and then turned our steps
towards Falcon's Nest.

'l'hejourncy home was long and tedious. "'11. had to help the
willing animal by the aid of two long poles, which we employed as
levers now and then to raise the load and send it forward.

.-\s we approached we heard in the distance the popping of guns,
telling 11s that the destruction of the, poor little birds had already
111'11111111-111-1-11. 'llut on our appearance we were greeted with eagcr
and joyful erics as the. boys hastened to meet us. My wife. at
first gently reproached me for leaving her and the three boys with-
out warning or farewell: but when she saw the wood, and heard
that I hoped to make of it a sledge forthe purpose of bringing the
butter--cask and other articles to l'alcon's Nest, she was soon
appcascd.

The chest was eagerly opened and examined, but found to
contain nothing of importance. lt' was simply a sailor's Iocke1',and
the clothes and linen it held had been completely satu1ated and
spoilt by sea-water.

"'1: were not sorry to hear when breakfast- was announced, and
after breakfast I examined the. result of the gunshots we had
heard and found altogethet that the. two l: 111's had shot about the
dozen g11-be: and ortolans. 1 also 1lisco1e1 ed that both 11'1it7. and

Jack had failed in thci1 titst shots. as Etncst had fo1eseen,b_1
fo1gettin1_; to 1011111111 the halls and replace them with shot, although
lhev had quickl1 tepaited this error, as thei1 huge booty pto1 ed

-\t the same. time they had used so much annnunition, that
when they wished to commence shooting again, their niothcr
interfered, and represented to them that at such a rate their store
of powder aml shot would soon fail, and that for the present she
had birds enough.

I fully agreed with this sensible advice, and reminded the boysTHE SLEDGE, Til/2' .llASlJUJL'IM/Ila', dr. 1;")

that if they were so extravagant, we should lose our means of
defence as well as of obtaining nourishment.

"We must economise in every way, boys," I said, "until we are
ahle again to visit the wreck and get in a new stock of powder and
provisions. Besides," I continued, "I do not wish you tn shout
only for the sake of trying.r your skill in killing: the pretty creatures
God has created. They are necessary for us here on this unin--
habited island because we have no other means of obtaining fond,

 

('lKl-ZSTIiD (lllEBli.

but I should be sorry for my children to lll'('(llllc eruel, or to see
them find a pleasure in destroying: life. "'0 have no right to kill
any of God's creatures. unless they are dangerous wild beasts or
those we. need for food."

Children are. often cruel from want of thought. and I could see
by the looks of my hays that 1 had placed the suhject before them
in a new light. Even little Frank said,

"I know, papa, if we hadn't killed the jackals they would have
killed us and eaten as up, but it seems a pity to kill those pretty
little birds."

" So it does, Franky ;. and we will not shoot any more at present.
   

If we want them by-and-bye for food, I will show you boys how to
catch them in a trap that will kill them at once, without causing
them to linger in pain, and save our powder and shot."

At this moment a great; commotion arose among our poultry.
'l'hey screamed and cackled and fluttered about in such alarm, that
I could only imagine a fox was in the midst of them. "'e ran with
all speed to the spot, the mother accompanying us, under the im-
pression that a hen had laid an egg.

lirnest by chance caught sight of the monkey, aml saw him rush
under one of the arched roots with a newly-laid egg in his paw;
and as Ernest approached he disappeared behind the tree, for he
was longing to make a meal of his stolen prize. From place to place
he led his plusucr; but Ernest was too quick for him, and at length
in the grass found the egg, hidden with three others. Eagerly he
carried the four eggs to his mother, who received them with joy
and thankfulness.

"'e resolved to prevent this freebooter from any future plunder
by depriving him of his liberty while the hens were laying, till we
had found a safe place of concealment; for the eggs, intending,
after a lime, to let the prisoner free, and discover if his instinct
would enable him to find out; where the eggs lay hidden. My wife
who was anxious to collect a number to be batched in case one of
the hens should be inclined to sit, determined to hide them while
Master A ip was tied up. Of course to be able to add a number of
little chicks to our farmyard would he a great advantage, and they
were concealed too cleverly for a monkey's instinct; to find them.

After this disturlmnce I hoped to be able to commence opera-
Iions on my sledge, but I was again interrupted. Jack, who had
mounted our rope ladder to search for a suitable spot on which to
place the bird-traps, came down hastily with the agreeable news
that a pair of our pigeons were building a nest among the branches
above.

1 at once gave strict orders that; there should be no shooting in
the trees, aml that the idea of placing traps for the birds must for
the present he set aside; and at last. I found myself free to coni-
mcnce making my sledge. The boys followed me to the spot at
which I had left the wood. As we walked, little Frank said,

"l'apa, why can't we sow gunpowder instead of those seeds to
feed the animals? it would be much more useful than fodder to
us."

His brothers laughed heartily at the little one's fancy, and
Ernest exclaimed,R)
{,1

THE SLEDGE, THE M ASQ UERA DE, (.00. 1

" Well, that is a wonderful proposal 2 Why, Franky, gunpowder
is not a seed ; it will not grow like oats I "
" Quite right, Ernest," I said; " but how then is it ohtained ? "

"I know," he replied; "it is made of saltpetre, sulphur, and char-
coal, mixed together."

"And who was clever enough to discover that these substances
united would form gunpowder .3 " I asked.

"Roger Bacon, a monk," replied Ernest: " he was a native of

England, and lived in the thirteenth century."

 

PIGEON

At this moment the boys were called by their mother, and I at
once commenced the construction of my sledge. The performance
was very simple and quickly finished. I united the two curved
pieces of wood by three pieces across, one in front and one behind,
with a third in the middle; these were so placed that the curve of
the side-pieces stood highest in front. I considered it altogether
my most clever performance.

I then fastened the drawing-ropes to the outer points, and my
sledge stood complete.

As I now for the first time raised my eyes from my work, and
was almut to join the rest, I saw my wife and the boys occupied in
plucking the birds, while at least two dozen were roastingr before
the tire on the blade of a Spanish sword belonging to one of the
ship's oflieers, as 11 spit.

The contrivant'e appeared to me very ingenious, bttt 1 could not;
help remarking that it was extravagant to cook so many birds at;
Ull('('.

"No, no," said my wife; we do not intend to make a feast; fit;
for company to-day' hut as 1 am expecting you to fetch the cask
of butter for 11111, 1 11111 half eookinf,Ir some of the birds, that they
may he in readiness to be wrapped itt butter and preserved, accord-
i113.r to your instructions."

I had nothing to say in reply, so I prepared to start for our Tent
Home with my sledge directly after dinner. The mother proposed
during my absence to have 11 regular wash-up of the clothes and
linen, while the hoys were. taking a bath. I promised that; Ernest
should bathe on the journey, as I preferred to take him with me
instead of Fritz, who was more able to protect; those who remained
hehind.

After dinner we set out on our expedition, and in addition to
arms, each carried not only 11 hunting-knife, but. a beautiful case,
most ingeniously made. by Fritz, containing a knife, fork, and spoon,
in our girdles of shark's skin.

\Ve harthsed both the cow 11nd the ass to the sledge, invited
l'loss to aecompanv us, but sent Turk back as a protettion to those
at home, and with 11 fond fateuell started 111e1rilv on our \\a\.

\s I knew the sledue would slide1 mote easily on the sandv sho1e.
than tlnough the high thick g1:1$SS,1tlltl\ettlontr the toast, and ar-
rived without adventttre at Zeltheitn. "e unharnessed the animals,
and left theln to find pasture, while we loaded the sledge, not only
with the butter-cask,hut also with the powder-bane], the other cask
of cheese, the bullets, small shot, and Turk's little coat of mail,
which had been left behind on the previous day.

"'e were so absorbed in this work, that we did not at first notice
the absence of our animals, who, attracted by the flesh g1een turf,
had wandered 11\\11\ across the bridge over the lackal 1hook to the
opposite shore, and had quite disappeared. I desired E must to go
in search of them with the dog, while 1 endeavoured to find a con-
venient spot in which to halite.

0n arriving at Deliverance Bay, 1 for the. titst time noticed a little
creek, enclosed on one side by a marsh full of splendid Spanish
canes, and on the other by :1, chain of rocks stretching far into the
sea, and forming,r a most secluded bathing-place.
Ieallcd Ernest in a cheerful tone, that I might show him the
spot; and while waiting for him to appear, I cut; down quickly I
number of the canes which grew near me, with the hope of making
them in some way useful hy-and-hye.

As Ernest did not make his appearance, I heeame anIious and
went to look for him. What "as 111V su1p1ise at discm QIiIIg the
youngster lying at full length in a shady spot hehind out tent, as
sound asleep as a dennouse; while the tIIo animals 1 had sent
him to find were comfortably grazing 1111\Villt'llctl, and wandering
where they pleased!

"17p, up! you lazy fellow!" I exclaimed, rousing the sleeper:
" \\l)\', these animals might have crossed the bridge, and given us a
pretty chase. ' "

" ()h, let them alone, papa, for that," he replied, as he lazily roused
himself. "I have taken away a few planks from the bridge, and
it's not likely such timid fellows would venture. ("'01' it now."

"Your idleness has made you ingenious, EIIII-sr, " I Ieplicd, " but
it does not please me. To sleep .IIIaI' the pIecious houIs of the daI',
IIhile there 1s any thing useful to he done, Is not only a disgIaee to
those who have strength to wo1k, hut a sin. And now, IIhile I take
my hath, no and gather the stme of salt," I continued, seem" he
looked ashamed atD my IeptIIof. " I will not he long, as I wish you
also to harm you1 tu111.'

I found the sea bath most cool and 1efreshing, and hastened as
I luicklI' as possible afte1 coming out of the IIateI to seaII-h I'm the
boy, that he might not lose this opportunity. But on reaching the
spot whe1e the salt was kept, to ascertain hoII much he had seemed
to take IIith us, he IIas nowhe1e to be seen. I sought fol him in

rain, and began to conjectme that he must haIegone to sleep aIvain,
II hen I suddenly heaId his voice exclaiming,

"Papa, papa, come quick! A fish, an I-noImous fish! I can
sca1cely hold hint; he 13 tearing away 1111 line."

I 11111 hastily 111 the direction of the mice, and found the boy on
the bOIdeIs of the liver, st1etched upon the grass, and struggling
with all his might to retain a fish whose efforts threatened to thaw
him into the II attr line, r,od and all

I quickly lendeIeIl him assistance, took the tishing- rod fiom his
hand, and lenrrthened the line to "he the fish a little eredIIm , and .
then gtadually drew it into shallow water, II here it "as stIIInded
and unable to escape. Etnest immediately stepped into the IIate1,
"and put an end to its struggles with a l_IloII of his hatchet.

lthen (11er the fish to sham, and found it was a IIIagnificcnt
salmon of aboutfiftcen pounds weight, which would form a most excel-
lent addition to our store of provision,amlverylnueh pleasethe mother.

"At all events, Ernest," I said, "this time you have not been
idle, hut have \vorked, not only with your head, but with your
hands and feet, and, indeed, your whole body. I congratulate you
with all my heart; for you have not only acted bravely, but you
have provided us with food which will last for several days, and
prove of great value to us."

 

SALMON.

I observed many smaller fish swinnning,r about near, having the
appearance of herrings or trout: the latter I would not interfere
with, as I thought it most likely they were youngr salmon. But I
determined to clean and prepare our booty, and sprinkle it with
salt, that we might carry it home in good condition.

While I performed this operation, and harnessed the cattle to
the sledge, I sent Ernest to have a bath. He did not keep me
wailing for long, and we very soon crossed the bridge on the way
back to Falcon's N est.

We had scarcely travelled half the distance, and just as we
rear-lied the high grass, our watchful companion Floss rushed
forward, barking loudly, and disappeared.

I followed her quickly, and saw a most singular-looking animal
flying from the dog, or rather escaping from her, with most

astonishing leaps.
 

I seized the moment when Floss sprang aside to raise my gun
and tire, but so rashly, that I failed. Ernest, who followed behind
111e,1mtieed the cause of my failure; for the wonderful leaps of the
animal had even bewildered the dog, and she appeared to have lost
all trace of him. But Ernest carefully ma1ked these movements, and
presently sun the creature stoop and hide himself 111 the long g1ass

('arel'ully keeping his eye 011 the spot, he 1no\ ed nearer with
she -11t footsteps, and raising his gun, shot the animal dead.

\\"e hastily ran with great curiosity to the scene of combat, and
wilh wonder and surprise discovered that Ernest had killed one of
the most singular creatures that could be i111agined. It was about
the size of a sheep, had a tail like a tiger, the face and skill of a
mouse, and ears as large as those of a bare. Its fore paws,
resembling those of a squirrel, were armed with claws, but too
short. to be of use in walking, especially as the hind legs were of a
great length, and curiously formed.

We stood for a long time in silence regarding this singular
creature, while I tried in vain to remember whether I had ever seen
an animal at all resembling it. Ernest approached nearer to
examine it closely, and broke the silence by exclaiming,

" 011, papa, what a curious animal! I have never in my life
shot anything so large. ,Am I not lucky? "'hat will mainma
and my brothers say, I wonder?"

" You ha\ e indeed been successful," I 1eplied; " but I have still no
idea to what species it belongs, or what name it bears We must ex-
amine the c1eatu1e systematically, hmest, and, fast, look at its teeth."

The boy examined the mouth.

" It has four incisor teeth, papa, two upper and two under, like a
large squirrel," he replied.

"Then he belongs to the same species," I exclaimed. "Can you
1'e111ember the names of any of the rodent animals, Ernest ? "

"I know a few," he rcplied.--" The mouse, the dormouse, the
squirrel, the hare, the beaver, and the jerboa."

"The jerboa!" I exclaimed. "You have put me on the right
track. This creature has a similar form to the jerboa, but travel-
le1s describe it as much larger; and I quite believe that this one
belongs to the species of animals who have a pouch beneath the
breast, in which the female carries its little ones while they are
young. No doubt, therefom, you have shot a female kangaroo.
They were not known till the renowned Captain Cook discovered
them in New Holland."*

' Now called Australia. 1
0
\V'e drew our booty to the sledge, and after placing it carefully
with the other treasures, continued our journey towards Falcon's
Nest.

" Can you tell me anything about these animals, papa?
Ernest, as we walked 011 slowly.

"I have read accounts from the books written by travellers," I
replied; "but in a state of nature very little is known of their
habits, beyond what I have already told you.* But by the hind
legs, which are three times 11s long as those in front, they are able
to take most astonishing leaps, not quite so high in proportion to
their size as the flea or the grasshopper, but equally surprising.
These animals feed upon grass, and some kinds of roots, which they
dig 11p with the fore feet like hands, very rapidly. Now and then
dining this performance they raise themselves on their hind lens
and tail, and peep above the tall grass ('11 thick bushes, to disco1e1'
if they me in safety. Should theie be any appearance of danger,
they am able, by using the tail, 11hich' 1s r-e111111kahle for its muscular
stre111rth,to spiin11 hom the 1110111111 and mislead thei1 pursners, as
the cr'eatlnc you [me shot misled and battled our dog l)ep1ived
of its tail, the kangaroo would he a helpless creatuie, and quite 1111-
able to defend itself."

\Ve arrived at Falcon's Nest 011 this occasion at a late hour, but
received a joyful Welcome, especially after a glimpse at the contents
of the sledge, which my wife and the boys proceeded to examine
with wonderingr eyes.

Yet we were equally astonished at the appearance presented by
the young people who came to meet us. One was wrapped in a
111111.: blue sailor's shirt, stepping,r every now and then on the hem as he
walked; anotherwore a pairof trouse1s,the 11'11isthandof which reached
to his shoulders; the third was tied up in ajacket which descended
to his knees, and gave him the appearance of a walking po1't111a11teau.

111 this strange attire they approached us gravely, seeming as
proud of their 111as1plerade as a prince 011 the stage.

I i111agined the 111111111i11g of this theatrical performance, and was
i11fo1n1ed hy thei1 mothe1 that while the clothes she had washed
11"e1e dn 1111;, they had been ohlifled to dress then1sel1es in 11111 thin1r
they could find 111 the sailo1' s locker which I had biougrht from the
shoie; and they made so merry 01er it, that she decided to pennit
them to continue in their masquerade dress, that their father and
Ernest. 111ightjoi11 in the fun.

asked

'These animals can be seen in our time 1n the Zoological Gardens, and full accounts of
them. appear in modem \atural Historits.
\Ve laughed and admired the performance as much as they could
desire, and then proceeded to display the contents of the sledge be-
fore their astonished eyes,--the butter and ehecse-casks, the canes,
salt, salmon, and at last, to crown the whole, the dead kangaroo;
and I felt it a due to Ernest to explain his share in procuring these
additions to our store. All his brothels were delighted with his
prowess, excepting Fritz. I could see how much he regretted that
the splendid kangaroo was his brother's booty and not his: I saw
how he struggled against the jealous feeling, and to be master of

 

THE KASG ARGO.

himself; and in this he succeeded so well, that he was able to join
in our conversation, and no one but myself had remarked it. Yet
it was not possible for him to avoid casting,r an envious glance now
and then at the kangaroo; and after one or two remarks which I
understood, he said to me in a coaxing tone, and with a smile,

" You have found many new things to-day, papa; but may I go
with you on your next journey? There is nothing for me to do
here at Falcon's Nest, and it is so tedious."

" You shall, my dear boy," I replied ; "although what pleases us
most is not always the best for us. However," I added in a low
tone, " I have noliccd your struggles against the feeling of envy of

10--2
 

 

your brother, and how bravely you have conquered; therefore I
cannot refuse your request, and I promise you, that on my first ex-
pedition, you shall accompany me. I expect, however, that it will
to-morrow be a voyage to the wreck; and as I cannot; answer for
the discovery of game on such an excursion, perhaps you would
prefer to remain here with your mother and brothers again, as a
protection; but you shall please yourself, although you must not
allow a love for the chase to get the mastery over you. To form a
manly and decided character, it is necessary to have a power over
self. (treat praise is due to Ernest for his presence of mind, when
we first saw the kangaroo. My shot failed from over-haste, his
took effect from caution and firmness."

"'0 closed this day with our usual occupations.

After unloading the sledge, I distributed salt to the animals,
which was to them a. delicious feast. I finished the evening by
opening and cleaning the kangaroo; and after hanging it on a
branch of a tree till the morning, 1 gave the refuse to Turk aml
Floss, who evidently considered it a delicious supper.

We then sat down to a famous supper of the. small fish caught by
Ernest, and some beautiful baked potatoes. Supper was very soon
finished, for we were tired out, and longing for rest and sleep, which
soon gathered us in its arms.A VOYAGE TO THE WRECK--THE mm:

N the following morning very early I descended from the tree,
while the others still slept, as I wished to take ofl' the beauti-
ful skin of the kangaroo before any other business was

commenced.

It required great care to separate it from the flesh without injury,
and occupied such a long time, that breakfast was ready before I
had finished. I succeeded, however, wonderfully; and after wash-
ing my hands, and making other trifling preparations, I joined the
rest at our roughly--made table on the tree-roots.

A voyage to the wreck had been decided upon, and after giving
Fritz orders to prepare everything in readiness for the voyage, 1
called for Ernest and Jack, to give them my instructions how to act
during the absence of Fritz and myself; but they were not to be
found.

Their absence made me very anxious, and I asked the mother if
she had any idea what had become of them.

She knew nothing of their movements, but conjectured that they
might be gone to dig up some more potatoes, which we again re-
quired. I contented myself with this reply, especially when I dis-
covered that Turk was missing, and had no doubt followed them as
their defender; yet I advised my wife to reprove them seriously
on their return for daring to venture alone in this strange
country.

Setting aside all other anxiety, Fritz and I said farewell to the
mother and Frank; and while I left Floss as a protector, I reminded
her of that Providence in whom she trusted, and who would watch
over and take care of us in our voyage to the wreck this time, and
bless the means we used to secure our own safety.

'Without delay we hastened forward, and had crossed the bridge
over Jackal River, when suddenly, to our great astonishment,

13:;
 

Ernest and Jack, with :1 shrill io3 0115 my, sprang upon 11s f10111 be-
hind evidently thinking it :1 good joke that they had taken their
dear father and brijothe1 by smprise.

I could not be indignant with these two good tempered lads, and
spoil the joke 113' :1 scolding: but I gave them :1 gentle rebuke, and
e\pl:1i11ed to them how displeased I 11:15 that they should have left:
their mother, and ventu1ed alone 111 a country unknown. I refused
to take them with me as they wished, for their assistance 011 the
wreck was not required; but principally I was anxious for them to
return to Falcon's N est, because their absence would make their
mother uneasy; and to leave her the whole day alone, or at least
with only little Frank, was out of the question.

I was glad of this opportunity, also, to send a message to 1113'
wife, which removed :1 weight from my mind. I had foreseen be-
fore we started that we.should be obliged to remain longer than
usual on the vessel, for the raft I wished to construct 11'o11ld 1110st-
likely occupy the whole day. But in partng I had not had the.
courage to speak to my wife of :1 two days' absence, because she had
so many times i111plored me not to stay longer 011 the wreck than was
absolutely necessary.

This lime it did seem to be necessary for 11s to stay, and save as
many as possible of the useful articles so requisite to 11s in our
present position; for at any moment the wreck might fall to pieces,
and the opportunity be lost.

I therefore desired them not to delay 011 their way home, except-
ing to collect a little salt, that their morning walk 111ight not by
quite lost, and also, to save their kind mother from anxiety, be
returning without fail before 110011, and on no account to forget to
deliver my 11iessage.

After wishing the boys farewell, we entered 0111' little boat and
steered away from the shore to the current which flowed into
Deliverance Bay, and arrived very quickly without accident at the
wreck.

When we had safely moored our little boat alongside, and
mounted to the deck of the vessel, my first care was to find
111aterials for constructing :1 raft; for the tub-boat was neither
large enough nor of sufficient strength to carry a heavy lead.

111 :1 1c13 short time 110 found :1 number of 11 ater easks, as 11 e11
as planks and beams, 011 the wreck, which appea1ed quite suitable
for our purpose

The casks were emptied and tied together in rows to form a
square, and then, with nails and strong cords, we fastened upon
 

them--not without trouble, however--several planks, as a flooring
to the raft.

We succeeded at length in constructing a firm and solid float,
capable of carrying three times as many articles as our little boat:
of tubs, and with far more safety.

Yet, although we had worked most diligently the whole (lay, the
afternoon was far advanced before our task was completed. "'0
had searccly even rested front work during the few minutes in
which we partook of the cold provisions we had brought with us,
and were now too fatigued and exhausted to attempt to return to
the land.

I resolved, therefore, to remain on board all night; and after
taking precautions in case of a storm, we at last found time to
search for a supper among the articles still remaining on the ship.

The night's rest in the cabin was altogether delightful, the elastic
mattresses forming a far more pleasant couch than the hammocks
at. Falcon's Nest. And in consequence, our :'tgreement to watch
in turns aml listen to the. wind and waves for any change, com-
pletely failed, for we slept soundly till sunrise.

"'e arose next morning with thankful hearts, and ollcied our
earliest gratitude to God for the merciful Providence which had
protected Its from accident during the night, and at once (:Ulll-
mcnced actively the task of loading our boats.

After plumlerincr the cabins we had ourselves occupied during'r
the voyage, we took the lll('l\'S from the doors, the bolts from the
shutters, and added all these to ottr cargoes.

The contents of a couple of sea-chests, belonging to the ship's
otlicers, were to us a great treasure; but still greater were those of
the ship's carpenter aml the gunsmith. These chests we contrived
to place on the raft by means of rollers and a lever, after removing
the heaviest of their contents a few at a time.

The captain's trunk was full of all sorts of things, some of them
so costly that we were quite dazzled. There lay gold and silver
Watches, chains, buckles, studs, and a snutllbox; most probably
intended as presents, or as stock for a profitable trade which might
be commenced in a new colony. Besides these, a well-lined cash-
hox full of doubloons and piastres presented itself to our eyes, and
Fritz had very nearly fallen into the error of commencing on:-
phmder with this tempting box. .

But I quickly pointed out other objects of greater importance;
for instance, a. case of knives and forks, which would prove far
more useful to us than the captain's gold and silver.
 

In addition to this, and equally valuable, were two dozen
beautiful young J'Iuropean fruit-trees, which had been most care--
fully packed for the \'t'tyage. I recognised among them the pear,
apple, orange, ahnond, peach, chestnut, and vine, the fruit which in
our dear native home we had so often enjoyed.

Presently we discovered a number of iron bars of immense
strength, then a grindstone, waggon and cart-wheels, a complete
set of smith's tools, hatchets and shovels, chains, iron aml copper
wire, a ploughshare, a hand-mill, and last, but not least, sacks full
of maize, peas, oats, and other gain; in a word, a seemingly in-
exhaustible store of articles, evidently destined for the support of a
"European colony to be established in distant lands.

There were even parts of a saw-mill, which it was evident might
be fitted together with a little trouble, if we had strength enough
to lift it.

And now the question arose, What should we take with us of
all these valuable things, and what leave behind? It was im-
possible to think of removing the whole enormous heap which we
had collected together, and yet. I felt sad at heart as I reflected
that we must leave so many useful things on the shattered wreck,
which might be destroyed by the waves without a moment's
warning.

I decided at last to choose what appeared the most useful,
particularly powder and shot, iron, lead, grain, the fruit-trees, and
several tools, and of these to place on the raft and in our tub-
boat as much as we could possibly carry. But while I was storing
away the unnecessary articles in a safe place, Fritz came to me
and asked, as a great favour, that he might bring away the captain's
..runk and have one of the gold watches for himself.

To this I could not object, and we hastened to place this with
the other articles on our boat and raft, and prepare for the voyage
to the island.

Among other things we found a large magnetic needle and a
mariner's compass.

On seeing two harpoons used in whale fishing, with a quantity
of strong cordage quite new attached to them, Fritz begged me to
fasten one of the harpoons to the bow of our little boat, that we
might be ready in case of attack front large fish or even a shark.
The request appeared so reasonable that I readily gave my consent.

We were not; ready to start with our cargoes till noon, for both the
crafts were heavily laden, even to the water's edge. The raft was
fastened to our tub-boat by ropes firmly attached to each corner,71lll!lili,i-iili -332 - '
 

and then, not without fear of some disaster, we directed our course
towards the shore.

The wind lightened our work, filling the sail and rendering the
task of rowing less fatiguing. The sea was calm, and we proceeded
for a considerable distance without meeting with the least impedi-
ment.

While thus pleasantly approaching the shore, Fritz observed in
the distance a large and strange-looking body floating on the waves,
and asked me to examine it through the telescope.

I discovered at once that it was a turtle sleeping on the surface
of the water very comfortably, and totally unconscious of our
approach.

Fritz no sooner heard this than he begged me to steer towards
it, that he might examine the singular creature more closely. It
never occurred to me that it was something more than cu1iosity
which caused him to make the request, and I steered at once
straight towards the sleeping animal.

Fritz had his back to me, and the outspread sail floated between
us; I was, therefore, quite unaware of his movements till a violent
shock caused the boat to turn and thrill, while a noise as of a rope
running through a reel was followed by a second shock and a rapid
rushing forward of the boat.

" In Heaven's name 2 " I cried, " what are you about, Fritz ?
Do you mean to run us aground ?"

"Caught! caught!" cried the youth eagerly. "I took him by
surprise. Oh! he must not escape. ' "

I saw at once that my boy had really struck the turtle with the
harpoon, and that the wounded animal was swimming away rapidly,
and drawing the boat after him; for the harpoon was fastened by
a rope to the Windlass.

I hastily lowered the sail, and rushed to the forepart of the boat
in order to cut the cord with my hunting-knife and set the turtle
free. But Fritz implored me to wait, assuring me there was no
danger.

"I can cut the rope instantly, if it is necessary," he said; and at
last I gave way, and, with earnest injunctions to him to be careful,
I returned to the helm.

But, drawn by the turtle, we advanced with such fearful rapidity
that I had enough to do in steering to keep our craft in a direct
line, and so avoid being driven on some rock.

I noticed also that the turtle was endeavouring to reach the open
sea against the wind, which blew towards land. I innnediatcly138 S l I '1 SS [Cl .11 I L Y 130111 NSUN.

hoisted the sail, and the creature, finding,r the resistance now too
Strung for him, directed his way anew to the coast. lly degrees we
\vere drawn into the current leading from Deliverance Bay to the
wreck, and at last reached a soft. ' 'yping shore, where happily there.
was no danger of being driven against; the rocks, and not far from
Falcon's Nest.

At length, with a shock like a. shot from a gun, we struck the
shore, hut hy good fortune our boat; preserved its balance. With-
out delay, I jumped into the shallow water to reward the pilot who
had conducted us to such a good landing-place. lly means of the

 

 

rope I reached the monster, who, with the harpoon in his head,
was still struggling to escape, and after one or two blows from my
hatchet he lay without. signs of life. Fritz uttered a loud and joyful
cry of victory, and raising his gun, fired in the air a shot", which so
excited the surprise and curiosity of our little colony that they all
came running to the spot.

Fritz sprang from the boat; with the head of the turtle stuck on
the end of his gun, and was received, as well as myself, with a
thousand congratulations and questions without numher.

After a few gentle reproaches from my wife for leaving her and
the younger boys for a whole night; alone, the taking of the turtle
 

was proudly described, and we were all thankful to God that this
adventure had ended happily, without fatal consequences to us or
our boats.

I requested my wife to go with the boys and fetch from Falcon's
Nest the animals and the sledge, that we might place at leastapart
of our cargo in safety.

In the meantime the tide, having nearly reached the ebb,
retreated, and left our boat and the raft quite on dry ground.

I tool: advantage of this, as we had no anchor, to contrive by
some means to moor our little craft safely on shore. I rolled to
the bow of the boat two immense pieces of lead by. the help of
levers. llound these I tied the ends. of strong ropes, already
attached to the boat and the raft, so that they should not float
away when the tide rose.

The sledge arrived duringr this performance, and we hastily com-
menced our lading. The first article to be placed upon it was the
turtle, which was of an enormous size, and weighed at least three
humlredweight, for with all our united st rength it was as much as
we could do to place it on the sledge, and to keep it in its place we
were obliged to pile up the mattresses and other lighter articles
round it.

It became necessary for us also to as'ist the two animals in
drawing their heavy load to l'aleon's Nest, and for this purpose we
each exerted all our strength, some pushing, others pulling; and so
we marched in joyous procession towards home.

On arriving, our first care was to unload the turtle, and to lay
the animal on his back, as otherwise we could not remove the shell
or make use of the delicate flesh. My wife doubted the possibility
of taking off the shell quickly, or, indeed, without a great deal of
trouble; I therefore seized a hatchet, and with one blow on the
breast of the animal I separated a part from the shell, and cut oil'
as much of the flesh as would serve for our supper. I advised the
mother to cook this rich food in the piece of shell, and to add only
a very little salt.

"Ilut I must first cut away this green fat which is attached to
the meat," she exclaimed; " it appears to be very disgusting."

" No, no, my dear," I cried, " that green fat is the best part, and
will give a most delicious flavour to our dish this evening. But. if
you think there is too much. remove what you think proper, and it
can be salted down with the flesh that remains. The head, the
paws, and the entrails we will give to the dogs."

" And the shell," cried Fritz, " could we not make it into a water
trough .7 It would he so pleasant to have clean fresh water for our
hath, or to wash our hands."

"That. would indeed he useful," I 1e11iied, "if your1 da :1 could
he 1":11ried out: hut a trouuh 1'e11uiles something to supplort it, and
for that we .K'hould want loam o1 elav to cement our stones.

" t )h. I (an supply you with clay, then," exclaimed Iatk, putting:
in his word. " There is a splendid heap under the roots of our tree."

"I 11111 glad to hear such news," I replied: " where did you find
it, Jack .7"

" I'Ie hrought it home this morning from the hanks of the river,"
said his mother, " and was so hesnmared with mud and clay, that:
l was ohli11.11d to give him :1 thoroulrh good washing."

"Ah, \e.K, 1111111111111, hut 1'1111 know I told 11111 I should ne1' er
11111'e discovered the 11111; if 1111 foot had not slipped while I was
walking 1111 the shore, and in I "cut: no wonder in) face and
hands were in such a dreadful 1-1'111dit'i011."

"When you have decided ahout the 11'ater-tiouel1" said Frncst,
"I will show you some roots, papa, that I have disc'o1e1'ed' they
are sligvhth' 11'ithered, and Iwas afraid to taste 11110,:1ltl111ugh our
old .K'11\\'C.11.K' th1m up as if they 11"ele delicious. It appears to me
a sort of radish-root."

" Let me look at these roots, Cruest," I said: "you were quite
right not. to taste. (1111'. for there are many things suitable for uni-
111al.K' which are injurious to human heings. How did you diseover
them .7"

" l was ramhlinj.r about this 1111'11-11i111.r," he replied, "and I noticed
the .Kow . raping among the shruhs, and swallowing something very
greedily; so I drove. her away, and found a number of roots she
had dug.' up, and here they are."

After examininj.1 the roots carefully, I exclaimed,

"If I am not 111ist11l1'en,1ny son, you have made a valuable dis<<
1o1er1. as useful as potatoes, sultieient of itself to 111'"esel1e us from
starvation if other things fail. I helie1e this 15 the manihot or ram,
of which heautiful cakes, called cassava cakes, are made 111 the E ast
Indies. but it must he. carefully prepa1ed, othe111 151. it will not he
1,-dihle for it contains a dangerous poison However you must;
.K'how me the Spot 011 which 11111 found the roots, and if there me
:1111' left 11'11-1-1111 tr1':1t least to make hiead of it; and I think 116
.Khall succeed."

\\ hile talking, we had heen .Krtill husilr engaged in unloading: the
.Kl1-d1.'e.and that; task heinr.r 111111" complet ted, I again cht oil with the
three elde1 hoys to fetch another load f1nm the hoat before supperLANDING THE SEA-CHESTS.
 

The mother and Frank remained behind, and I advised them to
prep-are the flesh of the turtle, and cook it in the shell, so that
when we returned, tired and hungry, we should find a royal dish
awaiting us, lit for a prince.

On our way Fritz asked me if snuff-boxes and many other beau-
tiful things were not made of the shell of the turtle, and if so,
would it not be a pity to use it for a water-trough.

I explained to him that the creature we called a turtle was in
reality a sea-tortoise, and that the beautiful and useful shell be-
longed to the land-tortoise, of which neither the eggs nor the flesh
wore considered suitable for food, the latter being looked upon as
carrion.

" 'l'ortoiseshell," I said, "greatly resembles the shell of the turlle
which you have captured; but it requires a large amount of pre-
paration to give it that bright and transparent appearance which
we admire in tortoiseshell combs, or other articles for ornament.
The shell, when removed from the creature, is subjected to the
heat of fire, which cleanses and purifies it, and renders it capable
of receiving a very high polish. The turtlc's shell does not possess
these qualities, and is therefore less valuable."

On reaching the shore, we hastily loaded the sledge with as
much as it would carry: the two chests, the waggon-wheels, and
the hand-mill, which the discovery of the manihot- rendered doubly
important and precious to us,--and as many smaller things as we
could find room for.

When we returned to Falcon's Nest in the evening, my wife
received us with most unusual signs of joy, and said, laughing,

" I expect you are dreadfully fatigued after two such days of hard
work; but never 1nind,I have something here that will quickly
cure all that. Come and see the refreshing draught which I have
diseovered, and exposed to the cool evening air, that you may
drink it in perfection."

I followed where she led, and saw a half-buried cask covered
with branches of trees to keep it cool, and wondered what refresh-
ing drink it could contain.

"See!" she cried; "it was for this that I visited the beach this
morning; it has evidently been washed on shore from the wreck,
and I have taken great care to keep it cool, and preserve the fresh-
ness. The children think it is Canary sack, and I hope they have
guessed rightly, that you may find it really refreshing.

As we had no means of drawing out the wine but through the
bung-hole, I inserted a. hollow cane as an experiment, and drew up111 S" 7.93 1121111111. 1' ROBINSON.

 

111' 5110111111 11 1'1111'1-511i11'1.r 111111114111 of 1110 1111151 delicious (.'1111111'1' 5111111 1
111111 0111 11151011 in 1111' life, 111111 111111111011 1111' dear wife. for her (1111-
111111 11111111-1111'111111-55 in fetching,r home such 11 precious 110111111110.

'11111 111115 111111 0:15.:1-1'11' snr10un11011 1110, and begged 111 he 1111011111
111111510. 1 111-1'111il11111 1110111 111 111ink 111 turns,1111131111'1'5110111111-
1'111111- 5111x1-i11~11 111111 5.1'1'10111', 111111 511 anxious fur more that I 11115
111111-4011 11>> 501111 1111-111 1111'111', 111111 carefully close 1110 openingr 1111111-
121511.

"1 :1111 1151111111011 111 500 1011 so 11101-111," I e\elai111e1l; "it 1511111-
1111 :1111111.11 111111112 1111'111111111111111i0111e5111ep11l11te, 111111 you 1'1.>>1'1.:1.-l
1111 11: 1111101 11111 i111111'111 1101111111115! tip51."

111' 1111-51: 1'111111-'11115 I re51r1lineil the 1111101'1101'5, 1111110111111011 1110111
11111115151 051101111111 11'11011 1 puinted 11111 the ill 11100111111: their (1111-
11111-1 1115111 11011. 8111151111111011 11 011, 111011111111: people of their 51101-111-
111-55,111111 1111'1' r1-1111i11' 111'11'111111'le1lge11 their 1111111, 111111 111' attention
111111 1111011101101- 1'111' lhe 1'051 111' 1110 evening In 111011'1110111121'111111 1111'--
51111'. 1-11111-111'11111'011 111 11111110 1111' 11, 111111 emne quietly to the supper 1.11"
1111110 11111011 their 1<i1111 111111111-1'111111 prep111e1l for us, and which
111111011 simply 11121i1-i11u5. 11 11'115 11111,then-fore,sur'p115ing,111111
1111011 110 1151-1-11111-11 111 11111' sleeping-11111115111 the tree, 111111 111111 nur-
51111'1-5 111111'11 1111 1111: 11111111'1-5505 11'e 111111 111111114111; 110111 the ship, 11'1-
1pli1'kl1' 511111< into 11 sweet 111111 refreshing sleep.THE WIIEELBARnows A.\'D THE TURTLE.

9 T daybreak next morning I rose, and descended the ladder
without the least noise, lest I should arouse my still sleep-
ing family. I was anxious also to visit our vessels on the

beach as quickly as possible.

Beneath the tree, however, I found plenty of life and activity.
The two watch dogs came springing and jumping towards me, and
asking, in their own intelligent manner, to be allowed to accompany
me; the cocks crowed and flapped their wings; the hen clocked,
and the goat hounded over the soft grass. The ass alone reposed
comfortably, and appeared to be enjoying his morning dream, with-
out the least inclination for the walk which I wished him to take.

He was quickly aroused, however, and harnessed to the sledge
alone, for I would not disturb the cow, as she had not been milked.
I summoned the dogs to follow me, and then we took our way to
the beach. There to my great comfort I found the boat and the
raft still safe: although the tide during the night had risen, yet the
pieces of lead and iron bars to which I had fastened them had re-
sisted its force, and kept them from drifting away.

Without delay I placed upon the sledge a load which I thought
our good grey charger could draw without difficulty, and with suf-
ficient quickness to enable me to return to Falcon's Nest in time for
breakfast.

rl'he sun was, however, high in the heavens when I reached the
tree, and I was astonished beyond measure to find the whole of my
family still sleeping profoundly. Not a creature was stirring.

I made as much clatter and noise as if a bcsiegingr army was ap-
prmxching, to arouse the sleepers. My wife was the first to appear,
and was not a little surprised to find the day so far advanced.

1&5 H
"\Vell," she exclaimed, "there must be a magic power in those
mattresses to make us sleep like this. I have found the greatest
difficulty in rousing myself, and the poor children are still under
the same magic influence."

And in fact, when they were at last aroused, they rubbed their
eyes, yawned and stretched, and seemed more than half inclined to
fall asleep again.

" Up, up!" I cried in a still louder voice. "Brave boys should
wake at the first summons, and spring out of bed with life and
quickness."

After this, Fritz was the first to show himself, and Ernest the
last to creep down the ladder, for he had always a strong disinclina-
tion to leave his bed. Indeed, his mother had already prepared
breakfast before he made his appearance; and I talked to him
seriously on the danger of giving way to the habit of late rising in
the morning.

After our usual morning prayers, we enjoyed a hasty breakfast ;
and quickly removing the articles from the sledge, we repaired again
to the shore, for Iwas anxious to have both the boat; and the raft
unloaded before noon, that they might; be ready to float as soon as
the tide served.

By the time we reached 1' aleon's Nest with our last load the tide
had risen, and I hastily took leave of my wife and the three younger
boys, intending only to take Fritz ; but Jack seemed so anxious to ac-
company us, that I at length gave him permission, to his great delight.

As soon as the tide was high enough to float the vessels I steered
at once for Deliverance Bay, for the beautiful weather and the calm
sea tempted me to venture on another voyage to the wreck. At
first this proved a difficult task; yet, in spite of the wind, which blew
freshly from the sea, and the tide being against us, we attained our
object, and reached the current, which carried as quickly to the ship.

By this time, however, it was too late to carry away anything of
importance, so I merely collected together what could be packed
quickly and without much trouble. Jack, who ran here and there,
making a tremendous clatter, had already added small yet useful
articles to our store, and presently came up, in a tumult of delight,
to show us a wheelbarrow which he had found. But while he was
exulting in its usefulness as a conveyance to carry the potatoes he
had dug up to Falcon's Nest, Fritz came to tell us that he had dis-
covered something far more useful than a. wheelbarrow--the ship's
pinnace.*

" A kind of little ship with a four-cornered stern sail.THE l'ESG UINS.THE IVIIEELBARROIVS AND T1115 TUI'I'LI'I. 1-19

 

I accompanied him to the spot, and found the pinnaee packed
carefully in the centre of an enclosure, every part complete, although
separated, and even supplied with two small cannon.

In the midst of my joy at this discovery I saw clearly, however,
that to raise the boat from its present position, and to get it pro-
perly fitted together and launched on the sea, would not only be a
work of time, but require a large amount of strength, exertion, and
skill.

This, however, was not the time to commence such an under-
taking; so I overlooked the boys as they loaded the raft, and
advised them to choose the most useful articles. Among otheis a
copper kettle, a grindstone, two large iron plates, a powder flask, a
box of flint stones, which were most welcome to me, several tobacco-
graters, and two more wheelbarrows besides Jack's, which he was
not likely to forget. we had scarcely time to take a slight refresh-
ment before we again set sail, for I was anxious to avoid being met
by a wind from the land, which generally rose after sunset.

As we neared the shore we observed with astonishment a group
of figures standing in a long row, and regarding us with great
curiosity. They might have been taken for little people wearing
white waisteoats, with arms hanging down at their sides, which
from time to time they raised softly, as if they wished to welcome
us with a brotherly embrace.

"Well 1" I exclaimed, laughing, " are we in a country inhabited
by pigmies, who have hastened here to receive us ?"

"No, papa E" cried Jack. "I believe they are Liliputians,
though rather larger, however, than those I have read of."

But as we approached nearer my knowledge of natural history
came to my aid.

"They are birds called penguins," I exclaimed. " I can dis-
tinguish them more plainly now. They are as easily caught as the
boobies which Ernest drove from the body of the dead shark.
Although excellent swimmers, they are helpless on land, for they
can neither tly nor run from danger. In fact, these birds are easy
prey for the sportsman."

While I thus spoke we were cautiously approaching the land,
that we might still longer enjoy this singular spectacle; but no
sooner had the boat reached a spot where the water was shallow,
than Jack sprang out of his tub and waded to the shore. Before
the penguins had noticed him he was amongst them, and in a very
few moments had knocked down live or six of the birds. Those
who remained evidently considered this a very unkind greeting, for
they hastily plunged into the water, swimming and diving so
quickly, that they soon vanished front our eyes.

Fritz grumbled bitterly at Jack for frightening the hitds and
p1e1enting him from 11111it1g a shot at them, but ID langhingly told
him that while he was considering when and how he should use.
his gun, Jack had settled the matter with a stick. At the same
time 1 endeavoured to check in the thoughtless boys the disposi-
tion to destroy God's creatures unless they were absolutely needed
for food. I explained to them also that the flesh of the penguin
had an oily, tishy taste, which to some persons was very disagree-
111110.

.1 then examined the prey, and found two birds dead, but; the
rest only stunned; indeed, they had to a great degree recovered
themselves, 11nd were very gravely attempting to waddle away.
"'0, however, seized them quickly, and, after tying their legs
together, left them on the shore with the two (lead birds, where
they were obliged to wait till we had discharged our cargo.

The approaching sunset, however, made it impossible for 11s to do
much. We contented ourselves with filling each a wheelbarrow
as full as possible, so that at least we might carr' something to
1-'aleon's Nest. We did not forget to take with us also the dead
and living penguins; and at last set out on our way, each driving
a. loaded 11'11eelharro1v, for we had found three on board.

When the sinrrnlar procession leached 1-'a1co11's Nest 11c 11 910
welcomed by 0111' watchful body guard with far- 1esoundinf' harks:
but as soon as they diseo1ereil that the "heels thev had heatd
belonged to friends, thev displa1ed their iov 111' springing and
bounding upon 11s in 1111 ecst1s1 of delight; rather too much,
indeed, 1'111'11ac11', who had the greatest difficulty in p1eventing the
dogs from upsetting his barrow with their <<ramhols Only by
1111111111g111011's ritrht and left. with his little lists, 11111111 thev scarcely
1011, could he at last rid himself of their politeness, while his angry
ell'oi'ts made his mother, as well as Ernest and little Frank, laugh
heartily.

My Wife was 111111e1e1', delighted with our barrows and their
contents, excepting that she looked lather doubtfully at the 51011
plates 111111 the tohaeeo- gtaters \Ve lost 110 time in setting free
the living penguins but I tied them 111 the leg to a ttee among
our ducks and geese in the hope that 111 association with these
unnpanions they would become tame, and by tlegtees reconciled to
their new abode

My wife pointed out to me a splendid store of potatoes, which
 

she and the two boys had collected during our absence, and also a.
large number of roots similar to those which Ernest had discovered
on the day previous, which I recognised as manioc or tapioca--at
least, tapioca is prepared from this root--and of course I warmly
praised their industry.

" Ah, yes, papa," said little Frank; " but what would you say to
our field of Indian corn, and pumpkins, and melons ?"

" Oh, you chatterbox I" exclaimed his mother; " you have spoilt
it all, and deprived me of a great pleasure. I did not wish your
father to know of this till the plants were above the ground. It
would have been delightful to see his surprise when the green
stalks appeared."

"I am sorry, dear mamma," I replied; "but the surprise has
only occurred a little sooner, and I am equally pleased at the
experiment. \Vhere did you procure seeds for such a purpose ? "

"From the magic bag," she replied, with a smile; " and I sowed
them in the soil after we had removed the potatoes, without dis-
turbing the small ones. I hope. therefore, we shall have a splendid
harvest when it all grows up."

" You have done well, dear wife," I said, "and I hope your plan
will be successful."

The tobacco-graters were lying on the ground near us, and my
wife, pointing to them, inquired,

"What use are those tobacco-raspers, dear husband? I hope
you do not intend us to take snuff or to smoke ? "

"Truly not," I replied, laughing. " The thought of introducing
such dirty and unpleasant habits never entered my mind. I have
brought these graters for a very different object. A little new
bread will be a great treat to us, and to obtain it these tobacco-
raspers are indispensable. I hope, therefore, you will no longer
look upon them with such disdainful eyes."

" Well 2" she exclaimed, "what tobacco-graters have to do with
new bread I cannot imagine. Besides, where is the baking oven,
even if you had tlour ? "

"These iron plates will supply the place of an oven," I replied:
" fiat cakes can be baked upon them, although perhaps not loaves.
And as for flour, that can be obtained from the cassava-roots dis-
covered by Ernest. If you will make a small strong bag of sail-
cloth, we will try an experiment with our new pastry before we
sleep to-night."

My wife readily agreed to get the bag ready, but I could see
that she doubted my judgment, for she tilled the newly-arrived
copper kettle with potatoes, which she placed on the lire, to be
ready for our supper in case the bread-baking should be a failure.

In the meantime I took a large piece of sail-cloth, and spread it
on the ground; and then, assembling my young folks, commenced
at once without; delay to instruct them in the art of making bread
from the cassava-root. In the hands of each I placed one of the
tobacco-graters and a root, which, as well as the grater, had been
carefully cleaned and washed by their mother. At my command
each began to scrape the root he held in his hand over the sail-
eloth, and in a very short time it was covered with what resembled
moist sawdust, and had not a very tempting appearance. The boys
worked readily and pleasantly, yet constantly makingr jokes about
bread being made from radishes, and calling it famous fun.

"The cassava-root is not to be despised," I said. " In America
it forms the chief food of the natives, who know very little of bread
made from European c0rn.* There is more than one species of
cassava. One sort grows and ripens quickly, another is not so rapid
in growth, and the third takes two years to come to perfection.
The two first are poisonous if eaten raw; yet these are preferred,
not only on account of the fruit they bear, which ripens quickly,
but because when the scrapings from the roots have been pressed
the finest llour is produced."

"Why must it be pressed?" asked Ernest.

" To remove the sap or juice, which alone contains the hurtful
qualities. The dry pith is most wholesome and extremely nutri-
tious. At all events, we will be very cautious with our lirst attempt,
and not venture to eat a morsel till the ape and the chickens have
tasted it; and if they receive no harm we may eat the cakes in
safety."

This arrangement was readily agreed to by all; and when we
had scraped a suliicient quantity of the cassava--root, I tilled the
bag which my wife had made with the scrapings, and tied the
mouth of it tightly together, so that when pressed the poisonous
sap might llow out between the threads of the cloth.

To obtain the means of pressing, I had already fixed upon, as a
substitute for a pressing machine, a contrivance in which the boys
were greatly interested. I laid two or three smooth planks on one
of the roots of the fig-tree which held our aerial castle, and placing
the bagr of flour upon them, Covered it with another plank. Across
this plank I laid one of our levers, with one end under the arched

" America was not so well known to Europeans when this story was written, in 1813, as it
is now.
root, and heaping up on the other end lead, iron bars, and stones,
with every heavy article I could find. By this means the bag was
subjected to a strong pressure, and very soon the sap was seen
flowingr to the ground beneath.

Presently my wife remarked, "If we have to press and scrape
the roots every time we make our bread, we shall be employed the
whole day in baking."

" Not so," I replied: " when the cassava-flour is once dry, it can
be placed in a cask, and will keep good for years. It is only
necessary to be careful not to take from it more at a time than we
require for baking, so that there may be always some left to fall
back upon in case of need."

"Papa," exclaimed Fritz, " I think we could commence bread-
makingr at once; not a drop of sap is falling from the bag now."

" I am quite willing," I replied; " but before we attempt to make
bread for ourselves, a cake must be baked for the chickens and the
ape, and if they eat it willingly, and without harm to themselves,
we can very safely follow their example."

The bag was opened and the meal spread out to dry. I then
moistened a small quantity with water, and made a small cake.
The remainder I stirred up and shook, that it might be again placed
under the press. This cake was then laid on one of the iron plates
over a clear fire, made, as usual, between large stones on the earth,
and as soon as the under side was brown, it was turned, and when
suiiiciently baked, taken out to cool.

Meanwhile the boys attracted a few of the fowls and the ape to
the spot; but the cake exhaled such a delicious odour that they
looked with envy at the piece I gave to the ape, and I believe, had
I not firmly opposed their longing, they would also have helped
themselves to a portion.

" If this is the poisonous root, will it stupefy the animals, or
cause them pain?" asked Fritz.

" There aretwo chief qualities of poison in these plants which
occasion death," I replied. " One, which is painful in the extreme,
produces effects like those of arsenic and sublimate; the other
stupefying the sensibilities of the nerves, or creating unnatural
excitement; similar to the effects of opium or the poisonous fungus
sometimes mistaken for mushrooms. Taken in small quantities,
these poisons injure the health with lingering disorders, which
shatter the constitution and eventually end in death. They are
therefore described as slow poisons.

" The quick and almost sudden poisons require oily or fat1.3-1 SH 155 l" -llIILY LOBIMS'U ..V

remedies, such as oil, hatter-milk, barley-water, and the like, to
deaden the pain. The stupefying poisons, on the contrary, require
emctics or hitter's to relieve the stomach, and rouse the nerves
from their insensihility or irritation, and thus remove the effects
of the poison by a 'counter-irritant.'"

I noticed with satisfaction that while we talked, the fowls were
eagerly eating up the erumhs, and Master Nip devouring his piece
of the cake with great rapidity.

"What do they call this broad in America, papa?" asked Fritz,
presently.

"At the Antilles, "here the loot is chiefly found, they call it
cassma hread," I replied. "But see, my dea1, " I continued,
addressing my wife, " the animals have eaten it all, and we must
begin our haking performances early to-morrow morning, it we
find that our cassava-tasters are not the worse for what they have
eaten."

"And if they are all right, papa," said Ernest, "it; will prove
that my roots are not of the poisonous species."

" Yes, my boy," I replied; " hut I must still warn you that there
are many similar roots which are not only poisonous in themselves,
but also hear poisonous fruits and flowers, and even leaves, which
are sometimes useful as medicine when prepared by chemists or
doctors, hut are certain death if eaten from the plant. I-hope,
therefore, you will he careful, as I have told you het'ore, and never
attempt to eat anything"r you find, however tempting it- appears, till
you have shown it to me. And now we have said so much about;
poisonous ohjects, we will turn to something more agrecahle. "'0
can have confidence in the wholesome food which the good
mother has prepared for us. Roasted penguin and potatoes will
do us no harm."

"'e readily seated ourselves 011 the benches and at the table
which I had constructed with planks on the tig--tree roots, to
partake of supper. "'e found the potatoes excellent, and although
the flesh of the penguin was fishy in taste and rather tough,it; was
not so had after all. And we could once more thank God for His
heuetits as we retired, with appeased appetites, to the longed-for
rest in our castle on the tree.

Jig); EDNJ. "News"

 

CHAPTER XVI.

'l'llE l'l.\'.\'ACE A.\'D THE PETARD.

HE following morning our first care was to visit the fowls and
the monkey, to ascertain if they were injured by the cassava
cakes; but they were all as lively as ever ; we therefore set

to work eagerly to bake for ourselves.

\Vhile pressing the flour, a large tire was lighted, and that there
should be no waste of fuel, a large saucepan full of potatoes was
placed upon it to boil, till the embers became clear enough for
baking.

By this time the cakes were ready to place upon the iron plates.
They were in the form of a semicircle, so that I could easily grasp
them, and the boys, who enjoyed the fun, made some little cakes
for themselves, which they mixed in cocoanut-shclls. Of couise
some of these were slightly burnt, and others not half baked; but
that was a trifling matter, for the fowls, the pigeons, and the dogs
would eat them with as much relish as if they were perfection.

Even the boys themselves could scarcely refrain from breaking
ofi' pieces of the cakes before they were thoroughly baked, and
popping them into their months; for the smell, so like that of
newly-baked bread, was too tempting to be resisted.

In good time, however, the leaves were finished, and we had a
large store of bread in our possession, to our great satisfaction.
The boys were so proud of their performances, that each ate
his own cakes for breakfast; and certainly, with butter, I could
almost fancy I was eating hot rolls in our own dear country. A
large bowl of new milk added to our meal made it a repast fit for a
king.

As I scattered the crumbs of this costly feast among our feathered
folk, I was surprised to observe that the penguin, which we had
made a prisoner, and tied to a tree near the ducks and geese,
seemed quite at home, and followed their example in picking up

155
 

the crumbs without the least shyness. I decided, therefore, to
release him from continement, and give him his liberty, to his great
satisfaction.

This success in bread-making, however, did not retnove my strong
desire to pay another visit to the wreck with the boys, and by our
united ctl'orts endeavour to manage the pinuace which we had
discovered on the previous day.

The good mother at first was not to be convinced that anything
could make it necessary for me to venture again on the treacherous
sea, especially as I wished to take all the boys excepting little Frank.
After much explanation and coaxing, she at length unwillingly eon-
st-nted, and then only on condition that I would give my word to
return the same evening, and on no account remain another night
on the wreck.

I reluctantly gave the promise she required, but her fears made
me uneasy, and I left her and Frank alone at last with many sighs
and a heavy heart.

The boys were delighted as usual at the prospect of anything
new. Ernest, especially, laughed joyously at the thought that he
was to accompany me with his brothers once more. we packed
up a good store of provisions, including cassava cakes and potatoes,
and buckled on our cork belts. Our way led us to Deliverance
.llay, at which we arrived without adventure, and after feeding the
ducks and geese there, entered the tub-boat, and with the raft in
tow, proceeded on our way.

lnnnediately on arriving at the wreck, I advised the boys to load
the raft and the boat with the first things that came to hand, so
that at least we might not return empty to Falcon's Nest, and then
I hastened to have one more look at the pinuace.

'l'wo points presented themselves of overpowering difficulty. One
was, that each part. of the little vessel had to be fitted together
coricctly. The enclosed place in which this vessel lay was behind
the ollit-ers' cabins, and also quite on the opposite side of the
wreck to that at which we usually anchored our boat. There
appeared, indeed, not half enough room for us in the space occupied
by the pinuace to lit the various parts together, or to release it front
the stocks on which it stood. Even if we succeeded in the former
umlertaking, it would be quite impossible for us to move it with
every ell'ort of our united strength. I contrived, however, to creep
within the enclosure; and, by the means of the feeble light from
two narrow slits in the wooden partition, I discovered to my great
satisfaction that each piece of the vessel was carefully laid in itsTHE PINNACE AND THE PETARD. 157

 

proper place and, above all, nurrrbered, and could therefore be
matched together with case and correctness. If also I had boldness
enough to venture on an experiment which would give us more
roonr to lanrrclr the vessel when finished.

While the boys were running here and there to find articles for
our lading, I stood considering what plan I should adopt, but for
sonre time without any result.

At length nry resolution was taken, and without delay I proceeded
to work out the necessary preparations. So many difficulties, how-
ever, still presented themselves, that it is more than probable I
should not have attempted the undertaking at all but for the strong
desire I felt to have in my possession such a beautiful little vessel,
a thousand times safer aml nrore convenient than our tub-boat. At
all events, I was convinced that, with patience and perseverance,
we should be quite able to reconstruct the pinnace. And would it
not be a joyful success to rebuild such a ship, and have in our
possession a vessel so firm, and yet so light and easy to steer? Yes,
with the help of my boys I would put the parts together, and hope
that some means for launching it on the water would be suggested
to me.

The evening arrived before anything could be done to the pin-
nace, and we therefore without delay prepared to return home with
our load. What was our surprise and pleasure on reaching Deliver-
ance Bay to see the mother and little Frank on the shore waiting
to receive us.

"\Vc are going to remain at Zeltheinr," said my wife, "till you
have cleared the wreck and finished all your business on board. It
will be a shorter voyage for you, and we shall be constantly opposite
and within sight of each other."

I could scarcely thank my brtve wife sufficiently for this pre-
caution, rnore especially as I knew how little she liked residing at
Zeltheinr: and I was glad to be able to reward her self-denial by
placing before her eyes the articles we had brought with us--two
casks of butter, three of flour, a case of corn and rice, with a
number of useful articles, to be placed in our storehouse, which
were to her of the greatest value.

Our voyages to the wreck until the pinnace was completed oc-
cupied a week. We started early every morning regularly, and
returned honre in the evening, heavily laden from the wreck, to
my wife's great satisfaction. Indeed, now that we were com-

paratively near to each other, she let us depart without the least
anxiety.
During our absence she and little Frank visited l-'aleon's Nest
almost daily, to look after the poultry and give them plenty of pro-
vender, as well as to fetch away potatoes from the field close by.
When we met together in the evening, we had plenty to talk about
while we enjoyed the delicious suppers which the mother had pro-
vided for us from her stores.

All this time we had been earnestly employed in reconstructing
the pinnacc, which was at last ready to be navigated and set free
from her prison. Her appearance was neat and elegant. She had
a tiller at her prow, and a small quarter-deck on which to raise a
mast and a sail like a cutter, and we could already foresee that she
would be a good sailor, and, being of a light build, would not draw
much water. "'0 had carefully eaulked all the joints and openings,
and then covered them with pitch or ship's tar. On the quarter-
deek we placed the two little cannon and secured them with chains
in the usual manner on board ship.

And, after all, there sat; the beautiful thing, immovable in its
prison; and yet it seemed as if impatient; and longing to dart into
the sea, and to carry its masts and spread its sails on the bosom
of the ocean. As I contemplated our work, I felt it impossible
that all our industry and efforts should come to naught. And
yet, before we could set; the pinnacc free, a storm might arise and
destroy it with the wreck. The thought of such a disaster rendered
me impatient; and I at length determined upon a plan which
was certainly a great risk, but no other way lay open to me, for to
out through the planks which enclosed the vessel, or to make an
opening in the ship's side, was out of the question. But Isaid
nothing to the boys of my intention.

I found in the stewards room an iron mortar, such as are some-
times used for cooking, and fastened it upon a thick oaken board
with books. Then with a chisel I cut a groove in the board. In
this groove I laid a train of gunpowder, of such a length that it
would take more than an hour to reach the mortar when lighted
at the end by a match. I filled the mortar with powder, again
fastened the plank upon it, eaulked every crevice with tar, and
bound the whole together with chains.

1 found myself at last in possession of a kind of petard, which I
considered the most; likely means of producing the effect I wished.
This terrible instrument I suspended in the enelostne occupied by
the pinnace, on the side from which I calculated as carefully as
possible that the recoil of the explosion would not injure our little
craft. Giving the boys the order to go on board our little tub-boat
 

quickly, I returned, lighted the fusee, and then, hastily embarking
myself, steered away speedily from the wreck.

As soon as we were at a safe (listance, I drew the ropes which
bound the raft to the boat. more tightly, that the sudden concussion
might not capsize it, if the explosion took place before we reached
the shore. Fortunately, however, we had arrived at Zelthcim, and
were unloading the raft, when a sudden and frightful noise on the
sea, like the roar of cannon, so alarmed my wife and the boys that
they screamed in terror, and turned to run away. My voice re-
called them, but they still kept at a distance, until my wife came
towards me and said,

" The sound came from the sea! and look at the smoke! Oh,
dear husband, I hope you have been careful not to leave fire near
the powder!"

"There is nothing of that sort to fear," I said, with a smile that
surprised her while it gave her confidence; "but I think the ex-
plosion has something to do with the pinnace. Boys, I must go
back and see what has happened: who will go with me ?"

Without a. word the boys sprang into the boat, while I remained
fora few moments on the beach, to explain to my wife and calm
her fears.

\Ve arrived at the wreck in a very short time, for curiosity made
the boys row quickly, and at the first glance I saw with satisfaction
that the form and position of the vessel remained unchanged, and
that no suspicious-looking smoke indicated fire. 'With a light
heart I steered round the wreck to the other side, and there dis-
covered the destruction caused by my petal-d. A large portion of
the ship's side had been shattered, and the fragments floated on
the water; while through the Welcome opening which yawned upon
us, we could see the pinnace standing unhurt, although leaning a
little on one side. I uttered a loud hurrah, which astonished the
boys, for the destruction and desolation around had saddened
them.

" It is won!" cried I: " the beautiful pinnace is ours now! It-
will be easy to launch it on the sea if it is uninjured. Let us go
and examine it."

"'0 climbed through the opening, and found to our great delight
that the pinnace was unhurt, and not a trace of fire or llame could
be discovered upon it.

The recoil of the mortar had, however, blown a piece of the
chain deep into the opposite partition wall, where it stuck fast.
After this inspection, I explained to my boys the means I had used,
and gave them a hasty description of the wonderful power of the
pctard.

Iafter this examined the position of the boat more carefully,
and found that it would be easy with the aid of a pulley and lever
to push the pinnace on the water. Fortunately, while reconstruct-
ing the little ship, I had taken the precaution to place rollers under
the keel, which would render our task easier. I did not forget,
however, to attach a long rope to the inner end, to prevent it from
going out of our reach when once in the water.

When all was ready, we threw our united strength into the per-
formance, and at last, though not without some difficulty, we saw
her glide slowly down into the sea, and ride gracefully on the
undulating waters, yet held in check by the rope which moored her
alongside the wreck.

Leaving her safely in this position, we returned to Zeltheim to
relate our conquest to the mother; but the warlike spirit of the
boys was awakened by the prospect. A little ship completely
rigged, and with two cannon on board, seemed unconquerable, and
lit to resist a whole fleet of savages. Indeed, they almost wished
that an attack might come, that they might exhibit their prowess;
but I reminded them they ought to thank God that He had not
obliged them to prove their new-born courage and valour by blood-
shed and fighting.

Our stately barque, however, could not be completely rigged and
freighted without two days of hard work. \Ve still kept it on the
side of the wreck farthest from the shore, for we wished to surprise
the mother and little Frank with its wonderful appearance, and
therefore they were not to see it till it was complete. And our
movements on that side could not be clearly seen, even through a
telescope, from the shore.

When at last all was in readiness, it was impossible to refuse the
request of my boys, and, as a reward for their efforts, allow them
to give their mother a majestic salute from our two guns, to em-
bellish the surprise which awaited her.

At once and speedily the guns were loaded, Fritz assuming the
position of captain near the mainmast; his brothers placed them--
selves hy the guns, each holding a match, which they were eager to
light ; while I hastened to spread the sail and adjust the rigging in
readiness for our voyage. At last I seated myself at the helm, and,
with joyful huzzas, we utnnoored the little vessel and turned towards
home.

The wind was favourable, and blew fresh towards the shore. The"WHWW-- -- v--AAAv--"v-- ~--v~ A

2'

 

Wy{.--&<~.Im.k.

T HE I'INXA CE A ND TH I PE TA R I l. 161

 

pinnace skimmed the transparent water like a bird, and so swiftly,
that I had some anxiety respecting the fate of our tub-boat, which
we had taken in tow.

"'0 reached Deliverance Bay, however, without accident; and as
we came in sight of Zeltheim I lowered the largest sail of our new
Vessel, that I might he able to manage her with less difficulty, and
then 1 gave permission to the boys to carry out the grand business
of the salute.

 

['1 S RACE.

Ernest and Jack lighted their matches and stood to their guns.
"No. 1, fire! No. 2, fire! " cried Fritz; and as the rocks re-eehoed
the sound, he added to it by firing two pistol-shots in the air and
leading his brothers in a succession of joyful hurrahs.

As the boat touched the shore, my wife, amidst all her wondering
astonishment, was able to nod to me a friendly welcome, but she
held little Frank close to her as she stood, with wide-open eyes and
qmvoring lip, not knowing whether to laugh for joy or cry in fear.

12
As soon as we could find a convenient spot 011 which to land, I
sprang on shore; and my wife, advancing to meet me, exclaimed,
hrcathlesslv,

"Oh, you dear (headful people! "hat a mixture of 1111' and fright
you haxc made for 11s! \\ hen I saw the beautiful little ship ad-
vancing, I could not imagine \vl1c1e it came f11;.1m and the sound
of the cannon so alarmed me, that had Inot re1on'1iized \'o111 voice,
we should have fled Heaven knows how far. Ilut it is all m 11
1101', and I must forgive the fright; while I admire the hcautiful
heat you have brought. It is most elegant, and I shall not he
afraid myself to accompany you on the sea sometimes in such a
perfect vessel as that."

" Come on hoard now, mammal" exclaimed Fritz, " and we can
show you how comfortable and complete the vessel is."

My wife aml Frank stepped on the little deck of the vessel. The
boy was as much delighted as his mother, who, after examining it
and listening to the description of our exertions in fitting the parts
together and launching it, could not sullieiently praise 0111' industry
and persevemnce

"But do not suppose Frank and I have been idle during your
absence," she continued. "No, indeed; we have been very hnsy
the whole time; and although we cannot receive you with a salute
of cannon, we have found the means of providing dishes for the
table. Come with me now, and I will show you the result of our
work."

"'0 all landed quickly, after mooring the hoat in safety, aml
followed the mother curiously to a piace near which the Jackal
stream falls in a tiny cascade over the rocks; and hencath their
shelter, in an open space of ground, we saw, with astonishment, a
complete kitchen garden, considerably advanced in growth, and
divided into compartments hy paths in all directions.

" This is my work and Frank's!" exclaimed my wife. "\Ve
found the earth soft enough for 11s to dig and prepare."

"Here," she continued, pointing to the nearest bed, "I have
planted potatoes; yonder are fresh cassava-roots; on the other side
I have sown lettuce and salad-seeds, and near them I have left a
space for you to plant reeds and hamhoo 1anes."

Leading its further on, she continued, pointing to another divi-
sion: " This will he our fruit garden. The earth is ready to receive
cuttings from the young trees at 1"alco11's Nest; and farther on I
have sown a quantity of each sort of the grain you hrought from
the vessel; and above, in a shelf of the rock, I have planted roots
 

of the anana, because their clinging tendrils will form a shade for
the young shoots from the heat of the sun. \Vater for the nourish-
ment of my garden," she added, "can be easily brought from the
neighbouring.r waterfall; so there is no doubt that the plants will
grow and thrive wonderfully."

"You have performed wonders, dear wife!" I exclaimed, after
we had examined the fruitful spot carefully; and then, as the sun-
set was approaching, I and the boys returned to the shore, to make
the pinnace and the other craft safe for the night, while the mother
prepared dinner for us; indeed, we were all very tired and hungry.

lmring dinner I bade the boys observe the wise ordering of
Nature--that those who work and are industrious, are sure to
obtain a recompense in the benefits she confers; and also how
.mtch happier those are who make efforts to help others instead of
selfishly acting only for their own advantage.

During the week of our daily visit to the ship my wife had more
than once visited Falcon's Nest, and while at dinner she remarked,

" You have been so occupied with the wreck, dear husband, that
the young fruit-trees at Falconhurst are, I fear, quite forgotten by
you. The air appears to have dried them very much, and had I
not sprinkled them now and then with water, and protected them
from the heat by branches of trees, they would by this time have
been perfectly useless. I should have planted them in the cool
earth long ago, and attended to them more carefully, had not my
time been so taken up with the kitchen garden."

"You have done all you could under the circumstances, dear
wife," I replied; " and if you new request me not to visit the wreck,
I shall be quite willing to place myself under your orders at Falcon-
hurst. But first we must unload our vessels, and place everything
as usual in safety."

My wishes were soon accomplished, and the articles which re-
mained, after adding to our store, were carefully arranged, and
covered with a piece of sail-cloth fastened to the ground with pegs
as firmly as possible.

The pinnaee was also moored by a rope from the bow to a strong
post on shore.

"'e then loaded ourselves as well as the animals with as much
as we each could carry of the articles we considered the most use-
ful, and took the road to Falcon's Nest.
THE WALK TO THE CAL-HMS" WOOD.

URING our residence at Zeltheini, while daily visiting the
I ) wreck, the second Sunday of our stay in the island had
occurred, and had been celebrated and honoured with as

much earliest devotion.

The day after our return to Falcon's Nest, as described in our
last chapter was again the day of rest, and was religiously observed
by us with prayer and praise. My wife had found, to my great; joy,
a Bible in one of the. seatnen's chests. After, therefore, singing a
hymn, i read a chapter from the Gospels which I knew my children
would be able to understand, and then related to them another but
more simple allegory, entitled

'l'llE 'l'l:.-\\'lPS[.l.lEURl:l.\' 'J':\l.l.\'.\l.~\.\'.

A man and his wife were mice travelling through the Arabian
Desert with a caravan, when by some. accident they were separated
from the rest of the company and left alone, with but very little
food or water. They knew that although not far from the city to
which they were travelling, they were constantly in fear of their
strength failing" before they could reach it. Inning the day the
position of the sun showed them what direction to take, either cast
or west; and the stars by night, when his rays, which beat down
upon them with great tierceness, were removed.

It was useless, and would 'have been dangerous, to hasten their
steps in the hope of overtaking the caravan, and yet they were in
terror by night of beingr attacked by wild beasts, or of fainting,t by
day and becoming the prey of vultures. For two days and nights
they walked without meeting with a drop of water or a single green
spot; on which trees grew to offer them a shade by the way.

On the third morning their supply of provisions and water was

let
 

quite exhausted, and the worn-out; travellers sank down on the
burning sand and gave themselves up for lost.

 

<'.\.\IEI.S .\T .\.\' U.\:l'\

The wife, who seemed more hopeful than her husl and, tried to
cheer him with the possibility that another company of travellers
might be on their way, and arrive in time 10 save them from death.1115 511755 .1".-i JUL 1' ROBINSON.

She proposed also to go in search of water; but he would not; allow
her to leave him, and at length from fatigue and exhaustion he
sank into a deep sleep

'lhe \1'111111111 s t nea1 him on the g1ott11d,lot15.ri115.: to go in seatch
of 11'11te1, vet fearing to leave he1 l1t1s|1and alone. She was not; so
easily daunted by ditliculties as he, and in spite of her fatigue,
111111111 have 5.11ad11'exe1ted he1111st sttength in an effort to reach
some r-otks which she fant'ied were visible in the distance in the
hope that a111o11_ :t thLm 111ight; he found :1 spring of 11"atet.

"I must try at 1111 risks," she said to herself, 11s she rose feebly
front the ground; but at the same moment a gentle touch on the
shoulder made he 't111't 111111 turn quickly. An ethereal being stood
by her side, and exclaimed,

"Woman, fear 11111, I am 11 good fairy: here is the talisman that;
will help you through all your ditliculties and dangers. Consult it
now and on every occasion: it will never fail to direct your course
through the desert, and lead you to some refreshing oasis, where
food and water can he found in abundance."

So saying, the fairy placed a small magic glass in her hand and
vanished.

For 11 fe11' minutes the wife stood bewildered and alarmed, then
she raised her 111agiL- glass to her eyes, and looked through it at
the rocks. They Were distant no longer, and at their feet lay soft;
green turf, through which ran streams of rippling water.

\l'ith renewed vigour at the . . 1t she awoke her husband, and,
assisting him to rise, held beft e him the 111agie glass. He was
not: sultieiently roused front sleep to realize what he saw; but he
allowed her to lead him forward, while she described what her own
eyes s11 clearly beheld.

111 a fe11' 111111111111ts from behind the rocks came one of the
caravan. 011 seeing them approaching feebly, he called others,
and before long the fainting husband 111111 his brave wife were lying
on the soft green turf, enjoying the sweet fresh water and the
pleasant shade, with the prospect of being borne by camels in 11
very short time to the end of their journey.

 

  

 

 

" I think that woman must always have taken care of the magic.
glass after this." said Frank.

" And [ should love the good fairy always," re1111trked Jack, "for
giving it to me."

"\Vell, boys," 1 said, "do you know any good fairy who has
given us a talisman 1"TlIla' TVALIC TO THE 'ALABASH WOO/I. 167

 

"Ah, papa," said Ernest, "I know who you mean. Mamma is
our good fairy, and----"

"Let me finish it, Ernest!" exclaimed Fritz. " The talisman
mamma has found for us is the Bible."

"Quite right, my boys," I replied; "and I hope you will read
and value this magic glass, which not only guides us on our path
through life, but when we look through at ourselves, it shows us
our faults and teaches us how to correct them."

After our midday meal I felt the necessity for giving the boys
some employment, similar to that which they enjoyed So much on a
former occasion. I had no wish to make my homs of instruction too
long aml tedious, or to give them a distaste for religious teaching,
and make them turn a deaf ear to all Isaid; on the contrary, I had
supplied them with enough to think over now, and to make them
anxious on another Sunday to hear more.*

They were at once ready to commence practising with their bows
and arrows, and in leaping, running. and climbing, which I con-
sidered of great importance for their bodily strength, and also to
give them conlidence in a moment of threatened danger.

Nothing makes a man so timid and fearful as a want of physical
strength and confidence in himself.

In addition to these exercises I advised my boys to practise
runningr up and down the rope ladder which led to our sleeping--
romn in the tree, and also to learn to raise themselves by a loose
rope, which I suspended from the balcony, as the sailors do on
board ship.

At first I made knots here and there in the rope, as supports for
their hands aml feet, to assist them in the attempt; but after a
little practice they managed to elimh and descend with very few
knots, and at last hand over hand and with legs crossed, as sailors
do, on a smooth rope and without any assistance.

While this was going on I was ahle to leave. them to their own
resnurces, while I prepared another well known weapon for their use.

I commenced by tying a bullet to each end of a piece of rope
ahout six feet long, and in a few minutes the boys were all round
me, eagerly inquiring what I was doing, and whether it would be
something useful or only a toy.

"You shall see me use it presently," I replied; "hut I will

' Young reader's must rcnmnlwr that when the German story, of which this is a
tmmlanou, ".1: written, sixty years ago, very feu' pleasant Sunday stories for children,
Surh as now t, had heen "ritten. These boys also were on an uninhahiml Island.

Without church-s. I'lrvpuls. Sunday schools, or other ileum"! religious services all of
which ought to make Sunday a happy day for children in England.
 

explain to you at. once that I am trying to make a weapon which
is much used by hunters in many lands, chietiy, however, by the
l'atagonians, who inhabit the southern extremity of South America.
It is named the lasso, and was invented by these people, hut is now
in use among the Mexicans and other settlers in South America.
Not; having bullets, however, the l'atagonians use stones, which
they fasten firmly to a rope much longer than this; and yet; they
can swing the end of the lasso, in which a stone is tied, round or
over their heads, while they held the other end in one hand, with
such power and swiftness, that the animal they wish to capture is
caught, hy the tlying rope, which twists round its hody and limhs
and renders it unable to move. The Mexicans are so skilful with
the lasso, that they will throw it; while on horseback at; full gallop
after their prey, and seldom fail to succeed in securing the animal
alive, or killing it."

This description of Patagonian hunting was delightful to the
hoys, and nothing would do but that I must immediately make
trial of the new weapon I had made, and prove it on the stump of
a not far distant tree.

It happened, fortunately, in spite of my unpract'ised hand, that
my first, throw was successful, and the rope wrapped itself round
the tree so securely, that the boys were more eager than ever to try
the new weapon.

1 immediately prepared a lasso for eat-ll ot the hoys, and set them
to work. Fritz, however, entered upon the matter with great spirit,
and, aftcra little practice, hecame entirely master of the art. 1 was
not surprised at his dexterity, for he was the most active of the four
hoys, and possessed a fear] spirit.

Added to this, heing the eldest and tallest, he possessed not only
more physical strength, hut the knowledge without which great
strength is often useless.

The following morning, on rising early, I noticed from our tree
castle that the sea was much agitated, the wind unusually strong,
and the waves dashin; against the shore.

l congratulated myself. therefore, on finding myself at Falcon's
Nest, and on having decided to remain here and tiud employment
in peaceful agriculture. To mariners and those accustmned to the
sea, the wind would have appeared merely a fresh breeze, hat to
us, such inexperienced sailors, it would have been an act of folly'
to venture on the rallied waves in what, to our ignorance, was a
veritable storm.

I at once, therefore, readily placed myself under my wife's orders.
 

And first she showed me how she had occupied herself in her visits
to Faleon's Nest during our daily absence on the wreck. There
were large casks of half roasted birds preserved in butter, the
poultry were in excellent condition, the cow looked well and happy,
and the tame pigeons, which had built their nests among the
branches of the fig-trees, were now sitting on their eggs in peaceful
happiness. But when we reached the young fruit trees, which I
had brought from the wreck, I saw plenty of work before me, for
they were parched and dry with the heat, and, indeed, almost
withered. I felt it, therefore, necessary at once to plant these trees,
and as we were very anxious to continue our wanderings, we set to
work with so much activity, that we had finished our task even
earlier than I had expected.

The (lay, however, was too far advanced for us to commence any
travels, for the mother and Frank were to accompany us this time,
and we had so many preparations to make, that evening arrived
before we were ready; indeed, it was necessary to be very diligent
after sunset, to be in readiness to start early on the following day.

At daybreak next morning, however, we were all on foot, and
the linal preparations before our departure were dispatched with
haste. The ass and the sledge were to accompany us, not only
to carry our stock of provisions and a flask of Canary wine, as well
as powder and shot, but also that the younger and weaker of our
party might ride sometimes, if they were tired. \Ve wished, besides,
to bring back to Falcon's Nest on our return a store of gourds,
from which to make various articles for our use.

At last we started in joyful spirits: Turk in his coat of mail, as
usual, took the lead. Behind him followed the boys, all but little
Frank, carrying arms. The mother and I came next with the
sledge; and lingering hindmost, and not at all pleased, crept Floss
with Master Nip on her back. As a double means of defence I
carried two rifles, one loaded with grape-shot, for our hunting per-
formances, the other with bullets.

Our road lay through the li'lamingo Maish, which we soon left
behind for the lovely region beyond it. My wife and the younger
boys, who had not seen the place before, could do nothing but
exclaim in admiration at every turn.

Fritz, however, eager fora hunting :ulvcnture, left the strand, and
enticing Turk to join him, very soon disappeared from our eyes in
the tall grass. l'resently we were startled by the dog's noisy bark,
and at the same moment an enormous bird rose in the air, followed
by a shot from Fritz, which brought it to the ground instantly.
The creature was not dead, however, for with incredihle strength
it heat its wings in its rage, scattering the dust as it ran, with Turk
after it.

Fritz followed, panting. and l-'loss, who could not look on with-
out; wishing to take part in the fray, with a sudden spring threw
her little monkey rider from her hack to join in the chase, and hy
a shorter way take the fugitive in the flank. Quick as lightning,
she Caught the hird, amt held it' fast till Fritz 'ame up to her; hut
the wonderful strength of the hird, and the vigorous kicks he gave
right and left to the dogs with his powerful feet, were so violent
that Fritz did not dare to approach nearer. Even Turk, generally
so courageous, after receiving two hlows on his head, slunk away,
aml wottld not again return to the charge.

Fritz was, therefore, ohliged to wait till I could reach them; and
being so heavily armed, I w: unahle to make my way quickly,
especially through the tall grass in which they were hidden.

I was, however, greatly pleased, on reaching the spot, to perceive
that the. captive was a magnificent hust'ard. Being anxious to
secure the hird without killing it', I took out my poeket-hamlkm-
chief, amt, watching my opportunity, threw it suddenly over the
creature's head, so that it conltl neither see nor escape.

I then hastened to tie those vigorous legs together, and after
releasing the wounded wing from the jaws of Floss, I lied another
hamlkcrehief over hoth wings round the body; and at last; the
refractory animal was emitluered. I considered this prey an excel-
lent addition to ottr farmyard, and wished, therefore, to preserve it;
alive, in the hope of tatning it.

Without delay, we carried it to our impatient and curious
travelling companions who were lying on the strand, and waiting
for us. Ernest and Jack rose as we approached, and running to
meet us, exclaimed,

" Oh, what a beautiful hird? What a magnificent creature?"

" ()h E " cried Jack, " I know, it is a hustard ; we saw one rise once,
but neither of us could shoot it. Don't you remember, mamma ?"

"I am not; sorry you failed then," she replied; " for had you
killed it, a hrood of little hirds would have lost their mother ;--
and perhaps this hird has a nest of young ones somewhere: it;
might he as well to let her escape."

"Oh, no, dear wife!" I llll: "if the wound in the wing is
dangerous, and we set the hird free, she will die, aml we shall lose
an excellent and rich supply of food. It the wound is eurahle, we
shall he ahle to tame the bird, amt perhaps she may attract her
 

mate to join her in our farmyard. As to the young,r ones, they are
able to take care of themselves three weeks after they are hatched,
and do not need a mother's care; besides, the father bird is no
doubt; still with them, so do not be unhappy on that account."
During: this discussion, I placed the wounded bird carefully on
the sledge, and we resumed our journey to the cocoanut wood in
which Fritz had met such a. tragi-comic adventure with the monkeys,

 

BUSTA RD.

and little Nip's mother had been killed by the dogs. His mother
and the boys were, therefore, eagerly anxious to see this wood, and
full of spirits they marched on before us.

Ernest, a little in advance of the rest, quickly reached the
entrance to the wood, and then, stopping suddenly as if seized with
astonishment at the magnificent trees, planted himself at the foot
of a cocoannt-palm, which stood a little apart from the rest, and
regarded it with a meditative air, till he espied the beautiful clustels
of nuts which hung from the higher branches. He appeared quite
overwhelmed with wonder and admiration.
 

 

 

I placed myself where I could observe him unnoticed, and
watched with interest the varied feelings displayed on his expressive
face. At last he uttered a deep sigh, and exclaimed,

" Oh, how terribly high the nuts are! I wish I had one."

l-Iardly had he uttered these words when suddenly a magnificent
nut fell heavily to the ground at his feet from the wonderful tree;
and while Ernest, rather startled, jumped aside and looked upwards,
a second nut followed the first, as much to my astonishment as his.

"Why, papa 2 " cried the boy, " this is just like a fairy tale. No
sooner is a wish formed in the mind than it is granted."

"I expect your good fairy, or the magician who performs your
wishes, Ernest," I replied, " is seated on the tree in the form of an
ape, who is more anxious to pelt us with the nuts than to supply us
with dainty dishes for our table."

Cautiously the boy picked up the nuts and brought them to me.
They wore scarcely ripe, and certainly not at all withered, so that
it was impossible to suppose they had fallen from the tree on
account of decay. I therefore moved nearer to Ernest, and stood
with him, looking earnestly up at the tree, to discover if possible
the beingr who had sent down the fruit so mysteriously. We
changed our positions, standing each alone, and still staring up, and
presently, to our surprise, two more nuts fell at our feet.

At this moment Fritz joined us with his mother and the rest;
and on hearing,1r of the fallen nuts, he also directed his keen gaze to
the tree. Suddenly he cried,

"Ah ! ah! I have discovered him, papa! Such a horribly
hideous animal, as large as my hat, and with two enormous claws
like a crab. Ah! he is coming down the tree."

At this information little Frank ran behind his mother for
protectimi, and Ernest looked about for a place of safety, while Jack
stood in a threatening aspect, with the butt-end of his gun raised to
strike. "'0 all remained, however, with our eyes fixed on the tree
which could harbour such a hideous guest, and who was about to
show himself.

Slowly and steadily the creature glided down the tree on the
trunk ; but before it could reach the ground Jack struck at it with
the butt-end of his gun, but failing to injure it, the animal sprang to
to the ground, and, with gaping claws, marched towards his assailant.

The little fellow defended himself bravely, but with such eager-
ness, that all his strokes failed to reach the animal, who jumped
aside and avoided them with wonderful dexterity. At last the boy
stood still, removed his knapsack and arms, and laid them on theTHE IVALK TO THE C'.tlL:ll-'.-lSl[ WOOD. 173

 

ground, took 03' his jacket, held it extended in both hands, ad-
vanced cautiously towards his adversary, and suddenly threw it
over the animal; then, kneeling on the ground, he rested his
whole weight upon it, and, wrapping the jacket completely round
the creature's body, immediately cmnmenced thumping violently
with his fists the strange bundle, in which performance be exerted
his whole strength.

For some moments I could not for laughing help the boy; but,
recovering myself, I seized the hatchet, and, with a few strokes,
put an end to the monster.

"\Vell, that is a. disgusting. ugly animal!" cried Jack, as I
removed the jacket to make sure the creature was (lead. "If it
had not been so hideous, I should not have been in such a passion ;
but I had no fear. W'hat creature is it, papa ?"

"A species of crab," I replied; " or, perhaps I ought to say, a
laud-crab. At all events, it is not of the same species as the one
on the sea-shore which seized you by the leg. And this time you
have not only shown courage, but also, what is of greater import-
ance, presence of mind, in thinking of your jacket, for you had a
vigorous adversar ' to overcome. This bold gentleman is, I believe,
named the cocoanut crab, and lives upon the nuts, the shells of
which he opens as much by skill as strength ; with its strong claws
it could inflict serious injury, and is no mean adversary for a boy
to meet with and conquer. This little combat will show you how
reason and good sense give man the superiority and power over
the most dangerous animals."

I now placed the dead crab and two of the nuts on the sledge;
the shells of the other two I broke, that we might obtain the milk,
which was very refreshing. For some time we proceeded on our
journey Very slowly, on account of a thick growth of underwood
and the tendrils of creeping plants. Several times we had to stop
and cut with an axe a way for the ass and the sledge to pass, till
at length Ernest made a most; agreeable discovery, at least for the-
rmnainder of our journey; and, overpowered as we were by great
heal, it was truly acceptable to us.

"'hile cutting down the tendrils, which entwined themselves-
across our path from tree to tree and intercepted our progress, the
boy, with his usual thoughtfulness, had noticed a kind of liquid
sap exuding from the divided ends of the tendrils.

0n examining this sap he discovered that it was pure and drink-
able water; and, bringing it to his mother and me, asked us to
taste it.
" See here, children E" 1 exclaimed, as I complied with his request;

"see what a w'onde1ful gift fxom hea1en we have found' Men
(1111 cllin5r 111 hot climates, pelhaps for davs, without findin5r water,
and half laintin5- f1on1 thi1st,1nust indeed be thankful on matching
11 huge fo1est, which the) me obliged to tra1 erse, to find 111 it such
refreshing plants as these!"

The boys, after this, eagerly gathered a large quantity of these
tendrils, and 1 showed them how to obtain the water more plenti-
fully by 11111king an incision 111' each end, as we had done with the
s115r11r-1-,11nes to admit the air. We soon had enough to fill over
and o1 c again the cocoanut- shells for oursel1 es, and also to supply
the animals.

After 111:11'chi11g on for some distance through the thicket, we
came at last to 11 clearing, and saw at 11 little distance before us,
near the sea-shore, the beautiful calabash-trees, forming a sheltering
1111111. We were not long in reaching this agreeable spot, which I
and Fritz had already visited.

The splendid trees and their singular fruit, which grew in such
an unusual manner, excited great: wonder and surprise, and I
hastened to explain to my wife and the younger boys the varied
forms and sizes of the gourds, and also how easily we could make
from them 11 good supply of the vessels and different; articles we
needed.

111 a short time a large number were collected, and I and the
boys at once commenced cuttingr and forming whatever we con--
sidered most necessary.

Meanwhile my wife attended to the animals, and examined the
wound in the bustard's wing, which she found worse than she ex-
pected. She came, therefore, to me, and explained that it was
cruel to let the poor creature lie on the sledge; so I removed the
l111n1ll1'e1chicfs {111111 the bird lea1infr him free, excepting that he
was tied to a tree by the leg, and able to walk about as far as the
length of his 11'11d.

After working for some time, I constructed an egg-basket, then
two vases for milk and cream, and with the other half of the shells
formed covers for each; water-bottles, spoons, and nests for the
pigeons and fowls; and from one of the largest gourds a beehive,
with an opening for the bees to pass in and 0111'.

Frank admired it so much that he almost wished himself small
enough to have a house made for him to live in out of one of the
gourds.

The pigeons' nests 1 determined to nail here and there on the
boughs of the tree 011 which our castle was placed; and some of
the nests for the ducks and geese I intended to take to the pond,
in which they still remained at Zeltheim, and to place the rest
under the stately roots at Falcon's Nest, so as to form of the
houses for the poultry quite a little village.

Noon came upon us by the time we had finished all these articles,
and then I released Fritz and J aek, who had long been wishing to
escape, that they 111ight light a tire and cook the crab. They soon
came to a standstill, however, for after having made some stones
red hot to throw into a calabash- shell, the) had no 11ater to fill it

Ernest had not been successful 111 cutting out the gourds fo1 our
po1ee1ai11 111anufactu1:c he broke all that he took in his hand; he
therefore asked me to allow him to go and seek for 11ate1. 1 gladly
gave him the opportunity to be useful, for I knew that while seek-
ing for water, he might make some other i111portant discovery.

He had scarcely been absent two minutes, when he returned
hastily, looking pale with fright, and crying out with panting
breath, "Papa! papa! a wild boar! a wild boar! come and see!
He came quite close to me in the thicket, and then rushed across
the 110011"

" Boys' hovs. '" I ewlaimed, as I follon 1,11 Ernest, "on the track,
011 the track' ; This will be a splendid captule. ' "

I then called the dogs, who followed me innnediatel y at full gallop.

Ernest led the way to the spot where the animal had so alarmed
him, but no wild boar appeared. Nothing could be seen excepting
the turned-up earth, and what appeared to be a few dried potatoes,
which the animal had very likely dug 11p.

Jack and Ernest were disormcerted at this sudden damper to
their zeal for shooting, and so employed themselves coolly in gather-
ing 11p the roots which had been dug up, that they (lid not observe
the dogs, who were still following the scent of some animal. Fritz
and I, however, stole cautiously after them, with guns in complete
tcadiness to fire, and, guided by theirt eager baikinu and yelping, we
in a short time reached the spot.

As we approached, we heard amidst the ba1king and wiping of
our dogs su1- l1 :1 terrible grunting, which appeared to proceed {10111
the same place, that we hastened f0111a11l expecting a most formid-
able battle

()ur alarm was suddenly checked. There before 11s stood our own
respectable saw, her ears held firmly by the two dogs. 011 seeing
us, she seemed much more inclined to ask our help and pity by her
grunting, than our courage in fighting. Our martial ardour gave
 

 

way to vexation as we recognized the poor animal. Yet, after a
pause of surprise, we could not resist a burst of laughter, even while
we hastened to release the poor ill-used animal from the teeth of
the dogs.

Meanwhile our brave potato-gatherers, findingr the barking of the
dogs cease, and the sound of laughter instead of shots proceeding
from the wood, came running towards the spot. On their appear-
anec, l'ritz could not resist joking Ernest on his wonderful discovery
of a wild hoar, which had proved to he only our own inoffensive sow.

 

THE 50W .\.\'D THE Does.

This joking, however, Ernest received with a laugh and a shrugr
of the shoulders; yet the jokes might; have continued fora while
longer, had not our two valiant. heroes at this moment; discovered
a number of what appeared to be apples lying on the ground near
us. On looking,r up at the bushes which grew on the spot, we saw
a large number also hanging from the branches. Those which had
fallen on the grass we gave to our sow, as some compensation for
the pain and fright; she had endured; and as she swallowed them
greedily, I com-luded that; she was not much hurt.

The boys gathered a quantity of these apples to carry home, yet
Fritz expressed a fear that they might belong to the poisonous fruit)
 

 

 

of which I had warned them. I doubted this, on observing how
much the apples were relished by the sow; especially as in
examining one of them I found that it did not contain a hard
kernel, but a number of small pips.

I still decided not to allow the boys to eat this fruit until I had
given one to Master Nip, and if the ape ate it and incurred no dan-
ger, then they should be at liberty to do the same in moderation.

But all this made us forget that we had promised to find water
for the cooking performances, and we were only at last reminded
of this promise by feeling thirsty. I and the boys, therefore, went
forward hastily to search for water with greater diligence.

Jack, who was in advance of us, had scrambled up a rocky
mound at a little distance; but no sooner had he reached the
summit than he stood still with a. horror-stricken face, as if unable
to more, and exclaimed,

" 'apa, papa, a crocodile! a crocodile l "

" A crocodile!" I replied; " what, so far from the water as this?
That would indeed be singular."

As I spoke, however, we all with eager expectation rushed to the
spot; and I immediately recognized in J ack's frightful wild beast a.
kind of large lizard, named the iguana, much esteemed as delicate
eating in the West Indies, and sleeping quietly.

"This will be a prize," I exclaimed to the boys, "if we can cap-
ture this creature, as a present for your mother."

Fritz, with his usual Sportsman's zeal, raised his gun to fire, but-
I checked him hastily.

" Steady, my boy," I said. " You must not be so rash. Your
shot would most likely only wound the animal without killing him,
for these creatures have a wonderful tenacity of life. \Ve must use
other means to capture our booty."

I immediately cut a strong switch, and fastened to the end of it
a string with a. slip-knot. In my left hand I carried a large dry
branch of a tree, and slowly approached the sleeping animal. The
boys in silence watched me curiously without moving. As I drew
nearer, I commenced whistling softly, increasing the melody in
loudness by degrees.

The sleeper presently awoke, and appeared so enchanted, that he
raised his head to listen, and perhaps to see where the sound came
from. I approached with caution, to avoid alarming the animal,
near enough for me to pass my slip-knot round his neck, still con-
tinuing to whistle. The task was not difficult, for the animal

appeared so infatuated with the music that I succeeded in throwing
13
 

the cord and tiuhtening the knot 1ou11d his neck, and made him my
1-'apti1e with ease I then (bagged him to the foot of the rook, anll
turned him 01' or on his back to kill him more speedily.

The animal resisted me furiously, and struck right and left such
trenmndous blows with his tail, that I had need of all my self--
possession to avoid them. The boys came hastily to my assistance;
hut, Jack standing carelessly too near, a stroke from the tail threw
him on the ground head over heels. This so irritated the boys,
that they rushed forward to destroy the creature with the butt-end
of their guns.

 

I arrested their intentions however, although the 101v of sharp-
pointed teeth which he displayed when he opened his immense
jaws was quite 111111'111i11g enough as they app1oacl1ed to drive them
hack.

I adopted a more merciful plan, by firmly piercing the nostrils
with my s11',itel1 which was followed immediately by instant. death
and a very few drops of blood.

As usual, after conquering our prev, this result was attended
with at1i11111pl1al cry of joy f1om 11s all, and the boys expressed
tl111i1'11o111lc at. the clever manner in which I had captured and
killed the itruana ""0 could not think of leaving such a valuable
 

booty behind us, and as our sledge was a long way oil", I resolved
to carry the creature on my back, the boys following to support the
tail, for the weight was enormous.

However, we chose the shortest way to the mother and Frank,
but long before we reached them we heard our names called in
tones of anxiety and alarm. Our long absence had alarmed them,
because there had been no usual firing; but when we replied to
them cheerfully, the tones changed to cries of joy, and all trouble
was forgotten. Many questions were asked, and so much had to
be related, that we began to feel more hungry and thirsty than
ever, and to long for dinner. But on removing the strange and
precious burden from my shoulders, it was a pleasure to observe
the surprise and delight depicted on their faces; and they see]
acknowledged that we could not be blamed for omitting to bring
water under the circumstances.

All this occupied so much time, that I knew it would he im-
possible to prepare a portion of the iguana for dinner, so we were
obliged to content ourselves with the cold provisions we had
brought from Falcon's Nest. Added to it, however, were a few
potatoes, which had been hastily placed in the glowing Cinders
while the mother was waiting for the water-carriers, who never
came.

Master Nip had seized and eaten one of the apples which I
offered him so eagerly, that I readily gave the boys the permission
they desired; and never, I believe, was fruit so thoroughly enjoyed.
The ape, not being satisfied with those we gave him, found out our
store and stole several. Even the bastard, which we had tied by
the leg to a tree, came the length of his string to seize an apple we
threw to him.

I came to the conclusion at last that we had discovered a "'est
Indian fruit named guava, for it was so full of juice, that it supplied
the place of water, and our thirst was greatly relieved.

Altogether, the frugal meal had greatly refreshed and strengthened
us, and as the day was very far advanced, my wife proposed that
we should prepare to turn our steps homewards.

The days appeared to me to be growing shorter, and I readily
agreed to her suggestion.

During our absence the mother and little Frank had loaded the
Sledge with the newly-constructed calabash vessels, that they might
be ready to take home with us. These, however, not being dry, I
decided to leave till morning, and lead our good grey horse Grizzle
with his usual travelling-bags, containing the dry ealabash utensrls,

13--2
the iguana, and on his back our youngest boy as a rider. A cord
was attached to the buslard, that the mother and Frank might lead
him, or at least drive him before us, without much trouble.

After these preparations, we started at once 011 a direct road to
Faleon's Nest, and, avoiding the guava-trce grove, presently entered
:1 wood of 111ajestie oaks, beneath which lay a quantity of acorns.
On these [he bustmd fed with gmat eagerness; and we arrived,
happily \\ uhout accident, at lialcon's 1 est before sunset. Them
remained, t-"he1ef01e, time enourrh to unpack our bootv, feed the
animals, and p1epalc supper.

A piece of the iguana's flesh, baked with potatoes and wasted
atoms which the 11055 had gathc1cd up, formed a delicious lcpast,
and with thankful hearts "0 r"mined to rest. in 01u' ae1ial chambei,
and slept soundly till morning.THE CANADIAN FOWL AND THE INDIA-RUBBER TREE.

RITZ and I started next morning with the ass to bring home
the sledge and the remainder of the gourd vessels. I advised
the younger boys to remain with their mother, for I had

planned an exclusion on the chain of rocks, to be performed by
Fritz and myself, and was unwilling that the weakness or timidity
of the younger boys should interfeie with the success of my under--
taking, if they accompanied me.

On arriving at the green wood of oaks, we found the sow peace-
fully feeding on the acorns with a good appetite. \V'e had not
attempted to take her with us on the previous evening, be 'ause
she appeared more than ever obstinate and unmanageable. 1 was
glad, however, to observe that she was not the worse for the attack
upon her, but as tame as ever, and not in the least shy or wild.

While passing through the wood, we gathered up a large store
of acorns, and as we walked without noise on the green turf, we
noticed a quantity of birds among the branches of the trees. They
allowed us to approach so closely that Fritz could not resist having
a shot, and brought down a jay and two small paroquets.

The colour of the jay was a beautiful blue, and he had a kind of
crest on his head. One of the paroquets had a rich red plumage;
the featheis of the other were green and gold.

While Fritz recharged his gun, we heard at a little distance a
most singular noise, something like the sound of a mutlled drum.
Fritz was instantly on the alert, for he, as well as myself, imagined
it might be the battle music of savages. We therefore crept Softly
through the bushes which concealed the spot from whence this
unusual sound came

Presently we came upon an open space less overgrown with
shrubs, in which lay a fallen and partly-decayed trunk of a tree,
and upon it stood a beautiful bird, of about the size of a domestic

181
 

cock, having round his neck a magnificent collar of variegated
feathers, and 111aking the most ridiculous grimaces and antics.

At first he twisted himself round and round, rolled his eyes as if
he were possessed, then rullled the feathers of his collar, producing
hy the movement a strange noise; than he spread his tail in the.
form of a fan, and beat his wings with such velocity that a mist
seemed to envelope, like a cloud, the droll little performer. It was
evidently this beating of the wings which produced the sound of
the nmflled drmn, in the hollow and dry spot occupied by the half--
decnyed trunk of a tree on which he was perched.

 

This droll bird was surroumled by a number of others, exactly
like himself, but without the feathered ruff round the neck; they no
doubt were assembled to witness his antics, and by the earnest atten-
tion with which they watched him, seemed to he greatly delighted.

All this so excited my curiosity, that I had determined to wait
and see the end of the play; when suddenly an unexpected shot
from hohind where I stood, fired by my i111petuous son Fritz, put
an end to the comedy.

The inspired drummer fell from the stage and lav stretched 111
the sand. The feathered and scared audience took to ilirrht, and
my anxious mpectation of an amusing,r termination to the play had
vanished, and left me nothing but empty disappointment.
 

This interruption of a remarkable theatrical performance was not
pleasing to me, and I could not refrain from reproving Fritz for his
rashness; and by so doing greatly lessened his pride in having
aimed so correctly However, as the creature was really dead, and

 

PAROQUET.

on examination proved to he a valuable prize, I overlooked the
eagerness of the sportsman.*

\Ve packed the Canadian fowl on the back of the ass, and con-

' This singular bird is a native of Canada, called by some naturalists Tetnw tympammt,
but it is better known by the name of the mind grouse.
 

tinued on our way, till we arrived at the spot- where we had left the
sledge in the calabash wood, and to our great joy found everything.)r
in the best condition.

The morning, however, was by this time far advanced, and I found
it, therefore, necessary to hasten forward on our proposed excursion
to the chain of rocks, and, if possible, discover whether we were on
the inner land of an extensive promontory, or on an island sur-
rounded by the ocean.

In our way to the rocks, we passed a small brook similar to that
near l-'alcon's Nest, which olTercd a welcome refreshment.

 

BLACK (ilIOUSl-l.

Leaving the guava wood behind us, we passed through large
plantations of manihat or cassava and potatoes, which interrupted
0111' progress not a little. \Ve were compensated, however, for the
delay by the beautiful appearance which the blossoms of these
plants presented to our eyes.

At a little distance farther on, we came upon a new grove of trees
of a singular form, while from the branches hung a great number
of curious clusters of berries, exactly like wax. \Ve plucked several
of them, and found that the warmth of our hands made them stick
to our fingers.

I remembered then having read that a kind of wax--bearing plant
grows in America, known in botany as the Mj/riw m-z'ft'm. I was,
 

therefore greatly pleased with this discovery; and Fritz, observing
my satisfaction, enquired,

" Are these berries of any use, papa? they do not appear good to
eat."

"They are not useful as food,
certainly, Fritz," I replied; " but we
shall no doubt be able to make wax
candles of them for the winter even-
ings, which will be of great service to
us; for if properly made they will
burn for a long time, and not only
give forth a bright light, but also an
agreeable smell."

The prospect of candle-making,
and light during the winter even-
ings, greatly pleased Fritz, and he
gladly assisted me in gathering as
many berries as we could cram into
a sack for the ass to carry; and we
then continued our journey.

\Ve had not proceeded far, when
we came upon a singular-looking
object, built round the trunk of a
tree, which looked like a large um-
brella.

As we stood gazing at it in sur-
prise, I noticed several birds rather
larger than a yellowhammer or a
goldfinch, but with brown plumage,
flying about, or entering this st migc
dwelling by small holes at the sides
or underneath.

I saw at 01103 that this singular
formation consisted of a great num-
ber of nests built on a tree round
the stem, at the point from which
the lower branches spring, by a "-Ax.sa,\nxsa mm.
colony of birds who appeared to
be living together in the most sociable manner.

Each pair of birds had its own nest; in fact, this curious con-
struction was like a town full of houses, all under one roof. This
roof was in itself a wonderful sight: being formed of straw and
moss, and sloping down from the trunk of the tree like the cover of
an umbrella, was, therefore, a complete protection from both the
sun and the 1ain.* The b1a11ches and boughs of the two which
these bi1ds had chosen for thei1 building also overshadowed and
pintly concealed the colonial residence, enabling the little c1catures
to slip 111 and out of thei1 nest- ent1anees without attiacting much
attention. The tree was also in the depth of the forest, yet itself
far removed from those around it, to give the bird colonists room
for the town they wished to build. And, indeed, they requi1ed a.
good space, for the size w as astonishing, and 1e1ninded me of an
immense swimming-bath, with little ent1ances all lound, as a means
of ingress and egress to the swimmers.

The number, also, of the feathered inhabitants greatly astonished
me; for they took alarm at our approach, and flew around 115 in a
state of great excitement, chattering angrily, and evidently ready to
repel by thousands of beaks any attack on their cmmnunity.

While observing with admiration this wonderful proof of bird
instinct, I was surprised to see a species of small 11a11ot enter some
of the nests causing a great commotion among the colonists, who
opposed it bravely , but the intruders manarred, in spite of ang1y
attacks, to obtain possession of some of the empt" nests.

On seeing this, Fritz, who very much wished to secure a living
parrot, and curious to examine these remarkable nests more closely,
threw his gun on the ground and climbed tip the tree.

011 reaching the nearest branch which hung over the building,
he seized it with one hand, while he thrust-the other into the
nearest nest-openingz--it was empty. He shifted his position, and
t1ied another with the same 1esult. The thi1d time he got rewaided
for his boldness as a nest 1obbei , for while feelinrr the soft feathers

of biids' 111 the nest, a ha1d seed- c1acking beak seized his finger, and
obliged him quickly to withdraw his hand, and my out 11 1th pain
as he shook it in the air.

But he had not lost his hold 011 the bough, and his courage was
not exen daunted by this attack. He again quickly thrust his
hand into the nest, and seizingr the 101' ely biter, he hroutrht him out
in spite of his screams into (laylitrht, and, placinrr the bi1d hastily
in his pocket, descended the two with speed. But the cries of the
little prisoner attracted the birds from their nests, and they
assembled round him in such 1111111l1crs, and in such a threatening
attitude, that he considered it advisable to beat a retreat.

' The birds who live in this sociable manner, and unite in building such a wonderful
residence, are on this account sometimes called umbrella birds.
 

When at last he felt himself safe, he drew his captive from his
pocket, and on examination found he had captured a kind of
sparrow-parrot with a beautiful green plumage.

Fritz was highly delighted with his prize, which he again care-
fully placed in his pocket, to take home with him, and teach it to
talk.

As we continued our journey, our conversation naturally turned
on this wonderful colony of birds, and their sociability with each
other. Fritz asked if there were many other creatures in the world
living together in such social communities, and whether the me-
chanical power they displayed in building wonderful homes for
themselves could be the result of instinct.

"This is a difficult question, Fritz," I remarked, " for we might
justly attribute the cleverness of which you speak to reason; yet
other animals possess it, especially those who form communities of
their own. The beavers build quite a village, in which a large
number live together in great sociability and companionship, and
work pleasantly together. Bees, wasps, and drones also possess
this social instinct very strongly, as well as the coral insects and
ants."

" Ah, yes, papa, I have often watched the ants working together
in their communities, building and providing their food for winter;
it is a most amusing sight."

" Have you also reniarkct," I said, "how the ants scatter their
eggs about, to be hatched by the sun ?"

" Oh, papa l" he exclaimed hastily, " I am not so silly as to believe
that what people call ants' eggs are really eggs--at least, in the
proper sense of the word. Indeed, I know that they are the chry-
salis of the ant-worm, or larvze, which is a tiny little worm produced
from a. very, very small egg. The sun after a certain time opens
the Chrysalis-case, and the little ant comes out, and begins to work
directly, as the othels do."

" Correctly explained, my dear boy," I said; "but if ants and
their doings are so wonderful in our own dear country, what would
be your astonishment to hear of the industry and work of those
which are natives of other lands! They build for their eggs a kind
of oven or nest, from four to six feet high, and nearly as broad:
the walls and roof of this nest are so hard and thick, that neither
rain nor sunshine can penetrate it. In this enclosure are streets,
galleries, vaults, and store-cellars; and it is so firmly built that it
might readily be used, with a little alteration, as a baking-oven for
the service of man.
" The ant itself is an ugly and unpleasant insect, for the creatures
destroy, by gnawing and tearing, everything that comes in their
way, and will steal all that is useful for their storehouses, even when
supposed to be concealed from their View. Many other insects as,
well as birds and four-footed animals, are,l1011'c1'e1', enemies to ants,
upon which they feed. Among these the great ant-bear 01' ant-cater
is their most formidable enemy, and by nature fitted for the work.
lle has on his fore feet large claws, which enable him to tear down
and destroy their vaulted nests, or ant-hills, and comfortable dwel-
lings , and when the poor little creatures are scattered in even-
direction and tryingr to escape or to hide, he puts out his lon-r
to11_uuc,11'hich 1s sticky like <<rlue 011 the surface and to this they
adhere, and .11e drawn into his mouth by hundreds. This perform-
ance is so easy as Well as agreeable to the ant-eater, that in some
countries it is said his appearance is gladly welcomed, for in a very
short time all the ant-hills cease to exist. I have read also that in
some countries the savages eat them for food, so that ants cannot
always he so very repulsi1e. "

\Vhile thus describing the natlual history of ants to my son him,
110 had made tolerable 111'ogrress,.1nd piesently .11'ri1ed at a little
11' ood ((1111.1111111g a singular kind of wild fig-tree. The fruit 11' as 1',01111d
and full of little seed-kernels in a soft tleshy pulp that had a. bitter
taste. However, as we approached nearer, I noticed a kind of sap
o1- gum, which, after oozing from the trunk of the tree, appeared to
have become dry and hard by the influence of the air and the sun's
heat

Fritz (leclared that this new discovery reminded him of the gum
which flowed from the plum-tree in Europe, and also of gum-arahic,
which was so useful, when mixed with lime, to make paste. He
therefore tried to loosen some portions from the tree to take home
with him as a useful store for such a purpose.

While proceeding 011 our journey, 1"1it7. a11111sed him. 'clf by rub-
bingr some pieces of the hardened gum th10uuh his ii11lve1s, and
lound, to his surprise, that the 11 armth of his hands softened it. A
sudden thought struck him. He took a piece of the softened gum
in both hands and stretched it out to a great length ; then, suddenly
releasing one end, it sprang back to its former size, proving at once
that it was elastic.

" l'apa, papa, stop 3 " cried the boy, running after 111e, for I had
walked on quickly. I turned at the sound; and as he reached me
almost breathless, he exclaimed,

" Look, papa! I believe that the trees we took for wild figs are
 

caoutchouc-trees, for this I am sure is imlia-ruhbcr. I stretched it
out, and when I let go it slipped back suddenly to its former size."

" What a splendid discovery! " I exclaimed, with great joy. " It
will indeed be of great service to us in many ways. I will go back
with you and examine the tree."

" But, papa," said Fritz, as we retraccd our steps, " can any use
he made of india-rubber besides rubbing out pencil-marks on paper?"

" Certainly, my boy," I replied. "The caoutchouc-tree produces
akind of milky sap, which oozes out from the trunk of the tree
through an incision in the bark. It was brought to Switzerland
from France and Portugal, but I believe it is a native of Brazil,
Guiana, and Cayenne, in South America. We have it sent to us at
home in the form of bottles. These are made by the natives, who
cut incisions in the bark, and, while it is fresh and flowing, receive
it. into moulds of the shape of bottles, goblets, spoons, and many
other articles, even boots and shoes."

" But why is our india-rubber so black ?" asked Fritz.

"Because," I replied, " when the liquid is dry and thick, it is
taken from the mould and hung up to harden in smoke, which
turns it black."

By this time we had reached the coeoanut wood, and recognised
at the right the broad hay we had before seen, and to the left the
promontory of False Hope, which seemed to be the termination of
our excursion. Here first it occurred to me that, among so many
cocoanut-palms, we might find one of these valuable trees called
the saga-palm.

I presently not-iced a large trunk lying on the ground, which had
evidently been thrown down by the wind,in this I found a quantity
of sap of a floury nature, which I tasted, and discovered that it
exactly resembled European sago.

I was confirmed also in my supposition by seeing a number of
white worms, usually found in the sap, on which they fatten, and
evidently large enough now for the change to a Chrysalis. These
creatures I knew were highly esteemed as a delicacy in the "rest
India islands. I quickly, therefore, collected enough to fill a dish,
and determined to taste them in spite of their repulsive appearance.

For this purpose I hastily lighted a fire, and placed before it
three sticks, tied together at the top, to form a triangle. I then,
after sprinkling them with salt, stuck the little worms on a wooden
spit, and rested the spit on the triangular sticks in front of the fire.

Fritz regarded my proceedings with suiprise. He could not ima-
gine I really intended to eat these reptiles, and evidently considered
it a good joke, until I placed potatoes in the hot ashes beneath my
roast, that the fat might drop upon them. It then appeared to him
beyond a joke.

llut presently my cooking exhaled such a tempting and delicious
smell, that Fritz conquered his repugnanee; I was not left, there-
fore, to enjoy this my first experiment alone, for he was as ready
to eat of the new dish as myself. The fat, spread upon the baked
potatoes like butter, added greatly to their flavour.

After this unusual meal, we started again on our journey, and
presently reached a thick growth of bamboo canes, which we (lid
not attempt to pass through, for it seemed boundless. Turning,
however, to the left, towards a beacon that marked an outlet, we
reached a grove of sugar--canes, which grew just beyond .and
promised us at least some booty. It was not likely that we should
return home empty-luuided, so we gathered a large bundle of the
sweet dainty and added it to our ass's load. Neither did we forget
to refresh ourselves on the way with the contents of some pieces of
sugar-cane.

On reaching the spot where we had left the loaded sledge, and
adding to it the articles which the donkey had hitherto carried on
his back, we harnessed him to it.

l'oor old Grcycoat, therefore, was obliged to accommodate him-
self patiently and meekly to the task of drawing the sledge home.

We reached Falcon's l'est, however, in good time and without

' furlhcr adventure. The dear ones at home were glad to 'see us, for
our long absence had made them rather anxious, and also greatly
pleased with the booty we had brought home.

The description of our journey and what we had seen gave great
satisfaction, but the delight of the younger boys at the appearance
of the green parrot threw all else in the shade.

After supper, however, we were glad to climb to our bedroom in
the tree, draw up the rope ladder, and enjoy refreshing sleep, after
the fatigues of the day.CANDLE-MAKIXG--TIIE xew CART.

" ANDLE-MAKING to-day! Cainlle-making!" exclaimed the
boys when they rose next morning; and they gave me no
rest, after we had breakfasted, till I promised to commence

at once my attempt at the construction of candles from the berries

of the wax plant. I knew, however, that a little grease or tallow
would improve the wax, and make my candles burn longer and
with more brilliancy; but as we had nothing of the sort, I was
obliged to do the best I could with the berries, and hope to succeed.

First we placed as many berries as possible in a large saucepan,
and stood it over the fire to melt; in a very short time these
berries produced a considerable quantity of beautiful green wax.
This was thrown into a large vessel while in a liquid state, and
placed near the fire. "'hile the berries were melting, we prepared
a number of wicks from the threads of the sail-cloth, and these
were dipped into the wax quickly and carefully, after being drawn
out, and hung in the air, till the wax became congealed and fixed
firmly round the wicks.

This operation we performed two or three times, till the wicks
had taken sufficient wax to form candles of tolerably respectable
shape and thickness. At last we hung them up in a cool place to
harden, and although they were far inferior in roundness and size
to those we could purchase at home, yet when night came, and one
was lighted, it threw around us such a clear bright light, that we
were overjoyed with the result. There would be no occasion now
for us to go to bed at sunset, for this light would serve us in our
tree-castle sleeping-apartment in a most convenient manner.

This success in candle-making encouraged me to try a second
attempt of another description which the mother had long wished
for. She had often a large store of cream to spare, which would
have made excellent butter; but among the articles found on board

191
ship, we found no churn, and I therefore resolved to try another
plan, a description of which I had read.

I chose the largest of 0111 calabash bottles, and after filling it half
full of cream, closed it tightly, that none might r1111 out. DI then
placed four stakes in the ground; to these I tied a piece of sail-
cloth by the four corners, and laid the bottle upon it. At each side,
between the stakes, I placed one of the boys, and desired him to
roll it backw'ards and forw,ards by alternately raising the cloLh, so
as to keep it in constant agitation

This per ['01 mance proved capital fun, for the boys were delighted
with their work, and kept it 11p with jokes and laughter for more than
half an hour, for I had warned them not to pause for a moment.

At the end of that time I opened the bottle, and found, to our
great joy, that there had been churned some really good butter.

I had, however, another and much more diflicult undertaking 011
my mind, which for a long time seemed impracticable. I had
noticed that the sledge was not only inconvenient, but also very
heavy for our animals to draw; and as we had brought four cart-
whccls from the wreck 011 one of our expeditions, I had long wished
to construct a little cart, or some vehicle suitable for carrying dif-
ferent articles from one place to another.

As I 110w possessed the necessary tools and implements, such as a
saw, wood, iron, gimlet and hammer, nails and screws, I determined
to try what I could do, and after some trouble and difficulty, I
succeeded in constructing a sort of little carriage, which, though
not very elegant in appearance, would, I knew, be very useful,
especially in bringing home corn in the time of harvest.

I11 the meantime, my folks at Zelthcim were employed daily in
transplanting the European fruit-trees which I had brought from
the wreck. The vines were placed carefully near the arched roots,
for they were grape-vines, and required air and a shady place; but
the oranges, citrons, the shaddock,* the pistacio-nut, 11111lbc1'ries,
medlars, olives, cherries, and other fruit containing kernels, were
planted on the way to the bridge over the Jackal River, where
they could obtain light and warmth.

I wished also to make the rocks at Zelthcim a kind of fortifica-
tion, as all 0111' ammunition lay there; and although the vegetation
was very rapid in this climate, and a hedge of thorny plants would
in a short time form a protection against wild beasts round the
spot, yet something more was necessary to prevent interruption
or interference from savages. I resolved, therefore, to choose two

' A kind of orange nearly as large as a child's head.UAA'ULE-JIAKING--THE N15 IV CART. 193

little elevations near the river, on which to fix the two cannons
from the pinnaee, and also to plant a thick edge of thorns around
the whole spot.

These engagements employed us entirely for six weeks, and, by
the mercy of God, this constant activity had given health to our
bodies and contentment to our hearts. Each Sunday as it arrived
had been regularly kept, and the rest and refreshment of mind and
body gave us renewed courage to continue our daily labour.

 

MULBERRY-TREE.

Sunday services were always welcome, and I still continued to
encourage my boys in exercises which strengthened the muscles,
such as swinging, wrestling, hauling, and lifting; and these they
managed with such great strength, that I hoped in time they would
also excel in running, climbing, archery, and swimming.

Religious exercises calmed the spirits of the young people for the
early part of the day, yet I was surprised to find them as fresh and
eager for gymnastic exertion as if the week's work had been mere
play. Nothing is so refreshing to mind and body as a change of
employment.

But the hard work of six weeks had completely worn out our

14
clothes, and this, with other important reasons, made me consider
it necessary to return once more to the wreck. I also wished if
possible to bring away one or two more of the cannon, to place on
the heights of our fortification.

()n the first fine day, therefore, I set out in the pinnaee for the
wreck, with the three elder boys. "'0 found everything just as
we had left it; but. the wind and waves had loosened the beams
and damaged the powder-casks. The sailors chests, however, were
in tolerably good condition, and these we placed on board the

 

MBDLAR-TREB.

pinnaee by means of the crane, as well as a box containing a
quantity of ball and shot, and two small cannon; but the four-
pounder was too heavy to be moved, so we returned to land
without it.

On the second trip, we towed our tub-boat behind the pinnace,
and quickly loaded it; with planks, doors, \\'ind0w-shutters, locks
and bolts, and as many other precious things as we could possibly
carry. At last, when it seemed as if we had plundered the wreck
of every useful article, I resolved to blow it up with gunpowder, in
the hope that the wind and the waves would cast on shore wood
and beams, as well as other articles suitable for house-building,
which were too heavy for us to bring away in our boats.'11 NDLE -.11[ A 11'! .\'G-- TH E NE 1 V 0.1 RT. 195

 

Before leaving the wreck, how,e\'e1' I had discovered a lane
heavy coppel cauldron, used for refining sugar, which I thou1rht
111igl1t he saved. I therefore attached it to two emptye easks, strong
11111111111 to support it, and launched them all into the sea.

\\ hen 1'1'1-111) to shut, I (11seo1c1t11 a powder- barrel that we 11'e1e
11bli1red to 111111e behind: this I rolled into the hold of the ship,
and fastened to it carefully the end of a fusce, spreadin1r powder
also for 11 considemhle distance from the cask to the \ery edge of
the 1111111411111: Then, after lighting the fusee and a. piece of low,
I sprangr into the boat, where the boys were already seated, and,
with outspread sail, hastened towards the shore.

"'e had scarcely reached the bay, when a roar of majestic
thunder resounded from the rocks, and at the same moment a
brilliant column of fire risin1,r into the air, announced that my plan
had been completed.

A feeling of sadness came o1'er1ne: it seemed as if the 111st tie
that bound 11s to 0111' dear 1101111: was broken; and when my wife
and Frank in great alarm met 11s as we landed, she and the boys
seemed overcome with the same sad feeling. It was as if we had
lost in the. ship an old and dear friend.

My wife was at first unable to understand my reasons for this
destruction of the wreck, but I explained the matter, and begged
her to wait till the 111o1'ning.

A night's rest enabled us to shake 011' 1111 feelings of regret,
especially when we saw the consequences on the shore. The wreck
111111 disappeared, but the beach was strewn with wooden planks
and beams, while on the sea near the shore fioated broken frag-
ments of all descriptions, and amongst them I discovered, with
great satisfaction, the copper cauldron, floating between the two
casks to which I had fastened it.

Many days were employed in collecting all these useful articles,
and piling them in a heap 011 the s11o1'c;h11t my 1vreatest anxiety
was to fish out the powder casks, and place them for safety behind
a1ock, till we could add them to 0111 store of amnnmition at Zel-
tl1ei111.\\'e covered them with earth and moss, and piled seine of
our planks of wood round them, as a "reatcr security. My wife,
who was always anxious about the pow,derc came he1self to make
suie there 11 as no (lann'er, and she lnouyht 11s also good news.

T110 of the ducks and a 1'voose which we had left at Zeltheim
had just brou1rht ofl' brood; of duekliugs and froslin1rs, who were
s11 111111111111 about on the b10011 111 all the dclirrhts of f 1011110111 11' e
tried to make them used to us, and attracted the frolicsome little

11--2
 

creatures by throwing to them ('rumhs of biscuit. hit this agree--
nhlu nevupution awoke such a longing desire to see once more all"
our feathered folk at l'ulcon's N est, than; we decided to return there:
on the following day.

 

DUCKS A.\'D 63253.

On our road to Falcon's Fest in the morning, I noticed that the
two rows of ne\\'l_)'-pl:mted fruit-trees had grown so rapidly, that
the slender stems seemed to bend with weakness. I resolved,
therefore, as soon as possible, to make another excursion to the
prmnontory of False Hope, and procure a number of hnmhoo canes,
to ho planted near our trees, that the young stems might be tied to
them, as :1 support in case of a storm or strong wind. In addition
 

to this necessity for such a journey, our store of bamboo canes, as
well as of other useful things, was quite exhausted; and one of the
hens wanting to sit, my wife was anxious to place under her some
of the eggs of the Canadian fowl.

I decided, therefore, to start on this expedition very soon, and
as all my family were to accompany me, great preparations were
necessary, to supply us with provisions, garden implements, and
tools, as well as ammunition.

With these we loaded both the sledge and the newly-construt-ted
cart, across which I had placed a seat, for the youngest and the
weakest to ride when they felt tired. In our stock of provisions
was included a bottle of wine from the captain's store, two bottles
of water, and no end of necessary ammunition, partly on the cart
and partly on the sledge, besides what we could carry ourselves.

To enable the boys to climb the cocoanut--trees, I invented a
new contrivancc, which I was convinced would prove useful, not
only to preserve their clothes from destruction, but also to give
them a light but firm hold on the trunk. For this purpose I pro-
vided myself with a piece of the shark's skin, and formed pads, to
hind on their arms and knees when they climbed for eocoanuts.
We could not always expect to find apes or crabs on the branches
to throw down the nuts, and therefore 1 wished the boys to learn
the art of climbing, and in that way obtain a supply for them-
selves.

"'e started on a beautiful morning in high spirits from Falcon's
N est, and I led my household by the newly-discovered road to the
plantations of potatoes, manihot, and cassava-roots, through which
Fritz and I had passed, and at length reached the bird colony tree,
and the spot where I had been entertained with the performances
of the Canadian grouse.

My dear ones, who had not accompanied Fritz and myself in
that excursion, were very curious about the placcs'we had passed,
and listened eagerly to the accounts we gave of what. we had seen.

"Do you think we could procure any of the Canadian fowl's
eggs now, papa ? " asked Jack.

" Better wait; till our return," remarked his mother. " How could
we carry eggs so far without breaking them ?"'

I felt this remark to be true, and as the wax-berry-tree soon came
in sight, the eggs were forgotten, while the boys eagerly gathered
berries enough to fill two sacks, which were stowed away safely in
.a spot we should pass on our way home.

When we reached the imlia-rubber tree, I made several incisions
in the bark, from which the gum oozed freely, and soon filled all
our little vessels.

These also were left to their fate for our homeward journey, and
we mutinued to advance till we reached the cocoanut wood, and
leaving it on the left, presently arrived at an open spot situated
between the grove of sugar-canes and the bamboo--bushes, which lay
at a little distance beyond. Here we paused to admire a beautiful
landscape which lay stretched out before us. On our left was the
sugar-cane grove, to the right the bamboos, and before us asplendid
avenue of palm-trees, beyond which could be seen the promontory
of False Hope, stretching out into the deep sea,

The prospect was so charming, and the spot so attractive, that
fora time we felt almost inclined to remove from Falcon's Nest,
and take up our abode here. But the safety of our night castle in
the great tree, and a multitude of other advantages which we eu-
juyed at Falcon's Nest, made us decide to remain at the dear old
home.

Here, however, we determined to make a halt for our midday
meal, so the animals were unharnessed from the cart, and set at
liberty, to graze on the rich pasture beneath the shade of the palin--
trees. "'e also produced from our store of provisions enough for
a slight repast, while resting on the overshadowed turf: and then
I and the boys set to work to cut down and tie together bamboo
and sugar-canes, in bundles of a size suitable for placing on the cart
conveniently.

This exertion aroused the only half-satisfied appetites of the
boys, which they were obliged to appease by sucking sugar-canes,
for the mother would not spare a morsel of what she had saved for
supper in the evening.

At length they cast longing eyes on the cocoannts, which hung
in clusters so temptingly from the palms. They sought on the
ground for seine time, but in vain, for fallen fruit, and then Fritz
and Jack started forward, and commenced climbing the trees. They
rose at first rapidly, but the trunk was too large and too smooth
for them to cling round it ; they slid down, therefore, to the ground,
and measured, with discouraged eyes, the height of the smooth and
polished stem.

In this dilemma I produced the rough pads of the shark's skin,
and after fastening them to the arms and knees of the two boys, I
told them to try again, as the rough surface would enable them
to rest and take breath by clinging round the stem with their knees.

In addition to this, I bound a piece of rope round each of theirLiMBlNG

C
legs, to keep the pieces of shark's skin firm, and also round the
tree, so that they might carry it with them to the top, as it would
help them to descend more easily. I knew that savages and
Negro slaves adopted this plan when climbing, so I had no fear of
their not succeeding, and I saw the two boys swing themselves up
and reach the top of the tree more quickly than I had even dared
to hope. -

J oyfully Fritz and Jack had made the attempt, and, as they soon
reached the crown of the tree, each took an axe from his lcathern
girdle. and struck so bravely the clusters of coeoanuts, that they
fell to the ground like hail, and we had to escape quickly out of the
way, lest they should fall on our heads.

They reached the ground with equal success, and almost beside
themselves with joy, received our earnest congratulations that this
wonderful gymnastic performance on such a lofty tree had turned
out so well.

Ernest alone appeared to take no part in the general delight,
and while Fritz and Jack were enjoying their booty, they joked him
upon the heroism he had shown with no little sarcasm.

Upon this he looked serious, uttered a sigh, and regarded the
summit of the palms with a meditative air. At last, turning to inc,
he requested the loan of half a cocoanut-shcll for a drinking cup.
Then he rose from the ground on which he had been lying, and
exclaimed,

" Honoured sirs and madame! I confess that climbing trees is not
to my taste, yet as I perceive it- has brought to my brothers great
honour, I must endeavour to perform this marvellous exploit; and
I hope to obtain, by so doing, something quite as agreeable and of
equal value to the cocoanuts procured by my illustrious brothers."

" Bravo! bravo!" I cried. "It is right that you should not be
behind your brothers in energy. I am glad to see you roused,
Ernest ;" and as I spoke I bound the shark's-skin pad to his arms
and knees, while he slung the cocoanut-shell to the buttonholc of his
waistcoat. He hardly gave me time to arrange the pads properly,
before he started forward, and connnenced climbing one of the
smaller trees with such rapidity, that he was at the top before I
could believe it possible.

A smothered burst of laughter from Fritz and Jack startled me:
they had discovered that Ernest was climbing a tree on which grew
no fruit.

Ernest heard the laugh with indifl'erenee, and mounting to the
very top, he took his axe from his girdle, and with one or two
strokes cut oil' the large delicately-formed leaves from the crown ;
and as they fell at our feet, we turned aside to avoid them.

" Destructive boy!" exclaimed his mother; " in a fit of revenge
at finding no fruit, he has destroyed a beautiful palm-tree."

"Do not be displeased, mamma," said Ernest, from the tree, " I
have throwndown to you a beautiful palm-cabbage,twentytimes mom
pleasant to eat than cocoanuts. This tree is the vegetable palm."

"A cabbage!" exclaimed Frank; "I thought cabbages grew on
a little stalk close to the ground. They do in Switzerlam ."

"The boy is right," I exclaimed, as I examined the leaf: " this is
truly the vegetable palm, which is considered very wholesome for
food, both in Europe and India. It grows on the top of the tree
and is most pleasant eating. Ernest, from his love of reading, has
made a discovery quite unknown to his wise and mocking brothers."

Meanwhile the boy still sat calmly in the tree, surrounded by
leaves and branches, so that we could not exactly see what he was
about.

Suddenly he began to descend to the ground, and in a few
moments presented himself before his mother and myself, with a
small flask sticking out of his pocket. Drawing it forth, he poured
some of the contents into the empty cocoanut-shell that hung from
a button of his jacket, and presenting it to me, said,

" Here, papa, taste that! I hope you will like it, for I know it is
good, and will not make you tipsy, although it is palm wine."

I quickly recalled what I had read of this tree, and taking the
shell from the boy's hand, I exclaimed,

"You are right, Ernest, the vegetable palm produces also a
pleasant-tasting and agreeable sap, and I drink to your health and
the success of your discovery."

Hereupon I took a good draught from the well-filled shell, and
found it so refreshing, that I immediately passed it to the mother,
for I knew there would soon be not a drop left, when it got into
the hands of the boys. There was enough, however, for all to have
a taste, and Fritz and Jack readily acknowledged that Ernest had
proved himself, by his application of what he had read on natural
history, as much a hero as themselves.

As the day was now far advanced, we resolved to remain for the
night in this charming spot, and to build a little cabin of branches
and leaves to protect ourselves from the cold wind and the dew.

I had fortunately brought with me a piece of sail cloth, with
which we could cover our little hut, and protect it more securely
from the night air.
 

 

While thus busily engaged, and near the completion of our hut,
we were agitated and startled by the extraordinary behaviour of
the ass. He was grazing peacefully near the spot, when he suddenly
began to spring and leap, raising his nose in the air as if he were in
the midst of tire and flame, then uttering a dreadful Ice-haw, he
started off at full gallop.

Unfortunately, at this moment the two dogs were absent, wander--
ing in the grove of sugar--canes, so that the ass disappeared amidst
the bamboo bushes before we could send them to bring him back.

 

THE FLIGHT OF THE ASS.

For along distance we followed in his track with the dogs on
foot, but so quickly had he disappeared, that we were obliged to
give up all further search as hopeless till the morrow. This cir-
cumstance, however, alarmed us greatly, as we could only suppose
that the approach of some wild beasts had roused the poor animal's
excitement. I determined, therefore, that after gathering dry grass
and moss for our beds, large fires and torches should be lighted to
surround our cabin. These torches were easily made of dry sugar--
cancs, about five or six feet long, which gave a brilliant light, and
would continue burning for many hours.

About a dozen of these were planted at a distance of five or six
feet in front and on each side of the entrance to our hut, and a fire
lighted within the space for my wife to prepare our supper. The202 SII'IS'S 1" [JULY 1' OBINSON

cool night air rendered this fire very agreeable, and we were glad
to sit near it and warm ourselves

After supper, we laid ourselves down on the soft beds of grass and
moss which the boys had collected, with loaded guns close at hand
in case of danger. My wife and the boys, overcome with fatigue,
were soon asleep, and for a time I kept awake to replenish the fire
and keep the torches lighted; but as hour after hour passed, and
no wild beasts appeared to disturb 11s, I gradually sank into a
refreshing sleep, and did not wake till the mother announced that
breakfast was ready.

.l)uri115r this meal we laid out our plans for the day's 11o1k. I had
hoped that the night fires and lights 11 ou'd ha1e attracted the
donkey to 1etur11, but as he did not appea1, I resol1ed to take
one of the boys and the two dogs, and sea1ch {01 the fugiti1e
through the bamboo grove, and, at all events, return to the but
before evening.

This time I chose Jack for my companion, to his great delight,
and as the dogs were to go with me, I left the elder boys to protect
their mother and little Frank, and also to employ themselves in
1-olleeti11g sugar-canes, palm wine, and coeoanuts, that we might all
return to Falcon's Nest the following day.

Jack waited for me in joyful readiness, and we set out well pro-
vided with arms and provisions, and at once entered the grove of
bamboo canes, in which fora long distance, with the help of the
dogs, we were able to follow the donkey's track. Jack and 1 reached
after a time the shores of a large bay, into which a pleasant river
tlowed, the pro111ontory to our right forming, with some little breaks,
the boundary of the river, by a narrow ridge of rocks, low enough
for an animal to leap over.

I thought it possible, as we had lost all trace of the ass's feet,
that he might have passed over these rocks, and this, added to the
hope of finding something new and i111po1-ta11t beyond them, deter-
mined me to follow in his supposed track, and as it was low water,
discover his footsteps 011 the sand.

"'0 climbed the rocky cliffs, and found, 011 reaching the other
side, a rushing river to the left, which orertlowed its banks. The
hed of this river was here so deep, and the rush of its waters so
rapid, that we had great difficulty in finding a place which we could
\e111111e to wade through. \\ e happily succeeded at last, and
1eae hed the opposite show 111 safety

()11 reaching the sands, I llUll( ed 11ith pleasure the print of hoofs
on the moist ground. Presently I observed that these marks becameSTOIH'.

THE PROMO
 

more numerous, and, to my astonislnneut, that some were larger
than others, and of a different shape.

"'0 followed these hoof-prints curiously in the direction they in--
dicated.

'he little chain of rocks ended after a lime, and left open before
us a rich and fertile plain, with hills in the backgrouml. l-Iere aml
there appeared tiny forests, verdant meadows, fruitful fields--all
presenting a smiling picture of repose.

Quite in the distance, I imagined I could discern a herd of some
kind of animals; but whether they were cows or horses, or wild or
tame, it was impossible to decide. In the grass all traces of the
hoofs of the ass were lost; but I would not quite give up hope, so
I resolved to approach these unknown animals as closely as possible,
without being noticed by them, and find out if the fugitive
was in their company. As they moved forward grazing on the-
horders of the river, we followed them, hoping to be concealed by
the grove of canes through which we passed. We came, however,
presently, to marshy ground, and here the canes were remarkably
thick and high, and the largest I had ever before seen. They
appeared to be a species of bamboo which is a native of America.
The stems were as thick as a man's leg, and apparently from thirty
to forty feet high. The hollow of a. single joint, from one knot to
another, appeared large enough to hold as nmch liquid as a small
cask, and the whole cane suitable for the mast of a small boat.

At last, after struggling through this wonderful cane grove, we
came suddenly upon a herd of buffaloes, grazing within a distance
of about thirty or forty paces. Although their number was small,
yet their appearance was so terrible, that I realized in a moment
our dangerous position, and my alarm deprived me so completely
of my usual presence of mind, that I forgot to load my gun.

Fortunately the dogs were within call, and the buffaloes seemed
so unaccustomed to the sight of human beings, that they merely
stood still and stared at us wonderingly, and appeared not in the
least inclined to attack us or defend themselves.

This circumstance no doubt saved our lives, for we had time to
lead our guns, and to draw back a little, as I had no wish for an
affray with such formidable beasts. "'e were about to retire
cautiously and prudently, when the (logs unfortunately reached the
spot, and were seen by the buffaloes.

In an instant the frightful animals began to bellow, paw the
ground with their feet, and lower their horned heads as if in pre-
paration for an attack. I saw in a moment, with a shudder, that
they were about. to throw themselves upon the dogs, who were so
fearless of danger, that we in rain endeavoured with all our power
to hold them back. All to no purpose, for they threw themselves
holdly upon a young bull'alo that was about half a dozen paces in
advance of the others, and seizing it. by the ears, dragged it towards
us.

A combat became now absolutely necessary, for we could not
allow our brave defenders to be overpowered; and with heating
hearts Jack and I raised our guns and fired.

 

BUl-'l-'A L0.

The noise, the flash, and the smoke were like a thunder-clap to
the terrified beasts, and to our great. joy they turned and fled with
wonderful rapidity, and disappeared. One only remained, a female,
and evidently the mother of the young buffalo which our dogs had
seized.

She had been wounded by the shot from my gun, and the pain
made her so furious, that she lost all fear, and, in her eagerness to
save her calf, threw herself upon the dogs, whose fate would have
been scaled had I not quickly raised my gun, and with a second
shot brought her to the ground. I was then able to approach more
closely, and with my pistol put an end to her life.Armcxlxu 1m: ncrmwu
After this I felt able to breathe again, for we had been indeed
near death, and eagerly I praised Jack for his presence of mind,
and for being so ready with his gun. Yet we had still work before
us, for the young buffalo struggled \'i01ent1y,and fought with his
feet so fiercely, that I feared he would injure the dogs--and yet I

'knew not how to help them.

 

\'ULTURF.

Jack, however, was ready with his sling; he drew it from his
pocket, and swung it so skilfully round the animal's hind legs, that
he fell to the ground, and we were then able to approach nearer,
and tie them together firmly enough to prevent 'him from moving,
and also to release his ears from the hold of the (logs.

There was now but one way in which we could hope to lead our
captive home,--for I hoped to tame him after a time, as he was
evidently very young. I felt unwilling to give him pain, indeed the

15
 

act seemed cruel, and I regretted being obliged to do it, although
it is still practised in Italy and other countries where oxen are used
as beasts of burden.

I made the dogs hold down his head, While with a sharp pen-
knife I pierced a hole through the nostril, and passed a string
through it to form a leading-rein. It bled a little, which took away
slightly the animal's strength: and at last I drove away the dogs,
untied his legs, and set him at liberty, still holding the leading-
rein. He attempted at first to escape, but the pain caused by the
string in his nostril checked him, and at length he allowed himself
to be led, and even followed me in the most docile manner.

 

CONDO"

Before we left, I was anxious to make some use of the dead
bufl'alo, and to carry away portions of the flesh, not forgetting to cut
out the tongue, which, when salted, is considered a great delicacy.

Some portions we laid in the sun to dry, while we rested beneath
the shade of the bamboo grove and took a slight refreshment. I
then gathered up as much as we could carry of the bull'alo, and left
the rest for the dogs, who fell upon it with eager appetite.

But their feast was soon interrupted by a flock of vultures and
other birds, who approached from all points, and struggled with our
dogs for the prey; but as neither one side nor the other would give
way, they all commenced eating together with extraordinary vora-
 

city. I recognized among the birds the royal vulture and the
condor, so called 011 account of the strange outgrowth on the upper
part of his beak. Altogether it was a strange sight; to see them
lighting for the prey, and caused us great amusement. Jack, how-
ever, was longing to send a few shots amongst them ; but I restrained
him, for I knew that birds who fed on carrion were not: good for
food.

I now became anxious to reach home safely with the supply of
flesh for our dinner; our dogs having feasted, left the birds to their
greedy work. I therefore cut a few of the smallest; canes to form
moulds for the wax candles, and set out to return home. The poor
buffalo, to avoid the movement of the cord in his nostrils, which
gave him pain, followed us so tamely, that; we were able at last; to
lay our booty on his back, and after a little trouble induce him to
carry it without opposition.

It was too late now to search farther for the ass, so we proceeded
straight towards the palm grove, where the mother and the three
boys were no doubt expecting us, and Wondering at our long
absence.

 

15--2'l'lII-I BABY JACKAL.

UT before we reached the palm grove, we met with another
adventure, which must be related. Not long after leaving
the bamon grove, we again passed between the river and

the ridge of rocks, and came upon a narrow defile.

All at once a jackal started out of its hole in front of us, but on
perceiving our approach, turned to fly. Our dogs, however, pursued
it with such vigour, that it; could only regain its hole after a regular
fight with them.

The courage of the animal convinced me that it was a mother
defending her young. Jack was determined to find the hidden
nest ; but fearing that he would he attacked by the male, I restrained
the ardour of the little man, and fired my pistol in the direction
taken by the jaekal. Nothing appeared, however, and I then
allowed Jack, whom the dogs followed with great curiosity, to creep
into the dark corner, where reigned profound obscurity.

In a few minutes he came upon a nest full of young jackals,
apparently not more than ten or twelve days old, for their eyes were
scarcely open. They were not larger than a kitten, and had such
beautiful golden brown fur, that; Jack took one in his arms, and
brought it to me, asking if he might not carry it home and tame it,
amt perhaps, as he said, bring it; up to follow him like a dog, and
be useful in the chase. I readily agreed to this request, although I
doubted his power of taming a creature so savage by nature.

.l)uring this affair with the jackals, I had tied the young buffalo-
to a tree, and on examining this tree attentively, I found that it was
a dwarf vegetable palm, with sharp pointed leaves, which I con-
sidered, if planted at Zeltheim, would form an excellent hedge for
our fortifications; so I determined to secure a few young shoots for'
that purpose.

0'0THE BABY JACKAL. 213

Leaving the river, we found our way back to the road, but night
was approaching before we reached the palm grove, and we were
1ecei1 ed with shouts of joy by those who had been left behind in
the mowing.

Questiono aftei question had to he answ',eled when they saw 0111
bufl'alo and the baby jackal, as 11 ell as the stem of p101isio11s 11c

 

GOLDEN EAGLE.

had brought. Jack described our adventures in a most spirited
manner, and was listened to with such eager curiosity, that I had
scarcely time before supper to ask what they had all been doing in
0111- absence.

They informed me at last that they had visited the promontory
of False Hope, gmthered wood for the night, made new torches, and
positively cut down a huge palm, which they believed to be the
sago-palm.

During their absence, however, the hut had been invaded by a
troop of monkeys, which had drunk up all the palm wine from the
calabash bowls, scattered the potatoes, stolen the cocoanuts, and so
damaged the lull, that my young people on their return from the
hill were more than an hour employed in repairng it.

Fritz, however, with much pride, brought me his chief booty
perched on his hand, a beautiful young bird of prey only half
fledged, which he had taken from a. nest on the rocks at False
Hope l'oint, during the absence of the parent birds. Although
not fully fledged, I could see. by the featheis that it was not the
Eurol'ieau eagle, but evidently belonged to a species of that royal
bird found on the coast of Malabar. As these birds are easily
tamed, Fritz told me he hoped to train him as a hawk, to bring
down birds in the chase; be, however, had been obliged to bandage
the bird's eyes with a handkerchief, and tie him by a string to a
post, because he appeared so wild and shy.

When all our recitals came to an end, it was time to light the
fire, and as the green wood laid upon it caused a great smoke, I
placed in it the pieces of the buffalo, stuck upon a fork, that they
might be smoke-dried to preserve them.

As night approached, we attended to all the necessary prepara-
tions, and made up the fire, that our pieces of salted flesh might
still continue in the smoke. The young buffalo was fed with
potatoes softened in milk, and, to our great satisfaction, the cow
received him in a most friendly manner when we tied him up near
her. Jack gave his little jackal some bread and milk, and the dogs
having taken their posts as watchers, \ve lighted the torches, intend-
ing to wake at the proper time and re-light them if they went ottt.
Jim on laying ourselves down tn rest, we were in a short time too
soundly ash cp to be disturbed till sunrise by any such arrange-
int-til.

After a light breakfast, I was about to give the signal for starting,
when I observed that my young people had some project in their
heads, which rendered them unwilling to leave so early.

" \\'hat is this secret .'" I asked of my wife.

"\Vcll," she replied, "the boys are anxious to remove the pith
from the fallen sago--palm before it is spoiled; and Fritz fancies we
could make of the trunk two pipes or channels, to conduct the
water from the Jackal Bay to chtheim. This would enable us to
water ottr plants in the dry weather, and be a great advantage to us.".. : \

[arc/I

be
. if

 

AT .'llSCHIEP

MONKEYS
 

 

This suggestion pleased me greatly. Ernest went out at once to
seamh for water, while we made ready for 0111' grand performance.

'We succeeded 111 placing the trunk of the palm upon two large
boughs 111 a raised position, that 11c might more easily cut it. The
whole cro11n had been already sawn oil', and the need not being
hard, we soon reached the pith by (in 11111111 the stem lengthways.
The pith 01' sap was then carefully 1"emo\ cd from each division,
excepting a corner in the lower 011e, which I divided 011' to form a.
kind of trough, and into this I placed the whole of the pith, to be
made into dough.

The boys set up a great shout of joy when I told them that we
all, excepting the mother, must at once set to work, and knead the
sage sap as dough is kneaded for making bread.

Immediately 0111' shirt--sleeves were turned 11p, and after I had
thrown water which Ernest had brought into the trough, we all
commenced kneading like bakers' men, till we had produced paste
of a proper consistency.

This I pressed through the tobacco-raspers upon a piece of cloth,
which my wife had brought and laid 011 the ground: and as the
round grains fell through the holes of the gmteis, she spread them
out, that they might dry in the sun.

"'0 had now not only a good store of wholesome material for
making nice puddings, but also a sufficient quantity remaining to
be kneaded into dough when we had any spare time. The next
performance required innnediate attention: we had to convey the
two halves of the trunk of the sage-tree to Tent--home,* and place
them as channels 01' pipes, by which to bring water from the Jackal
River to 0111' tent.

This work required patience as well as activity, but with all our
efl'o1ts we could not get the task completed till after sunset It
was necessary, therefore, to remain for another night 111 our wooden
cabin, and when we at last gladly 1eti1'ed to rest, I determined to
return to Falcon's Nest 011 the following morning.

""e rose early, and made an excellent breakfast from the sage

grains \1hich we had brought into the hut, and \11thout loss of time
inade eve1y preparation for c1111 3 ing 0111' newly- acquired possessions
to Falconhu1st.1'

I was glad to find the wound 111 the nostrils of the buffalo nearly
healed, for I hoped to harness him to 0111' little carriage, in the place

'Zrlllzcim, in English, Tent-114mm.

'l' I1'11h'oquu'sI in English, Fulton's N ch The translator uses sometimes the German
words and sometimes the Ennlish.
of the ass, with the eo11'.]Ie submitted 11ithout resistance, and
1111011 I 1111nt before 1and led him by the stiing though his nose, I
was thanklul to see that the poor animal was already brought into
subjection, and p111'fo1med his task willingly. I11 0111'11'11 we passed
the places where we had left the sack of wax berries and the cala-
bash cups containing the gum front the india-rubber tree: these had
to be stowed away in the cart, and detained us so long, that I sent
Fritz and J aek on before with one of the (105:3. They went. quickly
forward, and were seen to enter a grove of guava-tiees at a little
distance in advance of us.

Suddenly a most terrible noise reached our ears, causing great
alarm, for having lost sight of Jack and Fritz, we believed nothing
less than that a tiger or a panther was attacking them. I therefore
with great caution made ready my weapons, and flew to the ass . t-
anee of my children, fully prepared to join in the bloody combat
11hich I supposed 11115 going,r on in the thicket

0n a11iv ing at the spot, what 11as my surprise to see Tack ly mg
at full len5rtli 011 the rrtound between the shrul..1s 011 seeing me he
exclaimed,

" 0h, papa, how absurd! It is our old sow again; she must do
it on purpose to make fools of 11s. "'0 wondered what the dog
was barking at, and 110w look her1e ' "

llalt' inclined to be angry, and half amused, I heard the familiar
grunting, and stepped among the bushes. There, sure enough
lay our sow, looking very happy, with six or seven little pigs,
seemingly a four day s old.

This was a \1111' agreeable sight, especially after my alarm, and
the sow helself seemed to understand that I was pleased, for she
saluted me 111th a friendly g1unt, and appeaied not only to recognise

'.,but as if willing1 in her joy to follow 11s with her young l.1rood.

\s, ho1ve11111', the little ones new so y20un I decided that we
111111111 1 me them 11ith the mot'he1, and at a lutnre time fetch two
of them to be brought up at; Falcons Nest. The old sow and the
test must be left to their fate' to take them 110w would be im-
possible, because of the injuiy they would cer tainly do to our
111111151 plantations.

\\ e left with her some potatoes, acorns, and biscuits, and con-
tinuing our home" .1111 Journey without further interruption, reached
l":'al1onhmst in safety.

Our li1st care was to arrange for the newly am Wed guests. The
youn51 buffalo and the little 1ackal we new still obliged to tie up,
and even the stately earrle 11 as condemned to the same hard fate.
Fritz gave him a place on a fig-tree root not far from the parrot,
who was still tied by the leg; but, rather thoughtlessly, Fritz had
given the eagle a long string, which enabled him to move to a great
distance, and then unfortunately uncovered his eyes.

In a. moment the bird became wild and furious: his aspect
changed so terribly, that our domestic animals fled from his pre-
sence; but the poor parrot, who stood near and could 110t- escape,
was devoured before we could prevent it.

Fritz in his anger would have killed the bird at once, had not
Ernest prayed for his life to be spared.

" Give me your eagle," he exclaimed; "I will bring him up to be
as tractable and tame as a little dog."

Fritz, however, would not give up his eagle, but he promised to
make Ernest a present of Master Nip, the monkey, if he would tell
him how to tame the eagle.

"I accept the offer," replied Ernest; " but I am not quite sure
that it will succeed with an eagle as it does with parrots in
America. However, you can try. Light a pipe, and blow some of
the tobacco-smoke up his nose till he is giddy and intoxicated; his
wild and savage nature will be calmed front that moment."

Fritz laughed incredulously, but Ernest persuaded him that at
least it was worth a trial, so at last a pipe and tobacco were fetched
from the officer's chest, and Fritz placed himself in front of the
bird, and smoked such pufis under his nostrils, that he became
completely stupelied, and stood immovable on his perch.

From that day the fierceness'of the eagle vanished, and he grew by
degrees so tame, that even the domestic animals lost all fear of him.

Quite ashamed of his doubts, Fritz gave the monkey to his
brother, and I believe he began to respect the boy who knew go
well how to put in practice what he had read.

The next morning I rose early, with the intention of carrying
out the project so long decided upon, namely, to plant bamboo
canes as asnpport to the young trees on the road from Falcon's
Nest to Zeltheim.

I and the three boys started with our little carriage well loaded
with bamboo canes, and a handspike, to make a hole in the earth.
We left the mother and little Frank at home, to prepare us a good
dinner, and to have the wax berries melted in readiness for the
manufacture of more candles.

This time I left the young buffalo behind, for I wished the
wound in his nostrils to be quite healed before I made him work
again. Besides, the cow was strong enough to draw the cart with
all we required to-day. So, before we started, I gave the buffalo a
handful of salt, to win his confidence, which so pleased him, that
the poor animal became quite tame, and seemed ready to follow us
like a dog.

Our work began, almost as soon as we left Falcon's Nest, at- the
entrance to the road to Zelthcim, with the walnut, chestnut, and
cherry-trees. These had been planted in rows, and were already
much bent and curved by the wind.

I, being the strongest, dug holes in the ground with the hand-
spike, and in these holes the boys placed a bamboo cane by each
tree, and tied it, as a prop to the delicate stem, with a sort of fibrous
leaf, which I took for bast. While thus engaged, the conversation
naturally turned to the best manner of raising trees, and the boys
overwhelmed me with questions, to which I could not always give
correct answers. -

"Are the trees that you have planted here wild or tame, papa ?"
asked Fritz.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Jack. " Just as if people could tame
trees as they can buffalo calves and bustards 1 "

" You are very clever, Master Jack," replied Fritz; " but all wild
creatures should be tamed, and mocking-birds like you require a
ring through the nose, like the bufl'alo !"

" N ow that is too bad 1" said Ernest.

"Be it known to you, most learned people," I exclaimed, " that
Fritz asked me a correct question, but he did not use the right
terms: he should have said 'wild and cultivated plants,' not 'wild
and ttmw.' \Vild plants are such as grow without care or attention
from man, and are indigenous to the soil. Those which are not
indigenous require training and care, and sometimes will not grow
at all in other countries than our own, excepting in conservatories
or hothouses. Few living creatures exist that cannot be tamed in
some way; and amongst human beings, even those we call wild or
savage are clever by nature, and possess minds which can be im-
proved by instruction, as plants are by cultivation or grafting."

" "'hat is grafting, papa ? " asked Fritz.

" Grafting," I replied, "is performed by inserting a little twig of
a superior sort on the stem of a tree that grows wild. Grafting
takes place in those knots or holes which lie between the bark and
the wood. They are often called eyes, and can be seen plainly in
timber. In all cases of grafting this knot is used, and the new
twig attached to it. They then grow together, and better fruit is
produced."
M)
no
5--4

 

 

" That is very wonderful," remarked Ernest. "But where do
people get the branches of good trees to graft on the wild ones?"

" Those we call in our home superior trees grow wild in some
climates," I replied, "because the earth and the air are purer and

 

fwfl '4' 553$:

COMMON CRAB 0R "'ILD APPLE.

richer. Many of the most valuable fruit-trees of Northern Europe
grow without cultivation in the south of Europe and Asia, and
others in more distant parts of the world. For instance, crab-apples-
grew wild in England in the time of the Romans, and in that
country no other fruit was known then but common nuts, crab-
apples, and blackberries. By grafting from foreign trees on the
crab, and also on the common nut and blackberry, most of the
beautiful apples, iilberts, strawberries, and raspberries have been
produced. It is the same in our country. Some fruit trees grow

 

.4 r ..
6Mh::m\l'

PEACH.

naturally; others are either produced by grafting, or are brought
from abroad and planted in suitable ground. Again, in cold lands
the trees that grow in tropical heat. could not be raised. Yet
several plants, trees, and flowers which Father Noah no doubt
.cultiratcd .were natives of Egypt, Greece, and other parts of Southern
Europe. \Ve know that grapes grew in these countries, because of
the fabulous god Bacchus, who was called the God of Wine. Italy,
no doubt, received these fruits from Greece; and they were brought
in later years by the Romans into Gaul, Spain, and Germany, and
through these countries into our own Switzerland and England."

" (Jan you tell us, papa," asked Ernest, "where all the different
fruit tlees came from ?"

"I think I can give you the names of a few trees. "'alnuts
came originally from Persia, and hazel nuts from l'ontus in Asia."

"But cherries, papa," interrupted Jack. " I have seen plenty of
them growing at home in Switzerland. I hope they may be natives
of Europe, and perhaps of our own country."

" No, my boy," I replied. " Those you have seen growing at home
have been brought from other lands. They are named cherries
after Cerasus, a state of I'ontus in Asia, from which place they were
first imported; and, if I remember rightly, they were brought into

Europe by the Roman General, Lucullus, after the siege of l'ontus,
seventy years before Christ."

While thus conversing, we still made great progress, and reached
the end of our fruit tree avenue very quickly. After crossing the
bridge over the Jackal River, we entered the plantation of our
southern fruit-trees, which I also wished to strengthen by placing
bamboo canes as a support.

Here had been planted lemons, pomegranates, pistacio-nuts,
mulberrics, pines, and other tempting fruit-trees, the sight of which
made us long for the time when they would bear fruit.

"\Vhat a beautiful land that must be," remarked Fritz, "where
such delicious fruit is so plentiful and cheap."

"The fruit of every land is beautiful," I replied, "only where
there is plenty of it, we are apt to call it common; but to the
inhabitants of other lands this is not the case. Besides, the climate
and temperature differ greatly in various parts of the world, and
trees and plants require certain kinds of soil to make them grow.
The fruit-trees we have planted here will no doubt flourish, for
this island is evidently within the tropics, and these trees are
nearly all natives of Southern Europe or tropical climates. l'ints
grow in France, Spain, and Italy; olives in Armenia, 'alestine,
and other countries bordering the Mediterranean. F tea are pro-
duced in many southern countries, but they came originally from
the island of Chios, in the Grecian Archipelago; peaches and
apricots from Persia; pltuns from Damascus, in Syria; pears of
different kinds from Greece. All these trees have been brought
 

to great perfection in our own country, as well as in others which
lie farther north."

" But, papa," exclaimed J aek, "what about apples? They seem
to be natives of Germany and Switzerland. I've eaten lots of sweet
apples at home."

"I can well believe that," I replied, laughing; " but they also
came originally from foreign lands, and apple-trees are found even

 

 

PLUM.

in the cold climates of Northern Europe and Asia. No fruit is
more likely to be improved by cultivation than the apple; and in
countries where they obtain proper soil, pure air, and sunlight,
they are brought to great perfection. Grapes also, of every kind,
grow in the open air in the south of Europe and Asia, and are,
perhaps, of the finest; and richest quality in Spain and Portugal, as
from these countries we obtain our best wines. Mulbcrries grow
in Asia and the islands of Greece. Silkworms, who spin that
beautiful web of silk from which silk dresses, ribbons, satin, velvet,
and other expensive articles are made, feed upon the leaves of the
mulberry-tree, and these leaves appear, indeed, to be their natural
food."

While thus conversing, we were not idle, yct our work was not
finished till nearly noon, and we returned to Falcon's Nest as
hungry as wolves, just as the mother had prepared for us a most
excellent dinner, consisting chiefly of the cabbage-palm.

\Ve dined with good appetites, and while resting afterwards in
great comfort, I took the opportunity of speaking on a subject
which had occupied my mind and the mother's for some consider-
able time.

 

SILKWQRM AND COCODN.

We haul often found it difficult, and even dangerous, to mount
to our sleeping-chamber, and to descend by means of the rope
ladder. An accident I knew might easily happen, for the boys often
mounted recklessly, and for ourselves, a single false step might
cause us to fall.

After thinking and talking over the matter for some time, I con-
jectured that a.wooden staircase might be contrived, even in the
interior of the large trunk of our tree.

'Did you not tell me, wife," I said, "that in the trunk of this
tree you had discovered a hole through which bees were passing
in and out, to and from a nest inside ? "

" Yes," she repliec , " and it is evidently hollow beyond the point
at which I have seen the bees enter. If it is hollow to the foot of
the tree, it will help you greatly to carry out your project}?

This idea of a staircase so excited the boys, that they sprang and

16
danced round the tree, and climbed like squirrels as high as they
could reach to examine the hole, and to discover by the sound how
far down the cavity extended, by knocking against the trunk with
axe and hammer. But this daring performance cost them dear;
the noise so disturbed the bees, that a swarm of them rushed out,
and furiously attacked the children with their stings. They rested
in their hair, on their clothes, and even pursued them as they fled
screaming in terror and pain; and no one knows where they would
have run to, had I not stopped them, while their mother laid cool
moist earth on the wounds, and soothed the pain.

Jack, who with his usual daring had been the first to reach the
hole, was terribly stung, and his swelled and inflamed face was a
piteous sight.

Ernest, on the contrary, always slow in his movements, had only

 

HUMBLE BEES; MALE, FEMALE, AND WORKER.

received one wound, for he had been the last to mount, and the
first to descend in haste when the conflict commenced.

Nearly an hour passed before the pain was sufficiently appeased
to enable them to join me in a more careful examination of the
tree; yet they were so full of resentment mainst the heroic bees,
that they were quite prepared to assist in an attack upon their
enemies, and I knew something must be done quickly, to prevent
my young people from disturbing me in the night with their groans
and complaints.

\Vhile the still restless and angry bees were buzzing round the
tree, I prepared certain materials with which I hoped to calm them
without destroying them. I collected together tobacco, clay, a
pipe, a knife, a hammer, and all I thought necessary. My first
anxiety, however, was to make for the bees a new beehive, and after
finding a large calabash gourd, I flattened the lower half, that my
beautiful little bee castle, when finished, might stand firmly on a
piece of board which I intended to nail to a branch of the tree.[Hr J)'/\'/\F{M 0r- BEE-.3
 

I then cut a small arched opening in front, for a doorway, and
having also made a. straw roof to place over it, as a protection
against sunshine and rain, my beehive was complete.

This work- occupied mom time than I had anticipated; I was,
therefore, obliged to put off the assault on the bees till the next
morning. '

The impatience of the young people roused us all at an early
hour, and I connnenced my undertaking by stopping up the hole
in the tree, through which the bees passed in and out, with moist
clay, only leaving room for me to introduce my piece of hollow
cane, which was to serve as a tobacco-pipe. I then covered my
head with a piece of linen, and as the humming and buzzing around
me went on like a storm and a whirlwind, I commenced smoking
the tobacco.

Gradually the noise ceased, and after awhile, when all was still,
Fritz climbed to my side with chisel and axe, and we began care-
fully and hastily to cut away a portion of the tree about three feet
square, excepting at one corner, by which I allowed it to adhere,
while I again smoked both inside and outside the tree, till the
whole of the bees fell stupefied to the earth. The piece of the tree
which had been cut away was then removed, and when through the
opening the light entered, I discovered that the trunk was hollow
from the ground to the floor of our sleeping-chamber on the branches.

We were filled with astonishment as the light revealed the bean-
tiful work of the bees just within the tree, and overjoyed at finding
such a huge store of wax and honey near the opening, for which,
however, we could scarcely find bowls and basins suflicient.

I had separated the honeycomb which clung to the inside of the
tree, when, hearing a humming noise, I looked around me, and
discovered that the air had restored a few of the bees outside, and
that they were buzzing round the calabash bowls which contained
the honey.

On seeing this I hastily descended, cleaned out a little cask, in
which I placed all the wax and honey we had found, fastened it
firmly, rolled it away to a distance, covered it with a sail-cloth and
branches of trees full of leaf, that the bees might not be able to
discover it. '

I then mounted the rope ladder to our sleeping-chamber, and
nailing a piece of board firmly to one of the branches, I placed my
little hive upon it, covered it with the straw roof, and descended to
.enjoy with the rest a feast of tapioca cakes and honey.

I reminded the boys, however, that the bees would not remain
16--2
 

long in a state of stupor, and on their recovery would have no pity
for the robbers of their precious store of honey, i? the least drop
was left to be discovered by them. This hint was enough, and the
boys at once removed from the place all signs of honey with the
greatest care.

 

HONEYCOMB.

But to me another result of their recovery presented itself: 110'
doubt they would wish to return to their old quarters ; I must, there-
fore, hasten to prevent them from doing so.

I took two handfuls of tobacco, and placed them on a little board
covered with clay. I then climbed the tree, fixed the board hori-
zoulally in the hole I had cut, and set fire to the tobacco at different
points. In a few moments a cloud of smoke and vapour arose,
 

which I hoped would drive b' ck the bees from their old home, and
leave us at liberty to occupy the hollow tree.

My expectations were well founded. The bees, as soon as they
recovered from their stupor, approached the tree in swarms, to
regain their former dwelling; but the fumes of tobacco drove them
back, and before evening they had taken possession of their new
hive in the tree, and appeared to consider it as their home.

The honey-,plunderels, therefore (myself and the boys), resolved
to appropriate the interior of the tree to ourselves, and to examine
it on the following morning. \Ve wele also obliged to put off the
preparation of the honey, for too many bees were still buzzing
about to permit us even to touch our store until after sunset.

We therefore rested for awhile, till the darkness and the cold air
had driven the bees to their nest, and then began our work.

After separating the honeycomb from the honey, it was thrown
into a vessel of water, and placed over a slow fire, till the entire
mass became a fluid. This was then poured into a clean coarse
bag, and the water pressed from it. The honey and wax were then
stood aside to cool during during the night.

In the morning, a large quantity of wax was found floating on
the surface, which was easily removed. The pure honey remaining
behind was carefully gathered up, placed in the cask with the rest,
and the cask then buried in the ground.

We had now a promise for the future of as nmch sweet and good
things as we could wish.

As soon as this was accomplished, and before the warmth of the
rising sun had awakened the bees, we proceeded without delay to
inspect the hollow trunk of the tree, which 1 already imagined
could be made so useful.

The opening I had made was quite large enough for me to pass
through, and I took with me a string, with a stone tied to the end
of it, to enable me to measure the height and width of the cavity.
I found, to my astonishment, that the tree was entirely hollow;
and although great difliculties would arise, yet, with encrg and
perseverance, a splendid staircase might be erected.

I decided, therefore, at once to make a beginning of my building,
rejoicing in the thought that the boys would have a new motive for
activity, and add another to the many forms of instruction of various
kinds which had been so lately presented to them,

It was, above all things, necessary to begin by cutting in the
trunk, on the side facing the sea, an opening large enough to tit the
door we had brought from the captain's cabin on the wreck, with
all that was necessary to form an entrance, not only for ourselves,
but: on ' animals.

I then, with the help of my boys, cleared away all the. decayed
wood that remained in the hollow trunk of the tree, and carefully
cleaned the sides of the interior as far up as we could reach. In
the. centre was placed, upright; and firmly fixed in the ground, a
strong beam, of about a foot in thickness and ten or twelve feet
high, roumt which I intended to tix my staircase in the form of a
spiral line. On this beam I cut notches, to receive the ends of
pieces of board, at a distance of half a foot from each other, and
made. incisions to receive the other ends in the sides of the hollow
tree directly opposite, and thus formed the supports for my winding
stairs round the beam till they reached the top.

The entrance hole of the, tree, which I had enlarged, formed now
a window, and gave us sullieient light; for our work. To this we
added a second, as the steps rose higher. A third openingr was
made to enable us to reach our sleeping room in the tree castle from
the staircase without the trouble of climbing our rope ladder.

A second tree. stem was now introduced and fastened outside the
steps, for us to hold by as we ascended to our sleeping apartment.
My winding stairs were then complete, and if not; exactly in accor-
dance with the rules of architecture, yet, in our opinion, were most
beautiful and useful.

A few days after its commencement; our dog Floss presented us
with six pretty little pups. \Ve could not, of course, afford to bring
up so many. but we kept two--a male. and a female. The. rest were
drowned. Strange to say, the mother allowed Jack to replace one
of them with the young jackal, which he had found great ditliculty
in feeding, and feared it; would die. l'tmr old l~'Io made no objcc.
tion, but gave her milk to the stranger as kindly as to her own
little ones.

About: this time,also, our goats had two little kids, and the sheep
five. lambs, which was a very pleasant; addition to our flocks; but,
fearing these useful animals might some day follow the example of
the ass and leave our protection, we tied to the necks of the goat;
and the old sheep little bells brought: from the wreck, and which
the captain intended to bartar with the savages.

\Ve hoped, by m'aus of the tinklingr bells, to discover if they
were inclined to stray, and to prevent it, if possible; or, at least, if
they did wander, to track them by the. sound.

The most important work i had in hand at. this time, next to the
staircase, had been the training of the young butl'alo as a beast ofTIII'.' IIJI) I" (LICKt-t L. 231

harden, to supply the place of the ass. The wound in his nose was
quite healed; and, by placing a small stick through the orifice, as
the Hottentots do, I could guide and lead him as horses are led by
a hit. in their mouths. He had readily submitted to be harnessed
with the cow in drawing a load, but I wished also to teach him to
carry things on his back as well as a rider.

1 hogan my process by throwing across his back a large piece of
sail-cloth, and this I secured by a broad girth made of the skin of
the dead bull'alo; then from time to time I hound \'al'ions heavy
articles upon the cloth ; and when at; last the hasket, usually borne
by the ass and fully loaded, was placed on his hack, he perfornuul

 

his task willingly, to my great satisfaction. To accustom the animal
to carry a rider, I hoisted Master Nip to that neck-breaking posi-
tion as a thst experiment.

The animal was so light and so adroit in keeping his seat, that
the springs and bounds of the bult'alo could not. throw him 011'.
After awhile he got used to his rider, and then the boys, one after
another, mounted him, and even little Frank was tempted to take
a few lessons in riding while I held him on the huti'alo's hack ; and
at. last; I considered that; the boys might use the hull'alo calf as a
riding-horse without any great; danger.

l-'ritz meanwhile had not neglected the training of his eagle. He
fed him daily with dead birds, or little kids which he shot, some-2'12 SWISS ICU/II, Y :III;11\'.\'I.I.\'.

times, from between the 11'i1l11-sp1'eadi111.r horns of the buffalo, when
he carried him on his shoulder while riding. He taught him also
to bring down birds 01' other small prey, holding him in leash like
a faleon, and always rewarding him with some of the game he
caught.

1:111 while the eagle was becoming aeeustmned to his master, and
had learnt to obey him, him was af11.id to give him his freedom,
f-o1 his bite would have been dangerous, and he could not yet be
trusted near the poultry-yard, for we of course expected him 11.
follow the dictates of his nature.

Ernest, notwithstanding his inactive disposition, endeavoured to
train the little monk'ey which Fritz had given him, and to regulate
his capricious movements, but with little success. However, with
the help of Jack, Ernest constructed a small cane basket to fasten
upon Nip's back with a strap round his shoulders, but to this the
restless animal at first; greatly objected. However, partly by force,
and partly by rewards of nuts or some other tempting 111r1rsel, Nip
was conquered, and would really carry a load that was, for him,
lather heav 1'

'\1idst all this 1.11l1 became a11\ious to train his jackal, to which
he had 3.1i1en the name of Hunter The little animal had grown
1"e11' much sinee the old dour 1111 took to him so kindly, 11nd
would 11111 with the puppies in the most amusin1r manner, the1'
were sometimes joined in thei1 games by \'ip, till they grew too
bi;.r and stron1.r for him.

Jack had given the name of Hunter to his jackal, hoping to
make a pointer of him, and teach him to discover the game with--
out killing it; but for the first: six months the animal made no
1'11'11g1'ess, even after many attempts, yet Jack did not; despair of
sn1~11~ss, and looked forward to the fut111'e"'1e1_1 hopefully.

"hile 1111' ho1's 11"e1e thus occupied I had been also busily em--
ploy ed: inde ed, there was alwavs somethingr that wanted attending
to, 11nd at our times of lest: and recreation the mother genemlly
took the opportunity of suggesting what was necessary to be done.

In suehlike e1np'1'1y1nents we all gene1.'1lly occupied two hours of
the 1la1',11hi|1: buil1 linr.r the spiral staircase, when 0111' undertal1i111._1
would pe1'111it 11s to spare ethat time for rest 01' recreation.

In the tau-nines 11e assembled together as usual in a loving
family (-i1'ele, and the mother would then suggest any needful or
homely business that: 1e11ui1'ed attendinrr to. aAmongr other wants

111ndle- 111 1l11n1r was 1e1'1' urgent, as our present store, which had
lasted 11 1on1.r time, was nearly used 11p.
 

Jack had proposed that in fabricating our next stock of candles
we should use the hollow of a bamboo cane as a mould; but it
appeared to me not; likely to answer in spite of its cleverness, for ]
felt convinced that. in thawing the candle out of the mould I
should injure it. I therefore determined to divide the hollow cane.
first, and after cleaning and greasing each with salt butter, place
the wax inside the two halves. These being tightly bound together,
aml the joints outside stopped up, that the wax might not ooze out
while in a liquid state, could be left till it became firm.

Another dilticulty, however, arose, for the mother was very
unwilling to consent to the wicks being made of the threads of our
cotton neckties, or sail-cloth; I decided, therefore, to try another
experiment by which to save these useful articles. I chose a piece
of intlannnable wood from a tree which is a native of the Antillas,
and called touehwood. This I intended to split; into thin strips,
fix them in the camlle-moulds, and pour the melted wax round
them.

hit the mother had in the meantime thought of the karata-trec;
she at once drew out; the threads from several leaves, cleaned and
laid them to dry. Then placing a sutlicient number together to form
a wick of the required thickness, she brought- it to me with the hope
that my touchwood by this would be beaten out of the ticld.

"'ith some satisfaction I promised to try the invention. "'0 had
now all the means at hand for tire and camlle-making, and we
therefore set to work with great eagerness. I could also improve
our candles greatly now by mixing beeswax with the wax-berries.
This was placed as usual to melt overa slow fire. Each half of
the candle-moulds, after being dipped in cold water, was laid with
the open part uppermost, that the melted wax might be poured in.
They were then lifted carefully, bound together, and laid aside to
; our firm. In a few hours we could remove the moulds from our
tirst experiment, and examine our candles with critical eyes. There
was still another trial to make, that we might prove which answered
best; as a wick, the wood splinters, the karata threads, or the
cotton.

As by this time it was nearly dark, I lighted two of our newly
made candles, each containing a wick of a different material. The
decision at last was in favour of the old cotton wicks. The touch-
wood flamed strongly and gave a bright light, while the karata-.
thread wicks burnt feebly and seemed so ready to go out every
moment, that; for a time we gave the preference to the tonchwood.
It. was very soon, however, discovered that we could not hope to
 

save our clothing or the sail-cloth, much as we wished to do so, it.
was too evident that cotton as wicks to our wax lights was the most;
suitable and useful.

After Completing this candle-making, I became anxious to try
1111' skill and 1111' inventive powers in a. new and i111portant; under-
taking--the 111:111ufact111'e of boots and shoes from the india-ruleer-
11'111- sap, and l at: once sent the boys for the vessels and hunting--
1lasks in which the eaoutchouc had been stored when we visited
the wood and collected the sap.

()11 their return I con1n1enced operations by filling a pair of 1111'
old stockings with sand, and then coveringr them with a thin coating
of 1'l:11',:1111l to make the shape firm, laid them first in the shade.
and then in the sun to dry. Afte1 this I melted the caoutchout'
and laid it m 111 the stockinfrs \\ith a b1ush made of goat's hair.
\s this hardened I put on a second and a thi1d coating, till it was
of a p1"op111 thickness, and then hung 11p the stockings till the gum
hot-1111111, quite hard and 1111'.

Meanwhile I cut; out; a pair of soles of the size of my shoe from
the hullalu's skin, which I had beatcn with a hammer to make it'-
soil, and, melting the india-rubbtn' 011 the sole of each stocking, I
tixcd the skin soles to them, so that when dry they adhered quite
closely. Alter leaving,r them for an hour in the cold air to become
tirm, I threw out; the sand, and carefully separating the stocking
loan the caoutchouc, I produced a splendid pair of boots, of such
a frond shape that 1111' 11111s begged me to make them each a pair as
soon as possible, which I promised to do when other impoltant
111.1tters were accomplished.

(me thing I was anxious should he completed, for the children
often grew tired of fetching water from the river.

The channels made from the trunk of the sage-tree, to conduct;
the water from the bay to Zelthcim, had long been laid clown, and
111' lengthening these channels, I found I could bring the water to
J"alco11's Nest, and use the shell of the turtle for a fountain, as
we had long ago proposed.

It was necessary, l1o11e1 111' to lane a suppott for the shell- foun-
tai11,a11d this was done by placing 011 the spot stones cemented
together with lime, and raised to a proper height. When this was
1-11111plcte1l, I connected with the Sago-palm water-pipes a. hollow
cane, through which the water could tlow into the shell. In front
also was placed a calahash bowl, to receive the orertlow of the
water.

I'11t'orttu1atcl1' our fountain, although all that we could wish,
stood exposed to the sun's rays, which made the water at. times
lukewarm ; still, we were in ruptures over our performance.

We consecrated the fountain with the water in which our
potatoes had been boiled for supper, and the songs and frolics of
the boys in their delight continued long after the usual hour of
retiring to rest.

And so every day brought. its work; we had no time to be idle,
nor to lament over our separation from our old home and the
society of mankind. Each night we lay down to rest after our
evening meal, and slept; in peaceful contentment, after the toils of
the day, that sleep which only health and active employment can
secure.
GRIZZLE's xnw FRIEND.

NE morning early, while busily engaged in completing a
handrail to the Staircas', a strange aml unusual sound was
heard at a distance, something resembling the roar of a. wild

beast, yet I would form no opinion as to the animal from which the
sounds issued.

Our dogs, however, became restless, and seemed to whet; their teeth
in readiness for an attack upon the enemy. "'0 also immediately
set ourselves on the defensive, and at once mounting to our castle
in the tree, loaded our guns ready for the charge.

This strange roaring continued for some time, and at last I
descended from our citadel and enticed our domestic animals nearer
to us, that we might keep them in sight, and also arrayed our two
faithful sentinels in their prickly collars.

Again mounting to the castle, I carefully scanned the surrounding
country with a glass, to discover if possible our expected foe.

The roaring re-coinmenced, and this time evidently nearer, So
that I could distinguish a sorl of panting sound, as of a. creature
out of breath. .I decided at once, therefore, to descend \vith Fritz.
and begged the rest of lite. boys to remain with their mother, and
keep as still as possible. Our faithful dogs kept close at hand,
watching and listening.

As we stood thus in anxious expectation, the peculiar sounds
came near enough to be distinguished by the sharp cars of Fritz.
Suddenly casting aside his gun, he rushed forward, and bursting
into a loud laugh, exclaimed,

" 'apa! papa! it is the donkey come back! poor old Grizzlel it
is, truly; and he seems quite friendly."

1 felt almost at first inclined to be angry; but following the
direction taken by Fritz, I came upon the truant, who was, how-
ever, not alone. Another cry, something resembling the Ito-haw of

236It'IZZLE'S NEW FRIEND. 23."

our donkey, but still ditl'erent, sounded near him; and the next
moment I ol'yserved at a short; distance an animal of the same race
but of a far more graceful form, and almost as elegant in its move--
ments as a horse.

I recognized it at once as the onagcr, or wild ass, and immediately
various means were suggested to my mind to enable me to make it
my prisoner.

Again warning my children not to make the least; noise, I left
the tree with Fritz, and crept cautiously towards the place where

 

CAI'I'CIXINU THE "1") .\SS.

the animals had stopped to graze. Here I commenced my opera--
tions by t Ying a slip-knot in the end of a piece of cord, and fastening
the other end to one of the roots of the tree. I then placed a
small stick in the slip-knot, to keep it open, so that when the rope
was thrown over the head of the animal, it would close round his
neck and make him a prisoner.

In addition to this, I took a piece of bamboo cane about two-
feet long, which I split in two, and tied the pieces together cross-
way, nearer to one end than the other, to form in the smaller part
a pair of pincers. To the upper ends I attached pieces of stung, by
which I could draw it together or loosen it as I pleased.

Fritz watched the performance with great curiosity and no little
impatience, as he could not. discover the use of my work, and
begged me at last to allow him to throw the lasso, and bring the
anitnal more quickly into our power. But this time I wuuld have
nothing to do with Patagonian hunting, for I was very anxious to
secure this beautiful wild ass without alarming the creature. 1
therefore held the boy baek till the stranger should approaelt a
little closer; and in the meantime I endeavoured to explain to him
the ttse of my own eontrivanee.

\Vhile we talked in whispers, the unconscious anitnals, grazing
quietly, had wandered by degrees still nearer to us. With a. can-
tion to Fritz, I gave him the loop end of the rope, and taking tlte
other end in my hand, advanced with slow and cautious steps as
near to the wild ass as the length of the string would allow, Fritz
following closely.

The. creature, who no doubt had never before seen the face of
man, sprang a few steps back at; our sudden appearance, and stared'
at us in astonishment. llowever, as Fritz did not move, the
stranger again began to graze quietly, and then the boy, knowing
what attracted our own animals, gradually advanced nearer to our
old friend Grizzle, and held out; a handful of oats mixed with salt.

The ass did not hesitate a moment, but came forward eagerly to
take the favourite fodder.

The stranger, seeing this, also approached, raised his head,
made a rattling noise through his nose, and scented the delicacy while
still getting clOSer to it. At last, not being able to control his
curiosily and his bulging, he advanced to share the tempting
morsels with his mnnpanion.

1-'ritz at this moment quickly raised his hand, and, with great
dexterity, threw the noose over the head and neck of the animal;
but the creature started back with sueh a bound, that the jerk
caused by the pull of the rope threw him on the ground, and so
tightened the noose round his neck, that our poor prisoner lay
panting for breath, with his tongue protruding, and nearly strangled.
I rushed quickly to loosen the string, and instead of it threw over
his head the halter belonging to old Grizzle. I then placed on
each side of his nose the lower ends of the split bamboo cane,
with which, by pulling the strings at the upper ends, I could cont-
press the nostrils, to make him submit; to my will, as farriers do
while shoeing a restive horse.* After removing the noose from

" .-\t the time this story was written, sixty years ago, and when farriers used this cruel

instrument, few people had learned that not only horses, but other animals, can be managed
more easily by kind and gentle treatment than by severity.
 

his neck, and tying two longr pieces of rope to the strings which
compressed the pincers on the left and right of the nostrils, I fas-
tened the end of each to the nearest tree-roots, and left him be-
tween the roots to recover himself, and to see by his behaviour
whether anything more was necessary to overcome and tame him.
Meanwhile, the rest of our house-folks had hastily descended
from the tree, and stood, with wonder and delight, admiring the

 

.'\.\' UNTAMSD AMERICAN HORSE

beautiful stranger. He was of a slighter build than the ass, and
far superior in appearance, yet the creature evidently partook of the
nature both of the horse and the ass. ' .

Suddenly he sprangr to his feet, with the evident determination
to escape, but the pain caused by the pressure on his nostrils when
he moved damped his activity, and he at last hecame so quiet,
that I ventured to lead him gently beneath the sheltered tree-roots
which formed for the present; our stables.
Here 1 tied him by along string attached to the halter, which
gave him room to move about, and yet to be near us and in safety.

N ow that we had the ass again actually in our possession, I was
anxious to secure the truant, so that he might not wander from us
so easily in future. I therefore placed him also in the stable, tied
by a halter near to the wild ass, making old Grizzle a prisoner for
a few (lays, as well as the onager, that they might become accus-
tomed to each other. I also wished to accustom him to the fodder
eaten by our domestic animals.

My greatest anxiety, however, was, of course, to tame the new-
comer, and teach him not only to carry heavy burdens, but also to
take a rider on his back. This would cost us a great deal of trouble,
I well know; and, indeed, after many efforts, I feared it would be
impossible to succeed, unless I adopted a plan which seemed to me
most cruel and repulsive--to bite the animal in both ears.

My wife, who piticd the poor creature, anxiously inquired why I
did so, and for what reason.

"I will explain to you," I replied, "what I once heard from a
horse-tamer who was well aetpiainted with the success of this plan.
He told me that in North America resides a race of uncivilized
Europeans, who trade with the natives for the skins and furs of
animals which inhabit that cold region, and receive in return
various articles from Europe. These people, while on their huntingr
expeditions, especially in the deserts of the southern region, often
meet with tribes of wild horses, which they make captive. But to
tame them is not so easy. They at first are usually quite unman--
ageable, and wildly refuse to receive on their backs either a rider
or a load. At last their captors are obliged to adopt the plan of
biting the ears; and the animal, once so wild and intractable,
becomes tame, and submits to be guided or ridden at the will of his
owner. On these fleet horses the natives ride, through woods and
over hedges, to the European settlements for a great distance, and
carry on their profitable trade in skins and furs."*

In a few weeks our visitor was so far conquered, that he could be
ridden with tolerable safety; but it was necessary to tie his fore
feet loosely together with a cord, that he might not use his natural
swiftness in running away with his rider. I was obliged for a time to
lead the animal, in consequence of having no proper bit and bridle;

'7' These fins and skins form now an important article of commerce between America and
most European countries. The traders with the natives are not uncivilized Europeans, as
they may have been when this German story was written, sixty years ago. We may hope

also, that horses are tamed now without the cruel and unpleasant neceSsity of being obliged
to bite the ears.
but I managed to contrive a kind of nose-baud with reins, by which
the rider could himself guide his steed, right or left, as be pleased.

About, this time three of our hens presented us with breeds of
chickens, so that- a swarm of nearly forty little chicks were running
and chirping around us in all directions. '

This increase to our farmyard reminded me again of the necessity
for contriving a more convenient place to shelter our animals and
feathered folk, which we had so often wished for. I felt more than
eve ' anxious on this point, because I expected the approach of the
rainy season and the winter in this region; and to complete a new
building.r in time would be impossible.

I decided, therefore, to place a more substantial covering over the
arched roots of our tree, the space underneath being occupied by
the animals and fowls as their roosting and sleeping place. To do
this we had to place bamboo canes, one across the other, over the
arch of the roots, and fill up the crevices with moss and clay,
to cement them firmly together. This covering I washed with a
mixture of tar and lime-water, which made the roof firm, and being
flat, we could safely walk upon it.

Not long after this was completed we set out one evening to
gather a store of potatoes, and on our way back I proposed to the
mother to return home alone with little Frank, while I and the
three elder boys continued our way to the oak wood to gather up a
couple of bagsful of sweet acorns.

Ernest had with him his little monkey, and Fritz sat rider-like
on the now quite tamed onager. \\'e had not yet filled the sacks,
and as I wanted to try whether the animal could be made to carry
a 'load, I determined to make the experiment with the two sacks of
acorns.

On arriving at the spot, we fastened the steed, which the boys
had named Lightfoot on account of his swiftness, to a tree, while
we hastily gathered up the acorns and filled the bags. "'0 had,
however, scarcely finished our work, when the ape with a sudden
spring disappeared among the nearest bushes, and the next moment
the frightened scream of a bird and the rush of flapping wings made
us suppose that; a great battle was going on with a dweller among
the bushes which Master Nip had disturbed. Ernest, who stood
nearest to the battle-field, suddenly exclaimed joyfully,

" Papa! here is a hen's nest full of eggs! The ape is struggling
with her, but Fritz can take her prisoner while I hold Nip."

At these words Fritz started forward without delay, and rushing
into the bushes, in a. very short space of time rc-appearcd, carrying

l7
in his arms a beautiful living female Canadian fowl, or "rull'ed
grouse," similar to the one he had shot.

I was greatly pleased with this discovery, and helped the boy at
once to bind the legs and wings of the bird together. I'resently
Ernest; appeared coming out of the bushes with his girdle stuck full
of leaves, sharp pointed like a dagger, which seemed to me to belong
to a plant called the "sword lily."

The boy held out his hat to me, and exclaimed,

"Look, papa! those are really the eggs of the Canadian fowl.
W'on't mannna he pleased ? "

 

HEATH YOWL.

" But those leaves, Ernest," I saic , " what are they for? "

"Oh, I stuck them in here that I might carry them home for
little Frank to play at soldiers with. They are just like swords,
and he will be able to pretend to fight the fence with them."

After finishingr the work of filling up the sacks with acorns, I
placed them gently on the onager's back, and to my great satis-
faction he 1'eceivcd the load quietly. Fritz then swung himself
up between them, and we turned our steps gladly homeward to
li'aleon's Nest--Ernest with the precious eggs in his hat, while I
had patiently undertaken to carry the Canadian bird.

Great was the mother's pleasure when we reached home with
 

our treasures; and my wife managed the hen so cleverly, that she
induced her to again sit on her eggs, and in a few days she pre-
sented us with fifteen beautiful little Canadian chicks, to our great
delight.

A few days after our return to Falcon's Jest, little Frank was
seated on the floor playing with the leaves of the sword lily plant,
when Fritz passed by and said,

"Let me make you a whip, Franky, of these leaves, before they
decay and become soft; it will help you to keep the sheep and
goats in better order; but you must split the leaves for me before
I plait them."

As the two boys were thus employed, I passed by, and observed
that the fibres of these leaves were tough and pliable, and allowed
themselves to be twisted and bent with the greatest ease. I took
a leaf in my hand to examine it more closely, and found that it
consisted of long flexible fibres, joined to the stalk by a little green
thread.

I presently formed an opinion, yet not without some hesitation,
that this so-called sword lily plant was no other than the New
Zealand flax; and this discovery in our present position, would, I
knew, he of unspeakable value to us.

I could not rest until I had mentioned the subject to my wife,
although it was merely conjecture on my part; but she almost
astonished me by falling into ecstasics over it, and exelaiming
joyfully,

" Oh, what a splendid discovery! the best you have ever brought
home. Please get me a leaf, that I may know what it is like.
From this I can make stockings, shirts, and all sorts of wearing
apparel, besides having as much thread and string as we require."

I could not avoid laughing at the mother's enthusiasm, and
endeavoured to moderate her zeal by pointing out that the leaves
were not yet made into linen, neither had we enough for that
purpose.

Fritz and Jack, who were listening with great interest, suddenly
and silently disappeared, and presently I saw them riding away
quickly to the wood, one on the wild ass, and the other on the
buH'alo.

In a short time we heard our riders approaching at a quick trot,
and very soon they appeared, bearing before them on their steeds,
like foraging hussars, immense bundles of the flax-plant. Throwing
themselves off with joyful shouts, they placed before their mother

the flax-plant in abundance.
17--2
 

" You l1a1e done \1Lll I said, "in l11i1111i11rr )oui mother so much
wo1k, my boy s, and in obev 1111r her \11sl1e but no must all help
in preparing' this llax, fm a {neat deal 1s requiied to be done, and it
must be steeped foi some time."

"Steeped, papa?" said Fritz; "then we shall have to make a
fire ? "

" No, my boy," I answered; " flax-steeping does not require heat,
but 111oisture."

" But, papa, you said the flax must be roasted. How can that be
done without lire ?"

I smiled as I replied, "Roasting meat before a fire, and steeping
flex in water, are two very different performances, Fritz, although
the same word denotes both.* Steeping is performed by placing
hemp or flax-plants in water for a. long time, until by degrees they
decay, and the difl'erent fibres separate; the wooden parts are then
removed, and the tough and flexible threads, which do not decay so
quickly, are made fit for spinning by tearing and breaking them
with certain tools and implements."

"But why do not these threads decay," asked Fritz, "as well as
the other parts of the plants, if they are so 10111;,r exposed to wind
and weather ? "

"That might also easily occur," I explainei , "if people did not
understand the steepingr process properly ; but even then there
would not be much danger of the fibres becoming rotten, like the
rest of the plant. They possess a peculiar toughness or tenacity
which resists the destructive influence of moisture; the plant can,
therefore, be placed in the water for a long time, with not the
least danger to the useful fibres. It is not, however, of much con-
sequence 11'hether the flax is steeped in flowing or still water, so
long as it is under the influence of the sun, the rain, or the dew."

" I think, then," remarked my wife, "that in a hot climate like
this, it would be advisable to lay our flax to steep in the Flamingo
Marsh, which is sheltered."

This proposal was approved by all, and early 011 the following
morning the ass was harnessed to the little Waggon, on which the
bundles of flax were laid, while little Frank and Master Nip rode
between them on the seat. Taking with 11s also spades and hatehets,
We started eagerly for the spot which the mother had so cleverly
selected for our work.

011 arriving at the marsh, the bundles of flax were divided into

* Rik-lea 1s the (121111111 11-011] for [a .oasl, as "Lll as "11111111, [0 sleep. They are spelt and
[announced exactly the same, 11 Inch accounts for the unstake of Fritz
 

smaller portions, and laid in the water, with heavy stones upon
them, that they might not rise to the surface.

We then left them to their fate, the mother remarking that the
flax would be ready for drying in the sun, or by fire, as soon as the
stalks, which were now steeping, became hard and brittle from
decay.

While engaged in this work, we had several opportunities for
observing, at various points of the marsh, the wonderful cleverness
and skill with which the flamingoes build their nests. These nests
are in the form of an inverted cone, with a blunted point fixed in
the ground, the upper and broader part being raised above the level
of the water. In this broad part a little hollow enclosure is formed,
in which the eggs can lie safely and conveniently. Over this the
mother bird places herself, standing in the water with her long
legs, and covering the eggs with the under part of her body, which
rests upon them.

These cone-shaped nests are formed of glutinous and sandy clay
from the marsh, which hardens in the sun; and they are so firm,
in consequence, that the water can neither wash them away nor
overturn them, till the hatching-time is over, and the young birds
are old enough to go on the water themselves without danger.

"'e allowed the flax to remain in the water a fortnight, and then
drew it out and spread it in the sun to dry. A single day accom-
plished this so thoroughly, that we were able to remove it in the
cart to Falcon's Nest the same evening.

I however advised my wife to delay for a. time her intention of
spinning the flax, to assist the boys and myself in making prepara-
tions to meet the change of weather, and in laying in a store of
provisions both for ourselves and the animals.

"'e were already warned of the approaching rainy season by
frequent showeis; the sky was covered with clouds, and the
weather had changed from its usual warmth, and become cold and
stormy, with violent winds. In fact, winter I knew nnght come
upon us in a moment, without further warning. .

Our first care was to gather in a store of potatoes and mamhot
or cassava-roots, as plants which would keep easily, and afield as
the most agreeable food. Cocoanuts and acorns also were not to
be despised, nor the cassava. cakes, which could be easrly made,
although we missed the bread made of the Wheaten flour which
grows in our Fatherland; indeed, this had always been a terrible
privation to us all. However, all the seeds of lturopean corn that
remained from the store in the mother's bag had been sown, in the
hope that the rainy season would cause them to ge11ninate quickly,
and p111duce an abundant 0111p by the spring.

We also expected that our huge plantation of sugar-canes, and
several dill'erent species of palm-trees, would be benefited by the
rain. At present we had 11 store of preserved, half-cooked birds,
dried fish, and flesh from the game shot by the boys, in addition to
the denizens of our poultry-yard, which could be killed for food it
necessary.

The first storm came upon 11s before we had completed cur
ar1anrre1nents: the wind 1oared, and the 111111 fell in 511111 tolrents,
that little hank, 111th tea1s in his eyes, inquiied if another Deluge
was coming.

 

TUE STORM.

These 110111 1 1ains made it impossible to remain in 0111 sleepine-
apmtment, and we new all obliued to take refuge in the hollow
11111111, with 111111t1,11,1 prov isiens we could find thatO wele not aheady
spoiled.

This homely dwelling was indeed crowded, and the floor so
o1.c11pied 11y household (reeds, beds, and 111' in" eieatures, that it was
s11: neely possible to 1nov;e and above all, thee smell hen! the neigh-
bouiimr stables, the lowiiig and cluekinf' of the animals, and the
h111'1il11e smoke when we attempted to li;r11t1 fi1'e,1na1le our situa-
tion at fi1st 11111111le unbear.able

All these ditliculties, ho11e1er, were by degrees overcome: the
animals were removed to a greater distance under the tree-roots,
and by piling 11p a number of our tools and other articles on the
winding staircase, we made 11111111 enough for 11s to \1'11rk during the
day, and lie down at night with comfort.
 

Cooking was dispensed with as much as possible, to spare us the
tormenting smoke, even at the expense of hunger. llesides this,
we were anxious to save our dried wood in case of colder weather
coming upon us ; but we were thankful that, as yet, no severe cold
troubled us. \Vhat we should do in frost or snow, I knew not.

As evening of the first day came on, I and Fritz, in spite of the
rain, had to search for the animals, and bring them to shelter under
the arched roots, as well as to obtain for them the necessary food.

"'e made ourselves as comfortable as we could for the night in
our hollow tree; but before I slept, I determined to discover some.
other means of passing through the winter in comfort, if the weather
would clear up for a few days to enable me to venture out.

But no change took place for nearly a week, am] during that
time we could only subsist on the acorns, cocoanuts, cold meat and
potatoes, that we had brought to our retreat.

At present we had hay enough for the animals, and a stock of
grain for the poultry; but I decided that when we were unable to
supply them with sufficient food, they must be turned adrift to
forage for themselves, and we might also feed them now and then
with what remained of the store of fodder.

A slight change in the weather gluddened my heart, for l was
now able to make some slight improvements in our habitation, aml
with the help of l'ritz bring in a store of provisions from Zehhcim.
The animals being in the spaces under the arched roots, we had the
hollow trunk of our tree all to ourselves, and by the time the rainy
season set in we were becoming reconciled to our position.

Fortunately the winter was not; cold as well as wet, or we should
have suffered terribly. Yet my wife considered it necessary to
contrive some outer covering to protect Fritz and myself from the
rain, each time we made an excursion after the animals, or to
obtain fresh stores from Zeltheim.

She had found in one of the sailms' lockers two canvas shirts,
to which she sewed hoods to cover our heads. Over these she spread
layers of caoutcbouc, which rendered them completely waterproof,
so that. we could easily brave the rain without fear of getting wet.

During our stay in this hollow tree as arefuge from the weather,
we were still activer employed. "'0 carefully fed and sheltered
the cow, for her milk was our chief food. The boys took care of
their pet animals, and my wife employed herself with her needle,
while I eonnuenccd ajourual of the events which had occurred since
the shipwreck, and the story of our lives in this foreign land.

My wife and the boys readily helped me when my memory failed,
 

 

and the questions and discussions that- arosc on the subject created
great amusement. Fritz aml Jack taught little Frank to read, but
my principal work duringr these dark wintry days consisted in
making coarse and fine carding--combs for my wife to separate and
prepare the flux for spinning. 1" or this purpose I obtained from our
stores a number of long nails, sometiner than others ; these I rounded
at one end, and sharpened at the other with a file. For the coarse
comb I took the thicker nails, as near as possible of the same size,
and laid the rounded ends side by side on a strip of tin, about an
inch broad, to form the upper edge of the comb. I was careful to
lay the nails in an unbroken row, and after pouring melted lead in
the upper spaces between the nails to keep them firm in their places,
folded the tin over it; the lower parts, and the sharp-pointed ends
of the nails, forming the teeth of the eomb.

The line comb I made in the same manner; they were each
about four inches long, and quite strong enough to tear to pieces
bushels of hemp or flax.

My wife was eagerly anxious to make a first trial of the new
machinist, and constantly sighing for better weather, when it would
be poss dc to light a fire, that she might dry the flax, and com-
mence her first experiment in combing and spinning the newly
discovered flax, and to satisfy her motherly heart in making clothes
for the boys,srmxc: DAYS AND rm; SALT CAYERX.

T is impossible to describe our joy when, after so many long
weeks of confinement and privation, we again gazed on the
clear sky and the bright sunshine lighting up the face of

nature. With joyful cries we escaped from our unhealthy prison
to breathe the sweet fresh air, and refresh our longing eyes with a.
sight of the delicate green of budding spring and the lovely verdnre
of field and meadow.

Nature had renewed her youth, and filled every living creature
with gladness and joy. "'0 ourselves felt inspired with new hope
for the future. The sorrows of the winter were all forgotten, and
the work which lay before us in the summer hours seemed, in our
gladness, but as child's play.

We commenced at once to examine the condition of the land we
had cultivated, and found, to our great joy, that all was flourishing.

Our tree plantation was in excellent condition. The seeds we
had sown were springing up. The trees were putting forth their
young leaves of delicate green. The ground was covered with
flowers of every hue, and their sweet fragrance was borne to us
upon the balmy air; while birds of the most brilliant plumage
made the woods resound with song to welcome the laughing spring.

We very soon discovered, however, that our work would begin
at our castle in the tree, for the rain had greatly damaged the
sail-cloth roof, and dried leaves had drifted into our sleeping-
apartnrent. Many (lays would be occupied not only to render it
dry and clean for our own use, but also the stalls of the arrinrals
under the arched roots, which were greatly damaged by the rains,
as well as the staircase in the hollow trunk. In short, we quickly
found plenty of work.

\Vhile Fritz and I hastened to rectify the damage done to our
sunnner dwelling, Ernest and Jack turned out the animals to
graze upon the sweet fresh grass in the meadows, for the sun had
already dried up all traces of rain and moisture.

24:)
The pet birds alld those we had domesticated with tlle fowls
had not forsaken the old roost, although they had wandered away
ill all directions, during 0111' stay in the hollow tree, to search for
additional food.

I was glad, therefore, to find the seeds we had sown growing 11p
rapidly, for our supply of oats was nearly exhausted.

The animals appeared, however, ill very good condition, and
seemed not at; all sorry to find their fowl-house and the roosting-
perches cleaned and comfortable.

As soon as our room ill the tree alld the platform ahol'e the
roots were made llabitahle, and the allilnals and pets all attended to,
my wife reminded me of the flax, which required heating, carding,
alld (-1'1lnbing, before it (ould he \\'0\ oil or spun into thread.

"T'hele will he manv things for 3011 to do at; 'l'ellt- home," she
s1id:"fotI e.\pe(t \1111 will find it1rleatly damaged by the raill.
And uhile \1111 and the tlllee boys are absent; at the "011: of re-
pulling the tent, f 11111 Slt'l) here with little Frank alld spin the
flax, for you are all terribly in want of clothes."

"" lint you must have a spillnillg-wlleel and a spindle," I replied.
"\Vhere is that to come from?"

"Uh," she said, with a smile, "after building rooms, and stair-
cases, and rope ladders, and ('zll't.fi,)'11ll won't find much difficulty,
I expect, ill C(1IlSll'll('llll1_: 11 spinning-wheel for me."

After this I could not refuse to help her, alld we collllllellced
]'11'OCCC(llllfYS bt' plat ill:: the blllldles 11E steeped fl1l\ ill the sun to
dry. Then followed the \\'111k of beatillfr, stlippillgr , alld e1lldill1r.

The boys, each with a 111111,r heayv piece of w,1111d something like
a flail used for threshing corn, beat the flax till the flexible fibres
were separated from the softer parts. I then drew tlle fibres through
the c1'1arse colnl) I had made, and passed them to my wife, who

calded these. fib1es through the liner comb till the flax was ill
proper condition for being10 spun.

\\ e had succeeded so fal \\ undelfulll, and I thelefole set: about
Qflllstlllcllllg a spinning--"heel nr distal] \\ 1th 1rleat enerev.

I chose the lightest of the "heels 1 had l111in:rht haul the wreck.
Fritz plepaled straps from the skill of the dead buffalo; and, aftel
some dillic,lllty l suceteded in forlnill1r a Sllllllll-lli'-\\lleel', and
spindle, alld reel, which although latllel' clumsy in appealallee,
were received by my wife with great satisfaction, for it; seemed to
her all she could wish.

She at once set to work; alld we left; her with little Frank,
spinning yarn enough, as she said, to provide thread, yarn, stockings,! BIRDS or mun/<<x7 nuance. 'SPRING DAYS AND THE SALT CAVERN. 253

 

and linen for a large supply of clothes, to replace those we now
wore, and which were nearly worn out.

The journey to chtheim was undertaken to discover what mis-
chief the winter had done to the tent, and whether its condition
was as bad as that of the tree castle sleeping-room.

We found to our sorrow, that the damage done at; Falcon's
N est could not be compared to the terrible destruction at Zelttheim.

Storm and rain had overthrown the tent, tom the sail-cloth
covering, and so completely soaked the stores of provisions we had
left there under shelter, that most of them would have proved per<<
feetly useless had we not quickly placed them in the sun to dry.

Fortunately, the well-built pinnace had suffered no damage,
although the tub-boat was so completely broken up, that there
appeared no hope of its ever again being fit for sea.

On a closer examination of our stores, I noticed particularly
that the three powder-casks that had been left under shelter at the
back of the tent had received considerable damage. Two of these
casks were entirely filled with water, and the contents so thoroughly
soaked, that they were obliged to be thrown away. This heavy,
and, to us, irreparable loss led me at once to consider in what way
I could contrive some more convenient winter quarters, where such
disasters could not possibly occur, and also that we might be able
in future to preserve our arms and ammunition from the wet during
the rainy season.

My first idea on the subject, which was to how out a cave or a
dwelling in the rocks, seemed, with our limited strength, to be im-
possible, at least so as to have it ready in less than three or four
summers. Yet the longing for a roomy and weather-tight winter
dwelling gave me no rest.

At last I determined to try, as an experiment, to hew out at
least a cellar to contain our powder-flasks, that this valuable treasure
might for the future be preserved from injury.

\Vhile the mother was one morning busily engaged with her
spinning, I started from 'alcon's Nest with Fritz and Jack, fully
determined, with the help of the boys, to carry out my intentions.

"'e loaded ourselves with crowbars, pickaxes and hammers, and,
approaching the chain of rocks, I looked about for a spot where at
least it might be possible to dig out a vault in which to stow away
a couple of powder-flasks.

At last I made choice of a spot where the face of the rock appeared
smooth, steep, and almost perpemlicular, and from the top of which
could be seen a most extensive view of Deliverance Bay, together
with the shore of the Jackal River to the right, and the end of the
chain of rocks to the left.

Upon this I marked with charcoal the outline of an opening to
he hewn out of the rock, and then I and the two boys undertook
the Lronhlesome otlice of stone-breakers, only to be performed with
the sweat of our brows.

On the tirst day we made so little progress, although we had
struggled against every obstacle, that I became quite dispirited, and
despair-ed of being able to complete even a connnon cellar, before
the rainy seaSon again arrived. llut on the following day we set to
work with renewed vigour, for I began to hope that the hardness of
the rock would lessen as we got deeper in, and become by degrees
soft enough to he broken by a spade.

\Ve had penetrated into the rock to a distance of about seven
feet, when Jack, who was trying to bore a hole through with a large
Inuukpike, suddenly cried out joyfully,

" I am through, papa! I am through ! "

"'l'hrought Through where?" I replied; "certainly not through
the whole mountain ?"

"Through into the mountain, of course, papa," replied the boy.
" llurrah ! hurrah l "

" Indeed he is right," cried Fritz, who had hastened to the spot:
'00an and see, papa; it is wonderful! The iron spike has gone
right through the rock into an open space, for I can turn it round
and round just as I like.'

I quickly found this worth my attention. I seized the handspike,
and worked it about in the hole with such force, that I very soon
made an opening large enough for one of the boys to slip through.
Most eagerly they wished to make the attempt, but I held them
back, for when I approached nearer to the opening to look through,
a pull' of foul air rushed into my face, and caused me to feel, for a
moment, quite sick and giddy.

"Listen, boys," I exclaimed, as I drew back hastily from the
aperture; "do not attempt to enter that dreadful cave, for the
atmosphere inside is deadly."

Auxiously they questioned me as to the reason of this, and I then
explained to them that atmospheric air consisted of two gases,
oxygen and nitrogen, and that if one, or part of one, was removed,
the air hecame impure and unlit to be breathed by the lungs.

"Air," I said, " is sometimes full of noxious gases, which render
it either combustible, or so heavy, that it quickly destroys life,
especially when it has been confined for along time in a limited,'w

\V,
R. 54! ~

THE CAVE.SPRING DA YS AXI.) THE SALT 0111751.". 2:37

 

space. It then loses its elasticity, and persons who attempt to
breathe it are either suffocated or die instantly."

" How can you prove, papa, that the air in this case is impure?"

"There are many ways," I repliet ," of discovering this, and one is
by its terrible effects upon those who breathe it; but the simplest and
safest is to place fire, or a lighted candle, in the suspected air, and if
they continue to burn, we know it is pure enough for man to breathe
it ; but in impure air fire and lights are instantly extinguished. Now
fetch a quantity of dried grass, and we will try the experiment."

The boys instantly ran to obey, and presently returned with large
handfuls of grass and moss, which I threw into the opening and set
fire to it; but in an instant it was extinguished, proving at once the
air in the cave to be in the highest degree dangerous. "'e had
ln'ought from the wreck, among other things, a sea-chest containing
rockets and bomb-shells, to be used on board ship as signals at night
or in case of danger.

I fetched one of the rockets, and placed it on a mortar, just
within the portal of this nether world, in the hope that by the
explosion the malignant air spirit might be driven from the spot.

"'ith a thrilling report the rocket flow like a radiant meteor
through the horrible atmosphere, above the ground, to the opposite
wall of the rock. Here it rebounded, sprang up, and burst with a
hollow sound, driving before it through the opening a stream of
noxious air, that drove us back some paces. 'l'he rocket also
produced another wonderful effect: it whizzed round the cave like
a flaming dragon, lighting the whole mighty circumference, and
causing the wonderfully beautiful roof to sparkle and glitter, as if
by enchantment.

After all these experiments, I waited for a little while, and then
a second time made trial of the dried hay. A bundle was set on
fire and thrown into the cave: it fell flaming on the floor, and
continued burning till it was all consumed, proving at once that we
might safely venture to enter, without fear of danger.

I, however, hesitated to explore the cave in darkness, as I could
not be sure that water might not have accumulated on the ground,
or that we might stumble over something we could not see. I
therefore at oni:e sent our active little Jack to 1" alcon's Nest, that
he might tell his mother the news of our joyful discovery, and bring
her and his brothers back with him, as well as a munbcr of our wax
lights, that we might enter the wonderful vault together, and find
out its extent.

During J aek's absence, Fritz and I worked hard at the opening,
13N)
a:
on

SWISS FAMILY It'OIIIXSOX.

 

to ntake it broader and higher, and also cleared away the broken
pieces of rock, aml all the rubbish, that we might; be able to walk
into the womlerful grotto withottt dillieulty.

.In about an hour the mother, with Ernest and Frank, arrived in
our little state carri- ge, or, more properly speaking, our potato cart.

They quickly alighted, and we all entered the grotto, each carry-
ing a lighted wax candle. Fritz also was provided with a tinder-hox,
in case the camlle should go out; and I led the way cautiously,
feeling the ground with my feet, and followed hy the hays and their
mother, rather feat-fully, in spite of their curiosity. Our two. dogs
were also of the party, yet, showing lny their uneasy, timid manner,
that they did not quite approve of the position.

"'e had not; advanced very far hcfure the appearance. of the
grotto startled us by its wonderful heauty. The candles we carried
were retlected on the walls in golden light like the stars of heaven,
and the columns of crystal which rose from the floor to the vaulted
roof sparkled and glittered in all the colours of the rainltow ; it was
as if we were standing in the hall of a king's palace, or beneath a
stately dome of magic. enclutntntent.

Crystals also hung from the root in fantastic forms, which repre-
sented the vaulted arches of a cathedral or the delicate traccry of
gothie architecture.

The floor was covered with soft; fit-1n sand, and it was a satisfac-
tion to me to oluserve that it showed not the least sign of heing
damp, and was tlterefore quite healthful, even for a sleepingr resi-
deuce.

I examined more closely the crvstal tapestry of this wonderful
grotto, heliering at first that it was a stalactite cave, like those
which are fottnd near ottr own home.

All at once I recalled the descriptions I had read of the salt-
mincs in Poland. 1 approached the wall, and breaking ofl'a small
piece, tasted it with the tip of my tongue, and found, to my un-
speakalnle joy, that we were in a cavern of crystallized reek salt,
which had for its foundation gypsum, over and around which the
sparkling crystal hung in layers like a mantle or covering.

The discovery of this salt pleased me greatly, as it would provide
us with a never-failingr store for ourselves and ottr cattle, with only
the trouble of l.>>rcaking " 011', and therefore would save the fatigue
of hringing heavy loads from the sea-shore.

On proceeding farther into the interior of this cavern, we were
surprised at the singular and statue-like figures and shapes formed
by the masses of salt, either hanging from the roof or projectingL\' T" I: C.\\'F,l:.\'.
 

from the walls. I noticed however, with some anxiety, that pieces
of the crystal had fallen in different places, and I knew that such
an accident would greatly endanger our safety if we made it a
dwelling, especially if caused by damp. A nearer inspection showed
me that this was not the case, as not the least sign of moisture
appeared in the cavern. I came to the conclusion, therefore, that
the explosion of the roeket had created a concussion in the air, by
which a few loose pieces of the crystal had been broken 011'.

I however determined to make another experiment, by firing my
gun loaded with ball, and while carefully watching for the result,
I found that not even a loose piece was broken off by the vibration
of the air, and felt convinced at once, not only of the firmness of
the crystal, but also that this wonderful cavern might become a
most comfortable dwelling-place.

l'lan after plan was proposed as the best to make the beautiful
cave useful, and all our industry and inventive powers were excited
in this fresh opportunity of constructing an incomparable place,
which would recompense us for any exertions.

It was decided that Falcon's Nest should still continue to be our
summer residence, and our sleeping-quarters at night; but the
whole day was to be spent at Zeltheim, while we were so busily at
work in preparing and fitting up our rock castle to make it habit-
able as a winter house.

Very little was now done at Falcon's Nest beyond what was
absolutely necessary. In the morningr we attended to the animals,
and provided them with food for the day, while the mother pre-
pared breakfast, and a store of provisions to last till our return
home in the evening, tired certainly, but still able to enjoy a good
Slipper after our day's work.

The first things to be thought of in our roek house were light and
air, and for that purpose the openings of a row of windows in front
were hewn out of the rock. The openings were made to suit the
size of the windows in the ofiicers' cabins which we had brought
from the wreck.

The entrance to the cave was also made to admit- the door, now
fixed in the hollow tree--trunk at Falcon's .L'est, which I determined
to remove to Zeltheim. The opening in the hollow tree which
admitted us to the winding stairs could be easily replaced with
hark, as most likely to deceive wild beasts, and render their plan-
dering propensities useless, at least for a time, till we could make
another door.

The immense space within the cave made it easy to divide it into262 S" 'ISS El .1111. Y 1.'01;I.\'.S'(l.\'.

two parts. The largest in front, into which tlte door opened, was
to contain ottr dwelli 1' room and sleeping-chantlnet's en tlte right,
and the kitehen, wot top. and stahles on the left.

The smaller division lit'llllltl, and so deep in the cave. that no
windows eould he made in it, 1 determined to use as eellars, store-
house, and magazines; and by degrees I hoped to supply, with the
help of my lmys, the necessary doors and openings in the partition,
as Well as other needt'ul additions for a comfortable dwelling-house.

The. previous work of nature had accomplished for us the great;
ltttdet'lakittg ot' a large huilding, with strong walls and lofty roof; it,

  
 

 

HAWK!" LL TU llTLli.

remained, therefore, for us only to provide light and air, and the fitting
up of the interior. "'e applied ourselves earnestly to the work, and
in this, as well as other undertakings during,r our stay on this lonely
('nnsl', proved what can he done hy activity and perseverance.

At Zeltheim, while engaged in this work, another advantage pre-
sented itself, which had not yet hcen made known to us.

Now and then, on the shore, large numbers of turtles made their
appearance. They, however, were troublesome to capture, although
we were not sorry to be able to ohtain such delicacies as their llesh
provided, as well as the eggs, which we frequently found in our

wanderings. 1 now became anxious not; to lose more time inSI'IPIXI'I DAYS AND TIIl-I SALT t'.ll'l:'R.\". PS63

catchingr this delicious prey. but, if possilde, secure some of them
alive, that they might: he ready for food when rerptired, as well as a
Certain supply of eggs, and, perhaps. after a while, of young,r turtles.

For this purpose I placed a rich bait. within a space surrounded
l:_v chains and ropes. When either of these, heautiful creatures
approached the spot, it became. entangled in the fetters, and it was
easy for the hovs, who were on the watch, to wade into the water,
draw it on shore, and, with my help, turn it over on its back, that
it might not escape.

I then bored a hole in the hinder part of the shell, passed one
end of a loner string,r through the hole, tied it tirmly, and fastened
the other end to a post tixed near the water's edge. The creature
was then turned over on his feet, and without a moment's pause,
plunged into the water; hut, while he could move about at his will,
and obtain his own mun-ishment, as well as enjoy his natural element,
he still remained on the sand, for the stringr kept him hack from
leaving the shore. In this way we succeeded in capturing.r several
turtles or future use; but another surprise, of equal value, awaited us.

(the morning, while returning from Falcons Nest luv the shores
of the hay, and in haste to continue our work in the grotto, we were
startled hy a most wonderful spectacle,

The sea at some distance appeared to he in a strange commotion,
while the agitated and foamingl waves sparkled in the early morningr
light. Ahove this shining,r surface hovered numer<ms aquatic birds
of every description--the sea-gull, the athatross, and many others--
their screams and cries reaching our ears even at such a distance.

Presently the feathered flock. still hoveringr and agitated, dived
down to the surface of the water, rose again, crossed each other's
path as they tlew, and conducted themselves so strangely, that We
eould not decide whether it was play and amusement, or a battle.
on which we gazed.

The sea beneath them presented a most unusual sight, as the.
morning;r sun rose and cast a glow of rosy red over the eastern sky.
The. foam sparkled like tiny tlames, and the waves, as if moved by
livingr creatures, changed into a hundred ditt'erent appearances
every moment. '

The Shining mass now rolled forward towards us in a direct line
across the Deliverance lav, followed hy the "(wk of birds, while we,
with all possible haste and curiosity, quiekened our steps towards
the shore. In our road, each tried to account for this unusual sight.
The mother supposed it to he a movingr sandhank; Fritz langhinelv
declared that. it must proceed from the cave, of a sulanarine Vulcan;
and Ernest helievcd the appearance to be caused by some frightful
sea-monster that was sporting in the waves.

As for myself, after due consideration I felt convinced that a shoal
or bank of herrings was approaching our shores. No sooner had I
stated this opinion than I was overwhelmed with a flood of questions
as to what could he a "herring bank."

"A herring bank, or shoal," I leplied, " is the word used to de-
scrihe an immense number of herrings, which swim together at
certain times of the year, and appear like a living sandbank in the

 

THE .\LB.\TROSS.

sea. These- herrings in their progress, attract a large numhcr of
great fish, such as salmon, jean don't-e, dolphins, and the dog-fish to
follow them. To these the herring is a delicious morsel. Thev also
attract hunters in the air, which swallow them qreedilv, and are
equally dangerous enemies: [hose hirds which we sawhovering over
the crests of the waves, catch up easily those little fish which
venture near the surface. The herrings. therefore swim with rapidity
and eager anxiety towards the nearest coast or shore, where the
water IS shallow, and feel themselves at least safe from sea-monsters,
for these large fish require deeper water, especially when hunting
for prey. lint they cannot escape from the skilful means used by
man to entrap them, who also consider the arrival of these fish a
 

weleorrre occurrence, for thousands of them can be caught at these
periods with very little trouble. It is said that in one year millions
of herrings are caught by man, in addition to the nmnber which
become the prey of birds or fish; and yet the rocs of only a few
herrings would contain eggs enough to make up the usual quantity
of the shoal from year to year."

With this and similar conversation we at last reached Zeltheim,
and the animals were scarcely unlrarnessed from the cart before the
whole of the immense shoal of herrings rushed into the bay, and with
such haste, that they tunrbled one over another, while their shining
scales sparkled in the sunlight, and presented the same singular
firelike appearance that we had observed on the distant sea.

 

HERRING.

"'0 had no leisure time, however, to admire this charming sight,
while it was necessary to catch as many fish as possible, new we
had the opportunity.

I therefore made out a list of the duties to be performed by eat-h
of us in this fishing business.

Fritz was to gather the fish in nets, and throw them into baskets
on the shore,--easily done, on account of the immense numbers
swimming about; Ernest and Jack were to prepare and clean them,
while the mother sprinkled salt over each 3 and little Frank was to
lend a helping hand to all.

I took upon myself the task of pickling the herrings, and placing
them in casks, which required the greatest carefulness. I first
covered the bottom of the cask with salt, and their placed the
herrings in a row, head to tail, the long way of the (-a.' c ; the second
row I laid crossways over the others; and so on, till I had piled them
up closely to the top of the cask, for I had very little room to spare.

As soon as the barrels were full I covered them with large leaves
and a piece of sail-cloth, and upon this placed pieces of timber,
which I kept down by heavy stones. The barrels were then carried
to the cool vaults at the back of our rock house, to be preserved
for our use with the greatest- safety.

This work occupied quite four days, and detained us entirely at
Zeltheim for that time; yet, by working early and late, we could
not manage to till more than two casks with pickled herrings,
although there were quite enough fish for seven or eight.

Seareely had this work of catching and salting herrings been
completed, when other important business presented itself. Among
the herring-eating swarms that had followed the shoal to our shores
I observed a number of dog-fish, who without the least shyness
disported themselves in the water in the most comical manner.

These creatures did not appear likely to prove suitable for our
table, but I knew that their skin would provide us with a supply
of leather useful for saddles and harness, as well as fur for clothing.

Besides leather, I could also procure from these animals a kind
of oil to soften their own fur, and make the skin flexible and pliant.
It was therefore necessary to destroy them for the sake of these
useful articles, although I feared the ilesh would prove unsuitable
for fund.

The skins, however, were drawn oil with the fur still on, and the
fat: melted for oil, which was then carefully placed in a cask, to be
used in the future for tanning,r and soap-making, as well as to be
burnt in the ship lanterns at night during,r winter.

\Ve used the bladder of the dog-fish for another purpose, and
that was to obtain a storehouse or reservoir for crabs, to which it
formed a tempting bait.

I found an empty sailor's chest, in the sides of which I bored
holes, am], putting into it a number of heavy stones, sank it to the
bottom of the stream; and in this chest a number of crabs and
lobsters were caught and seemed by the the attractive bait of the
dog-fish's bladder.

The contrivance obtained and preserved for us a constant supply
of these shell~lish; indeed, the brook became a complete reservoir
for them, the chest being secured to the shore by a chain fastened
to a post. I also formed another reservoir for her-rings, in which
I placed a number of those we had caught, and they very quickly
peopled our fish-pond.

Our accustomed worc at the cavern was, through all these im-
portant umlertakings, set aside fora time; but we now found it
necessary to continue the fittingr up of our rock castle home, lost a.
change in the weather should occur before we expected it.'I'IIE wtxrtzu HOUSE IN 'rIn-z ouorro.

I'll work in the cave was still carried on with great vigour,
as there remained still a great deal to carry out, and we had
so often been interrupted with other important duties.

0n examining the cavern more attentively, Inoticcd that- the
crystallized salt ltad for its base a species of gypsum, I therefore
inspected the walls of the innermost; part>>, near our powder store,
and found this mineral itt large quantities.

I broke off several portions with a piekaxe, and, carryingr them
to our tireplaee at. Zeltheim, made several pieces red hot in the
tire. When these were cold, I easily reduced them to powder,
which, when mixed with water, made a beautiful white plaster.

My tirst attempt: at; plasteringr was to cover the sides of the
herring-tubs, to prevent the air from penetrating through the
cracks. The remaining four I left untouched, as I wished to try
my hand at smoked herrings as soon as possible.

Itherefore, with the help of the boys, who were always ready
for any new experiment, constructed a but of reeds and branches
of trees closely twisted together, similar to those built by the
buccaneers in America of whom I had read.

Across the interior of this hut, and very high up, were placed
ledges, in rows one above another, atnl on these the herrings were
laid. l'ndel' them we lighted a tire of brushwtu'ul and datnp moss,
which threw out a dense smoke. The hut: was then closed, to make
it; as much as possible air-tight.

After repeating,r this process for several days, our herrings became
dry and firm, and of a beautiful golden-ln'own colour. These we
gladly laid up in our storehouse.

About a month after the arrival of the shoal of her-rings some

267l0
(,7
CD

SWISS FAMILY .'OBINSON.

very large fish appeared in the hay, and were evidently making
their way towards the river, that they might deposit; their spawn
in the fresh water hetween the rocks at the entrance. By this
means the young fish are ahle to reach the sea with ease.

Some of these lish were so large, that Jack imagined they were
young whales. I quickly showed him his mistake. We walked

 

SI'BAIH KG THE STL'IKGEI l.\'.

to the hanks of the river, and there behold a number of salmon and
sturgeon sporting in the waves, and certainly not so easily to he
captured as herrings.

Jack instantly ran back to the cavern, and presently returned
with his how, and arrows barbed with fish-hooks, and a large skein
of packthrezul, as well as two hladders of the dog-fish.

l \\':ll('ll(:tl him with surprise as he fastened the bladders to one
end of his arrow, and a long"r string to the other. He then lixed the
other end of the string on the shore under a heavy stone, and, withTHE HUNTER HOUSE IN THE GRUTTU. PS69

a good aim, shot the arrow quickly from his bow into the body of a
large salmon.

" Cleverly hit, Jack. "'ell done 2" cried his brothers, as the fish
struggled in min to escape; for the Stilllf" under the heavy stone
on the show kept him back, "11110 the bladders obliged him to float
on the sn1face, o1 othe111ise he 11 011111 have 1111 ed to the bottom.
This fish was, indeed, a pr'isouci , and we (hew him to shore, and
quickly put him out of his misery.

This great success roused 11s all to make a similar experiment.

11'1itz went for a harpoon. I made my appea1ance like Neptune
11ith his t1ident, or, properly speaking, a hay -fork. Ernest pro-
\ided himself with lalge tishinrr-hooks and a line, and 0111' fishing
performances began again with great energy.

Jack again tried his bow and arrow, but with less success: two
of his shots failed ; and although the third wounded another salmon,
he had great difiiculty in bringing it 011 shore.

Ernest baited his hook with some tempting morsel, and threw
his line, hoping to get a bite from one of the visitms; and when
that occurred, he had to call his mother and Frank to assist him to
haul it 011 shore.

I struck two of the creatures, but I had to struggle through deep
water to secure them. At. last, with his harpoon, Fritz fixed a
sturgeon of an enormous size. Struck in the back of the head, the
monster struggled violently, and threw the water over 11s in showels.
Fritz was obliged to let out all the string, and I had to fetch another
harpoon, to prevent him from escaping; and by degrees we drew
him into shallow water. Even then we were obliged to throw a
noose around his neck before he could be landed.

After resting awhile from these exertions, we eonnnenced cleaning
and cutting 111) the fish into pieces to be salted, excepting a portion
of the salmon, which I gave to my wife to be cooked for our dinner,
and advised her to boil it with a little of its own oil in water, as
they cook the tunny-fish in the Meditenanean.

"We have such a large supply of fish now," said my wife, " that
I think it would be advisable to throw away the roes, the fins, and
the tails, as well as the bladders, for they make 0111' dishes and the
place smell so unpleasantly."

" Impossible, my dear I " I replied, with a grave face; "from the
roes of the sturgeon is p1epa1cd that delicate dish named by the

111ssians' 0111111,, and the most e\cellent glue can be made f1on1
the bladder, and those other parts you object to."

My wife shook her head at this i11fo1'111ation, but as I knew she:3 70 SWISS FA MI]. 1' 1.'0])I;\"SU.\'.

 

was right about the unpleasant smell, I at once set; to work, that
these materials might be got rid of quickly.

The sturgeon's roe, which weighed about thirty pounds, was
cleaned and rinsed Several times, to remove from it the salt water,
and while hailing, the scum of brine was carefully skimmed ott', till
not a particle remained. The whole mass was then placed into a.
gourd-shell sieve with holes, till the water was pressed entirely from
it, and then left for twenty-four hours. It was afterwards removed
from the calabnsh mould, and mixed with a kind of cheese, made
with goat's milk. lt only now required to be smoked in the hut,

 

b'l'L'llGl-It).\'.

and then removed to our storehouse in the rock, to be preserved as
a pleasant; and nourishing,r food for us during the winter.

The fish bladders next required my attention, as they needed to
he Separated from the ileshy parts, and also cleaned with fresh water.
This done, 1 cut them into long strips, and after tying a string to
each end, stretched them in the sun to dry and become smooth.

The preparation of the fins and tails was really tedious: they had
to he skinned, cleaned, and boiled, till they were changed into a
perfect jelly, which, after becomingr lirm, when cool, was thrown
into a clean flask, and when thoroughly dried in the sun, and quite
hard, was cut into strips and laid by for use. ly this process we
obtained a supply of really useful glue, which I hoped, when
clarified, would not only serve to stick articles together lirmly, butTIIIL' WINTER HOUSE IN THE Ii].'tl'l'7'0. 271

also to form a semi-transparent substance, to use for wimlmr-pmws
instead of glass.

These undertakings being accomplished, I was able to examine
my wife's kitchen garden at Zeltheim. It appeared in a most;
flourishing condition, and likely to supply us with vegetables of all
kinds, and of most excellent; flavour, with very little trouble. lt
was also agreeable to discover that the plants in this climate had
no particular or fixed period of the year for becoming ripe, but that,
during,r the whole summer, peas, beans, and other agreeable veget-
ables continued to grow and ripen. The moisture caused by the
heavy rains had no doubt produced this result, as well as the supply
of water which had been brought from the Jackal llirer by our
sago palm-tree pipes. For this little trouble, therefore, we had
been richly repaid.

Besides kitchen vegetables of all kinds, our garden contained
cucumbers, gherkins, melons, as well as a quantity of Indian corn
or maize, in great abundance. At a little distance from the garden
was a sugar-cane plantation in a flourishing condition; and the
anana-roots we had brought from the mountain ridge, and trans-
planted in good soil close by, promised to provide us in the future
with a splendid store of this inemnparable fruit.

The universal success of the plants near Zeltheim tilled me with
a pleasing hope that another experiment we had made at Falcons
N est would be equally successful, and one morning we started, full
of spirits, from Zeltheim, to visit the spot.

On our way to Falcon's Nest we passed a large field, in which
the mother had sown a whole bushel of European corn, after the
potatoes had been dug up.

Here we found seeds of all descriptions growing into plants, and
some quite ripe. In one part was barley, in another wheat ; farther
on we saw rye, peas, millet, and field-beans, in such profusion, that,
in the highest state of wonder, I asked the mother where she had
found so many and such a variety of seeds.

"I brought them from the wreck when we first left it," she re-
plied, "and I have still some remaining; but; after our first harvest,
I expect; we shall not need them."

"I think the harvest; of that; maize-field yonder has (<<muneneed
already," I replied; "and the reapcls are them in the shape of un-
bidden guests, who are committing robbery."

\Vhile saying this, I led the way to the field, followed by the rest.

As we approached nearer we heard a sudden flapping of rushing"r
wings, and at the same moment about half a dozen Canadian fowl,-:
w

SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

who had evidently been enjoying themselves, rose in the air, and
took to flight. Our dogs, who at once began to display their hunt-
ingr propensities, were almost startled by the strange cries of an
immense flock of smaller birds, who rose at once in the air, having
been evidently warned by others of the same species, which ap-
peared to act as sentinels. I had seen these little creatures running
along the ground, but they also now took flight. with the rest.

At last, to complete the number of unbidden guests, two kanga-
roo: sprang on the field, who, with tremendous leaps tried to escape
in sat'et y from our dogs, which they readily succeeded in doing.

Fritz, however, had been on the alert the moment he saw the
('anadian fowls, and without delay released his eagle, which he
always carried behind him, perched on his game-bag. He un-
covered the bird's eyes, and threw him aloft from his list after one
of the fugitives.

He then sprang quickly on the back of the onager, and followed
his pupil with the swiftness of an arrow. \Ve watched this per-
formance in the air with the greatest curiosity. The eagle was not
long in discovering his prey, and flew over it at; a great; height, as if
he threatened to pounce down upon the bird at once.

The Canadian fowl no sooner caught sight of his enemy, than he
shrank from him in terror, and tried to avoid the thrust by various
moverneuts,--dre\v himSelf together, stretched himself out, and at
last sank to the earth, terrified at the fierce eyes and frightful claws
of his enemy.

This loss of courage would have been fatal to the Canadian fowl,
for the eagle pounced upon him in a moment, as he was sinking
carthwards, and, seizing the poor creature with its claws, would no
doubt have made an end of him. But. Fritz was close at hand, and
springing among the bushes, freed the claws of the eagle from the
bird's feathers, and covered his eyes with the hood; then, after
tying the Canadian fowl's legs together, and covering him with a
piece of canvas, he seated the eagle again on his game-bag, and
presented himself to us triumphantly.

.Taek alone remained behind, with his young jackal, to try his
skill as a hunter. He had noticed that a. few of the birds with
sentinels, which were evidently quails, still remained in the field.
The jackal, at the connnand of his master, sprang in amongst them,
and brought out about a dozen to the delighted Jack, by the wings.

On our return with the captive Canadian few], the youngster met
us, and proudly showed us the result of his instruction to thejackal.
He received hosts of congratulations; but; we were thirsty and ex-
hausted, and therefore anxiously turned our steps towards 13' alcon's
Nest.

On arriving there, and complaining of the heat and our thiisty
condition, the mother otl'ered us a new and most refreshing drink,
which she had prepared from Indian corn, which, after being crushed
and diluted with water to clean it, was strained through a sieve,
and sweetened with the juice of a sugar-cane. This drink was re-
freshing, and as agreeable and nourishing as milk. The rest of the
(lay we employed in shelling and laying by the seeds we had brought
with us, and also made the necessary arrangements to start on the
next morning at daybreak to carry out a new undertaking.

""0 chose especially a Canadian cock and two hens, which we in-
tended should establish a colony in the wilderness, and increase in
numbers, and seek their supply of food for themselves. I decided
also to take four of the little pigs, and two pairs of goats, for the
number of our flocks and herds had already become very considerable,
and how to procure food for them all was a cause of no little anxiety.

In the morning, after packing our waggon, supplying our domestic
animals with sufficient food and water, as well as providing ourselves
with arms and ammunition, we started from Falcon's Nest. The
cow, the buffalo, and old Grizzle were the beasts of burden; Fritz,
on the now tame onager, rode foremost, as a brave outrider, to dis-
cover if the way was clear, and no danger presented itself.

We struck again upon a new path, between the strand and the
river, and presently found ourselves in the region which stretches
from Falcon's Nest to the great bay, and the place we named after-
wards our watch tower, on the hill at False Hope Point.

By-and-bye, we found no little difficulty in passing through the
high grass, and reaching the wood beyond it. But here also a
number of trailing plants, and an overgrowth of brushwood, hin-
dered our steps; it was necessary, therefore, to take another road,
or cut our way through with axe and hatchet.

This diilieult march, however, came to an end at last, and we
reached the opposite edge of the wood, and saw before us an opt-n
plain, on which grew a number of small bushes, pr outing a most
striking appearance. Little Frank, who was the first to notice this,
presently exclaimed,

" 0h, mamma, how pretty! look, it has been snowing! It is real
winter here, and not at; all like the ugly rain we have hat ."

I was not surprised at the child's mistake, for most certainly there
lay scattered on the bushes and on the ground a white woolly sub-
stance, that glistened like snow-flakes. I was about to express my

19~I
.--

SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

opinion, when the quick and enquiring mind of Fritz made him
assert as a fact- what I only conjectured, that these bushes were a
kind of dwarf cotton tree. They certainly bore a kind of wool,
which grew in holes or pods, like the wool of the cotton tree, and
this welcome plant we had now discovered in our travels. The
downy contents of these pods we longed to possess, for quite a bushel
of line soft wool lay in every direction, either scattered on the
ground like the round snowballs in our gardens at home, or still
enclosed in the pods, and hangingr on the green stems of the bushes.

 

VIEW FROM THE HILL.

The joy expressed on this discovery was loud and universal,
particularly by the mother, who was in ecstasies over the number
of articles with which this wool would supply us, if I could only
manage to make a spinning-wheel and weaving machine for her.

While we were conversing on the possibility of my success in
such an attempt, the boys were gathering up and plucking quantities
of the wool, till all our sacks were full; but my wife eagerly filled
her pocket with seeds, in the hope that, if sown at Zeltheim, we
should be as successful in raising this useful plant as we had been
with former grain.

After walking onwards for a short time, we arrived at the foot of
a little hill, up which we climbed, amt from the top discovered a
most. delightful prospect>>. Trees of every kind decked the hillsides,
and beneath flowed a clear rivulet, which in a verdant plain,
evidently fertilized by it, was lost to our view.

After descending the hill, my proposal to establish our farm on
this fertile plain received universal :lpl'fl't'lVfll. The tent; was, there-
fore, quickly raised, and large stones collected to form a fireplace,
that dinner might be ln'eparcd. After a refreshing meal and rest,
I decided that it would be necessary to employ the remainder of
the day in the work that appeared the most urgent.

My wife and the boys took the trouble of separating and cleaning
enough of the cotton wool to fill our pillow-cases, that we might
have soft pillows for our heads at night. I employed myself in
searching the neighbourhood for a suitable place in which to build
our farmhouse.

At a little distance I came upon a group of trees, standing at
such convenient spaces from each other, that I decided imme-
diately to make the trunks of these trees the chief supports of our
house.

After relating my success, we all retired early to rest; in the tent,
to gain strength for our work on the following morning, when I had
arranged that the building of our farm should commence. The
trees I had chosen stood in the form of a parallelogram, or long-
sided square. The longest side, facing the sea, consisted of three
trees, one at each corner, and one in the centre. Inside the trunks
of these trees, at about ten feet from the ground, I cut notches,
as also in the three at the back, which grew almost: opposite.

The notches, however, in these were only eight feet high, as I
intended to place beams across in a sloping position, from front to
back, to form a roof. These beams were not more than five inches
thick, and were fastened firmly with nails to the trees at the side.
Across from tree to tree thin laths were placed, to form the walls,
and then fixed firmly to the cross beams above with wooden pegs;
and when this was completed, the walls of our building looked like
huge gridirons.

To make the roof secure, we covered it with pieces of bark
already dried in the sun, in the form of tiles, and, fitting one over
the other; these were all firmly nailed to the beams on which they
rested.

19--2
"'hile clearing up the rubbish and the broken pieces of bark
we had used, I noticed a peculiar smell, and took up one or two of
the chips to examine them. I then discovered that they were

 

All ERICAN PITCH PINE.

pieces of the bark of the terebinth-tree, and contained turpentine.
I hoped, therefore, to make even these broken pieces of still greater
use than merely supplying us with fuel.

The acacia species, or mimosa-tree, which we found at a little
 

 

 

distance, had thorny branches, and these thorns were very useful
to us as nails.

\Ve had to thank the goals for the next wonderful discovery,
which was indeed welcome. They were seen to scrape among the
fallen bark chips for certain pieces, which they evidently con-
sidered as delicious morsels, for they devoured them greedily. The
boys, whose curiosity was excited in the highest degree by the per-
formance of the goats, took up pieces of the bark and tasted them.
So aromatic and delicious was the flavour, that Fritz at once pro-
nounced the bark to be cinnamon.

 

FIR~CONES OF THE PINK PINK.

During our midday meal, the boys made many inquiries re-
specting these new discoveries, turpentine and cinnamon; they
could think of nothing else.

Respecting the two first, I explained that turpentine and tar
could be produced from the fir-tree, and this fact was known by
the ancient; Greeks, and from them it came to Venice, and is now
an article of valuable commerce, especially with Norway, in which
are large forests of fil'S. Tar, when mixed with train oil, forms
pitch, which is also very useful; and when fat is added, it makes a
kind of grease for carriage and cart-wheels.

"We shall now be able to prepare pitch for our yacht," I said,
" which will be a great improvement on caoutchouc, and render it
stronger and firmer. The terebinth-tree exudes a kind of gum, in
l0
' I
9;

some cases naturally, but in others from incisions in the bark.
This gum, as it runs forth, hardens in the sun, and becomes as
transparent as amber. It is used when burnt as a perfume, and if
dissolved in spirits of wine, forms a beautiful transparent; varnish
for 111,111eelain, china and glass.

" Cinnamon," I continued, " is the bark of lhe cinnamon-tree; the
best comes from the island of (101' ton. The roung trees are chosen,
because the 11"11111s111 outet bark can be easily r'emo1c1l,le11\'ing a line
inner layer of the cinnamon, width is peeled otl', 11nd after being
dried in the sun, is cut into strips of various lengths, and rolled
together in parcels.

"1'l1es11p11r11els aremostcarelullysewn in pockets containing cotton-
w'uol, the pockets ate wrapped in matting, and at last the whole is
tied 1111 in ox- -hides, which by the sun 111 111 fire l1111e dried till they
are hard as horn' they me then sent on board ship. by these
means the contents me not only secured f1on1 plunder, but also
front the possibility of losing their aromatic flavour."

After dinner we again proceeded to the building of the farm-
house, which I. knew would require many industrious days before
it was completed. 011 this afternoon we c1:11nmenL-ed covering the
walls with 11 kind of latticew'ork of creeping plants, twisted to-
gether 11s closely as possible, to the height of about tire feel.

The open part abore to the roof w1s 1-1111 partl1 covet red with
laths, also in 11 kind of l.1tt11 L\\Ull\, learin-r l11r-1e spaces htt'-w1111
for air and light, aml also to enable us to look out 11on\'.-1ni1nt|\'.
'lhe intet rior was titled up 11s much in aeeoidance with my inten-
tion 11s could be managed without much outlay of wood

A partition the length of the building ftom front to back, divided
the interim into two 1111111111111 parts. The laryer10ntained the
print ipal 11ut1'1 lute-door to the cattle-stalls; the sin1'1llei w'astot'or111
l1-11pn111--.1p.11lm1uts for ou1sel1'es whene1er we paid a fish to the
farm.

Within the larger partition we erected a smaller one, with
wooden palings', so arranged that, while the poultry could easily
slip through to the principal door. the animals \\'1~!'L'1lllilt'. separated,
and unable to intrude upon them.

In both places we made proper tr1'1ughs for their food, and
between the cattle-stalls 111111 our sleeping-chaml1er a secure. door
was placed. In 11 comparatively short time we had the whole
1lw11llin1r most 1omf111t11hlr arrane'ed: for,although not 1111) beau-
tit'ul' 111 outw .1111 appearance, yet it 1111s quite e1111111'l1 tor 11s to t'eel sure
that we had made a really good shelter for the sheep, goats, and fowls.
And in order to accustom them to the new home, we took care
to fill the feeding-troughs daily not only with their usual food, but
also with salt and other favourite provender, both morning and
evening. This plan so attracted the colonists to their new stalls,
that they became quite accustomed to the place, and lost all iii-
clination to run away.

I had calculated that this undertaking would most likely be
finished in three or four days, but it took us more than a week,
and our stock of provisions was by the end of that time nearly
exhausted. As I did not wish to leave our new establishment;
until it; was quite completed, I sent Fritz and Jack to Falcon's
Nest to obtain a fresh supply of necessary provisions.

The animals and poultry at Falconshurst would also need more
fodder, and I desired the boys to give them enough to last for ten
or twelve days. The two messengers took with them the ass to
draw the cart, containing string and bags, in which to pack all the
store of prm sions they could find, and the onager and bull'alo
were the riding-horses. They started full of spirits, and, with a
slight touch of the whip, induced our old Grizzle to follow them
at a good trot.

During their absence I set out, with Ernest, to explore the sur-
rounding country, not so much with the intention of finding.r po-
tatoes and cocoanuls as from a wish to become better acquainted
with it. At: a very short distance from our new farm we came
upon a little brook, which flowed towards the wall of rocks. and
found ourselves in a road we already knew.

After awhile, however, we reached a large marsh, which bordered
a beautifully situated little lake. As we walked round the marsh, I
noticed with joyful surprise that it was covered with the rice-plant,
evidently growing wild in great luxurianee. Some of the bushes
appeared to be young shoots, and the rice upon them but half
ripe.

Hem and there I perceived fully-grown plants, covered with
seeds, to which a large number of greedy birds had been attracted.
On our approach they flew away with rushingr wings, aml we tired
at four or live Canadian fowls, but it would have been impossible
to secure even the one that fell had not the young jackal rushed
in among the rice-plants and brought it to us. _

On proceeding farther, Master Nip made a welcome discovery
for us. As usual, he accompanied us with his little basket on his
back, and ridingr on his strong patroness, Floss. Suddenly he
sprang from his nag, and rushed forward on all fours to a green
bank at a little distance, and commenced plucking something and
devouring it with great enjoyment.

Ernest and I followed him, and quickly recognized, in the
wholesome and tempting fruit he was eating, beautiful and sweet
strawberries. "'0 at once seated ourselves on the ground, and
refreshed our parched lips with the delicious fruit. Some of the
berries were as large as my thumb, and not only quite ripe, but
with an aromatic flavour that resembled the anana or pineapple.

I thought, while regaling ourselves, of the dear ones at home,
and we gathered enough to fill Nip's basket to the very top. It

 

DUCK-BILLS!) PLATXI'USu

was then covered with large leaves, and over all a clean cloth
carefully tied, for I feared that if Master Nip found the basket too
heavy, he might be inclined to eat some, to lessen his load, if it
were not closely covered.

I did not forget, also, to carry with me a few specimens of the
ripe rice-seeds for the mother, so that she might ascertain as
quickly as possible, by her cooking skill, whether we had made a
useful discovery.

Continuing our walk, we presently came to the spot where the
marsh was transformed into a tiny lake, which we had already so
much admired from a distance. Our delight was now greatly in-
creased by the appearance of a number of beautiful coal-black
swans, which were gliding in stately tranquility 011 the lake, their
elegant forms mirrored in the dark blue 11'11te1s.

The sight was so charming, that I would not, by any hunting
propensities, have attempted to disturb its serenity; but our war-
like companion Floss had no such generous feelings. The dog had
noticed a strange movement in the water. She sprang in, and
quickly reappeared, dragging to the shore a singular creature like a
fish, which she had killed, and would have devoured had I not ran
hastily to save it.

The curious animal puzzled me. It was web-footed, had the
tail of a fish, and a head proportionate to its body, which was
co1 cred 11ith long hair like fur, and had eyes and cars so small
as to appear as if fo11ncd for concealment But the most remark-
able feature of the animal was a duck s beak on its snout.

These unheard of combinations in one creature were in appear-
aiue so ridiculous, that 110 lautrhcd heartilv: yet, while I examined
the animal, I could not possibly decide to 11l1atr gun/s it belonged.
I came to the conclusion, at last, to give it the name of " the beast
with a bill." Ernest, however, was 1ery anxious to take home this
remarkable animal, and have it sluil'ed, to be preserved as a
curiosity.*

Laden with such booty, we now turned 0111' steps back again to
the newly established farm; and in less than a quarter of an hour
after our a1'1i1',al him and Jack, approachinrr at a sha1p trot, re-
turned from their errand to l'aleon's Nest 'lhey brought 11s a
good report of the animals, as well as proofs that )they liad truly
obeyed my orders.

I icinarkcd also with satisfaction that the boys had not only
carried out my precise commissions intelligentlv, but also brought
with them many other articles which they considered would be
useful in completing my plans and intentions

011 the following morning, after supplying the sheep, goats, and
poultry, which we intended to leave behind, with suilicient fodder,
we departed from the new farm, which had been named \Vood
G1 Inge, and took the load to the pr'omo11to1y of false Hope.

After walking fora slunt distance, we reached a 11,001] in which
an enormous numbei of apes received 11s with unemthly cries, and
pelted 11s with a hailstorm of pine-cones; and it was only by firing
0111' guns, loaded with small shot, into the air, that we could dis-
perse 011' assailants.

Fritz picked up one of the cones with which the apes had

" This creature was no doubt the aquatic animal named the " duck-billed platypus."0)
l4)

SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

attacked us, and showed it to me. I was glad to recognize in it the
cone of a pine-lir, that produces a most agreeable oil when pressed,
and appeared so likely to he useful to us, that; l desired the boys to
gather up as many as possible.

 

As soon as a large store had heel: collected, we departed without;
delay from the wood of apes and lir-trees. and arrived in a short;
lime near the promontory of False Hope. "'hen we emerged from
the Wood, I had noticed at a short distance a rising ground, from
the summit of which I felt sure we should discover a delightful
prospect; and on reaching: the foot, I at once proposed that we
should climb the steep ascent.
On arriving at the top, I found my expectations more than
realized, so beautiful was the country that lay stretched out before
our eyes in every direction. I at once decided to make also here
another establishment; as soon, therefore, as we had rested for a
short time, we crmnnenced erecting a little cottage, or summer-
house, on the brow of the hill. V

This work was far easier to us now, in consequence of our practice
and experience at \Vood Grange; and it proceeded so rapidly, that
in six days the cottage was finished. "'e gave to this new settle-
ment, at Ernest's suggestion, the high-soundingtitleof1'1'es1u'ct11ill.

But this expedition had been undertaken by me principally that
I might search for a tree with a light, strong, yet flexible bark,
suitable to make a small boat. Hitherto my search had been
fruitless but, in spite of this, my hopes of finding the right tree
were not lost.

As soon, therefore, as the cottage was coml'xleted, the boys and
I commenced our search in the surrounding neighbourhoml.
After trying the bark of many trees merely with my hand, we dis-
covered two tall line trees, resembling oaks, with trunks rising to a
great height before any branches sprang from them.

This bark, however, appeared to me to be a species of cork, and,
merely from its great toughness, would have been suitable to my
purpose, especially as it was also easy to cut.

As soon as 1 had chosen my tree, I placed the little rope ladder
which we had brought with 11s on the lowest branch, and fastened it
firmly. Up this ladder Fritz climbed. and, with a hand-saw, cut a
circular incision round the trunk through the bark to the sap,
while I carefully made :1 similar incision near the root. "'e then
made another incision from'the upper to the under (lHlt': str: -1i-v|1t
till" 11 the stem, bv which the bark "as sc p:'11atcd from the tiec in a
c111\cd form, and the uncm cred sap of the trunk was left to drv in
the sun by dcgl'Jees

The shell of bark we removed carefully and laid on the grass
unhurt; but even then not half of our work was completed. The
first thing advisable to be done appeared tome the formation of the
boat. while the ba1k was by nature still moist and flexible, and
would therefore be mole t 'ly brought into the shape of a vessel.

My first act, tl1erefo1e, "as to cut through each end of the piece
of bark to the length of about three feet, and then fold the pieces
over to form the stem and stern of my boat. In this position I
nailed them firmly together, so that they might not become
loosened by the influence of water. This performance, however,
 

made my little ship too flat. I therefore hound it round the sides
with stron:r 111pL-s while the bark was moist, that it. might remain
in a propel shape when d11.

At this point I lelt that my ho11t- building could not, be finished
without, the 11ecessa1'1 tools. I ther'efore sent Fritz and Jack to
Zeltheim for the sledge, to which I had fastened two little wheels,
brought f1o1u the met k, and belonging to the ship's cannon, so that;
the unfinished hoat might he carried to a more convenient place to
be Oomphd 1.1-1]

Durinn the absence of the ho1's,I searched the neighbou1i1nr
woods and "111105 fo1 pliable wood, that 11 ould hend easily" and form
the ribs of my little ship. Ernest, houev or, was fortunate enourrh
to discover, while searching with me, a kind of ligneous wood, which
generally grows in a curved form naturally, and would, 011 that
account, he most useful for the ribs of the l1ioat,1vithout looking,r for
flexible Wood.

111 the midst of this search we also made a very useful discovery
of a tree from which flowed a new kind of gum. This gum could
he used as glue in a liquid state, and I had no doubt would become
exceedingly iirm and hard when dry. The mother and little Frank
on hearing this, inuuediately set about collecting a large store, for
] hoped also to he ahle to use it instead of pitch or turpentine in
finishing the heat.

It; was late in the L1 Lninn' when the young people 1etu1ned 11 ith
the sledge. "e were hy that time only too glad to retire to rest,
and leave the completion of our under takin" till the moininrr.LITTLE rmxu r\.\'D THE CALF.

E rose early on the follmving morning, and were soon busily
engaged collecting the timber, curved wood, and other
articles necessary to the completion of the boat, which

were laid on the sledge. After breakfast the smaller articles, with
our provisions, were placed on the cart drawn by old Grizzle, the
buffalo being harnessed to the sledge, and we then started on our
way to Zeltlreim.

Orr reaching the bamboo grove, it was found necessary to cut our
way through with axe and hatchet, which made tlrejourney very
tedious; but the store of canes we obtained would, I knew, be very
useful, especially a large thick one, which I determined to use as a
mast for my new boat.

"'hen at last free from the bamboo grove, I led the way to the
left through a narrow defile, formed by the ridge of rocks on one
side, and a small channel or gulf on the other, which poured forth
its rushing waters into the bay at a little distance.

Through this narrow pass I and the boys, after proceeding for
a few paces, came to a standstill, and here I proposed to raise an
earth wall, to prevent access to our farm in this direction.

We dug the earth up and threw it in two heaps, to a great height,
the whole width of the pass, with a. small opening in the centre, till
the hollow appeared like a deep grave. A small wooden gate was
then placed between the two heaps of earth, to allow us to pass
when we pleased; but against this portal we piled up thorny and
prickly plants, as high as the earth heaps, and by this means made
both a fortification and an entrenclmrent against intruders or wild
beasts on our farm, at least by this defile. On the protected side of
the pass we let loose the little pigs we had brought from Zeltheim,
that they might find a lronre for themselves, and before leaving the
spot named the place Swimy'ortl.

This work occupied two fatiguing days, and greatly interfered
with our journey. I, however, did not regret sparing the tinre for

285
such a purpose. It was not long.r before we arrived at; Falcon's
Nest, and here I decided to stay for two hours, to enable my wife
to prepare dinner, while we supplied the animals and the fowls with
food and water, and also obtained an hour's rest for ourselves.

Zellheim, however, was not reached till late, and we were so 00111-
plelcly tired and overworked, that, after taking some refreshment
and unharnessi11g,r the animals from the cart and sledge, we were
glad to retire 11) rest.

()11 the following 11101-11ing I set to work in earnest, with the help
of the boys, to finish 111yboat-building. The first important; under-

 

COW AND CALF.

taking was to fo1n1 the 1ibs, with the 01111011 and pliant 11 ood we had
b1o111rht, and also to lix underneath, fiom end to end, a thin plank
foi a keel 0n the upper parts rings were placed, to receive the
coidage and tackle of the rigging.

As ballast I tlnew into the hollow of the boat a number of peb-
bl1-s,11l11chI cemented together 1)) pouring upon them a mixture
of lime and cla). Over these pebbles planks were laid, side by
side. and a very useful and con1enie11t iloo1i11g or lower deck they
made. Across the boat; hung movable planks, for seats, and in the
centre of the lower deck or floor a large hole was cut, to receive the
bamboo mast, to which a triangular sail had been attached.

The rudder I fixed at the stern with two strong door-hinges, and
a long handle was also placed in the inner edge of the rudder as a
tiller, by which whoever steered the boat could guide it properly.
My boat; when finished piomised to be 1-e1'y useful, and to carry 11s

in safety e1 e11 against wind and tide; and altholigh of little cost;
11a>> to us of the greatest 1alue.LITTLE FRANK AND THE C'ALF. 287

 

For greater security, I finally thought of another arrangement.
I requested the mother-to make for me two air-tight leather bags of
the dog-fish's skin: these I covered carefully with a thin wash of
pitch, tilled them with air, and fastened them by well-tarrcd ropes on
each side of the centre of the boat, just low enough to touch the
water.

ly this means it would, I knew, he almost impossible for any
accident to upset the. boat, unless it were too heavily laden.

During the rainy season a circumstance occurred which I have
been too much engaged to mention before. Our cow presented us
with a bull calf.

In the hopes of eventually taming the little animal and making
him useful, 1 determined to pass through his nostrils, as I had done
with the bull'alo, a piece of stick, to be replaced as he grew older
by an iron ring, with reins and bridle to guide or lead him.

This, however, could not be performed till the calf was old enough
to be weaned, and that time had now arrived, for the young creature
was already grown large and strong, and quite at home amongst
the other animals.

After the operation had been performed Fritz remarked that we
might now, with our two animals, venture on a Hottentot battle if
we were attacked.

"I cannot; understand," said his mother, " why there should be
fighting oxen in any country, or under any circumstances"

" I will endeavour to explain to you," 1 sait , " as clearly as I can,
why the natives of South Africa train their oxen to fight. These
people dwell in a country infested with wild beasts, and their
principal means of support is derived from their llocks and herds of
cattle and sheep; and to protect these they place one or more of
their fighting oxen in charge of the rest, and wonderfully they per-
form their ofiice.

"At the slightest appearance of danger the courageous animals
lead all the rest to a spot. of pasture, and group them together in a
circle, the young calves and the weaker cattle being enclosed in the
Centre. These fighting oxen place themselves outside the circle, and,
with raised heads and projecting horns, face the enemy. At times
the appearance of these animals and their loud bellowing alarm the
enemy and put them to flight ; yet, even should this enemy be a
lion, they will often nobly sacrifice their own lives for the pro-
tection of the flock.

"It is said that in olden times, when these tribes were at war
with each other, and attacked the villages or huts of their enemies,
they would place these nohle champions as a vanguard of the
army, and not seldom the victory has been gained hy their heroism
alone."

The boys were delighted with this account, hut they all agreed
that; our little hull need not he trained to such wonderful warfare
Yet still he required teaching to become useful, whether to ride or
drive; who was to do it? 'Zrnest had enough to do with his monkey;
Jack had his hull'alo and young jackal ; Fritz was satisfied with his
nnager and eagle ; so there only remained little Frank, with nothing
to engage his attention or require his teaching.

 

Hu' ll'l'l.\'u BULL.

" Well, little man," I said, " will you undertake the education of
the calf ? "

"Oh, yes, papa," he replied. "I'm not a hit afraid; and I re-
memher that story you tnld me once ahont a man called Milo, and
how he began when he was young hyearryinf,r a calf on his shoulder
uphill every day, and that he hecame at last so strong, that when
the calf was grown to he a great ox, the man could carry him just
the same. And perhaps, if 1 hegin now while this calf is little, and
teach him every day, I shall grow stronger in knowing how to
manage him when he is big."

I laughed at the little hoy's story and its application ; and I told
him that; the calf would become a hull very quickly, and long before
Frank was a man. [encouraged him, however, to try what; he
could do, and advised him to use kind means, as the best way to
tame all animals, even sometimes wild beasts.]."177L1'} FHA .\'11' _-l\'l) T111: (CFIL 28!)

'ut,]'1auk," I said, " \1hat name is he 111 MW ' '

" (1h I shall call hini (ir11n1bler,"10plied the boy; "for he can't
l.'1tllu\\' yet: only 111akes a hunnninu noise like gruihhlinf'."

U 1 heaiing this, the boys began to discuss tlie question of names
for their own pets. .lack proposed to name his bull'alo Storm.

" It would be so grand, " 11c said, " to hear them say, 'Hcre comes
Jack, riding on the btorm" '

This joke pioduced laughter, but there could be no objection, so
the name was fixed upon. To the two puppies we gave names in
accordance with their colour--Brown and Fawn--and with these
the boys were quite contented.

For two months afte1 this we weiked daily at our salt caver,n
fixinrr our pa1titions more fi1111ly,or patching up the walls, but 0111
Chief weik 110w consisted in arranging the inner rooms and the
stalls for the animals, that they might,a be comfortable during the
long rainy season and the winter.

Most certainly we performed one piece of work well for such
bunglers as we were in the previous use of gypsum; for, in melting
it into plaster, and filling 111) the crevices in the walls to make them
look smooth, we were wonderfully successful, for it dried tolerably
clean and white in spite of our clumsiness.

The floor of our dwelling-100111 we covered with lime and clay,
in which we placed small pebbles, and stamped them down, filling
11p the spaces between with gypsum plaster, which I did not expect
would be dry till the end of the summer. I also began to see the
importance of using,r the wool and hair of our sheep and goats to
make carpets for our sleeping-chamheis and living-room

For this purpose I adopted a very simple plan. I wetted a
piece of sail-cloth with fish-glue, and spread it 011 the ground.
Over this we scattered hair and wool as evenly as possible, and
then rolled 11p the cloth, beat it with sticks, stamped 011 it with
our feet, and worked at it with all our strength till the hair was
thoroughly mixed.

I then drew from the sail-cloth a piece of felt, which was laid in
the sun to dry. Two smaller pieces were also planned in the same
way; and we had now the satisfaction of knowing that our rooms
would be rendered warmer by a contri 'anee which, though not a
carpet, would be equally useful to us.

All work at our winter castle was, however, set aside 011 the day
following our carpet-making by another important event.

011 the morning of that day I awoke unusually early, but; I
1would not disturb my family, who were still slumbering peacefully.

20
A subject which had occupied my mind for days caused me to lie
awake and think, instead of rising

After sundry calculations, I had discovered that the anniversary
of the day on which we had reached this island in safety was near
at hand, and while reflecting, I felt convinced that it would fall on
the following day. Full of thankfulness for our deliverance from
the wreck, and our safety since, my heart rose in gratitude to God-
for His mercy, as well as for His good gifts and His protecting
care since we had lived on the island, and I determined not to-
let the day pass without some marked celebration, as a proof of our
gratitude.

Full of this determination, I arose and woke the boys and my
wife, and the latter hastened to prepare breakfast, supposing that
I was anxious, as usual, to get to work quickly. Not having yet
hinted at the approaching festival, we each employed ourselves in
little matters that could be easily accomplished. Indeed, I had
so arranged with the boys to perform these trifling duties, that,
until we were seated at supper, no one had an idea of the decision
I had made respecting the next (lay.

At last I spoke.

" My dear ones," I said, " prepare yourselves for a great festival;
to-morrow is a day never to be forgotten."

They all looked at me with astonishment, and I hastened to-
cxplain that I had been making calculations, and found that the
next day would be the anniversary of our arrival on the island, and
that we had been here twelve months.

"Is it possible?" exclaimed my wife; " have you not made a
mistake in your reckoning? the time appears so short."

" No, dear wife," I replied; "we were wrecked on the thirty-first
of January. I discovered this by the almanac of last year, which
1' found on board. I have marked off in every week since the
Sundays as they arrived, till the end of December. Thirty-one
days have gone by since that date, and to-morrow, therefore, is the
first of February, the anniversary of the day in which we so.
mercifully reached this island. My bookseller has not sent me an
almanac for this year," I added, with a laugh, " so I was obliged to
keep a regular daily account." '

"Ah, papa!" exclaimed Ernest, " did you have a long pole, and
make a notch in it for every (lay, and longer ones for weeks and
months, like Robinson Crusoe did ? "

"No, my boy," I replied, laughing, " but I think his was a very
good plan; yet we ought to know how many days there are in each
month, as well as the number of days in a year, to enable us to
keep a correct account."

"That is very simple," he replied, " for the year contains three
hundred and sixty-tire days, five hours, forty-eight minutes, and
fifty-seven seconds."

"Perfectly correct, my young astronomer," I replied; "but all
those hours, minutes, and seconds would cause some difficulty in
our reckoning by cutting on a stick."

"Oh, no! not in the least, papa," replied the boy; " besides, it
is useful for us to know that in four years the minutes and seconds
make up another day, which is added on to February, and so the
fourth year is called 'leap year."

" Excellent," I replied: " we must make you on head astronomer,
Ernest, and give you the task of regulating our watches; you should
also invent a calendar of your own, to belong specially to this high
and mighty kingdom."

The boys laughed at the proposition, but Ernest took my joking
pleasantly; he was rather proud, sometimes, of the knowledge he
had acquired by reading, but he was not an ill-tempered boy.

After we had retired to rest, I heard the boys talking over the
festival for which they had been told to prepare, and some little
secret seemed to be the subject of convelsation. Now and then
they spoke in whispers, but I made no remark.

At break of day on the following morning, we were startled by
the report of a cannon. \V'c rushed from our sleeping-room in the
tree, filled with the greatest astonishment, and scarcely believing
we had heard aright, or what the sound could mean.

Presently, as we were for a moment quite bewildered, I noticed
that Fritz and Jack were absent, and, while I felt inclined to be
angry, I heard them laughing as they ascended our staircase, and
Jack exclaiming,

"Did we not rouse them from sleep quickly with our thunder?"

Then fearing, by my looks and his mother's, that they had dis-
pleased us, Fritz exclaimed,

"Pray forgive us, papal but we thought certainly that such a.
day of rejoicing as the anniversary of our deliverance from ship-
wreck should be welcomed with a salute of cannon, even without
your permission. \Ve thought more of honouring the festival than
of disturbing your slumbcis."

We readily understood the feelings which had influenced the
boys, and accepted willingly the intended honour to the day for
which we had such reason to be thankful.

20--2
 

We sat and rested fora longr time after breakfast, talking over
our plans for the day, one of which was to visit 0111' salt, cavern,
and there make a beginning, by recording in my day-book the
date of our happy deliverance.

I then read 11 chapter in the Bible, and we sang a few hymns,
and afterwards knell. and altered 11p 0111' heartfelt thanks to God
for llis mercies in the past year, and implored His aid and pro-
tection for the future. I was anxious to impress upon my children
that to the blessing.r of God alone on our e111.leavours we owed our
present comforts, and even our lives.

The mother then informed us that she intended to honour the
day by giving us a splendid dinner of the most precious of our
stores; and when we had enjoyed it with thankful hearts, I said,

"\'o\1~', child1':,1n we will spend the remainder of the day in
i111 ful amusement. lou must display your gymnastics, and, as
the combatants of ancient times, strugrgrle for the liioliest honotns,
while 1 and yum mother will be the spectators, and recompense
the \1i11ne1s with the prizes of \'.ictory Tr11111pete1-"' e1ied l 111 a
loud voice, in the direction of the spot occupied by our fowls,
ducks, and geese, who were resting in the shade, "give the first blast
to summon the champions."

The poor birds, surprised and alarmed at my stentorian voice,
set 111) such an excited chorus of 1 plackint: and cackling, that the
boys shouted with laughter, and then joi11in1r their hands, danced
round 11s 111th deli1vl1t,sin1rin1',r

"(tome to the lists mast noble knight;
'l'he'trunipet summons you te'the light.
\\ hat s I1" 111: first begin. 7

"A shooting match," I replied. "And if you will get for me some
pieces of wood, an axe,11nd a saw, I will soon prepare a target for you."

11111 very short; timeI had cut the pieces of wood into sente-
thing like the shape of the body, head, ears, and tail of a kangaroo.
This I nailed tenethei, and set 111) firmly in the mound, at about 11
hundred paces fiom the sta11din1v-poi11t, to foun a target.

The three elder boys eagerly came forward to 11-5 their skill in
shootin" at this taijret, and each was to have t" elve shots.

Fritzo who aimed direct at the head of the kangaloo, succeeded
twice; Ernest was successf 111 only once in st1ikin11 the body; while
Jack's shot, by anieie chance, passed throuvh the animal's ears, to his
on 11 meat amusement. 111itz, therefore, was ploclaimed the winner.

The next trial of skill consisted in thing 111 the air at a stick which
.1 threw 11p, and I "as $111 prlsed to f 1111 that the quiet, reflective boyFAJC/

.J 9'

{'3

YHE
Ernest was not far behind his impetuous eldest brother in hitting
the stick while flying. As to Jack, in this trial he was nowhere.

Bow-and-arrow shooting came next, for I was very desirous that
my boys should excel in this exercise, in case our store of powder
should become exhausted. I found, therefore, to my great satis-
faction, that the elder boys were really skilful marksmen, and that
even little Frank acquitted himself famously.

After a short pause for rest, I proposed a running match; and
for this purpose Fritz, Ernest, and Jack were to start together, at a
signal from me, to Falcon's Nest, and bring my penknife, which I
had left on the table in our sleeping-chamber in the tree.

At my signal, Fritz and Jack started off at a rapid pace, while
Ernest followed with steady, but not slow, steps. I prophesied,
therefore, at 011cc who would be the winner. I had calculated that
the journey to and from Falcon's Nest would occupy an hour and a
quarter of quick walking, but when in less than that time Jack
galloped up on his buffalo, followed by the onager and the ass, I
felt almost inclined to be angry. For if he intended me to consider
him as the first to return, it would be an unfair means of claiming
the prize by riding instead of walking.

" Oh, oh, Master Jack!" I exclaimed, " the prize is for walking,
not riding on a buffalo. Where are your brothers ?"

" They are coming, papa," replied the boy, springing to the ground.
" Your humble servant gave up running from the first. I knew I had
no chance when I saw Ernest coming along at such a steady pace.
And when he and Fritz turned to come back, I mounted Storm, to get
here first,but Lightfoot and Grizzle followed uswithout being invited."

\Vhile the boy talked, I saw Fritz advancing, and fifty paces
behind him came Ernest, holding up the pcnknife in triumph. As
they drew nearer I said,

"How is it you have the knife, Ernest, when Fritz has arrived
here in advance of you ?"

" I reached Falcon's Jest just two minutes before he did, papa,"
replied the boy; "but I believe he would have been the winner if he
had not started off so rapidly. How longr have we been, papa ? "

"Fifty minutes," I replied, "and it generally takes me an hour
and a. quarter to go to Falcon's l'cst from here and back, by the
shortest way, so I consider that you and Fritz have done well, and
you are the winner by two minutes."

"So you rode home, youngster," said Fritz to Jack; " a very fine
way of winning a race ! "

" Oh," he replied, " you two left me behind so soon, that I gave
up trying; besides, you are both older and stronger than I am.
Anything more to win, papa ?" he asked, addressing me.

" Yes; when you have all rested there must be a climbing match,
I replied; " the pads are here in readiness for you."

A few minutes' rest sufficed, and then I was astonished to notice
the agility of J aek. He climbed the tree like a squirrel, and com-
pletely eclipsed his two brothers.

firm in riding, Fritz carried off the palm, although Jack was not
far behind him. He rode and galloped on the onager without
saddle or stirrups; he even jumped off' while his steed was in
motion, and mounted again by clinging to the animal's mane, as
the circus riders do; and Jack almost equalled him in cleverness.

Ernest, however, took no part in this horsemanship; although he
understood well how to ride and manage a horse with saddle and
bridle, he had no emulation for practice on a buffalo or a. wild ass.

But, to my surprise, a new competitor appeared in little Frank,
who requested to be allowed to display his riding prowess on
(lrumbler, the young hull.

His mother had made him a saddle-cloth of kangaroo fur, to which
hung straps with loops to be used as slirrups. Through the ring in
the animal's nose two strings were fastened as bridle-reins, and as the
young rider galloped up to us, we welcomed him wilh aeclamations.

"Most learned gentlemen!" exclaimed the little fellow, as he
brought the obedient animal to a sudden stop, " you see before you
the great bull-tamer, Mile of Cretona; will you allow me to show
you some of my performances?"

Little Frank then put the animal through all his paces: he made
him walk and trot past us, and then gallop, and, indeed, obey the
voice and movements of the boy in a manner that quite astonished
me In the midst of a gallop, he would bring him up at a dead
stop, and yet keep a firm seat. Perhaps the saddle-cloth, so cleverly
made by his mother, had a great deal to do with the boy's success
and the safety of his seat. His brothers were delighted, and cheered
him lustily, while I encouraged him with the praise he deserved,
and was much pleased when he said,

"I shouldn't have managed Grumbler so well, papa, if mamma
had not helped me."

"'0 finished the performance with swimming and diving, and in
this Fritz proved himself master of the art. He was like a New-
foundland dog in the water, and sported in it as if it had been his
natural element.

Ernest was evidently afraid to go beyond his depth, and soon

9)
gave up the attempt; while Jack, being at first too violent in his
movements, was in a very short time so exhausted, that I had to
drag him out of the water. Little Frank, however, in this his first.
attempt, succeeded so well, that I did not doubt he would become
as expert in swimming as in riding.

Later in the evening, when these performances were over, we
returned to Falcon's Nest along the sea-shore. My wife had already
preceded us to prepare supper, as she said, but we found another
preparation, of which the boys knew nothing.

On a cask standing on end and covered with leaves and branches sat
the mother, with a table before her, on which lay the prizes which
she, as (Queen of the Lists, was to present to the victorious champions.

I made the boys approach her one by one, marching slowly, the
youngest first, the tallest in the rear.

I again performed the part of trumpeter, and announced the
name of each winner as he approached. Six times the boys filed
past their mother, as the prizes were given for each of the day's
sports, aml great was the pleasure these gifts occasioned.

Fritz, as the best shot, received a double-barrelled gun, and, for
swimming, a splendid hunting-knife, on which he had often cast
longing eyes.

To Ernest was awarded a. beautiful gold watch, similar to one which
belonged to Fritz, for winning in the walking match. Other smaller
articles were also distributed to them, after Jack had received, for
climbing, a pair of steel spurs and an English riding-whip; and to
little Frank, also, his mother gave a pair of spurs and a whip made of
the skin of the rhinoceros, for his cleverness in training Grumbler.

Then, to the mother's surprise and the delight of the boys, I
stepped forward and presented her with an English work-box, con-
taining a number of most useful articles,--cottons. threads, a needle-
book, scissors, thimble, a fruit-knife, and many other things.

The mother was truly pleased and delighted with my gift, and
the boys in their happiness and joy begged me to allow them to
close this festive day with another cannon salute. I could not
refuse the request, much as I wished to save the powder, aml the
boys, with loud hurrahs, welcomed the roar of the little cannon as
proudly as if it had been a forty-pounder.

\Ve at last joined the dear mot-her at the supper-table, and after
our evening prayer of thanksgiving and praise, we gladly ascended
to our castle in the tree, and sought the repose we all so greatly
needed; and so ended the festival of our first anniversary on this
unknown land.TIIE mscnmvovs MONKEYS.

SHORT time after the anniversary festival, I recalled the fact
that about this period of the preceding year a flock of
ortolans and wild pigeons had settled at Falcon's Nest.

The store which the mother had half cooked and preserved in butter
was now almost exhausted, and I considered it advisable to obtain
some more of these birds to add to our supply of nourishment
duringr the coiningr winter. "'0 therefore at; once took up our abode
at Falcon's Nest for this purpose.

I was, however, very unwilling to spare powder for shooting them,
and I fortunately remembered reading that the \Vest Indians and
the dwellers in the l'clew Islands, where these birds are plentiful,
snare them with a kind of sticky substance, which they prepare by
mixing oil with the gum of the india-rnbber--tree. It has the name
of lard-lime, and has been known to snare even such large birds as
peacocks and turkeys. "'e had a small quantity of india-rubber
gain left, which I had kept for the purpose of shoe and boot-making.
1' therefore sent Fritz and Jack for a fresh supply, tellingr them to
gather as much as they possibly could in a day's work.

The boys started joyfully on their expedition, takingr with them
as many calabash vessels as they could carry; my wife therefore
reminded me that we ought to add also to our store of these useful
articles.

" But the calabash wood is at such a distance," I said.

" Oh," she replied, smiling, "I believe we shall find some gourds
closer at hand than the calabash wood. The fact is, dear husband,
I planted last year a number of young shoots of the gourd near
some trees in our potato-field. I had almost forgotten them, but
if you like we will take a walk there, and ascertain whether they
have grown to perfection or not."

I was greatly pleased and surprised at this information, another
of those surprises which my wife seemed so fond of preparing for

296THE MISt'IIIl'II'OLZ' MONKEYS. PS517

us; and, callingr Ernest and Frank to be our cmnpanions, we started
as soon as possible for the plantation near Zellheini.

On reachingr the spot, we found to our great satisfaction that the
plants were in a most flourishing condition, but in different stages
of progress--seine in flower, others with the fruit partly ripe, a
number ripe but. soft, and a large majority with the flesh of the
fruit decayed, but the shells as hard as horn. These we chose as
being the most- suitable for our purpose, and especially as the
withered stems rendered them easy to cut off.

 

l).\ UGEIL

With a large number we returned home, and connnenced at
once cutting,r out and forming vases, bottles, cups, and spoons, to
add to our store.

While thus employed, we heard the young riders approaching
at full gallop on Storm and Lightfoot. They had a large supply
of the india-ruhher gum; hut, in addition to this, they brought us
news of other discoveries.

And, first, Jack displayed a small animal he had shot, which he
called a marlnot, but it looked to me more like a badger. Fritz
produced a crane as the result of his sport, and also two roots, one
of which Ernest said was anise--root, and the other the boys
declared must he called the monkey-plant.

"Why do you give it that name '2" I asked.

"\Vell, papa," said Fritz, " when we were not far from wood
Grange, in an open spot near the wood, we came upon a troupe of
monkeys, who seemed to he full of business. we alighted, tied up
our animals aml the dogs, and then cautiously approached nearer.
\Vith surprise we sawthat the monkeys were digging up roots
from the ground in the most comical manner and with ridiculous
grimaces. Holding the roots with their teeth, they threw them-
selves over head and heels, making their bodies a kind of lever to
dig them up. It was then swallowed greedily.

"\Ve were very curious to discover whether this root, which the
apes appeared to consider such a dainty bit, was pleasant to the
taste; I therefore untied the dogs, who quickly drove away the
monkeys, and left us free to gather up as many roots as we could
carry. I tasted one, and found it rather agreeable. Can you tell
us, papa, what root it is ? "

""he root is unknown to me," I replied; " yet still I can trace
in it some resemblance to a plant very highly esteemed in China, of
which I have read. The Chinese consider this root not only whole-
some and strengthening, but also valuable in medicine; it is even
supposed to prolong life. On this account, the Emperor of China
has a right to claim all land on which this plant grows, and these
places are guarded by a sentry. It is also found in Tartary, and
has passed from thence into Canada and many other places in
America, by means of smugglers, who avoid paying duty to the
Government, and can therefore sell it cheaply."

" What is the name of this plant, papa ?" asked Ernest.

" Ginseng," I replied. "But before we attempt to eat it we must
try Master Nip and our poultry with a piece. The other root is
well known as a medicine or in cookery, but it must not be eaten
as food, although it has such a fragrant smell. The seeds form
almost as powerful an opiate as landamnn. What else have you to
show me? "

"\\'e have brought another store of wax berries, papa," said
Fritz; "and, better still, we found a resin flowing from the trunk
of a tree, which seems like turpentine, and we filled two of our
calabash vases with it."

"It certainly resembles turpentine," I said, as I examined it; "at
all events, it can be used instead of it, and will, no doubt, answer
the same purpose."THE MISC]! IE 1'0 US MONKEYS. 2:3

 

" Papa," exclaimed Fritz, as I turned away with the stores and
the booty they had brought, "you have not heard all about the
wickedness of those dreadful monkeys. Our new farm place is
nearly destroyec ."

" What! by monkeys?" I exclaimed. "Are you sure, Fritz?"

"Who else could have done it, papa? for the animals and the
poultry are still living, but the poor fowls are scattered in all di-

 

CIMSES.

rections, and the sheep and goats wandering about in terror. Every-
thing is torn or destroyed--the cotton dragged from our beds and
thrown here and there, and the fodder mixed with the dung-heap.
It was a perfect scene of desolation.

" But our attention was soon diverted from the farm, for while
we stood looking in astonishment and regret, we suddenly heard a
great noise of rushing wings and screaming in the distance, and
presently observed a large swarm of birds of passage passing over
our heads at such a great height that they appeared no larger than3o I S" 'ISS I'l-l JUL Y I.'01}I.\'SON.

sparrows They continued their flight; in perfect; order, one behind
the other, till, as they approached the marshy ground near the lake,
they began to sink lower in the air, and presently descended swiftly
amt alighted on the little field of rice.

"We followed cautiously and softly, but it: was impossible even
to raise my gun unnoticed, for they had sent-inels stationed at every
point, to give warning in case of danger. I could see that they
were cranes, but to shoot one was impossible, and at last, at; a slight
movement; on my part, the whole tlock rose in the air with a wonder-
ful sound of rushing wings. I instantly unhooded my eagle, who
rose rapidly in the air above the cranes, and quickly brought; one
down dead at my feet. There, as the eagle allowed it to remain, I
at once gave him one of the dead pigeons as a reward."

" You were fortunate to have him with you, Fritz," said Ernest.
" llut does he not sit; heavily on your shoulder when Lightfeot
gallops ?

" No," replied the boy, " for he flutters his wings to keep himself
from falling; and you know he is too heavy to carry on my wrist,
as ladies and gentlemen of olden times used to carry falcons. \Ve
tinished our day's work," continued Fritz, "by gathering about; a
bushel of rice, and I think our good coursers deserve their Slipper as
much as we do for helping us to bring home such valuable spoils."

At supper that; evening the roots which we had brought, having
been tasted and greedily swallowed by Master Nip, were cleaned
and cooked for our supper, and eaten with great: relish.

" Dear children," I cried, as I awoke the boys next; morning, " We.
must; rise with the sun to-day, for we have a great. deal of work
before us."

No second word was needed. All were soon on their feet; and,
after ottr accustomed morning prayer and breakfast, we hastened
to commence work.

I first; desired the boys to cut; a few switches from the bushes
suitable. to my purpose; and while they were thus engaged, I
hastened to prepare the bird-lime by mixing with the caontchouc
some clarified pine oil. To this I added liquid turpentine, and
heat up and stirred the whole mass together till it: became a tough
and firm paste.

By the time my bird-lime was ready the boys returned, and l
employed them at once in spreading it over the sticks, while I
examined the trees to choose the most suitable branches on which
to place the snares.

I noticed that a large number of ortolans and wood pigeons were.7'III',' .lIISC'IIll-J I '0 L35 .llU.\'l\' ls" l'.\'. 301

already in iloeks amongr lhe neighbouring trees, and I recalled the
fact that about this time in the last year a similar swarm had iirst
attracted our notice.

So thickly populated, indeed, Were the launches now by these
feathered v .ltnl's, that even the random shot of a blind person
would scarcely have failed to bring down some of them.

I noticed particularly that oaks were the most attractive trees,
on account of the sweet acorns; and after Jack had climbed these
trees, with his usual agility, and placed the lime sticks on the
branches, 1 was reminded of a custom among the inhabitants of
Virginia, an American colony.

These people capture pigeons and other birds at night by torch-
light, and obtain large numbers in that way. 1 determined, there-
fore, it' our snares failed, to adopt; this plan.

About a dozen birds were quickly caught in the snares with great
ease, for they were not at all shy or afraid of J aek as he sat among
the branches, and evidently suspected no danger. As one after
another became fixed to the little-sticks, they struggled and fluttered
to get free, and in so doing fell to the ground, carrying the sticks
with them.

But the sack in which they were placed remained still very light,
although the twigs were cleaned and again covered with bird-lime
two or three times.

I knew, therefore, that by this plan we should not obtain a suf-
ficient store of birds for the winter; and being anxious to save our
powder and shot, I resolved on the following evening to capture a
large number by a torchlight attack instead of bird-lime, and to
make our torches of wood tipped with turpentine.

\Vhile snaring the. birds, Jack suddenly descended from the tree,
and bringing with him a beautiful pigeon, asked me whether it
ought to be killed.

" Oh, no!" exclaimed Ernest: "why, it is one of the pigeons
brought from Europe in the ship; and see how tame it is l "

I perceived at once that the boy was right. I therefore took the
little trembling captive in my hands, rubbed the feet and wing-
feathers with ashes to remove the bird-lime, and then placed it in
the hen-coop with Jack's fowls. I hoped also to catch its mate, as
I was anxious to have a number of these beautiful birds. Fortu-
nately the other tame pigeons were caught without being injured,
and before evening we had two pairs of European pigeons in safe
keeping.

On the other hand, the number of wild birds snared was not
sullicient to fill even one cask. The boys, in climbing the trees so
often to save the tame pigeons, had slightly frightened them away;
I therefore at once determined to proceed after dark to the acorn
wood, and invade the great tribe of wood-pigeons and ortolans in
their night-(punters, where I hoped to find them.

It grieved the mother to think that these pretty birds must be
killed; but I explained to her, as well as to the boys, that it was
necessary to provide food for us on a desolate island, where none
could be obtained for money.

" But," I added, " for boys to set traps to catch birds merely in
sport, or for the sake of shooting them, is displeasing to God, and
shows a cruel disposition."

As evening approached, I prepared for the night expedition. Our
weapons were on this occasion very unusual--merely long bamboo
canes, sacks, and unlighted torches. The boys wondered greatly
that such instruments could be used in catching birds. However,
we proceeded in the short twilight to the place I had fixed upon,
and so rapidly had darkness fallen upon us after sunset ( as usual in
this southern climate), that on reaching the spot the torches were
at once lighted.

By their light I discovered, as I had expected, an immense swarm
of birds roosting on the branches. The light from the torches, as we
stood under the trees, awoke the birds. Dazzled and frightened,
the poor little creatures hopped and fluttered through the foliage
and from spray to spray, then becoming giddy, we could easily, with
our barrrhoo canes, knock them on the head as they fell to the
ground. To increase our store, we beat the lower branches with our
canes, which brought down also a large number of birds.

So many now lay dead on the ground, that the mother and little
Frank had enough to do to gather them up and place thenr in sacks:
those which were only stunned by the blows they had received I
(prickly put out of their misery. As soon as two sacks were filled,
1 proposed to return home by Falconhurst before our torches had
quite burnt out. The valuable booty was so heavy, that only by
suspending the two sacks upon two of the bamboo canes, and placing
the ends of each cane on the shoulders of four of our number, two
in front and two behind, could we manage to carry them easily.

The mother and little Frank led the way with lighted torches, so
that our procession resembled that of a funeral at night in the olden
times.*

A short walk brought us to Falcon's Nest, and after carefully

' Funerals among Eastern nations still frequently take place by torclrlight at night.THE MISC'H IE TO US M OXKE 1'8. 303

stowing away our precious lrooty in a safe place, we gladly retired
to rest.

Nearly the whole of the following day was employed in plucking
cleaning, half baking, or stewiug the birds, before preserving thcni
in oil or butter, and placing them in casks; and we were as busy as
if we had been the keepers of an hotel, and were preparing a festival
dinner. By the time our work was finished, it was too late to set
out on the monkey-lmnting expedition; it was, therefore, put off
till the morrow.

On the following morning soon after dawn we rose and took a
hasty breakfast. My wife had packed up a supply of provisions
for some (lays, in case we should be detained by this war with the
apes. "'e also carried with us a quantity of bird-lime, for I knew
it was useless to attempt to gain the mastery over these terribly
destructive animals with firearms alone.

"'e loaded the buffalo with the travelling tent, and Jack and
Ernest, being not very heavy, seated themselves upon it. Our
provisions and our arms were laid on the onagcr, in front of Fritz,
and I followed on the ass. The mother and Frank remained at
home, under the care of Turk, while Floss and the young dogs
accompanied us in a troupe.

'When we arrived near "'ood Grange, I chose a spot surrounded
by thick bushes, and made a halt. "'e unpacked our baggage,
unharnessed the animals, and tied them to a tree by ropes longr
enough to allow them to graze; I then erected our tent, and after
fastening up the dogs, that they might not interfere and disturb
the apes, we approached the farm cautiously, that we might not be
noticed by the enemy.

Before leaving Falcon's Nest, we had prepared a number of little
poles to take with us, as well as more than half of our store of
gourd and cocoanut shells. These poles were placed loosely in the
earth round the demolished farmhouse, two and two, and tied
together lightly with string. W'ithin was thus formed a kind of
labyrinth, leaving the entrance passages so narrow, that it was im-
possible to pass without touching one or other of the poles, and by
thus upsetting them, the string would twist itself round the body
or the feet of the animal who entered.

At last we placed the cocoanut and calabash shells, containing
rice, maize, and palm wine, in the labyrinth. Over all these, as
well as on the poles, the strings, and even the trees, we lightly
spread bird-lime.

ly the time this business was completed the day had far ad-35" '5 FAMILY .'(Il.'I.\'SOX.

\'anced, 1 determined, therefore, that we should rest till the morning.
Soon after sunrise, the noise which sounded in the distance awoke
us, and announced that our enemies were approaching the farm.
"'0 seized our arms, and divided ourselves into two parties, leading

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MOUNTAIN 0F APES.

the dogs by a string. Cautiously drawing near, we hid ourselves
in a spot from which we could observe unseen a most ridiculous
spectacle.

The monkeys commenced their performances by climbing to the
branches of the trees near the farmhouse, and yelling and chat-
tering, sprang from Dough to bough, with a rush and confusion
horrible enough to bewilder a. man's brain.THE MISUHIE V0 L 3' 110 \"KE 1'3 .3 303

 

Suddenly the whole swarm of ape rabble broke loose 110111 the
trees, sprang from the lower branches to the ground, and, 01 111L11tl1
allured by the tempting bait, hopped pell- -1nell after one another to
the farmstead.

The procession seemed to have no end, and to count the 11111111101's
was i111possible, for they tumbled over one another and crowded
totrether in their haste.

11e111"less1y they b10110. 11110111111 the strings, pulled 11p the poles,
and while some 111sl1ed on the tempting bait, otheis let themselves
loose on the building, and climbed to the roof.

Here they began to pull 11p the pine wood pegs, and at last
pushed their way into the interior, expecting, no doubt, as rich a
booty as 011 then last visit.

But by degwes the chattering of the rabble changed to e1ies of
rage or fe1',11 for not one of the whole number had escaped from
being caught by the bir-d lime either in the head, the breast, the
back, 01' the fore paws.

Half ludicmus, half pitiable were the wonderful grimaces they
made, and the strange positions in which they were fixed by the
lime. Some were endeavouring to clean it 011'; others, attached
to branches of trees or confined by strings, gave themselves 11p to
despair. In some cases, when they attempted to help each other,
they stuck together, and then fought and struggled in useless rage.

Many became entangled in the strings, and others, being fastened
to a pole, fell with it to the ground. I was scarcely able to restrain
my laughter at some, who \1010 not exactly l1ur,t but fixed in the
most ludicrous positions, either from greediness or a love of mischief.

II'e1e was one with both hands stuckl last to pegs, which he had
seized to pull 11p. I11 their haste to be the first to obtain a cocoa-
nnt shell, two had grasped it at the same moment, and were i111-
mediately stuck together; while a third, in his eagerness to drink
the palm wine in a calabash shell, had tipped it up so greedily,
that it remained sticking to his forehead and whiskers like a mask.

Those, 111111e1er, 11erLin the 11 o1~t plight 11110 had become attached
to the t11011'1} branches of the acacia; and indeed the sight was so
pitiable, that I at last determined to put them out of their misery by
11211111"[110(101'310050. The scene that followed was {01 a fe11'111o111e11ts
terrible. The dons 111shed upon the i111p1'isoned apes, and tme them
in pieces--sev elal 11'-huh were only wounded and in agonies, I was
obliged to put out of their misery with a blow from my bamboo
cane.

111 a few minutes there lay before 11s a veritable battle-field. 11' mm

21
the sight; I turned away with a shudder, for not less than thirty or
furty apes lay mangled and dead on the spot.

MULl'l'CA I'I

I/i
i!i!iSS:a.ujifi1 '

My boys were quite sad and serious, and hoped they should never
again witness such a sight. Indeed, as I tuld them, I regrettedTH E M I SCH I E V0 US M 0N K17: YS. 307

 

being obliged to make such a slaughter, but: in no other way could
I get rid of the 111isehievous animals.

"Ah! papa," said Fritz, " they looked so like human beings, and
seemed asking us to help them when the dogs were let loose; it was
that made it so dreadful."

I had noticed this myself with equal pain; but now it was over, I
endeavoured to divert the thoughts of the boys by proposing to clean
and prepare the farmhouse for the reception of our animals once
more.

This they readily arrteed to, but fitst we had to dig a pit and bin v
the bodies of the apes, "hich "as indeed a sickeningr pe1fo1mante.
'lhis being at; last iinishcd, he collected torrethcr all the poles, pegs,
string,s . shells, and 011101 a1tit~les used 111 the attack, and burnt them.
The f'aimstead had then to he tho1oughly cleansed and partially
repaired to form a dwelling for the terrified animals. This work
occupied two days.

"'ith little difficulty and a supply of tempting food, the sheep,
the goats, and the fowls were attracted back to their old homes,
and I earnestly hoped that nothing would again interfere with their
comfort; after our departure.

One day while thus engaged, I heard two or three times the sound
of something falling under the nearest palm-tree. O11 going to
discover the cause, I found three beautiful birds which had been
caught by the lime, and, in their struggles to escape, had fallen to
the ground. They were still living, and on a closer inspection I
discov eied that "'0 had made a splendid capture

These bi1ds belonged to the pigeon tiibe, and wow 01 identlv
fiom the Malacca Islands, 111 11 Inch count1y they are named ca11icr
pigeons, 01 Molucea doves.

This addition to our pigeon family made me truly happy, and I
resolved to commence building as soon as possible a new and hand-
some pigeon-house.

\\'l1cn I mentioned this to Fritz, he said,

" For three pigeons, papa ?"

"No," I replied, " for I hope to make these new-comers associate
in a friendly manner with the European pigeons; and besides, they
will no doubt attiact othets. "

" I on will hme to use smeery, then, " he replied, laughing.

" l'eihaps I may be oblitred to make use of the magician 's "and, "
I replied, "and by the result you "ill be able to judge whethei my
sorcery is successful."

All our arrangements at Wood Grange being at an end, I led the

21--2
 

way to Falcon's Nest, which we reached without further adventure,
and were gladly welcomed by the dear ones at home.

The captive pigeons were much admired, and the mother readily
agreed with me that it was necessary to visit; Zeltheim as soon as
possible, and commence the erection of a pigeon-house; other
matters in the care also required completion.

As Soon as the day for our departure was settled, a store of pro-
visions was got; ready and placed on the cart, with various necessary
arms and tools; and we started from l-'alcon's Nest with the inten-
tion of residingr for a long period at Zeltheim.

The position for my pigeon-house, which I decided was to he
hewn out of the rock over our living-room, was quickly chosen; the
front faced the Jackal River, and without delay the work was com-
menced and continued for several weeks with but; little interruption
In consequence of the comparative softness of the rock, an open-
iny' was soon completed; but; I only penetrated to the interior as
far ' about half the depth of the pigeon-house, for the front and
sides, which projected, were to be made of wood.

The. construction of this Wooden frontage, in which the pigeon-
holes and entrances were to be placed, occupied some time, but
when finished, quite repaid us for the trouble. In each side an
Ulit'lllllg was made for a window, and a Wooden platform stood
before the Cntmnce for the birds to rest upon. The entire front with
pigeon-holes and entrance were covered by a sliding,r trap-door, which
could be drawn up or closed by a string and a pulley in case of danger.
A wooden rail was also placed under the little window, on which to
fasten the rope ladder by iron hooks when we wished to look in.

The arrangenu-nts of the interior were much more ditlicult. Two
side walls of wood and one behind were required in the rocky por-
tion, as wull as a floor and a ceiling. These ditliculties, however,
were at last overcome, and the lmiltllng was really a clercrcon-
struction for such bunglers as we were; in fact, the interior of the
pigeon-house, with its perches and partitions of network, in which
the nests were placed that the birds might; be separated from each
other while building, and all other necessary fittings, were finished
with great neatness, consideringr the want of proper materials and
my own inexperience in such work.

The pigeon-house being at last ready to receive its feathered
inhabitants, I said to Fritz one morning,

" My brave comrade, we nmst new practise some kind of enchant-
ment. to attract a new colony of pigeons to this dwelling we have
made for them."T H E .111 SC]! I I'll "0 US .1110.\"I1'E l'S. 300

 

1" ritz looked at; me with such surprise as I spoke, that I laughed
as I explained, for he evidently did not understand me.

" "'ell, Fritz, the truth is thata secret plan, described to me 3'ea1s
ago by a pigeon dealer in our 1'illage,might be well 111istaken for
witchcraft by ignorant people; and the man who adopted it was
certainly not honest, for he attracted birds which were the property
of others. But here the pige1'1ns are without owners, and if those
which belong to 11s can he made to attract other birds, we shall soon
have a large colony of pigeons to fill the house we have built ; it
will acconnnodate 11 great number."

"And how' can you make our pigeons attract others?" asked
'l-'rit/.: "it must be a 1'111' clever plan. "

"So it iS,l'1itz,3'et extremely simple. Pigeons a1e 1'e13' fond
of the odour of the anise--plantt; it will therct'oie be 111113 111-11'ss1113
to rub the edges of the pi51eon- -holes with oil made from 1111i<ee1l
and the pigeonsin passing in and out; will e11r13'so1neon their wings,
and the aromatic odour will attract others to follow them to their
home."

" \Vhat a simple experiment E " exclaimed Fritz, " and almost like
soi1e11" but how are we to obtain the oil. 7"

' \1213' easily," Ircplied: "a few of the seeds of the plain must
be placed in a mortar, and pressed till the oil is extracted. 'Jhe
whole mass must. then be strained through a cloth, to separate the
seeds from the oil, and this oil, when mixed with lime and salt,
forms a kind of paste."

Fritz readily assisted in preparing this paste, which produced a
1'er3' agreeable and aromatic smell; and in 11 Very short time, the
pigeon-holes having been ruhbed slightly with it, the pigeons, which
had hitherto been kept in a cage, were introduced to their new abode.

\\ hen the younger boys 1111i1'ed from 1'1'111'onlnnst. and found
the pi5_reo11-honse finished and the birds placed 111 it, lhe3 were. de.-
lighted be311111l 111easnre. 'lhe3' climbed tip the 111pe-l111id11' whie l1
1 had used while working, they peeped in through the window in
the rock, and saw that the liiids appeared quite happy, hopping
{111111 pe1eh tope1eh, and not seemin5r the least atraid 11111 when
I drew 11111 and let down the trap- <<11161, which entiicl3 11111111111 the.
pigeon- -holes, and made the birds prisoners.

Two d113s passed, and then I felt some curiosity as to the result
of my magic paste. 011 the third moinin51 I awoke l fill at an ear ly
hour, and desired him to mount the rope ladder and again touch
the edges of the pi5re0n- -l1oles with aniseed paste. "'1: then returned
to our sleeping-cl1amhe1 111 the 1111cr11,whi1l1 had been made habit-
 

able for summer, but was not yet suitable as winter quarters, and
11'1 rice the sleepers.

After a hasty breakfast, I made the announcement that I in-
tended to release the imprisoned pigeons. All my family came
out at once, and stood in the open air beneath the pigeon--house. I
then, in an imposing manner, began to murmur a few indistinct
words, while with my stick I made magic ci1cles in the air, and
gave a sign to Jack to draw up the t1ap- -doo1 by the st1ing which
llllllg nca1 him.

l'resently we saw the pigeons appear at the entrance, then they
put out their heads timidly, and examined the unknown world
cautiously. Suddenly, with rushing wings, they rose in the air, and
were quickly out of sight, and my wife and the children believed
they were lost to 11s for ever.

Not so, however, for after a few turns in the air, as if to stretch
their wings, the Heck returned, and appeared ready to re-euter the
pigeon house, as it' it had been thei1 home for y'.ea1s

But my ploasme at this sight; was 111ickly damped, for suddenly
tlnee fulclj'll biids, instead of following the example of their
lhuopean hiends, suddenly 1050 in the an and took the 11ay to
Falcon's N est, so that I at once gave them 111) for lost.

The four tame pigeons, however, made no attempt to fly away,
but llultered round us in a most friendly manner. we threw seine
peas on the 5r11,1und which they picked up, and then returned to the
pigeon- -house with the gleatest 1eadincss.

The absence of the fu1eigne1s occupied all 0111 thoughts and con-
1'1.>>r:sation.\\e could unde1take no employment out of sight; of the
pigeon-house; but evening arrived without any signs of the fugitives
returning.

\'e.\t nanning, as they did not appear, all hopes of their 1etu1n
seemed lost and we 1v ere obliged to continue our 110111 within the
cave About noon, Jack, who had gone outside for a few moments,
came rushinfr b11L-l1',clappin;' his hands _']oy fullv, and exclaiming,

"' Ileie he is' 111 10 he is truly! He has come back!"

" \\ he has come back? " 11c )all asked; "where? where ?"

" The blue pineon. ' " cried Jack, still louder; " the blue pigeon!
ll111111|1 ' hurrah.' "

".\onsense." cried Ernest, "it is not likely that one would return
alone."

"I do not consider it nonsense," I remarked, "for if one is return-
ing, the otheis are sure to follow."

At this we all rushed out, of the cave, and to our surprise foundT1113 llIISt'IHEl'OUS MONKEYS. 311

not only one of our three fugitives, but a second stranger, evidently
his mate, standing on the outer platform of the pigeon-house.
Presently the blue pigeon flew through the hole, and then nodded
his head and cooed to invite the stranger to follow him.

At. last she was persuaded to mum, and we saw with {neat- satis-
faction that this pair at least weie likel\ to 1emain in thei1 new
home. The el1ild1en wished at once to shut do" 11 the tiap- -door to
secure the neu guest but I peisuaded them f1om doing so, saying
it would be sure to frighten the new comers.

"Besides," I added, " we must leave the entrance open for the
other two, and not shut the door in their faces."

While I thus spoke, Fritz, who had turned his keen eyes towards
the distance, suddenly exclaimed, "Here they come! here they
come. '- " And in a very few minutes we saw approaching the pigeon-
house another of the blue pigeons and his companion.

My boys set up such cries of joy at this sight, that the poor birds
were quite startled, and would most probably have flown away had
they not been fatigued; I, however, imposed silence, and, after some
hesitation, they entered the pigeon-holes and disappeared.

For a time after this all work was set aside, while the mother and
Frank went in to prepare our evening meal. Presently the little
fellow returned alone, and approaching us, gravely placed his hand
on his breast as a herald-at-arms, bowed his head, and said,

" Most- noble and reverend si1s, I am commanded by my honoured
mother the queen of this island, to (ongmtulale you 011 the ariival
f1om the Molluccas of another superb v isitm, Golden- \-vinnr , and his
wile, "ho hme done us the honour to request admission fo1 the
night to the beautiful hotel which you have construetet ."

I11 great amusement we rushed out, and there, on the platform,
in front of the pigeon-holes, stood a third pair of beautiful pigeons
with gold-coloured wings, who were being invited by the recent
arrivals to enter and join them.

\Ve waited and watched until we saw the two strangers enter,
and then repaired to our dwelling-room in the cavern to enjoy our
supper, and soon after we retired to rest, well satisfied with the
events of the day.('ll.\l"J'l-Il.'. XXVI.

JACK'S .-\ll\'l-I.\"l'L'l:|PS--'l'llli STRANDED WHALE.

UlllNG the evening, and the whole of the next day, we

I ) watched anximtsly our pigeon colony, and saw, to our great;

satisfaction, that the birds were becoming quite reconeiled

to their new quarters. In a few days they commenced building
their nests, and for this purpose collected various materials.

Among these I noticed a kind of green tibrous moss, which I
had sometimes seen hanging on old trees like monster untrinnned
beards. I now, however, remembered having read that in the
"'est Indies this moss was used instead of horse-hair for stuffing
mattresses and other articles.

Iat. once mentioned this diseovery to the mother, in the hope
that she might be able to find it useful. Her imagination took
fire at once at the sight of this fibrous material, aml my dear wife
quickly expressed her wish that we should gather as much as
possible of this moss, for after it had been cleaned and prepared,
she felt sure of being able to stall' saddles, mattresses, pillows, and
a hundred other artieles for our use.

The pigeons also from time to time brought us musc-atel-nuts,
or nutmegs, which no doubt grew on Some spot still unknown to
us. These my wife planted in a piece of suitable ground, that
in time we might have the nutmegs also near our dwelling.

Our pigeons still occupied our eager attention. The three
foreigners aml their mates were by this time quite happy in their
domicile, but; the European pigeons multiplied so rapidly, that; I
feared our beautiful favourites would be displaced, and at last
driven away from their new quarters.

Being rather puzzled to find food for so many, we were at last
reluetantly obliged to use the European birds as a supply of
nourislnnent for ourselves, by roastingr and cooking the over-plus
for dinner. "'e reduced our number to five pairs, besides the
foreigners, and for these it was easy to provide.

.l)ul'ing all this time I and the boys continued our work in

312J A CK 'S A l) VENT UIIE --T1[E STRANDED I ["11 .l 1. 12'. 313

 

the cave, with very little incident to vary our daily duties, until
Jack met with an adventure which broke the monotony. One
morning, after being absent for two or three hours, he presented
himself before us in a most deplorable condition, covered from
head to foot with thick green mud. He carried, however, in his
arms a large bundle of Spanish canes, but: he had lost one of his
shoes, and looked ready to cry when his brothers laughed at his
appearance.

"What have you been about?" I asked, checking the laughter
of the boys.

" Gathering reeds behind the powder magazine in the marsh. I
wanted to make some baskets and cages, and I've got all these," he
replied, holding them before me.

" Why, they are as dirty as you are, Jack; there was no occasion
to creep tbrrmgh the duck-pond for them."

" I didn't, papa: at least, not on purpose: but T. saw such
beauties growing on the edge of the marsh, that I couldn't help
trying to get at them. There seemed to be tufts of firm earth
growing here and there, and I jumped from one to the other quite
safely till 1 get near the reeds, and then my foot slipped and in I
went, first up to my ankles, and then to my knees, and thereI
stuck, and began to scream with all my might, but no one came to
help me, excepting my poor little jackal."

" Did he come to you ?" asked Ernest.

"Yes, indeed," replied the boy; " and sets up such a barking
and howling, that the sound echoed round the rocks awfully. But
he couldn't help me, and no one heard our cries. At last, in my
terror, I thought of the reeds: I could just reach them with my
hunting-knife. So I cut down this bundle and laid it on the marshy
pool, to form a kind of bank, and while I rested my body upon it,
I was able to set my legs free, but I left one of my shoes behind."

"So I perceive," I replied; "but: how did you manage to get
away at last, Jack 2"

"0h, papa, so funnily," be said, laughing. "I got astride the
bundle of reeds, and caught hold of the jackal's tail. Of course he
ran back to the dry ground quickly enot g'h, but; I held fast, and so
be dragged me and the reeds to the bank in no time. But I never
had such a fright in my life as when I felt myself sinking in the
marsh. I thought it was all over with me."

" You ought to thank God for saving you, my boy," I said; " and
not only also for the poor animal being there on the spot, but that
you had the courage and presence of mind to act as you did."31-1 SII'ISS 1".rl .111]. Y RUBIA'S'U'. '.

While the l1o3' went with his mother to be cleaned from the mud,
I examined the reeds, 11nd found they were the finest species of
Spanish cane, which, when washed, would be useful for many
things, and particularly in p1'c1'1a1'i115,r parts of a loom for 1113' wife.

I commenced my task the same day by splitting two of the
largest reeds into four, to form a frame for the warp. I then
desired the boys to cut some of the more slender into small pieces,
and sharpen them, for the teeth of a comb, tellin5,r them at the same
time not to say 11 word to their mother of what we were doing.

The treadlc and the shuttle for the woof were soon completed,
and the curiosity of the boys made them 11le all manner of ques-
tions respecting this strange 111acl1ine, especially as each part was
carefully set aside and hidden when finished.

.-\t last I told them not to be surprised if they found I had made
a musical instrument called a "tum-tum," such as the Hottentots
use, which could play 11 tune when their mother beat time with her
foot They knew I was in joke, and laughed 111e1'ril3'; but when at
length the 11 ea\ ing-loom was finished and presented to their
111niher,the3' quickly understood its \111110, and watched her with
the greatest inte1est while she p111ctised the dillerent mo1ements.

I'Ier great joy at this unexpected appearance of the loom was
sullicient reward to me for my trouble.

About this time the ona5,re1' presented us with a. beautiful little
foal, very much resembling herself. This promised to be a great
addition in the future to 11111 animals for riding; and as it grew
older, its graceful, rapid mo\en1ents made me gi1e him the name of
Swift.

For several (lays after I had finished the loom we employed our-
selves in completing the preparations for winter in the interior of
our grotto. The distance of fresh water was also a dilliculty, and
would be worse in winter. To obviate this, I determined to erect
11 fountain, and [11 connect it by pipes of hollow bamboo canes with
the sago-tree conduits at Zeltheim. An open cask served as 11 basin
for our fountain, and 11 smaller one hun5,r near as a kind of swinging
trough, to receive the overflow of the water. For the present, i111-
pe1fect as it was it answered our purpose, and 1113' wife assu1ed me
it gave her quite as much pleasure 11s if it were ca marble basin
supported b3 sea- -l101ses or dolphins.

As we now each 11113" expected the commencement of the second
rainy season, it be '11me necessary, while the weather remained
favourable to gather in from our gardens and plantations a store of
fruit, vegetables, and roots.JACK'S ADVENTURE--T1115 STIHXDEI) WHALE. 311')

 

"'e all, therefore, e111plo3'ed ourselves in this work, and very soon
a good supply of potatoes, rice, guavas, sweet acorns, pine-cones,
anise-roots, and as many of the royal ananas or pineapples as were
ripe enough to pluck.

A quantity of seeds, both native and European, were also sown
in the g10und11e cleared, as I expected that; the rain during the
11inte1 would cause them to slain-1.1111 1apidl3.

To piese11e the 1a1ious articles 111 our rock storehouse 1"cqni1ed
a lar'ge1 number of 1essels than 110 had to spare, I the1efore begged
the mother to make a few more sacks of sail- cloth. I also biota-
111) the raft, that we might make use of the casks 011 which the
flooring had rested, for 0111' store of roots and dried fruit.

Our pigeon--house could not acconnnodate more than the three
pails of foreian pigeons, the ii1 c European birds, and their b1oods
'1'he3 appeared ho11e1 er, very happy in then home, and always
retu1ned at night, after being absent fo1 nearl3 the 11hole da3'.
W 0 had fortunatel3 :1 good store of peas and <<rain for them, and I
expected a huge crop of peas would be 1ead3? in the spring, after
the 1ain3 season

"'inter approached rapidly, ushered in by heavy clouds, which
spread over the horizon, and were followed by pelting showers.
Then the wind arose and blew violently from the sea, the waves
(lashed in foam against the rocks, till at length frightful storms of
thunder and lightning drove 11s to 0111' shelter in the cave. For a.
time the roaring of the troubled sea, and the echo of the rolling
thunder among the rocks, accompanied by rain which came down,
as is usual in tropical climates, like sheets, not drops of water, filled
11s with consternation.

In short, everything denoted the advance of the rainy season,and
resembled the threatening notes of the overture to a soul--stirring
play representing the destruction of nature.

Icalculated that this change connneneedml thefirst (layof J une,and
as for several days after that; date this weather continued unsettled,
it appeared certain that we should be confined to 0111' winter quarters
for at least twelve weeks.

The floods did not, however, pour in torrents from the heavens
for the whole of each day; yet, as the weather was still unfavour-
able, I was glad that. we had already several of the animals safely
installed in our rock stables. The cow we had brought 011 account
of her milk, and the onager because the young foal still wanted his
mother's care. (irizzle and Lightfoot we knew would be useful in
case of a short period of favourable weather, to enable the 1103's to
 

ride [0 1-'nlerm's Nest, where the rest. of our animals and poultry still
renminerl. It; was necessary to lunk after their comforts in the

 

THE STIWIUI.

shelter under the tree-roots, and also to provide them with a fresh
store of fund.

The (logs, the jnekal, the monkey, and the eagle were also resid-
in},r with us in the cave. They nl'mem'eil happy and very lively, inJACKCS Alil'la'.\'TU11'E--Tllly' STE-LYDEI.) H'IIALE. 317

 

spite of hardships, and the ape especially amused us by his tricks;
indeed, the Companionship of these animals tended to shorten 0111'
winter or eninfvs 1"'e11 considerablv.

\ot1vitl1stai1dingr our p1'e1ious work in the ca1',11 we still found a
rrreat deal to be done to render it 1'eaIl1' comfort able 111 such rough
11 Lather One great inconvenience arose hour the darkness 111 the
intetior. The ~1'11e had 01111 four openingrs for li-rht--the door, and
tln'ee windows, one for 0111' sitting-room, another in the workshop,
and one which lighted the three sleeping-L-halul11111's \\ ith the
entmnce- door closed the stables, and other p1'11ts of thL cave at the
back, were in total darkness.

However, a slight change for the better in the weather gave me
an opportunity for trying another experiment before the rainy
season had 1e11llv Set in. J"'111 this purpose I fixed one e1 1111 of a long
and thick bamboo cane firml1' in the <11'ound,11ea1 the centre of the
cave, the upper end reachiue the roof Jack's agilit) made me
choose him to climb this pole, and to carry with him 11 pulley fastened
to a stake, and a hannner. Following my instructions, he drove
into a cleft of the rock the wooden stake upon which the pulley
was fastened A long stringr was passed through the pulley, the
ends of which reached the ground.

Jack now descended, and alighted 011 a 111attress which I had
placed on the floor in case he should slip, and held firmly one end
of the string, while to the other I fastened a large lantern which we
had brought from the wreck.

This lantern, beingr filled with oil and containing four wicks,
burnt brightly; and when I drew it 111) to the roof at the top of the
bamboo cane, the crystal walls sparkled in its light, and we could
see to the deepest part- of the cave.

"e could continue our work now with creator ease' and 011 the
next day E111est and ] rank busied themselves in fitting up shel1es
against the wall of the inner dwelling-room, to hold 0111' books,
which they arranged in rows in difl'erent divisions. Meanwhile the
mother and Jack placed the various articles used for canking on a
kind of dresser, which I had formed of planks against the wall in
the outer room, while Fritz, being the strongest of the boys, assisted
me in fitting 11p shelves and nails in the workshop for the glittering
instruments and tools contained in the captain's chest, and fixingin
one corner his turning lathe.

There was also a little forge that had belonged to the ship's smith,
a pair of bellows, and an anvil, all of which we placed together at
the opposite corner. The carpenter's bench stood in the centre of
our workshop, and the tools and other articles of all sizes and shapes
were hung on the walls.

The enormous quantity of articles found in the chests of the
ship's carpenter, smith, cooper, and tanner astonished me, for after
all we had used there still remained screws, nails, pegs, door-handles
and hinges, bolts and hooks, besides ladders antl steps, and parts of
\\'lit't'll>:tl't'n\\'.'s ready to put together when wanted.

Ernest and Frank had in the meantime arranged our hooks in
cl- 'st-s', and l was surprised to tind what: a. number we had. Some
ot' the -. we had hronght with us from Europe, and others were
tved from the wreck: Voyages and 'I'ravels, Natural
Histories with coloured engravings, and many other learned and
interesting hooks, besides a lmx of mathematical and astronomical
instruments, maps and charts, and an excellent terrestrial globe.

I noticed also grammars and dictionaries of various languages, and
among them those of the English tongue, which pleased me greatly.

Fritz and Ernest; had learnt English at: school, and could speak
and write it a little during our stay in England. I also had studied
this language, which is principally used among seafaring men. "'ith
:l"re.ttcl1 we were all as well acquainted as with our own native Swiss.

"'e talked over all this wmnlert'ul liln'ary duringr our evening
meal, and the boys Were glad of the opportunity of continuing the
study of languages.

The mother, who had heconie acquainted with a Dutch family at;
the ("ape of tiood Hope, could express herself very well in that
language. Jack, however, seemed to consider the ltalian and
Spanish languages much more worth the trouble of learning.
Spanish, he said, was such a grand sounding language.

After much talk, it was decided that we should all study German
and French. English and Dutch were to he carried on by the
mother and her two elder hoys. Ernest, however, wished to learn
Latin, as the root of all languages, as well as to continue his favourite
studies of natural history and medicine.

For myself, I determined to search among the hooks for a Malay
grammar, for it: was not; at all unlikely that we might; have a visit
from the natives of the East India islauds.*

I prophesied that, after awhile, our castle in the rocks would he-
come a perfect) little Bahel, in which we should he addressing each
other in the tlilferent languages of Europe, creating as much eon-
tusion as those foolish builders of a tower which they intended
should reach the sky. '

' Sow included under the term Australasia.JAC'K'S ADVENTURE--THE STR.-t.\"l)E1) WIIALI'L 319

There still remained useful articles in the chests which we had
not yet opened; and when at; last we found time to do so, many
unexpected treasures presented themselves--several lurking-glasses,
two console tables with polished marble tops, a chest of drawers,
two well--furnished writing-desks, and other fancy articles.

 

 

THE BEACIL

In another chest we discovered a musical-box, a cln'onometer, and
a sea-watch, which I own I did not know how to use. In short, we
found ourselves rich beyond what; we had imagined possible; and,
indeed, the twelve weeks in which we were shut up in our winter
quarters passed away so quickly that many articles I had intended
to make were not; even begun. Among these were a yoke for the3 30 SWISS FA 3111, l' (01}! NSON.

ox and the butl'alo, a pair of carding machines for the cotton-wool,
and a spinning-reel, without which the mother's work was at a
standstill.

\Ve were, however, lodged like princes, and perhaps should
have considered ourselves royal residents had we not been reminded
each moment that all this gramleur came from other sources, and
that "' tine feathers make tine birds." However, my dear housefolk
began to consider that our winter residence ought to have another
name, and wished it to be rather a grand one. I agreed at; last
that it should be called Keck Castle.

Towards the end of August the rainy season came to an end;
at least, so we had hoped: but the weather, although at times clear,
became very stormy, and the rolling waves that broke so fiercely
on the shore, front the force of the hurricane, were frightful. llain,
thunder, and lightning continued for hours without intermission,
aml lashed the ocean into fury. It; seelned as if all nature was
given up to destruction, and we were only too thankful for the
shelter of our rocky dwelling, for to have remained in safety at
Falcon's Nest- during such weather would have been impossible.

At length the sky began to clear, and as by degrees the wind
and storm subsided, the rain ceased, and when the sun appeared,
we ventured to open the door of our noble republic and again step
out into the free air.

Vith wonder I remarked the strange signs of vegetation around
us, forming the most striking contrast to the traces of destruction
everywhere else visible. We walked towards the chain of rocks
near Jackal llay, and presently the sharp eyes of Fritz discovered
something large and ronml that appeared to be lying on the little
island near Flamingo Marsh. He took it at first fora sloop cap-
.sized in the storm.

I examined the object; through my telescope, but even then fell;
unable to distinguish what; it could possibly be, although it was
evidently not a vessel of any kind. Having been so long shut up
in the house, we were all ready to embark on board our boat and
sail out at once to the spot. But the bark boat or pirogue, which
\\':' had to fetch from its little dock near Flamingo Marsh, was so
tiiied with water, that after baling it; out; and rearranging the rigging
and tackle, we found it too late to start till the following day.

We were ready very soon after breakfast the next; morning, and
I went on board with Fritz and Ernest. Jack, who was the most
eager on the matter, placed himself at the helm to steer.

As we approached, our various conjectures were very amusing;
but my impression, soon after we started, proved correct--a large
whale lay stranded on the island, evidently thrown there by the
violence of the waves. I went round the island to discover a safe
landing-place, and entered at last a little creek, from which we went
on shore on a sandy beach.

I was pleased to find that this little island, which I could cross
in ten or fifteen minutes, was already in seine parts very fertile, and
that by care and culture its fertility could be greatly increased.

 

STRANDED "'HALE.

It appeared to be the resort of marine birds, for we found several
nests containing young ones, but these my boys did not meddle
with, although they collected several eggs to take home to their
mother.

Two ways presented themselves to enable us to reach the
stranded whale--one over the rocks, and the other a longer distance,
but on level ground. I chose the former, and in my way climbed
to a high point, from which I could command the whole island.
The boys, however, chose the level road.

The landscape, although fertile, was deficient in the growth of
trees, and formed, in that respect, a great contrast to Falcon's Nest
and the opposite coast near Zeltheim, as well as the shore near Rock
Castle, all of which I could easily distinguish from the height; on
which I stood.

22
 

Presently joyful shouts made me turn to the point at which lay
the stranded whale: but the boys, who had not yet reached the
monster fish, were staiuliwcr at the foot of the rocks near the shore,
and calling to me.

"l'apa, papa! please just stop a minute: we have found such
a quantity of shell-fish, and some pieces of rock that look like coral;
do come and look."

I descended to the shore, and discovered that the violence of the

 

ISIS CORAL. )ul ADHEPORB CORAL.

storm and the force of the waves had thrown up quantities of shell-
fish and broken off portions of a coral rock.

" What is coral, papa ? " asked J aek.

" It is in some wonderful manner produced by a small creature,
a kind of polypus. Many thousands of these creatures live in socie-
ties like ants; they pile the coral to form their curious dwellings
one upon another, until they heconi'e coral rocks of large size, and
when they reach the surface of the sea these rocks are fertilized by
rain and the influence of the atmosphere, and they become coral
islands."

"Why, papa," said Fritz, "the coral might be said to belong to
the three natural kingdoms, the animal, the vegetable, and the
 

mineral, for it grows in the form of the branches of trees and shrubs,
it is the work of a worm, and the coral is as hard as stone."

"Your remark is quite right, Fritz; and indeed the coral insect
may be said to belong to the crustaceous animals, and the cells which

 

ALCYOX CORAL.

they build for dwellings in such a wonderful manner are calcareous,
and become hardened by the influence of the water."

"that an immense beast it is!" said Fritz, as we approached
the whale; "it does not appear half so large at a distance. I wish
ii; could be useful to us, but I'm afraid there will not. be much gained
out of such a great; carcass."

" 011 l" exclaimed Ernest, "you forget that the blubber and the

7

22--2
 

whalehone are useful as well as the skin; yet I like all this supply
of shell-fish best."

"Well," I replied, "I think this inspection will content us for
the present. After dinner no doubt the sea will have become
calmer, and we can return and see whether the stranded whale
cannot be found as useful as any other of our discoveries."

The young people readily turned to retrace their steps, excepting
perhaps Ernest, who appeared to wish to be left alone on the island,
like a real Robinson Crusoe.

"Thank God, my boy," I said, cheerfully, " that He has not
gratified your wish, but surrounded you with dear parents and

 

ORGAN-PIPE CORAL. lu-ZD CORAL.

brothers, instead of condemning you to the lonely life of a man
separated from all his species. God has created man for society,
and although the entertaining story of Robinson Crusoe is em-
bellished with poetical fancies quite delightful to read, yet his lonely
position must have been full of sadness. \Ve can look upon our--
selves as a whole family of real Robinsons, but far better ofi',
because we have each other for companions."

By this time we had reached the boat, and stepped on board.
But the boys found it a heavy task to row through the tossing
waves, and I had to exert my whole strength to steer, as well as to
bale out the water with which the dashing waves constantly filled it.
"Ah 2" I said, " if we could only find some large clockwork
wheels about the size of those in a tower-clock, we might very
possibly proceed without troubling ourselves.

" \Vhy, papa," said Fritz, "there are two large iron wheels in our
rock castle, and two spits which mamma uses for roasting; could
not we fix them on the boat? " -

" Possibly," I replied; " but until they are fixed we must use our
arms and shoulders at the oars. In the meantime, dear Fritz, thank
you for the hint, which may perhaps he carried out."

"Can coral be made useful, papa?" asked Jack, as we walked
from the shore to our home in the rocks.

" Yes," I replied, " in many ways. It is ground to powder and
used by chemists in preparing medicine. Necklaces and other
ornaments made of the red coral are worn by European ladies, and
even those pieces you have picked up can be placed as ornaments
on the shelves of our library."

We talked about the coral insect during dinner, for the mother
and little Frank were delighted with the pieces we brought home,
and they both expressed a wish to accompany us in the afternoon
if the sea were calm, that they might have a look at the great
whale and the coral reef.

" I should like to see this great creature," said my wife, " and you
can easily tow the empty herring-casks behind the boat. You will
be sure to find them useful."

"Of course I can," I replied ; "thank you for the hint; but the
sea is a capricrous patron, and although it is calm now, it may not
continue so, and, after detaining us until we are nearly starving,
might send us home across the marsh in a miserable condition."

The weather, however, promised to be favourable, so I determined
to fasten behind our boat the empty herring-casks, to be filled with
the useful parts of the whale, especially the train oil. I had long
wished to be able to burn a light in our lantern all night, and
therefore the blubber of the creature would supply us with a most
valuable store. The boys loaded the empty casks with tools and
firearms, and foot--straps to enable them to mount the great fish.

Our progress with the boat was as difficult as in the morning,
although the sea was calmer, and was performed amidst many sighs
from the boys, as they rowed against the tide: with all our efforts
we could not on this account land near the whale; it was therefore
necessary to place our boat and the casks in a place of safety while
we proceeded on foot to the spot where it lay.

At first sight of the enormous mass, my wife and Frank were quite
startled; and no wonder, for I conjectured that the whale could not
be less than sixty feet long, and nearly thirty feet in thickness near
the head, and in weight it must have exceeded two hundred tons.

The most remarkable thing appeared, however, to be the fact that
the head should be one-third the length of the whole body, and the
eyes not larger than those of an ox. The interior of the jaw was
lined with long, dark, and flexible bones, some of them in the roof
of the mouth being at least ten or twelve feet long.

 

SPERM WHALE.

These, I told the boys, were called "whalebone," and very useful
in many ways, as well as a most valuable article of commerce.
Another circumstance that surprised us all was the size of the
tongue, which it removed would have weighed nearly a thousand
pounds. The deep abyss of the frightful throat also created great
surprise among the boys, and Fritz expressed his wonder that such
an enormous monster should have such a small gullet. And this
wonder was natural, for it appeared scarcely large enough to admit
my arm. -
"The whale cannot certainly be able to swallow anything but
small fish," said Fritz. '
" The whale in this particular resembles slightly some of our'
large land animals," I replied, "excepting that they live on plantsV'JHAI E
 

and seeds as ordained by nature. The whale, on the contrary, feeds
on small fish, and even worms and insects; its special food is a
small sea-insect like a lobster, found in immense numbers in the icy
seas of the North and South Poles. These are swallowed in large
quantities by the whale in the water he. drinks. This water he
sometimes discharges through his nostrils with a force that re-
sembles a wateispout, especially when attacked by whale-fishers.
Such a volume of water, as it rises in the air with steam and foam,
will often capsize the boat, and endanger the lives of the fishers.
--But we must now commence our work with this leviathan, or
evening will come upon us before we are aware."

 

FOOD OF THE WHALE.

Fritz and Jack instantly slipped on the foot-straps, and, mount-
ing on the back of the whale, ran over the monster from the tail to
the head. I then desired Fritz to cut off the upper lip with his
hatchet, while I separated the lower part from the jaw with my
chopper. This exposed the whalebone, and gave me an opportu-
nity to remove from the head nearly a hundred strips. The mother,
assisted by Ernest and Frank, then took possession of the whale-
bone, and carried it to the boat, while I and the other boys were
exerting our utmost strength in separating from the whale a portion
of the skin.

All at once appeared a number of uninvited spectators of our
work. The air was filled with carrion birds of all descriptions,
while their numbers seemed to increase every minute. They
whirled round us in a circle, and at last alighted on the prey with
such greediness and boldness, that they positively snatched away
the pieces of flesh we had cut off even before our eyes.

The question now arose, which would prove the stronger, the
feathered or unfeathered claimants for the dead whale? and we
were obliged to strike right and left with our tools to destroy our
invaders.

Gladly the mother gathered up the dead and wounded birds, for
the sake of the feathers.

After this I separated from the whale a part of the entrails and
the sinews or muscles of the tail ; but these I decided to 1e. ve till
the morning, as I knew we had already quite enough for a boat--
load. I only waited, therefore, to cut a piece from the wonderful
tongue, which I had read was considered a delicate dish by Enro-
peans.

 

\VHALE FISHERY.

By this time eveningr was approaching, and after loading our
boat and the casks with a heavy freight, we rowed out vigorously
to sea, with eager anxiety to reach home as soon as possible, and
purify ourselves after this horrible employment.

Next morning early we again started in our boat to the island,
but my wife and Frank remained on shore this time, for the work
would he, as I knew, most disgusting and unpleasant, the entrails
of the animal, and other parts containing blubber or train oil,
having"r to he ren'ioved.

\V e found the Greenlander safe on the same spot, and surrounded
by a still greater number of those held carrion birds, that almost
deafened us with their cries.
Before commencing our task, we dressed ourselves in jackets,
vests, and coarse shirts, which my wife had searched for in one of
the sea-chests, to preserve our other clothes from pollution, and
then the work began in earnest.

After disembowelling the monster, we threw the refuse to a dis-
tance, to attract the birds away from us, only retaining those parts
most suitable for producing train oil, and also long pieces of the
skin.

This work occupied the whole day, and we were beginning to feel
both hungry and thirsty, for we had not been able to eat much while
working. Before sunset, however, I felt satisfied with what we had
obtained from the whale. We therefore returned with our spoils
to the boat, and after a. refreshing bath, during which we found
some large sea-shells, we hastened on board and rowed towards
home.

\Vhile on our way, J aek said," Papa, what made you so anxious
to bring away all these disagreeable parts of the whale? What
use are they 2 "

"Of great use to mankind," I replied. " In countries where no
trees grow to provide wood for casks, and no hemp to make ropes,
the inhabitants, such as the Greenlanders, the Esquimaux, and the
Samoiedans, find substitutes for these articles in parts of the whale,
--the entrails for one purpose, and the sinews for the other. The
finer parts of the latter they use as thread for sewing their clothes
and boots, while the former is as valuable to them as to us, for it.
produces lamp or train oil. The sinews are also useful in many
countries to make strings for musical instruments, little air-balloons,

n

81'" ----

"What,papa I " they all exclaimed, "air-balloons! Oh! you can-
not mean those large ones which earry people through the air 2 "

"No, my children," I replied, " only those which are to ascend
in a room. Large air-balloons are made of silk, and varnished with
caoutchouc to render them air--tight. This is covered with a net
of silken string, to which is attached the car or basket in which the
aeronaut is seated. The upper part of the balloon is then filled
with gas, and as gas is lighter than air, the balloon rises and floats
easily among the clouds, and often above them."

" But how is gas made ?" asked Jack. .

" You have seen gas often, J aek," I sai( , " when a coal in the fire
sends forth a kind of light smoke in a thin line; this sometimes
catches fire, and a little clear flame bursts forth, causing a bright
light. The smoke which precedes the flame is so light, that burnt
paper or even leaves are carried upwards upon it. This gas is now
liker to be made useful for many purposes by scientific men, who
assert; that, after a time, we shall be able to light our streets and
houses with gas, instead of candles or oil lamps.*

After this, I explained to my boys something of the process by
which the strings of musical instruments are prepared from the
entrails of animals. In the midst of this conversation we reached
the shore, where the good mother was expecting us; but she did

 

AIR BALLOON.

not receive us with a very friendly countenance, when she noticed
the unpleasant odour from our cargo, the richness and value of
which she could not believe in.

On arriving at; Rock Castle, the whole of the unpleasant materials
were concealed behind the rocks, until they could be again brought;
out, and cleansed and dried on the morrow ; and then, after refresh-
inc,r ourselves with water and changing our clothes, the mother
admitted us at last into the rock house, where a plentiful supper
had been prepared for us, to our great content.

" The readers of this story will no douht understand that in 1813 the streets, houses,
and shop windows, even in London, were lighted only with oil lamps or candles The

using gas, now so general, was only talked about then as an experiment that might [ms-
sibly succeed.
ROWING BY MACHINERY--THE 'l'l'llTIE.

E connnenced our unpleasant task ea1l1' next 1no111ing,r by
loading the wheeled sledge with the spoil, and canyin"
aw'a} the disgustingr odon1 of train oil as fan as possible

from our dwelling.

The result of this work, however, was not- to be despised. "'e
filled several casks with rarefied fat and oil thoroughly purified by
tire, and during our absence the mother, and Frank plucked and
cleaned the birds, some of which proved eatable, but the remainder
were not wasted, for the refuse formed a very acceptable feast to
our animals, including the ducks and geese. The feathers also
were of great value to us.

After all these undertakings were completed, my wife proposed
that we should establish a new colony on the island 011 which the
whale had been stranded, as it appeared to be free from apes and
wild beasts. This proposition gave me great pleasure; and, as
usual with anything new, the boys were delighted. The)" were
ready to springr into the heat at once had I not reminded them that
we must. wait for suitable weather, and also that the boat required
to be cleansed from the consequences of its last cargo.

I then also 1ecalled to Fritz his lemark respecting the two hon
wheels and the roasting-spits. He was, of cou1se, eager to find
them for me; and while the boys cleaned the boat, I endear oured
to cariy out the idea of assisting the piogiess of the new 1essel by
wheels 011 each side, to he turned by wind or water, or both.*

I chose the strongest of the spits, and passed it through the two
sides of the boat below the hangingr seats, resting it upon a square
piece of iron in the centre, to which it was fastened. The ends pro-
jected beyond the boat on each side, and upon these ends I placed

' The original of this tale was 11 ritten 1n lSl3. therefore the 11101cnwn' of nuldlc- wheels
by steam was at this time 1cry little know 11. and lesx unnh rstood. 'l'hc ant 101 had, how-
eu-r, no doubt heard of the talkerl- ol' imention, and he li1eul long enough to see it carried
out, not only for steamships, but, 111 railway ti-a1clling.

331
the wheels, to turn as on an axis. I11 each end of the spit I managed
to drill a. hole for the lynch-pin, to keep the wheels in place.

111 front of these I arranged two smaller wheels, formed of whale-
bone, to turn in the wind like a windmill, and the action of these as
they touched the larger wheels caused them to move, and propelled
the boat forward.*

When all this was finished, I proposed a trial trip to the boys,
which proposal they received with great joy. 'l'hey wished to pro-
ceed at once to the island, but it was already late, and we therefore
could only make this trial for a short distance towards Deliverance
Dav.

Our success was delightful. There was just enough wind to tu111
the windmill wheels pleasantly, and we glided along upon the water
with su1piisinSSr1apidity. Ipromised, however, thaton the following
day 11 (2 would .111 enihalk 011 board the boat, and take with us enough
provisions for a long voyage, to the promontory of False Hope, to
Prospect Hill, and Wood Grange, to inspect our little colony of
animals.

This proposal caused great joy. Then followed the preparation
of arms and a store of provisions with such earnestness, that at last
the boys lietook themselves, tired, to bed, to dream of the morrow.

Anmngst this store was a piece of the whale's tongue, which my
wife had salted and boiled. It was carefully packed in fresh leaves
and placed in a. tin can to take with 11s, at the earnest request of
Frank, who said it looked delicious.

\Ve were ready lietimes ne.\t morning; and, after placing our
provisions 011 boa1d, my wife and the boys arranged themselves
comfortably in the boat, while I placed myself at the helm, and
steered into the current that flowed from the J aekal River to
the sea. Very soon \Vhale Island was left behind, and my ma-
chine peifouned its pa1t so cle1'e111, that we in a sho1t time found
omselves app1oaching the coast lying beneath I'1ospeet Hill.

I stee1ed for a little distance aloe:r the shore, 11hicl1 p1esc11ted a
most attractive appeatanee {10111 the water, although a meat con-
trast to the wooded region of Falconhurst, or the rocks at Zel-
theim.

The landscape presented to 0111' view a rising ground, commenc-
ing to the right at the foot of the ridge of rocks, which, with its fer-
tile growth of plants and shrubs in full flower, looked like a terrace
garden. To the left lay "'hale Island, green even to the water's

" This contri1 mice is often made use of' 111 erecting a vane or weatl1ercock.A 1cr1 clever
instance of this may be seen at the Bow Station on the North London ll ailwayliue.ROWING B Y MA CIIINIL'R Y-- TH E TURTLE. 333

edge, while the dark blue waves of the ocean broke over the shore
with a rippling sound. Beyond lay the trees of "'ood Grange,
decked in the pale green foliage of spring, and crowned by the
cocoannts and palm-trees of Prospect Hill.

I steered our little skif'l' to the shore near \Vood Grange, and
stepping out of the boat, we sought the shade of some large cocoa-
nut-trees which grew near; I wished also to carry a few young
plants back in the boat, to increase our plantation at Zeltheim.

"'e had scarcely landed when the crow of a cock in the distance
reminded us of our European home and of a legend of my country,
that the crow of a cock indicates to the tired traveller the existence
of a home concealed by trees, and a hospitable roof beneath which
he can be sheltered and made welcome.

I saw how deeply my wife was moved by the sound, and I
hastened to control my own emotion by entering at once into the
business of cutting shoots from the cocoanut trees, and speaking
to the boys in load tones.

After collecting all we required, we again stepped into the boat,
and steered towards Prospect Hill. I remembered a little bay
there, on which I determined to land, beneath the shade of some
tall mangrove-trees which grow chiefly on the sea-coast. The man-
grove pushes forth from the roots long, dry branches, which cover
the shore and protect it from the fury of the waves.

\Ve gathered several shoots also from these trees, which were
tied in bundles and placed in the boat, and then we climbed up
Prospect Hill, and descending on the inland side, proceeded to
our new farm. All appeared in order and comfort, and the num-
ber of sheep, goats, and fowls had greatly increased; but; I was
surprised to find that they tied at our approach, and not only the
lambs, kids, and chickens, but even the parent animals and fowls
which had been so tame.

My boys after their voyage had a longing for fresh eggs and
goat's milk; but when at last they attempted to catch one of the
goats, she butted at them, and kept them at a distance. I con--
trived after awhile to throw a string round her hind legs, which
brought her to a standstill, and then they fed her with potatoes
and salt, while my wife milked her, and brought us two cocoanuts
full of the sweet fresh milk. One of these we saved to drink with
our dinner, the other my wife poured into an empty ilask to take
home with her. After this, Fritz released the legs of the goat and
set her free.

We had no difficulty in obtaining eggs, for when my wife threw
 

rice and oats to them, the hens rushed from their nests, and the
boys carried away a few eggs from each.

By this time we were all ready for dinner, though our provisions
were cold, having been cooked at home, for cooking 011 the journey
would have delayed us too long. \Ve had been looking forward to
the piece of the whale's tongue as a great. treat; but the first taste
11 as enough; the supposed delicacy could sca1cely have seen eaten
by a sailih with the appetite of an ostlich, and we 11 eie obliged to
thr'on it to the iaekal, the only animal 110 had b1011fvht with us

A sca1ch fo1 sugar- canes, to take a11ay the ho11id oily taste, "as
necessary before we could make our dinner 011 what was left of the
mother's store and the goat's milk.

After dinner we descended to the shore and stepped 011 hoard
the boat, with the intention of sailing round Cape False Hope;
but the cape well deserved its name, for 011 reaching the other side
of the pronnmtm'y, we came suddenly on a large sandbank running
far out into the sea. It was so high and so bread, that at low tide
I could have walked over it easily.

The spot was surromnled by rocks and reefs, and I felt truly
that 1 had brought all my dear ones into great danger. I quickly
steered my boat round from the place, and fortunately found a
current of water in which it could float. "'0 hoisted a sail, and a
fresh breeze springing 11p, carried us back quickly towards "'hale
Island; but before we reached it, a singular spectacle presented
itself at the end of the sandbank. It appeared to me at first like
:1 ridge of black rocks; but; as I examined it more attentively, I
could distinguish a troop of sea-dogs, roaring and barking, yet
seemingly at play with each other. we lost no time after this in
escaping,r from the neighbourhood of such dreadful animals.

011arriving at "'hale Island, I went to work at once to plant
the youngr tiees on this s1-e111ingrly fe1tilc spot, with the 1eady help
of the boys: but when this was accomplished, they appeared disin-
clined to do any thin'r 1no1e than wander about and gather shell- fish
and coral.

1'1esently I hemd Tack app1oacl1i11g,and eiying out at the top
of his voice, " 1'.1p.1 1111111111111' do come and see, I have found a
skeleton--a f1i<rhtful lllln'f. 3 I am sale it must be the skeleton of a
mammoth. ])1)c."omc

" \l1 bov," I said, lautrhinrr, "you have seen the skeleton of the
whale, no doubt. "

"\o, no " he e1ied, "they are not fish- bones, papa, but large,
st1ongr animal bones aiid joints. The whale must have floated outto sea again; this creature is much longer and higher out of the
water."

I was about. to follow him to this wonderful sight, when another
voice from an opposite direction cried, "Papa, papa, pray come!
Here is an enormous turtle; he's pulling me into the water--pray
come! "

This appeal came from Ernest, and was of far more importance
than Jack's skeleton, and, snatching up an oar, I rushed to his assis-

 

MORSE AND SEAL

tanee. A few steps brought me to the spot, where I found Ernest
holding by the foot an enormous turtle.

Quickly I approached, and, using the oar as a lever, placed the
end under the turtle to turn him over on his back. It required,
howerer,the united strength of Ernest and myself to perform this task.

It was most certainly a creature of unusual size, and I imagined
would measure eight feet in length and five in thickness. Being
now unable to help himself or turn over, we left the turtle in

safety, while we all hastened to another spot, to behold Jack's
skeleton of a mammoth.
I quickly discovered that it was nothing more than the skeleton
of the whale, the flesh of which had been so completely stripped by
the birds from the bones, that they stood out- clean and white, with
not a morscl remaining. Cven had I not recognized the creature
by its form, I should have felt no doubt on the matter, for the
prints of our feet were still visible in the sand around it.

"What on earth made you take such an idea into your head, my
boy," I said, "that this was the skeleton of a mammoth ?"

" \Vell, papa, it was not my own idea, but our learned professor,
Ernest, made me think it was a mammoth by what he said in joke,
I suppose."

" And do you believe all that is told you, without question ? " I
asked.

" Not always, papa; but I thought a whale would be sure to have
the bones of a fish, and not like those of animals."

"No, my little man," I replied; "the whale partakes of both
natures, and, to enable it to swim, its bones are hollow, and the
cavities are filled with air; but in their form and appearance they
certainly more closely resemble those of a land animal than those
of a fish. The bones of birds are also hollow, and filled with air,
which renders them buoyant and able to fly. "'e perceive in this
the wisdom of the Creator, who gives to all creatures the powers
they most need to preserve life."

"Papa," said Fritz, "I think we might call this a mountain of

,bones, as an author in our father-land once named the elephant.
(Jan we not make some use of it ? "

"By-and-bye, perhaps: when the action of the waves and the
influence of the sun have whitened the bones, we may find out what
to do with our skeleton. But we must get home before sunset, and
I do not wish to leave that great turtle behind, yet how we are to
move such an enormous mass I cannot imagine."

" Papa," cried Fritz, "why not make him tow us to land as we
did the turtle we caught in the boat ? "

"A capital idea, my boy," I replied; " come and assist me in
carryingr it out."

I jumped on board, followed by Fritz, and in a. few initiates I
had emptied one of the fresh water casks, and tied it with a strong
rope to the fore part of the boat. The other end of the cord was
fastened to the shell and fore legs of the turtle, and after turning
him over, we hastily took our places in the boat.

I seated myself in the prow, with my hatchet in readiness to cut
the rope in case of danger.
Finding himself free to move, the tttrtle rushed into the water,
dragging the boat after him, but the rope attached to the empty
cask prevented him from diving; he, therefore, could only swim
steadily towards the opposite shore, drawing our little skifl' after
him as if he had been a towing-boat.

The boys were highly amused, and Ernest laughingly declared
that our new aquatic carriage was like Neptune's car, drawn by
dolphins. I was able to guide the boat towards Deliverance Bay
by striking the water with the oar to the right or left when I wished
our sea-horse to turn in an opposite direction. "'e landed at last.
safely, and, after conducting the boat to its place of shelter, I was
obliged to take the life of the turtle, for I feared his great size and
strength would render it impossible for us to keep hint a prisoner.

I wanted the shell also for another fountain, and the flesh was
always an acceptable dish to us all. My wife prepared a portion of
it for our supper, of which we all partook with an appetite, for our
disappointment at dinner-time in the whale's tongue had made as
rather hungry.

It was my intention at the end of the rainy season to set apart
about an acre of land, in which to sow the various kinds of seeds
my wife had so carefully preserved; but. many other necessary
duties had presented themselves, so that the summer was too close
at hand for me to carry out tny purpose.

My animals were also still unused to the yoke. I resolved, there-
fore, to set aside the field work till just before the next rainy season,
and in the meantime, with the help of Ernest, fulfil my promise of
finishing the 100111 for my wife.

My first efforts had produced but a rough machine, which, however,
had answered pretty well for a time, but was now almost useless.

In my young days I had visited the workshops of weavers, and
knew something of other trades, which knowledge helped me greatly
in our present position. To complete this task, however, I still re-
quired the particular paste or wearer's glue with which they cover
the thread to prevent it from slipping.

In default of this necessary paste, I determined to try if fish glue
would answer the same purpose. I had already contrived to make
this gum clear and firm enough to be used as window panes, which
had the appearance of thin horn, and as these windows were placed
very deep in the rocky wall to keep out the rain, they served the
purpose admirably.

Among other examples of my handiwork, of which I was rather

proud, were two saddles and bridles which I had made at the oft-
23
 

1epcated 1cqucst of my boys, and the vokc. 'lhc saddletrecs and
the yoke I consttuctcd of light wood, and cov e1cd them with the
skin of the kanga1oo and theO fur of the seal- skin. To stull' them I
used the long mess of the old trees which we discovered while the
pigeons were C'building their nests.

The leathe1 fo1 the b1idles I made soft and fle\iblc by soaking
it 111 oil, and indeed my saddlery and harness- making.r 11 e1e a com--
plete success. The boys used their saddles and b1idlcs with g1eat
satisfaction, but the animals 11 cm at first impatient under the yoke

I managed them at- last with fi1mness and kindness, although
they were 11atu1ally 111ldc1 than poor old Grizzle the donkey.

This work occupied some days, and fora second time we were
visited by a shoal of he1'1'ings,of which we gathered a large number
to add to our store of provisions. These were followed by the
sea-dogs. The fur and skins of these creatures were much more
valuable to us now than 011 their former visit, as I had been using
a quantity of leather lately for various purposes. '\\'e caught about
twenty of these creatures of various sizes, and although their flesh
was too oily to be eaten as food, we baited traps with it for the
crabs at the entrance of the Jackal lliver, and found the skin, the
fur. the bladder, and the oil of the greatest use.

\Vhile thus occupied, the boys had several times petitioned me
to take them on ahunting or rather shooting expedition to different
parts of the island.

I was quite ready to comply, but before doing so I felt it neces-
sary to make two large baskets or pannicrs, for the mother to carry
grain, fruits, 01' roots from the field to our home during our absence.
l'or this plupose web a'theted a quantity of 11 illow rushes, which
grew in abundance on the borders of the Jackal River. For a first
attempt at basket--making, I would not use the beautiful reeds which
Jack had collected in the Flamingo Marsh.

"'hcn finished, our baskets were not very shapely, but the trial
taught 11s experience, and I decided to keep these pannicrs, which
were coarse and strong, for carrying dust or clay, and make two-
larger and better ones of the Spanish canes.

In this we were quite successful, and the boys, in their delight
at seeing them completed, determined to give little Frank a ride.
A bamboo cane was passed through the handles on each side
of the basket, Frank was lifted in, while Ernest and Jack took an
end of each pole on their shoulders, as if they were palanquin-
bearers, and started off at a run, to the great delight; of Frank.

"Papa," cried Fritz. "could we not make a palanquin of this.
kind for dear mamma? It would be much more pleasant for her
than riding in our little cart, when she goes with us on our long
excursions."

The boys were overjoyed at the idea, and their mother said,

"It would certainly be very agreeable to ride like a princess in
a litter, and have nothing to do but look over the rim of the basket
at the world around me."

" The idea is not unreasonable," I said, "and a suitable basket
could easily be made; but who is to carry it? We have no slaves
here, as they have in India, to bear the poles on their shoulders,
and you are not strong enough, my boys, neither should I like to
trust your mother with such young bearers."

"' But, papa," exclaimed Jack, " we have two very strong bearers
----Storm and Grumblcr. I am sure they would carry mamma care-
fully. May we try them now with Frank ? "

I gave the required permission readily, for I was curious to
disc-over how the little men would manage. In a few moments
Storm and Grumbler were saddled and bridled, and placed, one in
front and the other behind the basket between the two poles, the
ends of which were firmly fastened on each side of their saddles.
I would not, however, allow Frank to remain in the basket while
his brothers were teaching the animals this new style of travelling;
besides, I knew that Frank had more power over Grumbler than
either of his brothers. The boy therefore mounted the young ox,
who was to take the lead, and Jack rode the buil'alo behind. After
a few runs the animals seemed to understand what was required of
them, the greatest (lilficulty arising from the unequal steps, which
gave a jolting sensation to the palanquin basket.

This they assured me would soon be overcome, when the animals
had learnt to trot and gallop in step. \Vhile drawing the heavy
cart or sledge, they could only walk; the movement together was
therefore new to them. Ernest now volunteered to seat himself in
the basket, the obedient animals kneeling to enable him to step in;
then they rose and started 091' at a trot.

The position of the rider appeared delightful, a slight swinging of
the basket was not unpleasant ; indeed, he lay back on the cushion
as comfortably as if it had been a couch with an elastic scat.

But this steady pace did not for long suit the riders of the animals;
all at once a touch of the whip sent them all at full gallop, and the
ease and comfort of Ernest came to an end.

The basket swung from side to side so violently that he could
not keep his seat, but was thrown to the right and left, while the

23--2
riders sat firm in their saddles. In vain he screamed to them to
stop,--the boys had not strength to draw rein for laughing, and
indeed it was very amusing to see Ernest sometimes sitting up,
sometimes on his back with his legs in the air, being jolted about
in a most ridiculous manner.

At last the animals came to a standstill of their own accord, and
knecled to allow Ernest to alight, which he did quickly, and look-
ing very angry; but I explained to him that his brothers were only
in fun, and the good--natured boy soon forgot his knocking about,
and went to his mother for a handful of salt and barley to reward
the tired animals after their exertions.

All idea of a palanquin for the mother was, however, set aside by
circumstances which shortly occurred, and alarmed us greatlyTHE DREADFUL VISITOR--POOR GRIZZLE'S mm

WAS sitting next day with my wife and Fritz in the shadow
of some trees on high ground overlooking the Jackal River,
and talking of the improvements I hoped to make in the

palanqnin basket.

Suddenly Fritz rose, and, advancing a few steps, fixed his keen
eyes on the road through which ran the channels which conducted
the water from the river to Zeltheim and Falcon's Nest. Presently
he cried out, "Papa, what in the world is this creature I can see in
the distance? It looks like a thick cable-rope, and seems to be
coming nearer by rolling and twisting itself on the ground, and not
by walking."

I rose at once, and saw, to my horror, an enormous serpent
rolling towards us on the sand, and sometimes raising itself, like
the mast of a ship, and looking round as if for prey.

My wife, who noticed my alarm, although I did not speak, rushed
into our rock dwelling, while I called out to the younger boys not
only to follow her and shut themselves in, but also to have their
guns in readiness to fire from the open window if necessary.

"What do you think it is, papa 2" asked Fritz, in atone of alarm,
as we stood together.

"I believe it is a serpent of a frightful size," I replied; "and
there is no doubt we shall in ve a hard battle to conquer it."

"Then I will not be the last in the field," said the brave boy.
" I must fetch my double-barrelled gun and a couple of hatchets."

" Gently, gently, my son," I said; " you must be prudent. These
creatures have a great tenacity of life and enormous strength. You
had better join your brothers in the house, and hold my largest
gun in readiness, in case it is required. I will soon return for you
when I decide upon what is best to be done."

Fritz left me very reluctantly, while I went cautiously forward
to discover, if possible, to which of the serpent race the horrid

341
creature belonged. In a few moments I recognized the most
dreadful of serpents--a. boa-constrictor--which was wriggling with
rapid movements towards the bridge over the river.

 

BOA-COSSTRICTOR WATCHING FOR PREY.

My first thought was whether it would be possible to remove
some of the flooring from the bridge before he reached it; but he
came alongr so rapidly that. I gave up the attempt.

It was indeed dreadful to see him pause now and then, and
raise his head and the upper part of his body to the height of at
least twenty feet, and look about as if searching for prey.
 

Presently I saw him crossing the bridge at a. rapid rate, and,
rushing back to our cavern home, I entered quickly, and closed
the door carefully and without noise.

On entering the house, I found my young folks in warlike atti-
tude, and fully armed: not, exactly, however, like a garrison behind
a fortification, for until I appeared their courage had been very low.

Fritz offered me his gun. I tool: it in silence, and we then
placed ourselves at an open window, from which we could see for
a great distance without being,r seen.

The monster had already left the bridge behind him, when he
suddenly paused and appeared startled, as if he for the first time
had discovered the track of human beings.

011 he came, sometimes rolling in rings on the earth, and at
others raising himself erect, as if instinct told him that he was
near his enemies. At all events, the huge worm placed his enor-
mous body just outside our cavern home, and appeared about to
wait for his prey to show themselves.

Suddenly Ernest, most probably from an impulse of fear, fired
his gun. Jack and Frank followed his example, and his mother
also, to my astonishment. The danger had given her courage to
fight at the side of her dear children. But these four shots, al-
though not one touched the creature, at least frightened him a
little, for he rolled away with great rapidity. At all hazards, Fritz
and I fired after him, but neither shot appeared to have taken
effect, for the monster very soon disappeared from our eyes.

A sigh of relief escaped us all. A heavy weight had been
indeed removed for a time from our hearts, and with one voice a.
hope was expressed that this dreadful creature might have been
wounded in some way by our shots.

For myself, I regretted this failure bitterly. The danger was,
however, not yet over, and I strictly forbade either of the boys to
leave the grotto for the next few (lays without my express per-
mission.

For three long terrible days fear of our dreadful visitor kept us
in our rock castle. Even the mother did not venture beyond a
few steps, to obtain water or other needful provisions, and then
only when Fritz and I were unable to procure what she wanted.

Our enemy, however, gave not the least sign of his presence,
and we began to hope he had departed from the marsh by a way
through the rocks unknown to us. But the half-wild ducks and
geese were evidently aware of the presence of the serpent, for they
seemed in a constant state of agitation.
 

 

Every evening, when they returned from their sail on the water,
they would hover above their usual dwelling-place among the
reeds, beating their wings and uttering cries of fear, till at last
they would turn and fly across the creek to \Vhale Island, and
there take up their night quarters.

My anxiety increased daily. The creature was no doubt hidden
among the rushes, and at any moment might spring out and
attack us or the animals if we ventured to leave the care. And
to he shut up day after day in our rock home, and see our pro-
visions continually decreasing, while we dared not approach the
spots on which more could be obtained, was indeed a painful
POSILInll.

From this situation we were at last relieved by a sad and dis-
tressing loss. Our useful old Grizzle, the ass, saved the garrison
now as completely as the geese saved the Capitol at Rome in
olden times, and deserved equal honours.

We had but a small quantity of hay left to last till the hay-
making-time arrived, and the store at the cavern was all gone by
the third day. To go to Zeltheim for more seemed impossible,
yet I determined to make the attempt next morning, and if it
failed, turn out the animals to find food for themselves.

On the fourth morning, therefore, Fritz and I decided to start
for Falcon's Nest, leaving the mother and the younger boys at
home, with orders to shoot from the window if necessary.

I determined to avoid the Jackal River, and proceed by a new
road very cautiously: and I told Fritz, who was to ride the onager,
that if there should be the least sign of the serpent, he was to
gallop off at once to Falcon's Nest- at full speed.

I stood giving my last injunctions to the boys, and my wife was
entreating Fritz and myself to be cautious, when unfortunately she
opened the door a little too wide, in her earnestness, and old
Grizzle, who had been shut 11p and well fed for three days, rushed
from his stall, and was galloping away towards the Flamingo Marsh
before I could stop him. We all called him back earnestly by
name, but to no purpose, and Fritz, in his anxiety, would have
followed him, had I not firmly held him back.

In a moment we saw the serpent rear his head from the rushes,
spring' with one bound upon our poor ass, and enclose him quickly
in the folds of his snaky body.

The boys and their mother rushed screaming to the edge of the
balcony, where I, unseen, was watching the monster. With shud-
dering pity we saw the creature wrap himself round the poor animal,
 

 

raise his head and thrust out his forked tongue, as if greedy for his
prey:
"Shoot him, papa! shoot him!" screamed the boys. "Oh! do

I>>

save our poor Grizzle:

 

THE SERPEXT KILLING GRIZZLE.

"It. would be useless now, boys," I replied; " nothing can save
the ass, and firing would irritate the creature, and perhaps draw him
on to attack us. It will soon he over now, and then, while the
monster sleeps after this full meal, I shall do my best to destroy
him."

As I spoke we turned away from the horrible sight, and Fritz
exclaimed,
" Papa, will the serpent swallow his prey whole? Oh! it is too
horrible to look at I"

"Serpents have no teeth," I replied, " but their fangs enable
them to seize their prey, which they crash to death with the folds
of their body. Even the bones are broken by this pressure, and
they then lick it all over with the tongue, which contains a peculiar
kind of moisture, to soften every part and make it easy to swallow.
lint I do not consider this performance more horrible than the
way in which the lions and tigers bite and tear their prey to pieces."

"Do not talk any longer of these horrors," said my wife, "it is
[no dreadful."

And she drew the younger boys into the cavern, while Iarrd
Fritz approached the edge of the rock, to wait till the body of our
poor Grizzle was enclosed in its living,r grave, that we might knock
the monster on the head before he had time or inclination to attack
another of our animals. This dreadful scene lasted from seven
o'clock in the morning till nearly midday.

I allowed a feW hours to pass before I attempted to interfere with
our terrible enemy, and then, accompanied by Fritz, I directed my
steps towards the border of the marsh. Jack, still half afraid, fol-
lowed cautiously behind, while Ernest kept rrs in sight, though at a
considerable distance.

As I came near to the serpent, I confess that his size and appear-
ance made me tremble, for I knew at once, by the marks on his
skin, that I looked upon a veritable boa-constrictor.

At a distance of about eighteen or twenty feet I fired, and Fritz
instantly followed my example. Our two shots passed through the
head of the animal, and seemed to have taken effect, for the upper
half of the body and the jaws remained immovable, but the lower
part of the tail nrovcd convulsivcly, and struck out blindly in all
directions. I approached nearer to finish the matter with two
pistol-shots, and in a few moments the whole body lay at rest,
without signs of life.

Jack now drew near, and being anxious to share in the honour .
of killing the animal, fired into its body. In a moment, as by a
galvanic influence, the monster moved, and a convulsive stroke of
the tail knocked the young sportsman over, and sent him rolling on
the ground.

This, however, \'aS the last performance of the terrible monster,
for although the boy sprang up and stood with an air of defiance
before it, there was no movement. Death, to which the boa had
given so many, had at last made the serpent his prey.
 

We returned to our home in the rock with joyful shouts of victory,
so clearly heard in the distance, that Ernest joined us at once on
the battle-field, and the mother and Frank came out to meet us,
scarcely believing that our terrible visitor was really dead.

"I have released the poor animals," she said, " and I think I
heard cries of victory."

" Yes, mamma," I said, " the mighty enemy lies at our feet now,
.and we must be thankful to God, not only for His help in the battle,
but also for enabling us to make a safe home in the rocks."

" I am glad the horrible monster is dead," said Jack.

" Can we eat serpents ?" asked little Frank.

 

HEADS 0!" POISONOUS SNAKES.

" No," replied his mother, " the flesh of a snake is poisonous."

" Not always," I remarked ; " and I believe in some countries the
flesh is eaten. Even in Europe the flesh of the boa and the rattle-
snake has been made into what is called viper broth, which, it is-
:said, has a flavour as agreeable as chicken broth. This preparation
has been used by Europeans in cases where the bites of serpents
have caused great exhaustion, and has been found of the greatest
benefit in preventing death. Of course, the head of the serpent,
which contains the poison, has been removed. But I have heard
that animals exist who can eat serpents without being injured by
the poison."

0h, papa! what animals can they be ?" exclaimed Jack.

" Pigs, my boy; and I once read a story on this subject which
greatly amused me."
 

 

"0h! do tell it us, papa," they all exclaimed. "Is it about pigs?"

"Yes," I replied; and as they eagerly followed closely to listen,
I commenced my story.

" On one of the large lakes of America there was once a pretty
little island, but no human being could dwell upon it on account of
the immense number of rattlesnakes with which it was infested. It
happened at one time that a vessel, with a large cargo of living pigs,
was wrecked near the island. The crew, however, contrived to

 

RA'I'TLBSNAKB.

reach the shore, and land their living cargo and themselves in safety.
But it was impossible for them to remain on such a dangerous
island; as quickly as possible, therefore, after the storm ceased,
they repaired their little vessel, and leaving the pigs on shore to
their fate, made their escape with all speed.

"The forsaken animals dispersed themselves on the island, and
in time their owner came with another ship to look after them him-
self. What was his astonishment to find the pigs in good condition,
fat and well fed. They had eaten up all the rattlesnakes, and com--
pletcly cleared the island of these terrible creatures."

" Why, papa," said Ernest, "then a few swarms of the secretary
birds would soon exterminate these serpents if they were taken to
countries where these creatures lire ?"
" You are under a little mistake, Ernest," I said ; " partly right
and partly wmng about the secretary bir( ."

" Papa," said Frank, "what sort of a creature is a secretary bird?
I thought a secretary was a gentleman who writes; birds cannot
write."

" Not with a pen, Frank," I replied, laughing; "but they make
strange scrawls with their feet in the sand, which, of course, we
cannot read. But, joking apart, these birds have been so named
because they have two long feathers at the sides of their heads,
which gives them the appearance of a gentleman secretary with
pens stuck behind his ears."

 

POISON-FANGS. POISON-GLAND.

" How was I mistaken about these birds, papa?" asked Ernest.
" They do eat snakes, I know."

"Yes, my boy," I replied; " and on that account the bird is
sometimes known as the serpent-hawk. But they are natives of
Africa, especially at the Cape, yet they have been found in the
I'hilippine Islands. It would also be impossible to send swarms
into other countries, even if they could bear the climate, for these
birds do not live in flocks, one or two pairs only being found toge-
ther in one place."

" How can people know the difi'erence between the poisonous and
the harmless serpents? " asked Fritz.

"Chiefly by the fangs," I replied, "which they protrude when
alarmed or in danger. At such times the creature rears its body
to a great height in proportion to its size, opens the glowing red
upper Jaw so frightfully, that the lower remains fixed, and displays
two threatening fangs, which at other times lie concealed behind
the gums in akind of bag. These fangs are hollow, but so hard
and sharp, that they can easily penetrate the thick leather of a
 

boot. Under these fangs lies a little bladder containing the poison,
which, when the creature uses the fang, is pressed, and a little drop
enters the wound and quickly spreads through the veins and over
the whole blood-vessels. Sometimes, if taken in time, a cure may
be effected, but in most cases the sting of a serpent is followed by
speedy death."

" What poisonous serpents are natives of hot climates, like this
where we dwell now ? " asked Ernest.

"They are so numerous in hot countries, such as Africa and
India," I replied, "that I could not possibly name them all; but
the most noted are the rattlesnake and the spectacled serpent, so
called because the marks on the skin of the face resemble a pair
of spectacles. The skin of the neck, throat, and breast is so
flexible, that the creature, when angry, rears its head and inflates
the skin till it stands out like a collar round its throat. And yet
these snakes are very lively creatures, and are exceedingly fond of
dancing."

"Dancing, papa!" cried Jack, incredulously. " How can they
(lance without feet? You are joking us, papa."

"Not in the least, my son," I said; "but by dancing in this
case is understood light and playful movements in time to music,
which Indian jugglers have cleverly taught the spectacled snake to
perform. The creature raises itself on the small rings of its tail to
the height of two-thirds of its own length, spreads out its skin
collar round the spectacled head as much as possible, and then
moves its head and the upper part of the body gracefully in time
with the mournful music. Its eyes are fixed on the hand of the
snake-charmer as it is waved backwards and forwards in time with
the music. These juggleis make a secret of their art, yet they
acknowledge that, to a certain extent, the snakes are under the
influence of a stupefying drug. It is not positively known whether
the poisonous fangs have been removed from these creatures, yet
some travellers affirm that they have seen them still in the jaws of
several dancing snakes in India."

" Is it believed that these snake-charmers really conquer them by
sorcery, or are they cheating us, papa i!" asked Fritz.

"I do not suppose any civilized person would believe in conjur-
ing, Fritz; yet these men are children of nature, and know that
serpents have the power of fascinating their victims and rendering
them unable to escape. They perhaps, therefore, imitate, as far as
they can, these wonderful actions of natum. I have even heard
that in South America the natives have a. little instrument which
 

 

has the sound, when shaken, of a rattlesnake, and that by this
sound they allure small animals, such as squirrels and rabbits, to
their snares. But we have talked long enough, my boys, and we
must not leave our (lead enemy till the morning, for the birds will
be only too glad to eat the flesh, and spoil the skin, which I should
like to stuff."

"That will be beautiful, papa!" said Ernest, while Fritz and Jack
ran quickly to get the buffalo and o.\', Ernest and Frank remaining
with me, to keep oh" the birds of prey from the serpent.

 

COBRA NAJA.

Our poor Grizzle had only been half swallowed by the monster,
and I thought it might be possible to remove the dead body from
the serpent by yoking Storm and Grumbler to a rope fastened
round its legs. This was soon arranged, and at the touch of the whip
the animals started forward suddenly, and drew forth from the ser-
pent's body the scarcely-recognizable remains of our poor servant.

His deep grave was dug quickly, and after laying his mangled
body in it, we threw in the earth, and covered the top with pieces
of broken rock.

" Some of you should compose an epitaph on poor Grizzle," I
said, after we had buried him.

" 0h, papa! Ernest must do that," exclaimed his brothers.
 

"Yes," said Fritz, " he wrote one called a 'New Y >ar's Wish,'
when we were in our own country, and it had eight lines."

But Ernest shook his head, and looked uncomfortable, so I left
him to himself, and presently saw him seated alone, with his head
on his hand and his elbow on his knee for ten minutes, without
moving, and looking as serious as a great philosopher over a mathe-
matical discovery.

In a very short time he approached me with a look of great;
content, and said,

" l'apa, I have written the epitaph; but; you won't laugh if I let
you read it, will you ?"

"No, certainly not, my boy," I said, as I took the paper from
him and read as follows:

" Here lies an honest, industrious ass,
Who once disobeyed his master's call,
Which caused him a dreadful death, alas!
Yet made him a hero; for by his fall
He saved a. family with children four,
And father and mother, on this lonely shore."

" So," I exclaimed, "' here are six stanzas, and the ideas and the
rhyme are very good, but the two last lines have not the right;
number of feet. Try again, my boy," I said; " I am sure you can
improve it."

He took my advice, and presently returned with the lines

corrected thus:

" He saved from death, on this lonely shore,
Father and mother, and children tour."

The lines were not bad for a boy of thirteen, and he looked
much gratified when I took out; of my pocket a large red pencil,
which I always used for marking wood, and wrote the verses on
the rock. My next performance, taking ofl' the skin of the boa to
be stuffed, required also the aid of our two nsefnl animals, Storm
and Grumbler; but my wife, who came to read poor Grizzle's
epitaph, told us dinner was ready, and, after the events of the
morning, we were obliged to be content with cold provisions.

After dinner the boys were very anxious to know how the
serpent could be skinned.

" It seems a very difficult thing to manage," said Fritz.

" There is but one way in which it. is likely to be successful," I
said, " and I intend to adopt it."

I commenced by cutting the skin entirely round the throat, and
after separating it from the flesh, carefully turned it back. The
 

ox and tlte buil'alo were then attached 113' their harness to the
trunk of the serpent, just above the neck. I then showed l"rit'/.
and Jack how' to draw back the skin carefully while I led the
animals gently forward, and the body of tlte snake gradually freed
itself front the skin as the boys loosened it.

It was rather a slow process, but we succeeded so well, that the
beautiful skin of the boa-constrictor was removed almost without
injury. It was then steeped in salt water, and, after being cleaned
with sand and ashes, carefully stuffed with home-hair and wool,
and placed in the sun to dry.

A great deal of fttn occurred while stuffing the serpent, which
we were not able to attempt till the day after taking;r 011' the skin.
It was then hung to the l)1a11ch of a tree, and as there was a
dilliL-ulty in reaching the lower part near the tail, Jack 1olunteeted
to get inside 111 his batl1ing-drcss,a11d to fill the skin with the moss
and wool supplied to him by his hrothets, and stamp it down with
his feet. When he arrived near the neck, he put ottt his head in a
frolicsome manner, and exclaimed,

"l' 111 not the wetse fo1 being swallowed by a boa, am I, papa? '

Define 01011111" our work was finished. \Y c made two globes of
gypsum paste,1 rainished with fish glue, for the eyes. "0 sub-
stituted for the tongue :1. piece of iron wire, painted red with
cochineal. And now arose the question, w'he1e should we place
such an enormous eteatut'e to (113 .7 and in what position in our
museum to suit his character ?

Aftet alittle thought, I decided first to meet a strong pole in
the 5410111111 fi1111l3, 011 a slitht ele1ation, and place the stufi'ed
serpent in coils round it. The 1103's entcted into this artanuement
\1'a1n1l1' The chest; was fi\ed to the pole in stteh a manner that
the head, with the mouth wide open, stretched forward with an
aspect so fierce, that the monster appeared about to sp1ing at Its,
while the glass3 eyesb 1elated fr'ightfull3.

in fact, the fiytue of the cteature "as so natural and lifelike,
that the dogs growled at it, and Stonn and Gruntbler fled from it
i11tcr".101 I detennined, therefo1e, when it was thoroughly 1113, to
make room for the frightful creatttre in our cave. The boys had
already fastened a label over the month, 011 which was written

these words--
".\'11 Doxttzrs 111111111151) 111-2111;."

The words had, as I knew, a double meaning, as the figure was

to stand at the entrance to our library. The great; danger to which
2-135-1 S ""155 FAMILY BOIJIXSUN.

 

we had been exposed by the appearance of the serpent was now
happily over, yet I could not rest satisfied until I had searched the
island to discover whether any other of these creatures were to be
found upon it.

I decided, therefore, upon two excursions, one to the marsh and
the duck-pond, the other to Faleou's Nest, and to explore the
country beyond those spots at which the creature was seen.
When about to start on the first of these journeys, Jack and.
Ernest expressed a strong wish to remain at the grotto, and Jack
declared that it made him shudder when he remembered how the
creature knocked him down with its tail.

"Oh, papa!" added the boy, "I really thought all my ribs were
broken."

I overcame their fears, however, by a little persuasion, for I
wished my boys to be brave and courageous in times of danger; at
the same time, I promised to shield them from harm should any
of these dreadful serpents he discovered. I explained to them
also that, after exploring the island and findingr no traces of these
creatures, we should feel much safer and more at case than now,
when we were in fear of another from day to day.

After this the boys plucked up courage, and we started early one
morning,r on our expedition to the marsh. In addition to our arms,
we carried with us bamboo canes and wooden planks, some water-
ilasks, made of the skins of the sea-dog, filled with air, to enable
'us to float in case of danger on the marshy ground.

On arriving at the marsh, we threw down our planks across the
ground, and stepped cautiously over, one behind the other. \Ve
found many traces of the boa in the reeds and rushes, which he
had crushed down in lying upon them, but no signs of eggs or young,r
ones.

we returned, after a strict search, by the chain of rocks, one end
of which joined the marsh, and there, to our surprise, came upon
another grotto or ctve, from which flowed a little stream of clear
sparkling water. I and Fritz stepped in on a broad path beside the
stream, and found that the ceiling and walls of this grotto were
formed of glittering stalactite.

The ground on which we walked was composed of soft earth as
white as snow, and on examining it closely, I found, to my great
satisfaction), that it was a mineral earth called alumine, used by
fullers in cleansing wool, and therefore known as fullers' earth. I
filled my pocket-handkerchief with as much as it could hold to
take home to my wife, which made the boys inquire the use of it.
" It will be of great use to your mother in washing our clothes,"
I said; "for fullers' earth is used by fullers to cleanse wool before
it is woven, and is also one of the ingredients in making soap."

"What are the other ingredients, papa?" asked Fritz. "We
might- make some for mamma."

" The principal materials used in making soap are alumine, potash,
tallow, and sometimes turpentine; but soap-makingr requires more
experience in mixing the materials properly than we possess."

As we advanced I noticed that the stream got narrower, and
issued from a fissure in the rock at the back of the care. As the
stones around this point were soft, it was easy to remove them, and
make an opening large enough to admit Fritz and myself.

Leaving Ernest and Jack outside, we crept through the hole, and
found ourselves in total darkness. Fritz therefore produced his
tinder-box and two wax candles, which were quickly lighted, and
stuck them on our bamboo canes. At once appeared before us a.
large lofty hall with a vaulted roof, and I knew, by the clear burn-
ing of the candles, that the air was pure, and we could advance
without danger.

When our eyes became accustomed to the gloom. we could see
crystals sparkling from the walls and roof, from which they hung
in fantastic forms.

" Oh, papa E " exclaimed Fritz, joyfully, " here is another salt
.cavern. Look at the crystals."

"I do not think they are salt crystals," I replie( , " or the water
of the brook would taste of it; but I am of opinion that this is a
.eave of rock crystals."

" lock crystals, papa! " exclaimed the boy; " then we have made
:a valuable discovery."

"Not more valuable to us here," I replied, " than the bar of gold
found by Robinson Crusoe."

"We can bleak off a little piece, however," he said, " to adorn our
museum. See," he continued, as he separated aportion from the
wall, " it comes off easily." And then, with a start of surprise, he
.added, " but- it is not transparent."

"No, Fritz; because you have destroyed the hexagonal shape of
the stone by the way you broke it 011'. The real form of a rock
.crystal is a pyramid with six sides or faces, which form prisms and
admit the light. If this form is destroyed, it ceases to be trans-
parent."

"How wonderful!" replied Fritz. "And I suppose, then, it is
-.the numberof sides or faces in a diamond that make it sparkle."

2-t--2
" Yes, Fritz; and these sides are cut and polished with great
skill, to make these wonderful stones more valuable. Diamonds
are found in carbon, but the best mines are those of Golconda, in
India."

By this time our candles were burning low, and we hastened to
return to the outer grotto, after having fired off a. pistol to notice
its effect on the crystals. On reaching the outside, Jack startled
me by throwing himself into my arms, and sobbing and laughing
together, as he exclaimed,

"Oh, papa, I'm so glad you are come 1"

 

EELS.

"' Why, my boy? "'hat is the matter?" I asked. " Why are-
yuu glad and sorry at the same time ?"

" I'm glad to see you and Fritz, papa," said the boy, "because I
heard a. noise like thunder in the cave twice, and I thought the
care had fallen in and crushed you both to death."

"My dear boy, the thunder you heard first was only the report
of my gun, which I fired when I left the care. The second time-
mrs its echo. But why did not Ernest remain with you ?"

" Oh, he's gone to that bed of rushes, so he did not hear the
noise that frightened me."

I went hastily to look for the boy, followed by his brothers, and
found him seated, cross-legged, among the reeds, and plaiting a.
 

curious construction of basketwork with striped and pointed rushes,
which I supposed he intended for a. flat fish-basket.

"And where are the fish .7" I asked, as his brothers joined me
and began to joke him about his basket-making.

"I have not been fishing," he replied, "but I've. shot a young
hoa, about four feet long, I think. There he lies over yonder, near
my gun."

Rather alarmed, I hastened to examine the creature, for I knew
that if this was a young serpent there must be more on the marsh.
()ne glance relieved me.

"My boy," I exclaimed, laughing, " your boa is nothing but a fine
fat eel, which will provide us with a splendid supper this evening."

" Is it ?" he said; "then I have thrown a number away into the
water. I thought they were worms; but I had a great deal of
trouble to kill the large one: he kept moving even after I had cut
his head ofT--it was so dreadful!"

"These creatures have a great tenacity of life," I said, " and the
worm species can, I believe, unite the parts of their bodies when
they have been divided by the gardeners spade. Rut we may as
well return home and tell the mother the discoveries we have made,
as well as show her the eel you have killed, Ernest, thinking it was
a young boa : your courage was equally commendable, my son,
although you were mistaken."

""e returned by another way, over the rocks, with more ease than
by the marsh, for the ground was dry and firm. On arriving at
Rock House we found the mother at the well busily employed in
washing our clothes, and gladdeued her heart. with the supply of
fullers' earth. Ernest's eel proved also very acceptable, as well as
the ele\-'erly-made fish-basket. A description of the grotto in which
we had found the piece of rock crystal we left to be related at our
dinner-hour.1x01111111 Excvnsmx--rmrz 11x1) T111: nus.

EING satisfied now that the neighbourhoods of the marsh and?
the duck-pond were free from all signs of the serpent, I pro-
posed to my family to accompany me 011 a second excursion:

to "'11011 Grange.

This proposal was received with joy, and great preparations were'
connneneed, which occupied 11s nearly a week. Provisions were
placed in the cart sullieient to last four weeks, together with our'
travelling--tent, cooking utensils, tools, candles, torches to keep 011-"
wild beasts at nifrht, and plenty of arms and annnnnition'.

Thus er nipped and provided, we 5 taited call) 011 the appointed'
dav from Rock House. A seat was kept for my wife in the amt
drawn by Storm and G1111nl)le1, who also carried Jack and little:
] milk on their stronfr hacks. The cow was ha1ncssed to the
wheeled sledge, and Fritz 011 Lightfoot rode a few paces in advance,
as a vanguard, whilst I and Ernest walked near the two convey-
ances. "'0 had arranged that when tired, Ernest should ride instead
of Jack for a time, and that I should take the place of Fritz on the
onager. The four dogs and the jackal accompanied 11s at flank and
rear.

On our way to Wood Grange, and not far from the sugar-cane
groves, we discovered traces of the serpent at some points, proving.
a. struggle, by the distulbed state of the sandy road; but before we'
r'eached Falcon' 5 1. 'est these traces had completely disappezned.

The poultry here, as well as the goats and sheep, were in good
condition, and had greatly i11c1eased 111 11111111101. We tlnew to
them a good store of fodder, and the tame creatures followed 11s for'
some distance, and seemed glad to see 11s.

We then pushed 011 to Wood Grange, and found the animals in'
the farm well and happy, and not so wild and frightened as at our
last \isit. The goats and the sheep we1e the fnst to appioach at
0111 call when the cznav an stopped; the hens and chickens followed,

3'SANOTHER EXCURSION--FRITZ AND THE RATS. 359

in fluttering haste and joyful caekling, and greedily swallowed the
grain and salt which was quickly thrown to them. I decided to
make this our first halting-place, and 10 remain all night; my wife,
therefore, prepared dinner, while I and the boys strolled to the field
to gather all the cotton- w 001 we could find, to make pillows for our
use at; night dining the Journey.

After dinner w e c,started again to explore the neighbouring countiy ,
and, for the first time, little Frank accompanied us, armed with a
small gun. I turned to the left of Black Swan Lake with Frank,
J11 k and Fritz took the opposite dir,ection while Ernest 1emained to
as. st his mother in gathering.' lice from the rice- -field by the lake.
1' 1ch party had with it a detachment of our licrht i11fant1y.\Vill1
Fritz and Jack marched ka and the hunte1 jackal Floss and
Master Nip remained with Ernest and his mother, while the two
young dogs, Fawn and Brownie, followed me and Frank.

We kept to the shows of the lake as closely as possible, although
sc\er'11 times obliged to go a long way round to avoid the 111a1shy
mound (01 mod with 1ushes, which glow 110111 the water. I sent ou1
f'-o1u footed companions in, l1owe\ e1, sev 01111 times, and they started
many aquatic birds, and amongst them herons, \voodeocks, and wild
ducks, who flew to the lake and sported on its surface, or soared
above it with fluttering wings. Frank at. last became quite i111-
paticnt to make his first trial, by firing amongst the birds.

Suddenly we were startled at hearing a strange noise from amidst
the rushes, almost- rcsembling the hraying of an ass. "'0 stood still
and listened attentively, and then 1" ank exclaimed quickly,

" l'apa, I believe it is our little onarrer, Swift "

"No, my boy',' I leplied "it is too strong a mice for such 11 younrr
animal; besides, he could not have followed 11s so quickly from

'ock l-iouse, and without our seeing him 1\o,F1a11k, I believe it
is a bird called the bittern."

" 0h, papa! then it is game, and I may shoot it," cried Frank;
" besides, it must be an immense bird, with such a voice as that."

"It can scarcely be called game, Frank," I said, " for the bittern
is a species of boron, and the flesh has a fishy and disagreeable
taste. The bittern, however, is not a large bird, although his voice
sounds like that of an ox or an ass ; he is, therefore, in many coun-
tries known by the names of water-0x, marsh-ox, or 111oss-cow."

" How 01111 a. little bird have such a dreadful voice, papa ? " asked
Frank.

"The lowing, crying, or whistling of animals or birds, does not
depend on their size, 1" mnk, but on the form of the throat, the
 

size of the lungs, and, above all, on the power of the muscles of
the chest}. You know that the nightingale and the canary are small
birds, but they can sing very loudly. It is said, however, that the
bittern increases the sound of its voice by thrusting its beak partially
in marshy ground, and thus produces a deep hollow sound resem-
bling the lowing of an ox." 1

Frank scarcely listened to my account of the birds and their
voices, his anxiety was so great to bring down a bittern by his first
shot.

I \rhistled to the dogs and sent them to beat the rushes, while

 

BITKEIIN.

Frank stood ready and listened, with his gun pointed and his finger
on the trigger.

In a few moments there was a rustle among the reeds, followed
by the report of a gun, then a cry of joy, as the little sportsman
rushed in to seize his prey.

"I've hit it, papa! I've hit it 2 " he cried.

" Hit what ?" I asked, as I hastened to the boy.

"A wild boar," he replied ; " bigger than the one Fritz shot."

"The agouti you mean, Frank; but I hope you have not killed
one of the little pigs from the farm."

By this time I had reached the spot, and saw a strange-looking
animal lying dead all the ground, very much resembling a pin, with

u u v . '5
a red(hsh-brown skin and a pmnted nose, but ev1dently not a.
 

native of European countries. The boy, however, was almost beside
himself with joy at his success. 011 a closer inspection I found that
the creature was from three to four feet long, had incisor teeth, and a.
divided upper lip like a hare. These peculiarities, with the fact that
the creature was tailless,and that the toes were united bya membrane,
convinced me that it was an amphibious animal called a cavy.

I could now congratulate the little fellow on his success in having
shot such an animal, instead of a wild boar. I told him also that
it was anati1e of South America, and really ought to he named
the river-pig, although called a cavy, or capybara, and that it be-
longed to the some class of animals as the beaver and the agouti.

 

CAPYBARA.

After listening to my account of the animal, Frank, who was
anxious to carry his booty to our tent and show it to his brothers, tried
to raise it from the ground, but the creature was too heavy for him.

"Suppose you place your burden on Brownie's back," I said;
" he is a strong dog, and will carry it easily, especially as the dis-
tance is not 1e1y rweal: "

" Papa, " said the boy, " if you will help me, I think I could make
the load lighter for poor Brownie by opening the ca11' aml takiwr
out the inside. It' s disagreeable, I know, but 111 t11 to hem it." I

I praised the little man f0) conquering his disgust in a case of
necessity, and readily assisted him in making the load lighter.
Brownie and Fawn were not slow in accepting the feast oil'cred
 

them, and after the envy had been properly cleaned and prepared,
it was placed in my game-bag and fastened on Brownie's back.
Then Frank and I turned our steps towards the tent at \Vood
Grange, followed by the dogs Fawn and Brownie.

On our way I looked anxiously for any trace of the boa, but not
a sign appeared. The apes also seemed to have left the neighbour-
hood, for not even one had presented itself since our arrival at
\Vood Grange.

\thn we reached the tent I saw on the ground a large number
of dead rats, the massacre of which Ernest had just completed. I
inquired the meaning of what I saw, in great astonishment, and
also where these disgusting animals had been found.

" My mother and I were gathering rice in the field," said Ernest,
"and presently I noticed one or two elevations rising a few inches
from the marshy ground, like molehills. Master Nip, who had
his basket strapped to his shoulder, ventured near one of these
hills, and in a few moments Isaw him struggling with a large rat,
aml trying to draw it from a hole.

I ran to help him, and after killing the rat, poked my stick
into what was evidently a rat's nest. Out rushed at least a dozen
rats; seine of them I knocked down with my stick, the others
escaped into the water. But the cries of the animals brought the
whole colony upon me, and they began to attack my legs in a most
savage manner. I struck right and left, and killed several, yet in
spite of my exertions and hissing and grinning of Master Nip on
my shoulder, the furious animals returned to the attack.

" I became at last terribly alarmed, and cried out for help, but
you were all too far off to hear me, aml I began to wonder what
the end would be, when suddenly Floss presented herself, and,
dashing in among the enemy, with one grip of the neck laid many
of them dead at her feet, and scattered the rest. My mother, who
had heard something of the noise at the other end of the field, now
came to the spot, and looked with great alarm at the dead rats which
Floss and I had killed. But when I explained how it happened,
and that the danger was over, she desired me to bring the dead
animals to the tent, because so many useful things could be made
of their skins."

This account of the rats greatly excited my curiosity respecting
them. I proceeded, therefore, to the scene of the attack, and found,
to my surprise, that their nests bore a great resemblance to those of
the beaver.

" My opinion is confirmed about these animals," I said to Ernest,
after a close examination; "they are musk rats, or ondatras, as they
are called in North America, to which they belong. They resemble
the beaver in many respects, especially in the cleverness with which
they build their houses, and in having a bushy tail and webbed feet;
but the musk rat, or civet cat, as it is sometimes called, possesses
two glands under its tail, containing a fatty substance, which, when
stale, produces musk, and is used as a perfume. I think, however,"
I continued, " that the sooner we return to the tent and commence
skinning these rats the better."

\Ve set to work quickly, and while thus employed, Fritz and Jack
returned from their excursion. J aek carried in his hat about a

 

MUSK HATS.

dozen beautiful eggs, wrapped in a kind of skin, and Fritz brought
two heath fowls, a cock and hen, in his game-bag. These fresh
supplies were at once taken care of, and then the two boys hastened
to help us in removing the skins of the musk rats, and to listen to
the story of his battle with them, which Ernest eagerly related.

" Why, they are nearly as large as rabbits," said Fritz: "how
useful the fur will be!"

I explained to him and Jack the nature and species of the
animals, as we carefully tool: ofl' the skins, cleaned them with ashes,
salted them, and hung,y them up to dry. The bodies, however, we
were obliged to bury, for they were so impregnated with the smell
of musk, that even the dogs would not touch them.
The cavy being now produced, Frank was made a hero of by his
brothers, when he showed them the result of his first shot. The
creature was afterwards skinned, and part of it prepared, and placed
by the mother on the spit to roast for our evening meal. But we
found the fishy taste so disagreeable, that very little of it was eaten
by any of us.

During dinner, the boys made many inquiries respecting the
musk rat, and wondered why it carried about with it such a power--
ful odour as musk.

" It is perhaps intended as an attraction to animals who make
this species their prey," I replied. "The beaver, the civet cat, or

 

)lL'SK DEER.

deer, and many other animals, have a very similar odour. The
musk of the eivet cat which is found in Holland has a more agreew
able smell than that of other musk animals; it is, therefore, the
most valuable in connnerce."

My natural history lesson came to an end when I paused, for
Ernest suddenly exclaimed,

"I wish we had some nice dessert, to take away the taste of
Frank's cavy, papa."

" Oh! I forgot," cried Fritz, starting up; "perhaps I have some-
thing for dessert in my game-hag ;" and presently he placed before
us two small cocoanuts and some pineapples, while Jack produced
a small pale green fruit, and asked me if it would be safe to eat it.

"These apples looked so beautiful, that I wanted to taste one,"
said Jack ; " but Fritz advised me not to attempt it, as he thought
the fruit resembled the poisonous manchinella."
I praised the caution of the boys, as I took up one of the green-
looking apples, and cut it in half.

"This is not the manehinella-apple," I said, " for that has a
stone in the middle, and this has pips."

While I was speaking, Master Nip crept round to my side, and
snatching up the half of the apple I had divided, rushed away with
it to a corner, and devoured it greedily.

This was enough. The boys, laughing merrily, pounced upon
the rest of the fruit with such avidity, that I could scarcely manage
to save one or two for the mother and myself.

The taste was most agreeable, and reminded me of the cinnamon
or clove-apple, which is found in the Antillas, and is considered a
delicious fruit.

I noticed after awhile that the boys looked tired; we therefore
laid ourselves down in the old Wood Grange hut which had shel-
tered us on former occasions, and with the bags stuffed with the
cotton-wool for pillows, slept peacefully till morning.

"'0 rose at daybreak, and after an early breakfast started to con-
tinue the journey to the sugar-cane grove, where we had already, on
a former visit, erected a kind of arbour of branches of trees closely
interlaced. This arbour was still in good condition, and therefore,
instead of pitching our tent, we threw the sail-cloth over the top of
the hut, rendering it in this mild climate quite comfortable.

As I intended only to remain here till dinner-time, there was
plenty of work to be done in a few hours.

Fritz, Jack, and Frank at once started with me to the sugar-cane
grove, and I felt thankful to observe that no traces of the serpent
were visible in this direction. As we walked, several canes were
broken off, and the sugar sucked from them with great relish by
us all. Not for long, however, could we enjoy this refreshing
occupation, for the dogs commenced barking, and a strange rustling
noise was heard among the canes. .

We could not see while in the thicket; I therefore led the way
out cautiously into an open space. \Ve were scarcely clear of the
canes, when what appeared to be a whole herd of little pigs passed
before us, and I at first supposed they belonged to our old sow which.
had long been at liberty. But the number, and the grey skin of the
animals, told me I was mistaken ; their structure also, and the per-
fect order in which they followed the leader of their flight, were
most remarkable, and convinced me'that they were not European pigs,
but fair game; yet I could not help regretting when the two shots
from my double-barrelled gun brought two of them to the ground.
Strange to say, the procession did not pause, but actually passed
the dead bodies of their comrades with steady steps, and without
breaking their ranks. Fritz and J aek, following my example, fired
also, and while the troop passed on, umnindful of their fallen com-
panions, we shot down about a dozen of them, while they were
within reach.

On examining the dead, I recognised in the animal a creature of
the beaver tribe, called a peccary, and as the flesh is considered very
palatable, Fritz and I at once carefully removed the musk-bag from
.each without breaking it. By this means the flesh was preserved
Irom a llavour that would have been very disagreeable.

 

I'BCCART.

All at once we heard the sound of two pistol-shots from the
direction of our arbour, and as I knew they must have been fired by
Ernest and his mother, I sent Jack to tell them we had plenty of
game, and desired him also to bring the cart to fetch it.

During his absence, finding our load rather heavy, I proposed to
Fritz that we should remove the insides of the animals at once.
Presently Ernest appeared, and asked me the name of the creature,
:and, on hearing that I believed it was a peecary, he explained the
.cause of the two shots we had heard.

" The troop passed near our arbour, papa," he said, " and mamma
and I shot two, just by the bamboo thicket. I hope peccaries are
good to eat."

'By this time Jack had arrived with the cart, and after placing the
little pigs upon it, the boys covered them with branches of trees and
flowers. Frank and Jack took their accustomed places on Grumbler
and Storm, while Ernest and Fritz seated themselves on the cart, and
I followed with the dogs. This procession arrived at last in triumph
,atthe harbour, where the mother was waiting so impatiently for us.ANOTHER I:'.\'t'UJISIUN--FRITZ AN!) TIII'} RATS. 367

 

Perhaps we were almost as impatient, for the dinner-hour had
long passed, and we had only been able to appease our hunger and
thirst by the juice of the sugar--cane.

After a hasty but substantial meal, we commenced the prepara-
tion of these little animals, which not only resemble pigs in form,
but also in the flavour of the flesh. The legs and the sides we cut
oll' and salted; they were then placed in sacks. and hung upon the
branches of a tree, with ealabash vessels underneath, to catch the
.drippings of the salt and water, which we frequently threw over them.

On the following (lay the boys arranged our arbour to form a
smoke-house, similar to that at Zeltheim for snmking the hcrrings,
and in this the salted joints were hung. The heads and other refuse
w're thrown to the dogs and the jackal. I then proposed to the
boys that a whole pig, one of the youngest, should be cooked for
dinner after the fashion adopted in Otalteite.

The boys, with Fritz as their leader, commenced operations by
digging a deep hole in the ground and burningr in it a large quantity
of reeds, dry grass, and wood, in which were placed several stones,
to remain till they were red hot.

Meanwhile Fritz cleaned and singed the little pcccary, rubbed
it with salt, and stuffed it with potatoes, pieces of meat, and vegeta-
bles, chopped small and well seasoned, and in this respect his cooking
differed from the Otaheitans', who neither use salt nor seasoning.

Not being able to obtain banana-leaves. I advised Fritz to wrap
the animal in any leaves he could find, and cover them with bark.
Thus enveloped, it was laid in the pit, covered with hot Clntlct's and
glowing stones, upon which earth was thrown, until the whole pit
was hidden from sight.

During the progress of this cooking, the smoke in the hut, which
was large enough to hold all our salted joints, was doing its work well,
and I had no doubt that; in two days large portions of the pcccary
would be sufficiently smoked for the purpose of preserving them.

In about two hours Fritz considered that our roast must; be ready.
The earth and stones were removed, and a most agreeable odour of
roast pork arose, accompanied by a flavour of spices, and presently
the splendidly-roastcd pig was lifted out of its Otaheitan oven and
placed on the table.

Fritz was triumphant over his successful experiment, and his
mother quite reconciled to the clever barbarian cooking, which she
had before laughed at as absurd. I was a little puzzled to account:
for the aromatic flavour which our roast pig had evidently gained
while in the ground, till I remembered the bark used by Fritz to
 

envelop it. I innnediately examined this bark and the tree which
produced it, and came to the conclusion that it was a native of
Madagascar, called ravensara, which, in the language of that
country, signifies good loaf. It unites the flavour of the nutmeg
with that of cloves and cinnamon, and an oil is extracted from the
leaves which has the flavour of cloves, and is useful in cooking.

As the smoke in the hut required attention for two days longer
before the hams would be ready, my wife and one of the boys
decided to remain near and attend to it, while the rest of 11s again
e\plored the neighbour.hood On our return at meal- times we
generally brought with us some boot1, and the welcome news that
no trace of theD boa could any "here be found. Among other things
11c discovered a bamboo thicket, containing reeds nearly sixty feet
high, and thick in proportion. I managed to saw ofl' a. few of them
near the first knot, for I hoped to make the hollow parts useful as
light casks and tubs. Round the knots 01' joints grew thorns, hard
and sharp, which we gladly collected to use as a substitute for nails.

The 1011115; bamboo shoots also which grew from the roots of these
nirrantic canes we gathe1ed in abundance. A kind of gum also
exuded irom thc1n,a11d this gum when dried in the sun, had the
appearance of saltpctle o1 soda

O11 our way to Prospect Hill one morning we passed through
"'uod Grange, and I found, to my dismay, that the monkeys had
again attacked the farm buildings. The goats and sheep had
wandered mm, the fowls had become quite wild, and the stalls and
poultry -houses were so broken and destr'o1 ed, that I knew it would
occupy se1eral days to 1epai1' the damarre I put this wo1l1 oil,
11011 (.1 er, for a11othe1 oppo1tunity, as the hams being now sutliciently
smoked, we wished to continue our excutsion.

"'0 took only one 11am with us to add to our stock of provisions,
leaving the rest hanging in the hut, and to preserve them from the
attacks of wild beasts and birds of prey, we piled 11p earth and
sand to a great height round the place, and stuck it full of thorns
and thistles, thus forming a complete barricade against robbeis.

During the two days of 0111' stay near the arbour, while the hams
were being smoked, the boys and I cut down several bushes in
the cane thicket, to make a pathway, for I knew we should other-
wise be unable to pass with 0111' loaded vehicles. Early one morn--
ing,thcre[o1e, 0111 little ea1avan set out gaily to continue the journey
to o11110111101011 parts of the island, and, with pat1iarchal trust in
Providence, p1oceedcd on 0111' way, and passed tl11ough the cane
thicket 011 the road we had made with ease and comfort.rm; GREEN VALLEY--THE BEARS.

FTER walking about two hours, we reached the proposed
limit of our wanderings, at the outskirts of a small wood,
and hem I determined to halt.

The spot was tolerably cool and sheltered, the wood being bounded
on the right by an overhanging rock, while to the left the outflow
of a river emptied itself into a large bay. The place appeared to
present every advantage of safety and convenience, and we at once
commenced making the necessary arrangements for a long stay.

Within gunshot from us lay a narrow pass between the river and
the rock, which I hoped would lead to the unknown country beyond.
I chose a little thicket for our halting place, sufficiently raised for
us to command the opening to the river's bank, and to be ready
with our arms in case any danger presented itself.

While dinner was being prepared I and the boys explored the im-
mediate neighbourhood, but found no enemies worse than wild cats,
which were hunting birds and badgers, but they fled at our approach.

The morning passed quickly, and after dinner the heat became
so overpowering, that we could only sit in the shade and rest,
hoping that by the evening we should find it cooler, and our
strength sufficiently renovated to enable us to build another cabin
of branches of trees, or to pitch our travelling-tent.

This resting-time was employed in talking over our plans for
the long excursion we hoped to take on the morrow. I was anxious
to explore the broad plain or savannah which we had seen on a
former occasion from Prospect Hill, as it had every appearance,
from the distance, of being rich and fertile pasture land.

I decided to take the three elder boys with me, that, as I laugh-
ingly said, we might have a strong force in case of danger. My
wife and Frank were to remain at the tent, well armed, with the
waggons, the animals, and the various articles the long-intended
stay had made necessary to bring with us.

369 25
 

 

After a substantial breakfast, we bid farewell to the mother and
Frank, and, surrounded by our four-footed friends, started for the
unknown land, and, taking the narrow pass between the river and

he rocks, arrived at a spot from which could be seen the immense
)lain stretched out before us.

It was indeed a wonderful landscape which we paused to gaze upon.

To the left, on the opposite shore of the stream, which we had
already named the Eastern Iiircr, stretched away to the far distant
horizon a range of woods and forests of palms and other trees in
full and splendid foliage.

Behind these rose a chain of steep barren mountains, piled one
above the other, while their summits reached the clouds and were
clearly defined against the sky. We waded across the Eastern
River to the opposite shore, and looked back to the pleasant land
we had left behind, on which rose green hills covered with woods
and groves in picturesque beauty.

Continuing our way towards the mountain range, and leaving
the verdant plains behind, we found, as we advanced, that the
contrast became more perceptible. It was fortunate that I had
filled my water flask from the brook, for here there was not the
least trace of water, or even moisture. The grass was burnt up,
and the land appeared dry, barren, and unfruitful. The contrast
presented by this arid spot to the verdure and fertility of the plain
we had left was truly remarkable]

"l'apaE" exclaimed Fritz, " this country has changed greatly
since we were here last and met with the buffaloes."

"We have never travelled so far as this, Fritz," I replied; " and
besides, there is a cause for the appearance it now presents. We
saw it last year soon after the rainy season had ended, and since
then it has been exposed for months to the glowing heat of the sun.
The soil is eridently rocky and sterile, and therefore requires a great
quantity of rain to soften it and to produce vegetation."

"'0 continued to walk on, however, amid the sighs and complaints
of the boys, who now and then opened their parched lips to find
fault with the country, and to speak of it as Arabia I'etne'a, or the
Sahara of the island.

" Arabia l'etraea I" cried Ernest; "it is a thousand times worse."

"Ah E" exclaimed another, " it is a land only fit to be inhabited
by evil spirits."

"Yes," remarked Ernest; "and the ground under our feet is
burning hot. There must be subterranean tire. No wonder every-
thing is parched and dried up."THE GREEN l'.-lLI.I:'l'--TIII-J 1.15.4115. .'i'it

 

"l'al1encc, patience, my bo1s!"I exclaimed: "you finget the
old p1o1 e111, ' \\ hen all 15 wild, it 11ill soon be mild,' and the Latin
.':ayi1111'prr Augusta, ml Any/113m} \odouht 110 shall p1esentl_1 tind
a shadow under the overhanging side of a mountain, as well as
water and refreshing verdnre."

At last, when overcome with heat and fatigue, we reached a
pleasant spot at the foot of a projecting rock, and threw ourselves
down to rest in its welcome shadow, and to gaze in silence on the
scene before us.

The blue mountains were clearly defined against the horizon. at a
distance of, perhaps, twenty or thirty 111iles, while the river wandered
in serpentine course through the broad plain, looking,1 in the distance
like a thread of silver.

"'0 had not been restim.1 for long when Master Nip, with most
ridiculous grimaces, began to smell about in all directions. Then
screaming hideously, he started ott' at full gallop towards the rocks,
followed by the dogs.

Isupposed at first that he had discovered a troop of monkeys,
but we were too much overcome with heat and tl1i1st to follow
them. "'e had, besides, just produced our provision store, and were
too busily engaged to move.

l'resently Fri , who had his eyes fixed on the distance, saw some-
thing that surprlsed him. Starting up, he exclaimed,

"Papa, whatever is that; yonder in the valley? It appears to
me like a man on horseback; and them is another, and a third," he
added; "and now they me all in full 1rallop. Can they really be
the Arabs of the (lese1t. 7"

" No, certainly not," I replied with a laugh; " but take my tele-
scope, and tell me what you can make of this 1vo11de1tul si11ht "

" It is stranger than eve1, papa,' said the bo1, as he steadily
looked thraough the glass " The 111o1i111_1 objects look like he1ds of
cattle, high-loaded 11'aggons, o1 1vande1ing' hay stacks. Ha, ha. '

what can it all be ?"

His brothers, in turn, looked through the glass, and both Ernest
and Jack declared that they believed the great moving objects were
men on horseback.

I then took the telescope myself, and disco1eted at a grlance that
the 111o1ing,1 figures 11 etc nothing: but a fe11 gigantic osttiches

"Oh, papa'" c1ied Jack, as I stated my conviction. "a living;
ost1ich! Oh, 11ouldnt: it be deli11htful to tide one, and to 11.110

beautiful feathers PS01 0111' hats!'
The birds were evidently approaching nearer to 11s, and I there1

271--2
fore desired Fritz and Jack to call in the dogs and search for the
monkey, while I and Ernest concealed ourselves in a bush, from
which we could watch the movements of the bi1ds. Among these
bushes I "as, howe\ e1, startled at 1ecorfni7ing a plant which f1e-
quenlly grows between the fissu1es of stones 01 100115. F1o1n the
stem of this bush e.\udes a kind of sap 01 gum, which, although a
deadly poison, is \e1y useful as a. medicine, and called by some
pe1s011s 11.00 s mil/131'

After a long absence, Fritz and Jack returned with the dogs and
the ape. Master Nip had scented water, and the whole party, the
boys included, had refreshed themselves with a bath, and re-filled
their water flasks.

All this time the ostriches were approaching nearer to the spot we
occupied, so that we were able to observe them with perfect safety.

There were live, one of them a male bird, as the large and beau-
tilul tail featl1e1s plainly showed.

"\Ve must not startle them," I said, " for if they begin to run,
we could never expect to overtake birds of such lleetness: no
horse could gallop so fast as an ostrich, although Fritz's eagle
might rival them, by flying as swiftly as they r1111."

"How do the Arabs catch them?" asked Fritz.

" On horseback, sometimes; but oftener by stratagem," I replied.
" The ostrich, when he finds himself pursued, will run for hours in
a circle of an immense circmnferenee. The hunter keeps within
the circle, but still follows, till the creature flags from fatigue. He
then crosses the circle, and the capture is made."

"Does the ostrich really bury his head in the sand, and fancy
no one can see him ?" asked Ernest.

"It is said so," I replied, " and I believe there is some truth in
the assertion. But, hush! do not move, the birds are near us," I
added quickly, in a low voice.

The ostriches were by this time standing at a short distance
from us, behind a slight elevation. Coming upon 11s so suddenly,
they appea1ed sta1tled and uneasy; but as we stood still, and held
back the dogs, they seemed to take courage and app10ach near-,ei
raisin-r their z,arehed necks, and gazing with su1p1ise at the unaccus-
to111e1r spectacle

Unfortunately the impatient dogs at this moment escaped flout
0111 held, and lushed yelping and b11111an upon the ost1iches.
Auay they flew like the wind, one after the othei, and seemed
scaicely to touch the ground with their feet. They appemed more

' Most probably \volr'shane, or aconite.
 

like ships at full sail in their flight, and were quickly almost lost
to us in the distance; but Fritz had uncoveled the eyes of his
eagle when the birds were first alarmed, and set him free to follow
them.

We saw the royal bird soaring above the fugitives, and hastened
to follow, in the hope of saving the one he pounced upon. Rapid
as we1e our movements, the dogs 11c1e the1e befo1c us. The
beautiful male bi1d, houe1e1beingalittle 111 the 1ca1,\1as quickly
pounced upon ['13 the eagle, who, 111th one blow of his beak, blought
the c1eatu1e to the gtound.

"'0 were too late to save the animal's life, for the jackal and the
dogs were quickly upon him, and we arrived at the spot only in
time to gather up a. few of the most beautiful feathers.

"What a pity to kill such a beautiful creature!" said Fritz; "I
am sure he could have carried two of us 011 his back quite easily.
Why, he must be six feet high, at least; and his neck would
measu1e tlnee feet mor-e ' "

"What can these creatures get to live upon in the desert, I
wonder ? " said Ernest; "nothing grows there."

" It is said that the ostrich digests anything--even stones," I
replied, " but his usual food consists of plants and shrubs; yet
most animals who inhabit the barren regions of a desert can live
for (lays without food. The camel, as you know, has a kind of
second stomach, in which he carries a sufficient supply of water
to last for many hours."

\Vhile thus conversing, we were continuing our walk towards
a. beautiful valley which I had seen in the distance, and presently
Ernest and Jack turned aside to follow the movements of the jackal,
who was more like a dog in his habits, and seemed 110w to make
himself their leader. All at once they stood still by some withered
shrubs, and beckoned to us to join them.

"Ostriehes' eegs! ost1iches' cgflsl" c1ied the boys joyfully, and
thr'owinrv their hats in the air as "e o1e1tool< them: and them at
their feet, in a hole 111 the sand e\po'sed to the sun, lay t11 enty eggs
as laige as a childs head

"That is a glo1iousdisco1e1y!" I said; " but do not distmb the
order 111 which the eyes are laid, or pe1haps the mother will fo1sake
them."

" What could we do with so many eggs?" asked Fritz.

" Oh, I know," cried Jack,---" take them home with us, and lay
them in the sand to be hatched by the sun."

"That is more quickly said than done," I remarked. "Those
 

tags would weigh more than twenty pounds, and who is to carry
them? Besides, the ostrich only leaves her eggs during the day to
the heat of the sun in these hot climates; at night she sits on them
herself, covering them carefully."

The boys, however, begged me to let them take home two egg ,
to show their mother. I therefore cautiously lifted two from the

 

LSTHILH.

top, and, to enable the boys to carry them easily, I Lied each egg in
rt piece of cloth, like a stone in a. sling, and fastened the cloth to a
string, so that it hung loosely from the hand, and could be carried
without danger of breaking it.

Even in this way the eggs soon proved themselves too heavy. I
therefore cut a strong elastic stick of heath, and tied one egg, in its
cloth, at each end of the stick, that the boys might carry the eggs
as the Dutch lnillunaids do their milk--pails. This had the effect of

decreasing the weight. \l'e also set up in the sand :1 cross made of
two pieces of the heath-stem, that we might easily find the nest
when we came again.

On our way we noticed many signs of strange animals, such as
buffaloes, antelopes, and onagers, but no trace of the serpent.

At a little distance further on we reached a spot which, in this
sterile region, proved truly refreshing, for a little spring flowed
from the rock, and formed itself into a tiny brook.

\Ve seated ourselves by its side, took out some of our provisions,
filled the water-flasks with fresh water, and thoroughly enjoyed the
rest. Presently Fritz, who was watching the jackal, saw him at a
little distance scratch up with his feet a curiously-formed creature.
He rose quickly, took it from him, and brought it to me to
examine it.

"It's like a little turtle," said Ernest, " although it is not larger
than half an apple."

"A turtle!" cried Fritz. " How could a turtle be found so far
from the sea as this?"

"Very likely it was brought by a shower of turtles similar to
the rain of frogs we read of in old romances."

" Hallo, Dr. Ernest!" I cried, laughing, "you are mistaken for
once. This is really a small land turtle, of the kind which lives in
marshy ground and near fresh water. It is found very useful in
gardens. Although it lives upon vegetables, yet it destroys snails
and other vermin. This turtle will bury itself in marshy ground
or mud during the hot weather, but creeps out again gladly when
the rain comes and renders the ground soft and muddy."

The boys contrived to carry with them two of these little harm-
less creatures; and, after enjoying an hour of refreshing rest, we
again started forward on the journey, and presently entered a green
and fruitful valley.

Here and there stood groves of trees in full foliage, and so
flourishing and fertile was its aspect, that it presented a striking
contrast to the dry and sterile land through which we had lately
wandered. The cool fresh breeze, also, after the burning sun and
the intense heat, was so refreshing, that, as we walked through it,
we decided to give it the name of the Grccn Valley.

Here and therein the distance could be distinguished herds of
buffaloes and antelopes peacefully grazing; and no doubt we might
have approached nearer to them but for the dogs, which were
always several paces in advance of us.

Imperceptibl y the valley had turned away to the left, and brought
us to a rising ground, and I was amazed at finding that we had
 

 

reached a spot opposite to the place at which we had rested in the.
morning. ""0 had taken no game during the whole day, and had
nothing to carry back to the tent but the ostrich eggs. I hoped,
however, that on our way home we might be more successful.

I was not, however, prepared for what really happened, although
I remarked that our dogs were becoming wild, and looked so scared
and uneasy, that we were obliged each to lead them, excepting Floss,
who was so under the command of her rider, Master Hip, that she
seemed to have lost all spirit for hunting. In less than half an
hour we found ourselves near the place where Fritz had caught the
young jackal.

Ernest, looking pale and tired, crept on in front of the party,
leading the way, accompanied by the (log Fawn, to a rocky cave
which appeared in the distance, while we followed slowly, yet longing
for its cool shelter. Suddenly a cry of terror, the barking of the
dogs, and a low growl startled us. The next moment Ernest, pale
as death and without his hat, rushed from the cave and threw him-
self into my arms, exelaiming,

' " Papa, papa, don't go in! There's a bear in the care; and 100k,
he's coming out ; he is indeed ! "

I placed my arm for a moment round the boy, who was trembling
in every limb, and exclaiming, " Courage! courage! my boy," I let
the dogs loose, and, gun in hand, rushed towards the cave, followed
by Fritz. To my horror we were met at the entrance by an enormous
hear, which the dogs were attacking furiously, and I could see an-
other within the cave.

Fritz set himself bravely to do battle with the latter, while I
prepared to meet the ii rst. "'e. both fired together.

.1: stood ready armed at a little distance, yet evidently half
al' raid, but Ernest had rushed back as the bears appeared, and was
nowhere to be seen.

Our first shots, although they wounded the bears, were, unfor-
tunately, not mortal, and I hesitated to fire again lest I should in-
jure the dogs, who were dragging the animals hither and thither, at
the risk of their lives, with the greatest bravery.

One of them, however, could not bite, for I had with my shot
hroken his under jaw, and Fritz had wounded the other in the fore
paw; they had, therefore, lost seine of their natural strength, but
not their courage. Indeed, the pain and the attacks of the (logs
rendered them furious, and the struggles to defend themselves,
added to their loud growls and the yelping of the dogs, rendered
the scene truly fearful. The bears, sometimes erect, sometimes onu
m
 

all fours, fought bravely, and, as I could see that the dogs were
wounded and bleeding, I expected every moment to see one or two
lie dead on the battle-field.

At the same time, the bears appeared to grow weaker, and I
therefore determined to approach nearer, and watch my opportunity
to fire when close upon them. Making a sign to Fritz to follow, I

 

 

GRIZZLY BEARS.

went forward cautiously, and choosing a moment when the creatures
were too much occupied with the dogs to notice us, I shot one of
them through the head, while the hall fired by Fritz passed through
the heart of the other.

"God be praised!" I exclaimed, earnestly, as the two terrible
enemies, with hollow growls, fell dead at our feet. "We have:
escaped great danger with His help and protection."
After satisfying myself that the bears were really dead, we ap-
proached nearer to examine the monsters, and also to ascertain if
the dogs were seriously injured. They had certainly received some
severe bites, and their skin had been torn slightly by the animals'
claws, but all this I hoped to remedy on our return to the tent.
While thus employed, Jack, who had from the distance witnessed
our success, ran back to find Ernest, exelaiming, " Victory l victory l"
in a joyful voice; and presently Jack approached the field of battle.
followed timidly by Ernest, who had not yet overcome the effects
of his first alarm.

Fritz and I could not help a feeling of pride as we examined the
monsters we had destroyed,--their size, their strong teeth and
terrible claws, the structure of the limbs, and the wonderful thick-
ness of the fur.

The boys stood by in wondering admiration and awe as I spoke
of the danger we had escaped, for these animals would no doubt
have discovered us in our home, and perhaps at a moment when
we were not prepared.

" Are they not useful new they are dead, papa ? " asked Jack.

" Yes, my child, very useful: the flesh is much esteemed by the
people of the countries in which bears are found, and the fur alone
of these we have killed would form a most valuable article of coin-
merce in the fur trade. You observe that the colour is a silvery
shining grey, and I believe, therefore, that these animals belong to
the class of bears met with by Captain Clark during his travels in
the north-western countries of America, and named by him the
silver bear."

It was impossible, on this occasion, to carry home our booty; I
therefore at once decided to leave it in the cave, and protect it
as carefully as practicable from the jackals and other beasts of
prey.

With seine dilliculty, therefore, the dead bears were dragged
farther into the cave, and covered with branches of trees, while
in front of the entrance we piled thorn-bushes and prickly leaves.

The eggs of the ostrich were also left behind, after burying them
carefully in the sand, for it was getting late, and as the boys would
have to walk quickly, they did not wish to be burdened with heavy
weights.

We did not reach the tent till after sunset, and were received by
the mother and Frank with a glad welcome. They had also been
busy gathering a large heap of wood for our watch--fires, and supper
had been ready for a long time. After relating our adventures, the
mother hastened to describe the performances of herself and little
Frank during our absence.

They had discovered a path through the bushes which led to the
foot of a rock, and here they had found a peculiar kind of white
lime or pipeclay, of which my wife thought we might be able to
make china cups and saucers and plates. They had also met with
bamboo cane suitable for pipes to convey the water which flowed
fresh and sparkling from a rock close by, and not far from the farm.

"A hole could be dug in the ground," said my wife, " to which
the water could be conducted by the bamboo pipes, and what a been
this would be for our animals! I broke off a large piece of the rock
from which the water flows," she continued, "and with this and the
mixture of the white clay I constructed a fireplace for cooking, much
more convenient than stones. The remainder of the day I and
Frank employed in gathering materials for the watch-fires, bamboo
canes, as well as a supply of white clay, all of which we brought
here on the cart drawn by the buffalo and the ox."

" Papa," said Frank, after I had thanked my wife for her industry,
"I saw, some pieces of the white clay in the fireplace burnt hard,
and looking almost like glass."

" Like glass, eh, Frank," I said. " "'ell, after the watch-fires are
lighted I will try it."

I concluded it was of a vitreous nature, and could easily be made
useful for crockery, as my wife supposed.

Earnestly the boy watched me as I softened the white clay and
rolled it into the shape of two balls, which I then placed in the hot
Cinders of the watch--fire.

" We must leave theta there all night, Franky," I said, " and
perhaps by the morning we shall find two pretty glass balls."

After the wounds of our brave dogs had been carefully washed,
touched with ointment, and bound up, they laid themselves down
by the watch-fire, and seemed much relieved.

The history of our day's journey and adventures with the ostriches,
and the fight with the bears, however, occupied little Frank's mind
so completely, that he could talk of nothing else but the fact that
we were all to go to the bears' cave next day, and not only help in
saving the beautiful fur and salting the flesh, but also to bring home
the eggs of the ostrich and the large handsome feathers we had left
behind.

Even when we retired to the tent, glad of the rest we so much
needed after our exertions, Frank could not readily fall asleep for
thinking of the morrow.THE coxnon--rnaxx nmns THE CUCKOO.

ARLY next morning I arose, and waking my sleeping house-

I l i hold, proceeded at once to examine the pipeclay balls. They

had become hard and glazed, but in consequence of the great

heat of the fire the balls were too brittle, and had the clay been formed
into cups and saucers, this fact would have rendered them useless.

After offering our morning prayer and partaking of breakfast, we
harnessed the animals to the cart, and started on the way to the
bears' cave.

Fritz, who was a little in advance of us, no sooner came in sight
of the entrance, than he cried out,

"Make haste! make haste! here is an immense flock of turkeys;
perhaps they have assembled to do honour to the funeral of the
poor slaughtered bears. And there's a sort of meddling fellow pa-
rading before the cave, as if he were a sentinel placed there to pre-
vent the (lead from being disturbed."

The bird described by Fritz as a sentinel was of immense size,
with a bright red comb on his head, and lappets of the same colour
under his throat. He had along beak, and acollarof white feathers
round his neck, which fell upon his purple-red breast. The rest of the
bird's plumage appeared of a dark brown speckled with white.

This large bird marched up and down in front of the entrance to
the cave like a sentinel, now and then stepping in, but-not toremain
for long. Other and smaller birds were inside, who, with loud cries
and rustling wings, drove him back.

We had been watching this amusing spectacle for some minutes,
when a rushing sound of flapping wings in the air startled us. We
looked up, and saw an enormous bird descending to the cave. At
the same moment Fritz fired, and the bird, in falling heavily, struck
his head against the rock and broke his neck.

The dogs, who had been held in a leash, broke loose at this, and
rushed into the cave, putting to flight the birds inside, who rose

384THE CONDOR--FRA NK HEARS THE 0 UCK 00. 385

slowly in the air, followed by the majestic watcher. Fritz fired
again, but the ball passed him by unhurt, and the bird, which was -
evidently the king vulture, soared to the clouds majestically, and
was soon out of sight.

Two, however, remained, as the result of Fritz's gunshots: one
which very much resembled a turkey, and the large one, which I
imagined must be a condor by its size, for it measured sixteen feet
from its beak to the tip of its tail.

I at last entered the cave, and found, to my satisfaction, that only
the eyes and the tongue of one of the bears had been meddled with.
Assisted by the boys, I commenced at once to skin and cut up the
animals, and prepare the flesh by salting, as I had done with our
other booty.

This work occupied two whole days, during which we had erected
our tent outside the cave. At the end of that period we loaded the
cart with the skins and the salted flesh, and journeyed with them to
Prospect Hill, that the latter might be smoked in the arbour. This
was more especially necessary for the hams, which were large, and
we hoped would prove as agreeable eating as the boar hams of
Westphalia. Next day we returned to our tent outside the cave.
The birds of prey were totally unfit for food, as birds which feed on
carrion always are, but we plucked them, and cleansed the feathers.
Some of the condor's wing-feathers were very beautiful, but not
equal to those of the ostrich.

I had always regretted that the tree from which the bark was ob-
tained that gave such an aromaticflavour to the roasted peccaryshould
grow so far off. However, I told the boys that I had seen in this neigh-
bourhood several bushes which I believed were the pepper-plant.

I had noticed that clusters of berries, something like curmnts,
but not so large, grew on these bushes; but the clusters being fuller
and the berries closer together, they bore a greater resemblance to
bunches of grapes.

The berries were varied in colour, some being red, others green or
white. The boys readily promised to assist me in collecting about
a hundred young shoots of these bushes, to plant at Falcon's Nest
and Zeltheim, as well as at other places, when we returned from
our excursion.

Myboyshad been forsome time anxious to commence ajourneyover
the island alone, but I could not spare them until the bear hams and
other portions were thoroughly smoked and dried, and fit to be added
to our stores during the rainy season, without danger of spoiling.

At length, no more smoking being required for the hams, I told

26
the boys they might prepare for their journey. My information
was received by three of the lively youngsters with shouts of joy.
Ernest alone held back, and asked to be allowed to remain with his
mother; and Frank entreated me to let him accompany Fritz and
Jack, instead of Ernest.

After some consideration I gave my consent, and the joyful shouts
were repeated. Lightfoot, Storm, and Grnmble1 we1e soon saddled,
and the th1ee 1ide1s sprang to their seats, waving their hands 111
fa1eVVell and looked happy and delighted. I11 fiont of each cavalier
hung the bag containing his store of p1oVisions, and in a belt round
his waist were fastened his pistol, knife, axe, and game- bag.

I and my wife watched them, as, accompanied by the dogs, they
1ode away

" Ah," thought I," we must learn to t1ust them to their own
resources. They a1e g1owing manly and st1ong,'1 and if I were to
die, I could even now t1 11st the mother and his three brotl1e1s to the
care of Fritz. Heaven will watch over them, and I believe that
God, in His providence will protect them this day from harm."

Duiing their absence, while examining the rock at the back of the
hezus' cave, I discovered a number of long asbestos threads, which I
1111er when melted would form talc. This I could make 1 aluable to
us for window-panes, being much clearer and mme t1a11spa1ent than
the fish glue which I had used for the windows of our 1ocl1 house.

My wife received the news of this discove1y with great satisfac-
tio112sl1e said it had always been a t1ouble to he1 to have window-
panes that we1e not tr'1nspa1e11t.

As the evening approached, she placed 011 the stone fireplace a
pot containing two of the salted bears' feet to stew for supper, and
then we seated ou1selves, to wait with anxiety and impatience for
the 1etu1n of our boy h1111te1sAt last we heaid the clatter of
hoofs approaching at a sha1p t1ot, and distant sounds of joyful
cheering. I went to meet the riders.

Like military hussars, they slackened rein when they saw me,
and spmng from their chargers, took off the saddles, and left the
animals free to enjoy the sweet grass and the fresh water from the
[110011 at their own f1ee will. Then they hastened to join their
mother at the tent who received them joyfully.

J 1el1 and F1ank each canied a young kid slung across his
shoulde1s, and the movement in F1itz' s game-bag gave me the 1111-
p1ession that it contained something aliVe.

"The chase fore ever, papa!" clied Jack, in a loud voice; " the
chase for ever! And what splendid fellows Storm and Grumbler
are to run over level ground! They so tired the little creature we
followed for a long distance, that we were able at last to catch it
with our hands."

" Yes, papa l" exclaimed Frank; "and Fritz has two such pretty
rabbits in his bag. And we were very nearly bringing you some
honey, mamma, only we stopped to hear the cuckoo."

" Ah, but you forget the best!" cried Fritz. " \Ve met a troop of
antelopes, and they were so tame we might have brought one home
easily had we wished."

" Ah, stay, my boy," I said; "you have forgotten the best: the
goodness of God in bringing you all home safely to the arms of
your parents, and preserving you from danger on the way. But
presently you must give us a straightforward account of your
journey, from the beginning, after you have rcstct ."

The boys on this hastily ran to refresh themselves, by bathing
their faces and hands and removing the game-bags and arms from
their girdles. The story of their day's adventures was then com-
menced by Fritz.

" When we left this morning," he said, "we proceeded at a quick
trot through Green Valley, and soon reached the narrow defile
between the rocks and the river, and came presently to a slight
elevation, from which we could see a large extent of country.
From this point we noticed a herd of pretty animals, but I could
not tell whether they were goats, antelopes, or gazellcs. A thought
struck me that we might drive them along the bank of the river
towards \Vood Grange.

" \Ve each separated, placing ourselves at three different points,
and holding back the dogs. Frank was to keep along the bank of
the river, Jack placed himself at a distance from him, and I, mounted
on the onager, stood at a point opposite to Jack. \Ve advanced
cautiously towards the pretty creatures, and came gradually nearer,
but on seeing us many of them started off at a rapid pace. Then
they became confused, and stood close together, staring at us wildly.
At this moment we let the dogs loose, and galloped after them at
full speed ourselves. The confused animals turned from us towards
the narrow defile, as we intended they should, for we had placed
ourselves at these different points to oblige them to do so.

"I wanted to drive them to Wood Grange, and I knew this
could only be done by making them prisoners in the defile. To
produce this result, we tied a piece of string, at a distance of about
four feet from the ground, across the whole breadth of the pass
Upon it we fastened the ostrich feathers from our caps, and some

26--2
 

pieces of old rags we had in our garlic-bags. The wind blow them
wildly about, so that when the animals attempted go back, they
were alarmed, and turned to proceed, as I wished, towards \Vood
Grange; for on one side was the water, opposite to it ourselves, the
dogs at various points, and behind them these alarming-looking
feathers and rags. And therefore, papa, as they could only go
forward, I have really succeeded in attracting them to our farm."

"Well done, my b0 '3 The idea was a clever one. But tell me,"
I said, " what made you think of it ?"

" 1 read an account of the methods adopted by the natives of the
Cape of Good Hope to tame antelopes, by bringing them into
association with other animals, in a book named ".l'ravels in South
Africa,' by Captain Levaillant, a naturalist, so I thought I would.
try the experiment."

"I am glad you remember what you read, Fritz," I replied;
" but where did you find the rabbits, and how do you propose lo
keep them? Rabbits multiply so quickly that our fields and
gardens would soon be overrun with them."

"Ah, but you forget, papa," replied the boy. "W'e have two
small islands on which these pretty little creatures could live with>>
out being the slightest trouble to us, and we should not only have:
their flesh as an additional store of food for our table, but their fur,
which is quite as useful as the skin of the civet rat; and even if
these creatures are as plentiful as rabbits, their flesh is useless,.
because of the musk. Besides, on our islands there are quantities
of vegetables and green food which grow without cultivation."

" You are quite right, Fritz," I said ; " and I will help you to carry
out your plan with great pleasure. Have you brought living rabbits ? "'

" Yes, papa; two. We saw a number of them scampering about,
and I sent up my eagle. He brought me three--two alive and one
dead. I gave him the dead one as a reward. The two living-
rabbits are in a basket cage now, papa. I put them in it as soon
as we arrived. I hope we shall be able to take them to one of the
islands very quickly."

" Papa," said Jack, impatiently, before I could answer his brother,
"isn't it my turn to speak now 2 It's all on the tip of my tongue,.
and I want to tell you what Frank and I did."

"Of course, Jack," I replied, smiling, "and I am quite ready to-
listen to your adventures. How did you bring down those beautiful
little kids? "

"In a gallop, papa; Frank and I together. Fritz was seine
distance ofl', following the rabbits, and we rode slowly behind him..
 

'Our dogs were sniffing about in a restless manner over the thick
grass, and presently they started two animals that we took for
hares. Oh, how they did run and spring along in front of us!
but we kept them in sight, and followed on Storm and Grninbler
.at full gallop, sometimes even leaving the dogs behind. In about
.a quarter of an hour they lost breath, and fell panting on the
ground. W'e sprang off our saddles, drove back the dogs, and
found that, instead of hares, the creatures were two beautiful little
.t'z'iwns. We lifted them in our arms and bathed their delicate legs
with palm wine, then slung them on our shoulders, as you saw, and
rode back to Fritz. And that is the history of our hunting exploits."

" And very successful too," I replied, "if you take care of the
little creatures and can tame them. I do not think they are
lawns, however, but a kind of dwarf antelope. And now tell me,
Jack, what causes your face to be so inflamed and swelled? One
would think you had been attacked by a swarm of mosquitoes"

"No, papa," replied Jack, laughing; "I got my wounds by
meddling. We were trotting slowly towards home, when I noticed
a bird that flew past us to a tree with a whirr and a rustle of the
wings, and then waited till we came up to fly off again to another
tree. Frank thought it might be an enchanted princess, who was
attracting us to follow her, that we might set her free from on-
ehantment, but I felt a wish to aim at it for its boldness. Fritz,
however, laughed at me for thinking of firing a gun loaded with
ball at a small bird.

"'Besidcs,' he said, 'you would not wish to kill a cuckoo--the
bird that tells us in Europe that spring is come'

"' Its note doesn't sound exactly like our cuckoo,' I said.

" ' Perhaps not,' replied Fritz; 'but I think this is one of those
singular birds I have read of called the honey cuckoo, who at-
tracts the attention of travellers, as if wishing to inform them that
honey could be found in a tree close by.'

" 0n hearing this, Frank and I were quite ready to follow the
bird, and presently it alighted on a tree, ceased its song, and
stood still. We stopped also, and, after examining the tree, found
a hees' nest in the hollow trunk not far from the ground. "re all
talked about what we ought to do to get some of the honey, but
in our wisdom there was very little common sense: for when
Fritz at last proposed that we should suffocate the bees with sul-
phur, I lighted a brimstone match and threw it into the tree,
never thinking of stopping up the hole.

" In a moment the bees were upon me, those inside as well as
those who were returning home for the evening. They attacked
me in every exposed part--my face, my hands--and some even got
into my hair. I could only at last leap on my buffalo, and gallop
away from my enemies. As soon as I got clear of them, I touched
my face with wet earth, but it still burns and smarts terribly."
"The meddling robber often punishes himself," I said, with a
smile. "You have plenty of courage, my boy, but very little

 

SPUITBD HONEY-GUIDE.

caution. And now go at once to your mother; she will bathe
your face with something to cool it and allay the pain."

He came to me shortly after, to tell me how much easier it was
after his mother's remedy, and then ran to attend to his fawns, and
to see that they were safe and comfortably lodged for the night.

I went with the boys to examine the rabbits; they were large and
handsome animals, and I decided that they should be carried to
Whale Island as soon as we returned to Falcon's Nest or Book Castle.

hit my thoughts rested more earnestly on the bird which my
boys had met with. It appeared to be really one of those which
point out the position of honey, as the boys had described. The fact
troubled me. Why should such birds exist here unless the island
was inhabited? Other circumstances also seemed to indicate, in
this region at least, the presence of man. Many animals had pre-
sented themselves, such as apes and buflhloes, as well as birds often
domesticated, and I could not get rid of the idea that the interior of
the island on which we lived was inhabited by human beings.

This impression made me determined to erect a kind of fortifi-
cation on Whale Island, and to place there a battery with two carr-
non, one at the entrance to Deliverance Bay, the other inland, on
the shores of the Jackal River.

After the antelope kids and the rabbitshad been cared for, I showed
the boys the discovery I had made among the rocks in the bears' cave,
of a species of asbestos, and explained to them the great advantage
it would be to us to make talc for window panes; but they scarcely
looked at it, and were much more interested when the mother called
them to supper. The odour from the bears' feet was very tempting,
but, unfortunately, they here such a resemblance to human hands
as they lay on the dish, that Jack exclaimed, in the words of the
ogre in the story of "Jack and the Beanstalk,"

" I smell the flesh of an Englishman !"

His mother was shocked at the suggestion, but the boys laughed,
and were glad enough to enjoy for their supper the tempting morsels,
in spite of Jack's remark. After we had finished, the watch-fire
was lighted, and we retired to rest in our tent.

I aroused my children early the next morning, as I intended that
there should be at least one more excursion before returning to
Rock House, where many arrangements had to be made in prepara-
tion for the rainy season, which was approaching.

we had worked well so far. The flesh of the bears had been salted
and smoked, and the fat melted down; we had also a large number
of bamboo canes; but I wished to discover whether the ostrich had
deserted the eggs we had left in the sand, and also to obtain asupply
of gum from the euphorbia, or purple flowering spurge. I had
noticed this gum oozing from the trunk of one of those trees on our
last expedition, and I knew it would be useful in many ways.

Fritz gave up his onager to me, and rode the foal, little Swift,
which promised to become a clever coarser. Ernest remained at
home to help his mother, for the quiet, indolent boy took very
little interest in these fatiguing excursions. Frank gladly joined
us: he was a spirited little fellow, and as fond of enterprise as
Jack.

We set out with the two old dogs, leaving Fawn and Brownie as
a body-guard to those who remained at the tent. Jack rode the
buffalo, and Frank the youngr ox. We proceeded at once towards
the green valley, and this time took the direction we had followed
on our first visit to "'ood Grange, and presently came to the marshy
ground where Fritz had caught the turtle. Here we filled our
water-flasks, and, proceeding onwards, shortly afterwards arrived at
the risingr ground from which we had seen the ostriches. ""0 had

      

given it the name of the Arabian Watch-tower, because Fritz had
mistaken the birds for Arabs on horseback.

At this point I allowed Jack and Frank to press forward, as they
wanted a gallop, on condition that they should not allow me to lose
sight of them. Meanwhile I remained to collect the gum of the
euphorbia-tree which grew at this spot. I had, on discovering the
tree, made incisions in the bark, from which the gum had flowed
abundantly. This was placed in the hollow of a bamboo cane,
which carried it splendidly.

As we continued on our way, we saw our advance guard at a.
 

great distance in front, but still in sight, on the broad level plain.
Presently Fritz said,

" Papa, did you not tell me this gum was poisonous? "'liy have
you gathered such a large quantity ?"

"I mean to use it to destroy the apes if they again attack the
farm," I replie(, " as well as the insects that injure the trees and

 

THE BODY-GUARD LEI-'1' BEHIND.

vegetables; but I shall carefully avoid planting the euphorbia-tree
itself near any of our dwellings."

\Ve now trotted on quickly after our cavaliers, and found that
they had halted within sight of a number of ostrichcs. \Ve joined
them cautiously, and Fritz, who wished very much to capture a
living ostrich, had the forethought to tie firmly the beak of his
eagle, so that, should he let the bird free to bring down one of the
ostriches, he would be unable to injure it. The creatures were
now advancing towards us, and, hastily dismounting, 1 gave up the
 

onager to Fritz, that he might be able to follow the fugitive more
speedily on a stronger animal than the foal.

He was only just in time. Four magnificent birds were seen
approaching us at almost incredible swiftness, followed by the two
young riders, who were driving the poor animals towards us, ac-
companied by the dogs. They were close within gunshot before
they perceived us, and at this moment Fritz sent up his eagle,
which at once pounced upon the head of the nearest ostrich, but,
in consequence of his bound beak, he could onlycbeat his wings on
the creature's back, without hurting him.

The eagle, however, so confused and alarmed the bird, that he
could not defend himself nor continue his flight. Jack quickly
threw the lasso, but instead of catching only the legs, as he in-
tended, the string became also entangled in the wings. The bird
at once fell to the ground, while the boys set up shouts of joy as
they ran to the spot. Fritz called off his eagle and drove away
the (logs, and I lost no time in endeavouring to set the wings free
and tie the legs. But the strugles of the bird were fearful, and
the violence with which he kicked right and left with his entangled
legs made us fear to approach him.

I had begun to despair of making him a prisoner, when happily
I thought of covering his eyes by throwing my handkerchief over
his head. The moment I did so the struggles ceased, and I rushed
up quickly to tie it round the neck. After this we had no further
trouble, all resistance ceased, and I was able to fasten round his
body a broad piece of dog-fish skin, with two openings for the tips
of the wing, and on each side of this a piece of strong cord was
attached, that we might lead him easily. I also tied the two legs
together loosely, with a cord of sufficient length to allow him to
run fast, but not to make his escape.

"Do you remember having read of the manner in which the
natives of India secure the newly-captured elephants?" I asked
the boys.

" Oh, yes," cried Fritz, " they bind the wild animal with strong
leading-reins between two tame elephants, and also fetter its trunk."

" All right," replied Jack, laughing; " but we ought to have two
tame ostriches to lead this one, and where are we to find them ?"

" True, my boy," I replied, also with a laugh; " but must they
be ostriches? Have we not Storm and Grumblcr, such capital
follows to run ?"

"Oh, papa," cried all the boys, joyfully, " that is a famous plan!
it is sure not to fail ! "
 

I at once commenced preparations. I led Storm and Grumbler
one 011 each side of the animal, who still lay on the ground. I
then added to the strings which I had fastened to the skin of the
dog-fish, two leading-reins, one of which I attached to the bridle of
Storm, and the other to the horns of Grumbler. Then my little
cavaliers, Jack and Frank, mounted to their saddles, and sat firml y
waiting for'what would follow.

I removed the handkemhief from the bird's eyes, and placed
myself at a little distance to see the result. For some moments he
remained without moving, as if sulky; then with a sudden spring
rose to his feet, and seeing no obstacle in his way, darted forward
so quickly that the sudden jerk of the reins brought him on his
knees. He was soon up again, and began to struggle violently,
and rush right and left, in vain attempts to escape. But the strong
necks of Storm and Grumhler were proof against all these efforts,
and after one more attempt to beat his confined wings, he gave
way and sank again to the ground.

After allowing him a few minutes' rest after his struggles, a slight
touch of the whip brought the captive to his feet, and as Storm
and Grumbler at the same moment moved forward, he seemed
inclined to acconnnodate himself to their steps, and was completely
subdued. Presently the boys put their coursers into a gallop: Fritz
and I followed, and were greatly amused to observe how the strides
of the ostrich, which were limited by the length of the string attached
to his legs, were still long enough to enable him to keep up easily
with the gallop of Storm and Grumhler.

After a long run, I told them to draw rein and walk on slowly
with their prisoner to the Ambian Watch-tower, and wait there for
us. Fritz and I then turned our steps to the spot in which we had
left the eggs of the ostrich. I had brought with me a bag and some
cotton-wool to wrap them in. On reaching the place, we found
evident signs that the hen bird had been sitting 011 her eggs, and it
raised joyful hopes in our minds that we might very soon find little
ostrich chicks running about, which the heat of the sun by day,
and the mothe1' s care at night, had brought into existence.

We only took possession, houe1 e1 of a few, leming the rest to
the mother's cam; and after packing Olll hagile measures in the
cotton- wool and placing them in the bag, I mounted Swift with the
eggs in f1ont of me, f01 they tequired to be canied most ca1efully,
and then started to leioin the bovs and thei1 capti\e at the Ambs'
\\ atch- tower. F1om thence we at once p1oeeeded to the tent at
the bears' cave,--for this day at least we had obtained sullicient
 

booty--and passing through Green Valley on our way, we arrived
safely, rather earlier than we were expected.

The admiration expressed by my wife when she saw the new ar--
rival was quickly turned to anxiety.

"I shall want you to discover an iron-mine next, if your new
companion -an swallow iron, as I suppose he can from what I have
heard. And, my dear boys," she continued, addressing Jack and
Frank, " how else do you suppose we are to feed that enormous
creature? and where is he to live? Besides, I cannot see that he
will he of any possible use."

"anma, I will teach him to carry me on his back," exclaimed
Jack, " as Storm does. And some day, if we find that our island is
joined to Africa or South America, I shall be able to get to these
places in a few days, and bring back all sorts of news. He llieslike
the wind, mamma, and his name ought to he Hurricane; andErnest
shall have Storm, if only I may learn to ride the ostrich."

"But, papa," said Frank, almost in tears, "ought Jack to have the
ostrich all to himself? you know I helped to hunt him, and Fritz's
eagle brought him down."

"Very good," I said; " but in that case, as the unfortunate bird
belongs to all three of you, it must be divided into three parts. The
head belongs to Fritz, because that was the part which the eagle
seized, and you and Jack must each have half of the body, which
was tied to the animals you and he rode, with the one wing and
one leg."

This proposal caused a laugh amongst the boys, for I knew neither
of them would agree to have the ostrich destroyed. I however
settled the matter this way:

" If Jack succeeds in taming the creature, and teaching him to
receive a rider on his back, and to answer the movements of the
bridle and the knee like a horse, then I am sure he will deserve to
consider the animal his own, as a reward for his exertions From
this time, therefore, he is responsible for the trainingr of the ostrich."

It was now too late in the day to resume our journey, but I un-
tied the leading reins from Storm and (lrumbler, and set the prisoner
free, to place him in safety for the night, With the assistance of
the boys, I carefully and firmly fastened the leading reins round
the stems of two trees, between which the ostrich could stand or
lie down as he wished, but not escape.

The rest of the day we employed in packing up, ready to take to
the rock house the many valuable things we had discovered during
these excursions.THE osrmcn TRAINER.

E 1050 ear'l) ne.\t morning to p1oceed on our way, but the
ost1ich was still so untained that we \1e1e obliged an 1111
to fasten him between Stonn and (unmbler. 011 this

occasion the whole household was included, as we intended to travel
by the way of "'ood Grange and Falcon's N est to our home at Rock
Castle.

Storm and Grumblcr being in charge of the ostrich, we harnessed
the cow to the cart, which was loaded with the tent and the recent
discoveries. loom was left for my wife to ride, while Jack and
Frank rode Storm and Grumbler: I mounted Lightfoot, and Fritz
was seated on Swift, the foal.

Altogether, our caravan presented a picturesque appearance. 011
passing the defile we halted, as the boys wished to remove the
feathers of the ostrich which they had fastened 011 a suingr as a
sna1e to the antelopes. I was "lad of the oppmtunity also to
incxease 0111 store of pipecla3, as I fully intended to t1y my hand
at making china,d1ning,1r our residence in 0111 winter home. "'0
sto pped again at the sugar- cane g1o1e to collect the pecm13 hams
which had been left 111 the arbour to be smoked.

My wife asked me also to gathc1 seine of the aromatic seeds
which grew in this neighbourhood, one of which had the scent of
vanilla. I obtained a good supply for her, and while returning to
the caravan, Fritz and I observed that no trace of the footsteps of
antelopcs and gazelles 11'e1e visible in the sand; we hoped, therefore,
to find them safely domiciled at "road Grange.

011 reaching the farm, we unharnesscd the beasts, tied up the
ostrich between two trees, and, after a hasty supper, retired to our
tent, glad of the bundles of cotton-wool for pillows, after such a
long and fatiguing day's march.

Next morning we visited the farmyard, and to our great satisfac-
tion found that two of the hens had tine broods of chickens, which
my wife was anxious to remove to Rock House. We were be-

397
grinning to 1011(1 fo1 0111 home 111 the ca1e, \1hich seemed mo1e than
e101 homelike, ~21wa so long an absence; and it was decided, the1e-
fine, that we should 1etu111deg~the1e as soon as possible.

The rabbits and the young antelopes were still kept in their cages,
and the latter were becoming quite tame and sociable, which greatly
pleased me.

\Ve found also that the flock of antelopes, driven by Jack and
Frank to our farm, had settled themselves comfortably in the park-
like spot, adding greatly to the beauty of the scenery.

\Vhile at the farm we carefully repaired the house and animal-
stalls, to render them still more safe against the attacks of the apes
or wild beasts, and also to make the former ready for our own
accommodation when we re-visited the spot.

The number of pigs, goats, and poultry had greatly increased
since the colony had been fo1111ed2we saw with pleasule the little
pigrs, kids, and chicks running about, and seeming greatly to enjoy
their f1eedo1n. But they we1c 1athe1 shy of our app1oach, though
not so wild as 011 our fi1st appearance, afte1 the imoads of the apes
on their d11cll1nrr Having arianged ev my thing to our satlsfaetlon,
we retired to rest, fully intending1r to start early 11c.\t mo111ing for
our grotto home iii the rock,

011 arriving with the animals and our various acquisitions which
formed the cart-load, about 110011, my wife's first performance was
to open the doors and windows, and admit the fresh air.

The ostrich was set free from his leaders, and again tied between
two bamboo canes in front of the dwelling, and there I determined
he should remain till he became quite tamed.

The ostrich-eggs were placed in warm water, and those which we
fancied contained young birds were laid, wrapped in wool, in the
drying stove, raised to a certain heat by the aid of a thermometer,
in the hope that they might be hatched.

011 the following day operations were commenced in earnest,
and, as the most important, a rabbit-hutch was constructed, as a
dwelling for the Angora rabbits. A comfortable nest was made for
them by my wife in the inner division, of cotton-wool and straw,
and they were then carried to Shark's Island and set at liberty, to
their great delight.

My next care was for those gentle, graceful creatures, the ante-
lopes. \Ve had blought them to Rock House, but we could not
allow them freedom, because I fea1ed the dogs might f1ighten the

petty little animals; and they were also evidently f1etting and
unhappy' 1n confinement.THE OSTRICH TRAINER. 399

 

We hastened, therefore, to take them to Whale Island, after
having erected a shelter for them, and it was a pleasure to witness
their delight when they found themselves free, and able to spring
and bound as they pleased. A store of food was left on both islands,
to supply the animals till they had become used to the spot, and
knew how to provide for themselves. These arrangements for the
rabbits and antelopes occupied us for the whole of two days.

One of the little tortoises found at \Vood Grange I brought with
me to Rock House, intending to place it in our vegetable garden,

 

(MLAI'AGOS TORNISE.

to destroy the snails and other insects; but fearing the creature
might also eat the young plants, I sent Jack to place it among the
rushes near the duck-pond.

He had not been absent long on this commission, when we heard
loud calls from the neighbourhood of the marsh.

" Fritz! Fritz ! " cried the boy, " come and help me; make haste!
and bring a bamboo cane with you."

Fritz obeyed the call quickly, while I wondered what could be the
cause of this commotion, although, after all, it might only be one of
J ack's skirmishes with the frogs. But presently, to my surprise,
the three boys appeared, in high glee, carrying a net in which was
imprisoned a. magnificent eel. Ernest had secretly laid two nets on
 

the previous day: one of them was empty and torn, the other
contained the delicious fish, which the mother at once took charge
of, and promised to cook a portion of it for our dinner. The
remainder was to he boiled in salt and water, and rubbed with
butter, to preserve it.

The veranda or balcony, which we had partly erected while
building the pigeon- -house, stood in f1ont of our home in the rock.
It \\ as fo1med of tall, slender bamboo canes, and the beams of the
roof, which sloped from the 100k, \ve1e attached to a long, thick
plank which 1ested firmly on the canes. At the foot of the bamboo
supports I planted the young shoots of the vanilla and pepper, as
well as other creeping plants which could be trained round them;
not only to improve the aspect of our rock house, but also to form
a pleasant shade during the hot weather. My wife was equally
busy in the house. With the help of one of the boys she placed
the bear and peccary hams in the store chamber.

The hens and chickens we had brought from the farm were kept
in a hen-coop, and fed daily with barley and crumbs, my wife
having placed them in a shady spot under her own eye, for we
feared Master Nip or the jackal might be inclined to make some
unfortunate experiments 011 their anatomy.

The bears' skins were laid in the sea near the shore to purify
them, and under great stones to prevent them from being carried
away by the waves, or dragged from their position by sea-crabs.

The skins of the musk rats still emitted a powerful odour; we
therefore tied them together, and hung them in the open air under
the roof of the veranda, that the interior of the dwelling might
be free from the smell.

The condor and the vulture were placed in the museum, to be
stull'ed during the rainy season, when work out of doors would be
impossible. I also brought in the mica, or pipeclay, and asbestos.
\Vith the former I hoped to make china. vessels and window-panes,
and of the latter wicks for our lamp. Every edible article had
been given to my wife to add to the stores, but the gum of the
euphorbia I took charge of myself, wrapping it carefully in paper,
on which I wrote in large letters POISON, as a warning to my
boys.

These a1rangcments employ ed us two days, and now seveial
duties presented themselves, all apparently of equal importance,
the cultimtion of an acre of land to receive wheat, barley, and -
maize, the taming of the ostrich, the management of the ostrich's
eggs, and the preparation of the bears' skins._ THE OSTRICH TR.>>[I'\"ER. 401

 

We decided that the field cultivation was the most important, yet
very fatiguing, as none of us had been used to the heavy work of farm
labourers or ploughboys. However, we set about it with a good will.

The animals, being now accustomed to the yoke, were very
useful in drawing the plough; but the ploughsliare was a light one,
and (lid not turn up the earth deep enough, and we had, there-
fore, to dig, hoe, and work with all our strength.

It was not possible to follow this laborious employment during
the heat of the day; we therefore worked for two hours in the
morning, and two in the evening. Yet we fully realized the words
of Scripture, "By the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread."

During the intervals of rest from this heavy labour I had noticed
that our poor captive, the ostrich, appeared untamable. I was
therefore obliged at last to use the means adopted in taming the
eagle, and to stupefy him with the fumes of tobacco.

The powerful effect it had rather alarmed me, for he fell to the
earth, and remained for some time motionless. When at last he
raised his head, I lengthened the string, that he might get up and
walk round the bamboo canes to which he was tied. My wife
then brought all kinds of nourishment which she thought the
creature would eat, but, although subdued and evidently mourning
over his fate, the poor captive refused everything that was offered
him for three whole days, and became so feeble and weak, that
we feared he would die.

At length my wife determined to try to save the creature's life
by an experiment. She made balls of crushed maize mixed with
butter, one of which she placed inside his beak. It was imme-
diately swallowed with ease, and a second and third emerly looked
for. From that moment his appetite returned, and he ate what-
ever was ofi'ered to him, and soon recovered his strength.

But now all the wild nature of the bird had vanished, we began
to doubt whether we should find enough to feed him.

The boys were surprised one day to find the creature swallowing
small pebbles, but I explained to them that the ostrich requires these
to enable it to digest its food, as other small birds need gravel.

At all events, Master Whirlwind, as Jack had named him, lived
principally on vegetables, maize, and acorns, and became so tame,
that we could do as we liked with him: a welcome result, as the
education could commence at once.

In less than a month the ostrich had been trained by Jack to
walk and run with the boy on his back so cleverly, that I began to
consider how far we might make him useful as a. riding-horse.

27
 

 

I could easily contrive a saddle, but how could a bit be made
to suit a bird's beak, or reins to guide an ostrich?

I was almost inclined to give it up, when I suddenly remem-
be1ed that the change f1o111 light to darkness, or the contrary,
g1eatly influenced the creature

I deteunined, theiefme, to const1uct a leathern hood, some-
thing like that worn by the eagle, but of course larger. It was to
1each f1om the back of the head to the commencement of the
beak in front, and to have holes cut in it for the eyes and ears."
Having fitted this to the bird's head, I fastened a ring 011 each side,
and my wife sewed 011 strings to tie it under his throat.

Over the eye-holes two square flaps were sewn, to be raised or let
fall by a connection with the bridle, which was formed of a strap
fastened at each end to the rings at the beak. I hoped by this
arrange1nent to guide our feathered comser, for I had noticed that
darkness would immediately bring the creature to a full stop, even
while running swiftly. My plan was this:

If the rider wished to go straight forward, both eye-holes would
re1nai11uncovercd; then to make the creature turn to the left, he
must let down the little curtain over the right eye, or if to the right,
the left eye must be covered; and to stop him, the light must be
shut out from both eyes.

The performance, however, proved more diifieult to carry out than
I had expected ; but by degrees and with a little perseverance the
tormented animal at last submitted, and in a very short time ap-
peared to understand the meaning of the covered or uncovered eyes,
and to obey the movement of the bridle.

I was rather proud of my contrivance, and I do not hesitate to
afliun that at the Cape of Good Hope I should ham leceived an
English patent PS01 1111' saddle and b11dle, and have been appointed
saddle1- i-n- -chief to the Af1ican ostriches.

I 11 ill l1e1c describe the saddle. It 11 as placed near the neck of the
ostrich, partly resting 011 the shoulders and partly on the back, being
fastened by a girth under the wings and across the breast. This
position was necessary, as the slope of the back would have ren-
dered it unsafe, and the shoulders are the strongest part of a bird's
back.

\Ve did not expect Master Whirlwind to act as a beast of burden,
but as a fleet courscr; and, with Jack as his rider, he soon proved

'This hood must have resembled the hoods of horse clothing which valuable horses wear

"llel'l taken out b1 the grooms for exercise. These hoods have no doubt been seen frequently
by the readers of this slol).
his right to the name of Whirlwind. His journeys between Falcon's
N est. and Rock House were performed with astonishing rapidity.

 

CLEANING was BEARS' smxs.

But; the wondrous qualities of this fleet steed created a little dis-
seusion among the boys, who were not at all pleased that Jack should

be the sole proprietor. Jack, however, held fast to his new posses-
27--2
 

sion, and his brothers could not conceal their jealousy. I was there-
fore obliged to interfere.

" I must allow Jack to retain the ostrich," I said, " because he is
not only lighter in weight than Fritz or Ernest, but is more agile in
his movements. Frank is not strong enough yet to manage such a
fleet horse. At the same time, I only give up the ostrich to Jack
on condition that his brothers may use it occasionally, or when it is
wanted on any special service requiring swiftness."

By this time our field-work was completed, and sown with wheat,
barley, and maize. On the opposite shore of the Jackal River we
had planted potatoes and the cassava-root, and here and there other
seeds were scattered in the fertile soil, which in this climate, as we
knew, required no cultivation.

Long before the education of the ostrich was completed, Fritz
had introduced me to three young ostriches, which had been hatched
in the oven by keeping up a certain temperature. They were
curious little creatures, delicately formed, but with comical heads,
and looked like young cyguets, with their yellow down and swan-
like throats, as they trotted about on their long stilt-like legs.

One of them only lived a few hours, and although the mother
carefully watched the two remaining chicks, and fed them with
lightly boiled eggs and milk mixed with cassava flom', they were all
(lead in three days.

The preparation and cleansing of the bears' skins formed our next
employment. They had already been salted and dried and scraped,
I had no tan, however, and to supply this deficiency I mixed honey
with water, and after boiling the mixture, and waiting till it became
sufficiently cool, I soaked the skins in this honey-water for several
days, till they were softened and fit to use as leather.

I placed them in the shady arbour we had made near the rocks,
that they might dry as quickly as possible, and before the com-
mencement of the rainy season.

While boiling the honey-water for soaking the skins, the liquid,
after being skimmed, appeared so clear, that it struck me I might
save some of it as a refreshing drink,before using anyof it for theskins.

I therefore drew oil" enough to fill one of our bamboo-reed casks,
and boiled it again with nutmeg, cinnamon, and spurge-leaves.

The result was most successful, for we tasted the brew* and found
it both agreeable and refreshing. The cask was at once covered
carefully, and carried to a cool place in the rock cellars.

" This pleasant drink is still made in manyx English counties. It often appexu'ed at the
tables of the rich and noble in the time of t e Saxons, and is still named, as it was then,
mad or melliegli'n.BARTERISG WITH SOUTH SBA ISLAXDERS.
My work at the skins proved very successful: the leather was
without a crease, and free from the least unpleasant smell, and the
long fur so soft and shining, that I felt delighted with the fruit of
my labours. 4 '

My success in so many trades induced me next to try hat-
making, and I determined that my first trial should be a hat for
Frank, of the civet rat or beaver-'s skin. After several attempts, I
at length produced a kind of felt. which I coloured a bright red
with cochineal, and then dipped it in a solution of india-rubber to
make it water-tight. I next prepared a wooden block, of the size
and shape I required, and stretched the softened felt upon it; and
after passing a hot iron over the fur to smooth it, I left it to dry
and get hard on the block.

Next morning I had the satisfaction of presenting to my wife
and the boys, a well-made, light, firm, and elegant little red Swiss
hat. My wife admired it greatly, and at once prepared to line it
with silk, and adorn it with a knot of ribbon and two large and two
small ostrich feathers. This clever production was placed on the
head of little Frank, and everybody said it became him admirably.

As may be supposed, each of my boys begged me to make similar
hats for them, and I promised to do so as soon as they could obtain
for me the necessary material, either civet rats or beavers. I ad-
vised them to make half a dozen rat traps, of a size large enough
to admit the water-rat, which has the most beautiful fur and isthe
largest of the species. But I told them these traps must be made
to kill the animal at once, not to torture or imprison it, with the
prospect of a horrid death from dogs

I decided also, that the fifth animal they brought me of every five
should be mine, that I might obtain sufficient materials to make a
bonnet for mamma and a hat for myself. I made this arrangement
to show them the justice of paying the workman for his work.

The boys readily agreed to this arrangement, and went to work
quickly with the traps; for the rainy season was close at hand, and
might come upon us without a moment's warning.

My great success in so many trades, especially hat-making, pro-
duced a strong wish to attempt the manufacture of porcelain; I
therefore determined to look over my store of materials, and then
make my first trial.

Just behind the animals' sheds in the cave, the pots and kettles
and calabash vessels were arranged in order. I therefore took some
of these as patterns to begin with. The store of pipeclay required
cleansing and washing, the asbestos had to be beaten down into tale,
and then mixed with water into a soft mass. The unbeaten talc I
gave to my wife for oil wicks. In one of the chests brought from
the wreck I found a number of glass beads of various colours, with
which it had been intended to barter among the savage natives of
the South Sea Islands. These I broke with a. hammer, and crushed
to a fine coloured powder.

All my materials being now ready, I found that I needed moulds
for the different vessels. These moulds I made of gypsum, which
also required drying and baking before it could be used, so that my
work did not get on very quickly.

 

WATER-RAT.

At last, however, I was able to press the porcelain material into
the moulds, and placed them in the oven. When they were partly
baked, I sprinkled the powder of the glass bends over them, in the
shape of stars.

After many failures I succeeded at last in producing a set of
white china cups and saucers, a cream-jug, sugar--basin, and six
small plates, smooth and glossy, and enamelled with many-coloured
stars.

The shapes of my china articles were far from perfect, but they
gave great satisfaction, and when Fritz filled the plates with rosy
and golden fruit, resting on green leaves, the table presented a. very
attractive appearance.
\Vhile busy with my china the rainy season commenced, and I
could not, therefore, leave home to obtain afresh supply of materials
for porcelain. I turned my attention to the condor and the vulture.
The skins, which I carefully removed with the feathers, were
soaked in warm water, into which I had thrown a little euphorbia
gum to destroy the insects. I then sewed them together and
stuffed them firmly with cotton-wool. Through the legs of the
birds pieces of cork were thrust, and also in the neck and under the
shoulder of each wing, to keep these parts firm. I was at first
puzzled about the eyes, but at length determined to make four balls
of porcelain, of the necessary size, on which, while half baked, I
painted the pupil of the eye, and the eyes, when fixed in the head,
added greatly to the natural appearance of these birds of prey, for
they looked very fierce.

The condor, with outstretched wings, which were supported by
cane and strong wire, was fixed at one side of our dwelling-room
against the partition, and the vulture on the highest of the book-
shelves in a standing position. Both birds were considered by us
all as ornaments to our home in the rocks. In all these perform-
ances the boys took great interest, and worked with me diligently
in every way to enable me to carry out my intentions.THE rouse RAT-CATCHERS--TIIE CANOE.

LIMATE as well as other causes often produces a languor or
disinclination for active exertion, and this was the case with
us after the first few weeks of the rainy season had passed

away.

During that period the porcelain manufacture, the bird-stuffing,
and other useful employment within, and occasional rapid rides on
the ostrich during an hour's cessation of min, as sometimes occurred,
had made the time pass tolerably quickly. But now, althoughI
tried to encourage the boys in their studies and in reading inter-
esting books, the time seemed to drag on heavily, and restless in-
activity was the result. At last Fritz roused himself, and said to me,

" Papa, could we not make a real Greenlander's canoe? We
have a swift post-horse for travelling by land; why should we not
make a boat to cut through the water with equal speed? We might
extend our sea voyages perhaps to other countries, and make so
many new discoveries."

The proposition pleased us all greatly, excepting the mother, who
always felt anxious when we were on the water, and therefore con-
sidered that, with the pinnace and boat, we had vessels enough.
But when I explained to her that a cayak, or Greenlander's canoe,
was a very safe boat, covered with the skin of the dog-fish, and
(11110513 as buoyant as a life-boat, she said no more. We had plenty
of wood and materials, and time enough to finish the skeleton of
the boat by the end of the rainy season, so the boys were again
roused to activity, and we set about the boat-building with eager
interest.

The long thick pieces of whalebone, from their natural curve and
elasticity, were very useful in forming the two sides of the canoe.

410
These were fastened firmly together at each end, forminfir the stem
and stern, and fitted into a plank underneath as a. keel. SSplit bam-
boo canes built up the sides over the whalebone curves; the keel,
which was at least twelve feet long, was strengthened by a band of
copper running the whole length, and in this I fixed an iron ring to
moor the boat.

The deck, which was also made of split bamboo canes, extended
over the whole of the canoe, excepting at an opening in the middle,
in which the rower could sit and use oars or paddles.

All this occupied us so completely, that the rain passed away and
the sun shone out bright and clear almost before our canoe was
ready to be removed out of the cave. Fortunately the entrance
was wide enough to let it pass, although we had to take the door
off its hinges for that purpose.

In our anxiety to finish it as quickly as possible, we had scarcely
noticed the rapid growth of the corn or of the creeping plants round
the veranda, which really surprised me as we pushed the boat out.
But this did not delay the work. The sides were quickly covered
with the skin of the dog-fish, and in the fore part a mast was fixed
with a three-cornered sail. When at length the little skifi' was
launched on the water, it bounded like a leather ball, and floated so
lightly that it scarcely drew an inch of water.

But before Fritz, whom I considered the rightful owner, could
be trusted out to sea alone in this fragile boat, his mother declared
that she would try her ingenuity in making him a swimming dress.
I advised her to construct it like a double sack, with openings for
the head, arms, and feet. The material was to be soaked in a
solution of indie-rubber, the double portions, or rather the outside
and the lining being closely sewn together round the edge, with
only a. little opening, through which the space between could be
inflated with air like a balloon. The material having been made
air-tight, and the opening firmly stepped up with cork, the air would
cause the dress to float, and support anyone on the water who wore it.

While this work was in progress, I still had time to examine the
fields and meadows, and also to set the animals at liberty to enjoy
the sweet fresh crass and their freedom. Again, with delight, I
observed the rapid vegetation which the heavy rains had produced.
The corn--field was flourishing, the scattered seeds had germinated
in the rich soil. The pigeons were exercising their wings in the free
air, and the creeping plants had already begun to entwine themselves
round the bamboo supports of our veranda nearly to the top.

At length one fine morning it was settled that Fritz should attire
himself in his swimmingr dress, which he had purposely inflated
with air to prove it. When he appeared he was welcomed with
shouts of laughter. The bathing dress stuck out before and
behind in a most ridiculous manner, and made him look like a
hunchback.

With the greatest gravity he marched forward without seeming
to notice the laughter, entered the water, and paddled like a duck

 

MAKING THE REEL.

across the creek to the shore of Shark's Island, and then, with a
shout of triumph, turned and swam back to us.

\Ve all hastened on board the yacht, and rowed lustily to meet our
brave young water-stepper, and congratulate him on his success; but
his naughty brothers could only dance round him and laugh without
control.

The success of this first attempt caused us all great satisfaction,
and, in spite of their laughter, the three younger boys entreated
their mother to make for each of them a s11'in1111ing-dress of the same
dese1iptio11.

While we were on Shark' 5 Island "e sought for the 301111;: ante-
lopes, and att1acted them to approach 11s by throwing handfuls of
bruised maize, acoms, and salt, of which all animals are eweedingly
fond, hoping by this to make them tame and glad to see us. We
noticed here and there footprints and other signs that these little
animals had foundout the shelter we had erected for them, and had
evidently made their beds of the leaves and rushes. They seemed
quite at home, so we left them without the least anxiety.

We strolled across the whole island to seek for additions to our
museum, and the boys found many beautiful shells as well as pieces
of delicately-formed coral. 0n the shore also was discoveredalarge
quantity of seaweed of various colours. The observant mother
gathered, with the ready assistance of the boys, a tolerable boat-load,
and on our return to Deliverance Bay I observed that she separated
from it a number of peculiar leaves, notched at the edges like a saw,
and measuring about six or seven inches in length. '

These she carefully washed and spread in the sun to dry. They
were afterwards more completely freed from moisture in the drying
oven, and then laid away among our other stores.

I noticed all this care of apparently useless leaves with wonder
and interest, and at last I said, jestingly,

" Are these leaves to form a valuable substitute for the tobacco.
smoke which you admired so much on board ship ? "

She laughed at the joke, for I knew 110w greatly she disliked
tobacco, but she answered me in the same jocular tone.

"Perhaps if we were to fill our mattresses with them, it would
make us sleep coole1 1n the 1 ery hot W'."eathe1

But I knew by the sly look in her eyes that she had 110 such
intention, and my curiosity became greater than ever. This curi-
osity was very soon pleasantly gratified.

I r'et1n11ed to Rock House one hot day with the boys after a
fatiguing expedition to Falcon' 5 Nest, and almost as soon as we had
thrown ourselves on the beaches in the veranda, my wife brought
out to us a ealabash- shell full of the most beautiful transparent jelly
I had ever seen, and quite as tempting to the appetite as the most
hungry or thirsty person could wish for. When out with a spoon
and a portion laid on plates fo1 us, it quiv ered and sent forth golden
spaikles that glitte1ed 1n the light.

We all tested it in wondering:3 content, for it was not only agreeable,
but refreshing and cool, and we dega11 truly enjoyed the une\pected treat.
" Ah, dear husband," said the mother, laughing, " this is an effort
of genius by your chief cook. This jelly is made from the leaves of
the seaweed which you treated with such disdain. I am glad you
approve of it."

"Indeed, we all do," I replied. " But how on earth did such an
idea enter your head ? 'W here have you seen this costly dish ?"

"I met with it at Cape Town," she replied, " while staying with
my Dutch friends: I have seen it made there often, and these
leaves which we found at Shark's Island are exactly similar. They
are cleansed by lying in water, fresh every day, for a. week, and are
afterwards boiled for a few hours with orange-juice, citron, and
sugar; but not having citron, I used honey and cinnamon, and I
think my jelly is equally agreeable."

After this we all thanked the mother for her cleverconfectionery,
and the boys declared they would at once go back to Shark's Island
and collect as many of these wonderful leaves as they could find. '

I was quite ready to return with them, to inspect more carefully
the growth of the trees and shrubs we had planted there the pre-
\'loll$ year. All were in good condition; indeed. I was surprised
to find how rapidly the mangroves and cocoanut palms had grown.
liven the small nuts which I had thrown by chance among the
clefts of the rocks had germinated, and promised fair to clothe the
nakedness of the frowning rocks with their laughing verdure.

We made also a discovery which gave us great pleasure.

In a spot almost inaccessible we came upon a clear and plentiful
spring of pure running water, which the antelopes must have found
out, for the traces of their footsteps were easily distinguished
near it.

After finding the plants on Shark's Island in such a flourishing
condition, we were naturally anxious to satisfy ,our hopes that
Whale Island was also progressing favourably. We therefore re-
emharkcd in the yacht, and steered towards that territory as
quickly as possible. A visit to the rabbits was also necessary.

At a short distance inland from the shore we met with large
quantities of marine plants, which were a welcome sight, for I hoped
they would be acceptable to our new colony of rabbits. But on
arriving at the island, although we saw nothing of them, their
mischievous performances soon became too evident. The dainty
animals had gnawed the bark of the young trees, as the hares do
in winter, and entirely eaten up the palm-tree shoots which I had
planted. The cocoanut-stems they had spared, no doubt on account
of the resinous taste and the toughness.
 

To prevent the depredations of these impertinent animals in
future, I and the boys erected around the stems of the young trees
hedges of prickly thorns. While thus employed, I noticed that some
of the marine plants had been partly eaten by the little depredators.
I tasted one of the leaves, but the flavour was most unpleasant, and
the smell had something of the odour of marsh rushes; yet other
leaves of a very similar appearance had a taste of sugar, and I be-
lieved them to belong to a plant called sweet seaweed.

 

MARINE ANIMALS.

I collected some. however, to carry with us, that it might be
washed and more caiefully examined at home.

We left for our little colony a plentiful supply of food, and
before leaving the island proceeded to the spot on which we had
discovered the stranded whale.

The skeleton still remained almost perfect. The birds had re-
moved all signs of the flesh, and the sun and wind had bleached
and purified the bones to a delicate whiteness. We carried away
ten or twelve joints of the vertebrae, which I thought might be
made useful. A strong cord was passed through them, and on
 

stepping into our boat I fastened the end of the string to the
stern, and towed them across the creek towards Rock Castle.

I had for a long time proposed to make a kind of mill for
crushing wheat or corn, and it appeared tome that the joints of
the vertebrae we had brought from the skeleton of the whale were
large and strong enough for that purpose. To make astamping
or crushing machine of stone or hard wood was beyond my power.
Blocks of wood, however, were necessary to raise the Crushers, and
to these the joints of the whale would require to be fastened firmly.

For this purpose I needed the wood of a tree with a straight
trunk of a certain thickness, and also a fresh supply of clay to add
to my store of porcelain. The boys, as I supposed, were rat-
hunting; but on entering the house one morning to prepare for an
excursion, I found Ernest quietly reading his cherished books, and
not at all interested in the hunting exploits of his brothers.

I would not disturb the boy, but went out at once to harness
Storm to the wheeled sledge, for Jack had almost given up the
hull'alo to ride his lleet coarser Whirlwind, and, accompanied by
Floss and Brownie, I took the road to the forest near the Jackal
{iver alone.

After crossing the bridge, I passed the potato and cassava-field,
aml observed, to my great annoyance, that it had been overrun
and almost laid waste by some animals, whose footmarks, which
resembled those of a pig, appeared in every part. I felt very
angry with these freebooters, and followed the track by the rocks,
which led me through a grove as far as our old potato-field, but
without catching sight of even one of them.

I began to despair of being able to discover what animal it
could be that had caused such destruction, when the dogs com-
menced growling and barking 'furiously at a little distance. I
hastened to the spot, and came suddenly face to face with our old
sow and a half-wild litter of eight little pigs, which appeared about
two months old. A young hear, one of the former brood, now
fully grown, was one of the party.

They granted and showed their teeth, and altogether appeared
so wild, that the dogs kept at a respectful distance; but my anger
at the destruction of our fields overcame me, and, raising my gun,
I fired twice among them.

Three of the little pigs fell, and the rest fled, grunting and
snorting, and disappeared among the bushes. I called the dogs,
who were rushing after them, and, picking up the dead pigs, carried
them to the sledge and continued my way to the forest.
I very soon found a tree with a beautiful upright stem, of about
two feet in thickness, and quite suitable for my purpose. This
I marked, to distinguish it from the rest; and after loading my
sledge with clay from the loam--pit close by, I turned my steps
homeward.

I reached the house long before the boys returned, although I
had also missed the dinner hour. However, I asked the mother to
roast one of our little pigs for supper, if I with the help of Ernest
could prepare it for cooking in time.

 

"'1"! BOA".

Late in the evening, just as we were beginning to grow anxious,
Jack arrived on his fleet steed, the others following in the distance
on 1Eightfoot and Grumbler, the latter laden with the booty in two
sac 3.

These sacks were quickly brought in and the contents produced:
four wild birds, twenty ondatras, a kangaroo, a monkey, two animals
of the hare species, and half-a-(lozen beaver rats, which greatly
msemble the ondatra or musk rat. The creatures like hares
appeared to me to be the animals spoken of by Bufi'oon as having
black breasts and long tails, and named by that naturalist a
to ay.

While examining this assemblage of animals, no one noticed the

28
 

large bundle of thistles carried by Fritz, and presently Jack
exclaimed,

" Oh, papa, what a capital fellow my ostrich is! He flew like
the wind; and many times I lost my breath, and could hardly see
where I was going. You must make me a mask with glass eyes,
that I may be able to see when he rushes on at such a frightful
pace."

" No," I replied; "no, my impetuous boy. I must do no such
thing." '

" Why, papa? why must you not ? "

"In the first place, because it is much more becoming to petition
your elders to comply with your wishes than to say it must be
done; and secondly, it is advisable for young people to do as much
as they can for themselves, and not to be dependent on others for '
all they want."

As Jack remained silent, Fritz said,

"We have had good sport to-day, papa, and enjoyed ourselves
tremendously, and brought home a splendid booty: animals, birds,
and roots, and a famous supply of skins and furs; still, I should
like a glass of muscatel wine from the Rock House stores if the
price is not too high."

"Well done, Fritz!" I exclaimed; "a glass of wine you shall
have, for you really deserve it after such a successful day. Yet I
wish you had not started on such an expedition without speaking
of it. And you should now attend to the animals first, as brave
riders always do before they take care of themselves."

Away ran the boys at this hint; and when the useful creatures
had all been stalled and fed, the mother informed the boys of the
agreeable dish she was preparing for their supper: roast pig, fresh
young salad, and a basin of jelly. The boys watched her with a
mixture of droll curiosity and satisfaction as she brought out one
dish after another, and expressed their feelings in noisy " bravoes "
as she at last placed on the table a dainty cassava pudding, mixed
with sugar, syrup, and baked in butter, and near it a flask of. mead.
The whole supply was so tempting, that as we seated ourselves I
said it was a feast worthy of the gods of Homer in company with
Olympian Jorc.

During supper Fritz gave us a description of their expedition.
They had spent nearly the whole day in the neighbourhood of
"food Grange attracting the ondatms to the traps with red carrots,
and the beaver rats by little fish or earth-worms They had dis--
tinguished the musk rats by the smell, and the animals with noses
like beaks they had caught in traps. Part of the time they spent
in fishing, and some of the fish they caught was cooked on a fire-
hearth of stones for their dinner.

"And what are all those thistles intended for, Fritz ? " I asked.

" I found them in my wanderings," he replied; "and the thorns
are formed like hooks, so I thought the plant might be useful for
carding wool, or separating the hairs of the animal fur."*

This discovery pleased me greatly: not only would it be useful
for the purpose named by Fritz, but also in many other ways.

He had also brought a small cinnamon-tree to be planted in the
vegetable garden, and this was welcomed by his mother with great
satisfaction.

We decided to defer all preparation of the booty till the following
morning, and, as usual, after our evening devotions, we retired to
rest, tired out with the day's exertions.

' No doubt this was the plant called the teazlc, used in the manufacture of wool. The
hooked scales or thorns of the leaves raise the nap on cloth. No machine can be made to
produce the same ell'ent so readily.TllE causnixo MAClllXE--A PLENTIFL'L HARVEST.

HE removal of the skin from the animals killed in hunting was
always a troublesome undertaking, especially to the boys,
and l at length thought of a plan which appeared likely to

render the task easier, if I could carry it out.

I searched, therefore, among our ship stores, and in the surgeon's
chest found a large syringe which, with a few alterations, would, I
imagined, serve my purpose admirably. I first perforated the stop-
per, and placed in the piston an opening, in which I fixed two corks
as pegs, and at once had in my possession a machine for compress-
ing air, almost like an air-pump

As the boys assembled to st me in the unpleasant work of
skinning the animals, I mart-bed up to them with my surgical in-
strument; under my arm, and gave them a military salute; upon
which they shouted with laughter, and exclaimed,

" l'apa has a syringe! what can it; be for? a chemist/s shop, or a
butcher's chopping bench ?"

' ed over the laughter and the remarks, and silently lifting
the kangaroo from the ground, I hang it by its hind legs to a tree,
and eat a small opening in the skin, just below the breast. Into
this openingI inserted the mouth of the syringe, and filled the cylinder
with air by blowing into it with all my strength. I then drew the
piston up and down, pumping the air between the skin and the
flesh of the animal.

Presently the skin pulled out in every part, altering the shape
of the animal in the most amusing manner, and I quickly found
that almost the entire skin was separated from the flesh, only
adhering at a few spots of not: the least importance. These I
separated with my knife, and removed the whole from the animal,
the performance of skinning it having occupied less than half the
usual time -

"' Oh, papa, what. a capital invention 2 " exclaimed the boys.

420THE CRUSHING JlIAC'HINE--A PLENTIFUL HARVEST. 4:21

 

" Papa must be a conjuror," cried Jack; " but I can't understand
how it is done."

" Very simply," I replied; "between the skin and the flesh of
all animals there exists thousands of little bladders or cells, formed
of a fatty substance. If these cells are filled with air they burst,
and the skin, having nothing to adhere to, separates from the flesh,
and is easily removed. This knowledge is not new; the Green-
landeis have been acquainted with it for years. When they have
killed a seal or sea-horse, they blow between the skin and flesh,
which causes the creature to swim more lightly as they tow it to
shore); and the skin can be removed immediately with the greatest
case}

By the contrivance with the syringe, the trouble in the work of
skinning the animals, after this time, was greatly lightened, and we
finished in two days what would otherwise have occupied a week.

This done, I determined on the following day to visit the forest,
and cut down, with the help of the boys, the tree I had marked as
suitable to make blocks for the crushing-mill. \Ve started early
with a cart-load of ropes, saws, axes, and other useful tools.

On our way I pointed out to the boys the place where I had
killed the three little pigs, and the dreadful havoc made by the old
sow and her family. They readin promised to help me in repairing
the damage, and in surrounding the potato-fields with a hedge of
thorns.

Arrived at the tree, I desired Fritz and Jack to climb to the top.
and saw off the highest and largest branches, so that in falling the
tree might not crush its neighbours. To the upper part of the tree
they then tied ropes, that we might at a safe distance guide it, in its
fall, to the most convenient spot.

Fritz and I commenced cutting the stem at the side opposite the
cords with a perpendicular saw, used by sawycrs over a sawpit, one
above and the other below. I, however, showed Fritz how to use
it with me horizontally. It was hard work, and occupied a long
time; but when we had nearly cut it through, we all placed our-
selves at the ropes, and by pulling with our united strength, we
heard the trunk crack, saw it totter, and at last fall slowly to the
ground in an open space, without accident to ourselves, or injury to
the other trees. The branches and shoots were then loppcd off, and
part of the trunk sawed into blocks four feet long. Smaller blocks
for other purposes were cut from the larger branches, and the
remainder, with the young shoots, we left to dry in the sun for fire-
wood.
 

This work occupied us two days, and on the third day I carried
home four large and two small blocks, and was at length able with
these and the vertebrae joints of the whale to complete my crushing-
machine in a xery short time. My wife tried it first with some
grains of rice; but turning the small iron wheel, which made the
blocks move up and down something like a sledge-hammer, was
heavy and tedious work. The bones of the whale, however, which
were fixed in the upper and lower blocks, being so hard and firm,
the rice was crushed to powder in a few minutes, and rendered
useful for cooking in many ways that were impossible while it
minained whole.

 

WOOD-C UTHNG.

While engaged in this undertaking, I had almost forgotten the
field in which had been sown wheat, barley, and maize before the
rainy season. One evening, however, we noticed that our domestic
fowls returned home with their crops full and apparently satisfied
after an unusual feast.

Suddenly it struck me that these turkeys and fowls had come
from the direction of the wheat-field, and upon going to examine
the damage done, I was astonished to find the corn quite high, and
the grain fully ripe, although little more than four months had
elapsed since it had been sown. I knew, therefore, that in the
f ulure we should be able to obtain two crops :1 year.

Pleasant as the fact appeared,'yet at this moment it troubled us,
 

for it would be necessary at once to cut and gather in the harvest,
while we were in daily expectation of the arrival of a shoal of
herrings, and probably a visit from the dog-fish.

My wife became very anxious over this accumulation of work,
for the potato and cassava-roots wanted digging up, and she feared
it would be impossible to accomplish so much in a short time.

"I trust it may be managed, dear wife," I said. " In the first
place, the herrings have not yet arrived, and you forget that the
potatoes are much more easily dug up in this light earth than from
heavy stony soil. Besides, there will be no necessity to prepare
the field again, for the little shoots will grow and ripen without
any further care. As to the corn," I added, "I have decided to
reap it and thresh it after the Italian method, which is performed
in much less time, and even if we meet with any other losses, they
will be more than compensated for by the prospect of such a supply
of provisions and two crops of corn in a year."

I prepared for gathering in the harvest by clearing a large space
in front of the veranda for a threshing-floor. The ground, being
composed of sandy soil, had become hardened by the heat of the
sun, and appeared most suitable for the purpose. By frequently
pouring water upon the surface, which the sun dried up quickly,
and beating it with sticks and spades, and even our ears, and then
leading the animals across to tread it down, the earth became as
hard and smooth as a threshing-floor. This completed, we repaired
early one morning to the corn-field with our siekles, followed by
Storm and Grumbler, carrying large baskets or panniers on their
backs to receive the grain.

The boys were rather surprised when I explained to them the
Italian method of reaping, which I wished them to adopt, as it
occupied less time. I told them to take as many cars as they
could hold in the left hand, cut them from the straw as far down
as could be reached with the right hand, and throw them into the
baskets carried by the animals, who followed the reapers closely,
led by Jack or Ernest.

In a few moments they caught the idea, and went rapidly to
the work, following in my lead. I believe we all, especially Fritz
and myself, who were the tallest of the party, felt the comfort of
not having to stoop at our work. Our baskets were m-filled and
emptied many times during the day, and by evening the field was
reaped, and we had gathered a large store of corn in the car.

My wife, however, seemed to consider that it was anything but
economy to leave behind all the short ears of corn, which could
not he reached by the sickle, as well as the straw, which would
he so useful for the stables and stalls.

" It was made economical by the Italians, who are famous
farmers," I replied; " for by cutting the corn in this way they also
obtain food for their cattle. In a few weeks grass grows to a good
height amongst the stubble, and then they mow it down all together
close to the ground. The short ears of corn remain among the
blades of grass, and the whole is turned over in the sun as we

 

PART" I DOES.

make hay, and during winter forms a very useful substitute for
grass and corn in the Italian stables. ""e must, however, adopt
the ancient method of treading out the corn and threshing it, for
we have no other means of separating it from the husk."

Threshing was commenced next morning by spreading the
bundles of corn on the new tln'eshing-floor, and the four boys, each
mounted on his usual steed, rode the animals across it in every
direction, and while the heavy stamping of the boots separated the
grain from the husks, the dust and draft flew in clouds around us.

Now and then the boys allowed the animals to pause and rest,
 

and the temptation to take a mouthful of the corn that lay at their
feet was too strong to be resisted. My wife smiled as she observed
this, and said,

"They deserve a handful now and then for their exertions, but
it will lessen our store, dear husbanc ."

" Our threshing is nearly completed," I replied, " and they have
not eaten much; besides, it is said in Scripture, 'Thou shalt not
muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn.' "

While we were gathering up the corn and sifting it. our feathered
folk--eackling, gobbling, and quacking--came to the threshing-floor
to have their share. The boys were about to drive them away, for
they picked at the loose grain in the most hasty manner, but 1 pre-
vented them, saying,

"Let our pensioners have their share of the snperfluity. What
we lose in grain will be returned to us in the improved condition
of our poultry when we require them for our table."

After all we had no cause to complain, for when I had measured the
produce of our harvest. I found that we had nearly a hundred bushels
of corn, including wheat, maize, and barley, to add to our store.

It was necessary, however, if we wished to have a second harvest
this year, to prepare the field, and again sow the secd'as quickly as
possible. The stubble was, therefore, mowed down, and, with the
maize-stems, stowed away for firewood. While employed in sepa-
rating the short stalks containing ears of corn from the straw, we
were surprised by the arrival with rushing wings of a number of
quails and a large flock of partridges into the field. It was impos-
sible to secure more than one quail, which was knocked on the wing
by Fritz, for at every corner stood sentinel quails to give the alarm.
I determined, however, that at our next corn harvest a harvest of
quails should follow. The stubble and maize-leaves were stowed
away as food for our cattle, with some of the straw. The best we
kept for stuffing palliasses. Some of the burnt stems deposited
ashes, which I discovered contained soda or kali, and therefore could
be made very useful.

I decided also to make a change in the corn-field for the next
harvest, and sow this time rye and oats. This plan is said by
farmers to improve the soil and render it more productive.

\Ve had scarcely finished all this work when the shoal of herring;
arrived; but we only stored two barrels this time, after they were
salted and smoked. I was more anxious for the arrival of the dog-
fish, as I required skins to finish more completely the canoe. I
wished also to make the deck water-tight, and to form a kind of
reservoir for water beneath it, in the stern of the boat, as well as a
place to carry arms and provisions near the prow.

When this was completed, I prepared two harpoons, to be sup-
ported on the water by bladders filled with air, and fastened to the
boat with straps.

Fritz now equipped himself for his first canoe voyage in his
swimming dress, and before springing on board, he inflated it till
he looked like a gigantic frog; then he stepped into the opening in

 

l.\' PURSUIT 0F FRITZ.

the deck of the canoe left for the paddler, took up his paddle, and
prepared to start.

His brothers greeted his comical appearance, as before, with
shouts of laughter, and even his mother could not help joining
them, although she felt anxious for the boy's safety.

To please and comfort her I prepared the yacht, that his mother
might follow him with me and the boys. I wished also to be at
hand to render him assistance in case of danger. But the canoe
was tossing on the waves long before we could embark, amidst the
loud hurrahs of the paddler. To show us his power over the manage-
ment of the canoe, he began to perform all sorts of tricks, to his
umther's great alarm. First he paddled on ahead for a considerable
 

distance; he then caused the canoe to rock fearfully, and at last, to
show that it was too buoyant to sink under water, completely
capsized it.

As it righted itself, the shouts of delight uttered by his brothers
so elated Fritz, that he at once paddled his canoe towards the
entrance of the Jackal River, with such swiftness, that the current
carried him out to sea before he was aware of it.

This daring act alarmed me, and leaving the mother and little
Frank on the shore, I stepped into the boat with Jack and Ernest,
and started in pursuit of the thoughtless voyager. We made our"
way towards the reef of rocks on which the ship had been wrecked,
as I felt sure that was the direction Fritz had taken.

For a long time the yacht sailed steadily on, but no signs of the
canoe could be discovered, even through a telescope. At last I saw
in the distance a thin wreath of smoke curling in the air, followed
in a few moments by the feeble report of a pistol.

It was a great relief to me to hear this sound, which I knew must
be a signal from Fritz, and after firing an answering signal, I steered
hastily and gladly towards the spot from whence the sound came,
for I knew we could reach it in ten minutes.

In less than that time we caught sight of our sailor, and presently
joined him, amidst loud acclamations and shouts of welcome. But
our astonishment was great at observing a large yet not full-grown
walrus lying dead on a fragment of rock, which our young hero of
the sea had killed with a harpoon--too large for him to carry home
on his canoe, but not too large for our boat. Before questioning
him about this animal, however, I gave our young Greenlander a
gentle reproof for going so far out to sea, and causing his mother
and myself great anxiety.

He excused himself by referring to the strong current in the
Jackal River or creek, which he had been unable to withstand.
" And then," continued the boy, " I came upon this walrus, which
appeared such a wonderful booty that I could not bear to leave it
behind. He was swimming towards the canoe, papa, and as 1
wounded him with one of the harpoons, he rushed to that crevice
in the rocks, carrying the harpoon in his back, and dragging the
canoe with him; so that I was obliged to make an end of him at
once with the other harpoon. At last I fired two shots at the
animal, that he might not serve me and my canoe as the serpent
served poor Jack."

" Yours was a daring experiment, Fritz," I said; " for although
the walrus is in general a timid animal, it often becomes furious
 

when wounded, and will turn upon its enemies, and attack and tear
with its long sharp fangs the vessel in which they are sailing, how-
ever strong it may be, and sometimes render it a complete wreck.
What then would have been the consequence to a poor little seal's-
skin-covered canoe like yours? I thank God that you are safe, my
son, which is better than if you had brought home a. hundred wal-
ruses; and even now I scarcely know what we are to do with this

 

\VALRL'S, OR MORSE.

captive. It. must be at least fourteen feet long, although by the
shortness of its fangs, I believe it is not full grown."

" Oh, papa!" cried Fritz, "if it is too heavy to be carried home in
your boat, I should at least like to keep the head with those two
white teeth; I would stick it on the forepart of my canoe, which
could then be named the '\Valrus.'"

"I should be very unwilling to leave those beautiful teeth be-
hind," I replied. " But what we do must be done quickly, for the
air feels heavy, and foretells stormy weather."
 

"Don't have the head out in pieces, papa," cried Jack, "it would
look beautiful on the canoe."

" Ah 2 " said Ernest, " and in a little while it would decay, and not
produce a very pleasant odour for the Greenlander in his canoe."

" N 0," said Fritz; "it must be taken home first and cleaned,
purified, and dried, till it becomes as hard as wood, like one I have
seen at the museum at home in our native town."

"Papa," asked Ernest, "are not these animals natives of Northern
regions ? "

" As a. rule they are," I replied; "but this walrus may possibly
belong to the South Polar Seas, which are equally cold; and there
is a smaller species at the Cape, called dugong."

While thus talking, we had dragged the head of the animal from
the rock to our boat; and when Fritz had removed the harpoons, I
with some difficulty cut ofl' the head. Fritz remarked that it would
be useful to have a hatchet and a lance as well as a mariner's com-
pass on board, in case the rower should be driven out to sea in a
storm, to enable him to direct his course. I quite agreed with him,
and promised that these articles should be placed on board on the
following day.

After finishing my business with the walrus, and bringing the
head safely on board the yacht, I wished Fritz to join us and take
the canoe in tow; but he begged me to allow him to go back alone,
and relate his career on the water to the mother himself. Without
delay, he stood out to sea, while we, who were already beginning to
feel tired, followed him, but more slowly.

The dark clouds, which had for some time been gathering in a
threatening aspect, burst upon us suddenly in a frightful storm of
wind and rain. Fritz was already so far in advance of us, that we
could not see a trace of the boat, especially through the blinding
rain, and to make him hear amid the roar of the storm would have
been impossible. \Ve fastened on hastily the cork swimming-belts,
and lashed ourselves to the boat by leather straps, to prevent being
washed overboard by the waves.

I found at last that I had no power over the boat, and, in alter-
nate hope and fear, commended myself and my children to God. I
concealed my alarm, however, and tried to encourage hope and trust
in my two boys, who, I had no doubt, felt safer than I did in the
midst of all, because they had me for a protector.

Meanwhile the storm raged in all its fury. The waves rose to
the height of mountains, and seemed to mingle with the dark clouds
which descended to meet them. Lightning flashed across the dark--
 

ness, thro11'ing its lurid glare on the crests of the foaming waves.
0111: after another gusts of wind threatened to capsize 115, while the
foaming wa1'es dashed over the deck of our little skiff, and the rain
fell in torrents.

At one 111o1nent 11c we1e 1iding at the top of an 1311011110113 wave,
and the ne.\t descending into the 11011011 of the sea, as into a deep
gulf. llut our boat held 011 her way splendidly, the skins filled
with air on each side prevented her f1om sinking 111 the deep water,
and men amidst the foaming 11111 es I could f1on1 time to time t11111
her comse in the 1irrht direction by one more of the 1".11dde1

I11 all this danger, and 111th strong hopes of safety if 0111' boat
could hold out till the storm ceased, my greatest anxiety arose from
1113 ignorance of the fate of Fritz. Indeed I gave him 111) for lost,
and could only oll'er a silent prayer to God that He would enable
me to submit in a Christ-like spirit to His holy will if my son were
taken from me.

In these climates the storms cease almost as suddenly as they
begin, and although the waves still rolled and dashed furiously over
us yet when the rain ceased and the air cleared, I found, to my great
joy, that we had been driven by the wind towards the entrance to
Deliverance Bay, and were approaching the well-known creek be-
tween the rocks and \Vhale Island.

With a feeling of safety, my heart rose in thankfulness to God
for His protecting care of myself and the boys, and when we at last
entered the bay, another cause of thankfuluess arose. We saw in
the distance the mother, with little Frank and Fritz, kneeling 011
the sham], no doubt ofl'e1inrr thanks to God for saving Fritz, and
praying that 1111 mirrht be deli1'e1cd {10m danger.

(heat and 0101 111101111111" was 0111' joy as we met, and while clasped
in each other's arms, knew we we1e s'11ed After we had all knelt
and mutually olfe1ed our thanks to our merciful Father in heaven
for this happy deliverance, we hastened to Rock Castle to change
our wet clothes for dry ones, and over some warm, well-spiced soup,
to think and talk of the dangers we had passed through.

After lefreshins: ourselves in this maune1, the yacht was drawn
on show, and, together with the ca120,consistinq of the head of the
walrus, was 1hagged to the R ock House 011 iolle1s by one of the
animals

F1it7. and Emest also fetched the canoe, and both we1e placed
side I13 side' 111 one of those 1eccsses in 0111 cave which we 11c1econ-
stantly discovering, and making useful by cutting entrances, to
enable us to place in them all the stores which required shelter.
 

The accommodations at Rock Castle were large enough to admit
even the pinnace, had we not built a (lock for it near Flamingo
Marsh. The head of the walrus was carried to the workshop, and,
after beingr washed, cleaned, and dried, was placed on Fritz's canoe,
where it presented a most imposing appearance.

The heavy rain which had fallen at such an unusual season had
so swollen the two streams which descended from the rocks, that
in several places, especially near Falcon's Nest, the water had over-
flowed its banks, causing damage which required our constant ex-
ertions to repair. The Jackal River or creek even, which was very
deep, rose so high above its banks, that our bridge was in danger,
and the fountain at I'alcon's Nest was almost destroyed.

One (lay while passing the spot from which the water of the Jackal
River fell in a cascade, we found on the ground clusters of berries,
some of a bright red and others of a dark brown, not larger than a
common hazel-nut, and crowned with a bunch of little leaves.

Their appearance was so tempting that the boys eagerly gathered
them up and tasted them. The consequences were not pleasant
A sharp burning sensation in the mouth made them reject the
berries with disgust, and spit and splutter to get rid of the taste,
which they owned was a punishment for their grecdiness.

I observed that Master Nip appeared to have no desire to taste-
these berries, and I should have considered that they were
poisonous, had I not recognized in the shape and odour of the fruit
a resemblance to cloves. I was so pleased at this discovery that I
told the boys to gather a quantity and carry them to the mother,
who welcomed the addition to her stores with great satisfaction,
and determined to obtain ayoung plant for her nursery-groumls,
and employ the cloves in cooking as a substitute for pepper, till our
pepper-plants bore fruit.

The passage of salmon and sturgeon near our shores, in conse-
quence of the heavy rain, which caused the rivers to overflow and
carry them farther inland, afforded us a large supply of fish. I had
read also that the Hungarians and the natives of other countries
near the Danube scatter the washing of their flour-mills over fields
upon which the water has flowed to attract fish, which not only
deposit their spawn, but are more easily taken in shallow water.
I therefore adopted this plan, and my store of salmon and sturgeon,
with the roe and isinglass obtained from the latter, was, in conse-
quence, most abundant.

Our days during this period had, for some time, passed very
peacefully, till one moonlight night I was awoke by the fierce
ba1king of the 11atcl1- dogs, mingled with a confused sound of
gr'ouling, squeaking, and Dtrampling feet. I pictured to myself
immediately an assembly of jackals, buffaloes, bears, and boa1s,
amusing themselves. or fightingr with our dogs.

I sprang out of bed. hastily threw on a few garments, and, seizing
the nearest gun, rushed to the ent1'a11ee-door,the upper half of
which was always open at night to admit the cool air, and looked
out in every direction.

Presently I saw the head of Fritz out of the window of his
sleeping-room.

"Is that you, papa ?" he said. "What on earth is the matter ? "

"Nothing very alarming," I replied. " I believe those dreadful
pigs are 111) to some mischief again, and that the dogs are after
them. Let us go out and prevent death and slaughter if we can."

\Vithout a word 1" ritz scrambled through the window, half dressed,
and we hastened together towards the scene of the tumult. It was
as I expected. The pigs had managed to cross the bridge, and two
of the dogs had seized the )oung boar by the ears, while the others
11 em hunting the old sow and the little ones. I was sorry to be
obliged to beat our two watchful champions, but they would not set
the boar free without it, and to my snip1ise, \\ hen pursued, the
whole herd lied towards the bridge.

My boys had not, as I at first supposed, neglected to remove the
planks, which had been done every night since the appeamnce of
the boar 011 the potato-field, but the pigs had crossed it by their own
cunningr The beams still remained, and the creatuies must have
followed each other 111 single file with the utmost caution, for these
beams had spaces between them quite wide enough for a ygoun pig
to slip tlnough.

I determined thelefore, to 1ise eaily with Fiitz 011 the next day,
and begin the construction of a d1awb1idge, which could be drawn
up or my evening, and pievent us for the future from being aroused
by such u1nn\1ted guests.THE DRAWBRIDGE--THE IIYEXA.

T breakfast next morning we related our night's adventures to
the boys and their mother, and to the latter the proposal to
erect a drawbridge was most acceptable, the younger boys

being equally pleased at the prospect of helping in such a new and
useful undertaking.

\Ve commenced by fixing in the ground, on the Rock House side
or the river, two strong posts, the width of the bridge apart, and
across these, close to the ground, I nailed two planks, one above the
other, to strengthen them, and a third at the top for the same pur-
pose. W'e then nailed the planks close together across the beams,
forming a much safer footpath over the bridge than the loose planks
had been.

At the opposite end we nailed a stronger board, to hold the
rings and bear the strain when the bridge was raised. We also
lengthened it, that a sufficient portion for safety should rest on the
shore.

At the end nearest our home four strong iron hinges were placed,
which connected it with the planks across the two posts; and by
these hinges we hoped to raise it easily every evening. For this
purpose strong cables were passed through holes in the highest part
of the posts, and fastened in the rings at the opposite side: strong
iron staples were also fixed in the ground behind the posts, to which
the cable could be fastened when the bridge was drawn up, to keep
it firmly in its place, iron hooks being fastened to the cable for this
purpose.

Our drawbridge occupied nearly a fortnight in building, and
although the workmanship was rough and clumsy, yet we were
delighted with the performance.

Added to this was a feeling of safety at night from the attacks of
wild animals, which appeared to be more numerous in the distant

433 :29
 

parts of the island, from which we were now separated by the chain
of rocks and the Jackal River, and protected by the cannon on the
shores of Deliverance Bay.

The boys were delighted to climb the tall posts of the new bridge,
and look over the country on the opposite side. In the distance
they could distinguish the gazelles and antelopes which they had
driven to Wood Grange from the Green Valley. Sometimes these
little creatures would approach the outskirts of the wood, but, on
seeing that they were watched, they would start back with a rush,
fly like the wind, and vanish from our eyes.

" What a pity it is that these elegant creatures cannot be tame( ,"
said Fritz, one day, " and learn to associate with us, like our
domestic animals 2 "

"If we had a bullirlo-lick," said Ernest, " as they have in Georgia,
the antelopes would soon be here."

" Whatever is a buffalo-lick ? " asked Fritz.

" It is a spot formed by nature, Fritz," I said. "We could not
therefore have such a place here, although there are places similar
in our native land, and called salt-licks, because the Chamois hunter
mixes saltpetre with the soil to attract his prey to a certain spot.

hit in America the place with such a singular name is remarkable
for its soil, which, formed by nature, covers several acres, and con-
sists of more than half salt. All animals, whether wild or tame, are
fond of salt."

" Papa," cried Fritz, " could we not lay out such a place ?"

"I have no objection," I replied, "if you can obtain a store of soil
sumcienlly moist: we have salt enough in our salt cave to mix
with it."

"011!" they all exclaimed, "that will be delightful! We shall be
able to attract so many animals, and perhaps tame them. "What
must we do first ? "

"\Vell, I suppose I must agree to accompany you on another
excursion, for we shall require a large store of porcelain earth, and
several bamboo canes for another purpose; so the earlier we are
ready to start to-Inorrow the better."

Away ran the boys, full of glee at the prospect of another
journey: Ernest to find a suitable spot for the salt-lick, Jack with
a secret design about the pigeons, while Frank declared he would
get the old sledge ready, and at once drew it from its place in the
cave.

By this time the mother knew that another excursion was in
preparation; but her greatest surprise was occasioned by the request
 

 

of Fritz, that; she would provide them with pemmican for the
Journey.

"Pemmican!" she exclaimed, "what on earth is that, and for
what can you use it .7"

" For our provisions, mamma," he replied. "The Canadian fur
dealers in Canada take it with them on their long journeys, and
it is considered very wholesome."

" And how is it made, my son?" she replied, " or where can you
procure the materials ?"

" Oh, mamma," he said, laughing, "you have the materials, but I
do not like to give you so much trouble. Pennnican can be made
of bear's flesh, mixed with any other meat, and flour and eggs; and
after being chopped very small, it is fried. I can make it myself
if you will give me the slices of meat."

But the mother, when she understood what was required, readily
offered to help him, and before evening a large store of penunieau,
enough to last two days, was in readiness, and placed in a bag with
other provisions. Such preparations for this journey were made by
the boys,--sacks, pannier-baskets, strings and lassoes, bird-snares,
and no end of guns, tools, and implements, were placed in readiness
by our young freebooters.

At last the longed-for morning dawned, breakfast was dispatched
hastily, and on the wheeled sledge was placed Fritz's canoe, the
travelling-tent, provisions both for food and warfare, and a number
of other things.

While they were loading the cart, I remarked unseen that Jack
was carefully yet secretly placing two pairs of our European pigeons
in one of the baskets. They were large, dark, handsome birds, with
a red circle round the eyes, which, if I mistake not, Bufi'on has
named the " sultan pigeon."

"New," I thought to myself, " the youngster has provided a
substitute for his dinner, in case our store of pemmican should not
be to our taste. The old pigeons, however, will not be a very tit-
bit, with their tough flesh."

The mother, who needed mast, wished for this time to remain
behind, and Ernest, who had been for a long time whispering and
tittering mysteriously with Fritz and Jack, on hearing his mother's
remark, also expressed his wish to remain at home with her. To
settle the dispute which arose, I at once decided to remain at
home, and, with the help of Ernest, prepare a sugar-press which I
had long promised to my wife.

It was settled, therefore, that the eldest and the two younger

29--2
boys should go alone, and they at once set off in great glee,--Fritz
and Frank on Storm and Grumbler, who drew the sledge, and Jack
()ll the ostrich, followed by the dogs, Fawn and Brownie, barking
at his heels.

I watched them till they had all passed safely over the new
bridge and were out of sight.

The making of my sugar-mill occupied all my spare time, although
Ernest and his mother both assisted. But I need not describe my
attempts, as they difl'ered very little from what I had used in
making former mills, but relate the results of the boys' excursion,
which are much more amusing.

The evening of the first day had arrived, and I was seated in the
veranda with my wife, who was engaged in sewing, and Ernest, to
enjoy the rest and the cool evening air. Our conversation turned
upon our young excursionists, and we wondered what adventures
they would have to relate. I could see, however, that the mother
looked anxious, and when we at length retired to rest, she expressed
her wish that the three boys were safe at home.

" Oh, mamma, they are all right," said Ernest, and as he spoke I
noticed a twinkle in his eyes, that made me feel convinced there
was some secret arrangement with his brothers, known only to
himself.

I heard Ernest moving about next morning at an unusually early
hour, but he did not make his appearance till breakfast time, when
he entered with a grave step, hat in hand, and bowing low, yet
with a pretended air of dignity ; he presented me with a letter, and
Said,

" The postmaster of the Rock district presents his humble
respects to the nobly-born ladies and gentlemen of this house, and
hopes he shall he pardoned for not being able to forward the
despatehcs from Sydney Cove and Jackson's Day before this morn-
ing, owing to the post having arrived too late last night."

As I took the paper he bowed again, and stood waiting for me
to read it.

I was for a moment rather bewildered by this strange address,
and the paper placed in my hands. I observed also that my wife
looked pale, so I asked,

" \Vhat does this mean, my boy ? "
"Papa," exclaimed Ernest, "it's all right, only fun: you read

it, and then you will understand the joke, and I'll have my break-
fast meanwlnlc, mamma, please."

I began to have some idea now of the secret which the boys
 

had so cleverly carried out; but I concealed my suspicions, and
opening the packet, read aloud as follows:

    

" Tm: Govzuson-Grzxanu. or law Sou-m \VALES 10 ms F 'cv rut: Govt-mam:
or Roux Gas-rm, FaLcox's NEST, ""000 Quasar), Suuaaease Guove, are I'm)>>
I'ECT HILL, GREETING.

"Most noble, well-beloved, and trusted Ally,--W'e have heard with some displeasure a
report that on this day three disreputable young men have set out front your colony
With the intention of proceeding here, and living by poaching, hunting, aml other
dishonourable practices, which are sure to be injurious to the game in this province.
and cause great damage.

" Information has also been received, from which it appears that you have the terribly
destructive and fearful hyena in the woods of your colony. and that one of these
wild animals has broken into a sheepl'ohl at a place called Wood Grange.

"In consequence of these reports, we pray your Excellency to give up these dreadful
young men to justice, and use every means to destroy the wild animals which still
exist in your colony.

" Accept, most noble Ally, my best wishes.

"(liven at Sidney Cove, in Jackson's Bay, the twelfth day of the current month, and
the thirty-fourth year of the colony.

"(Sig'nelu "The Governor, Pmmr Pmursox."

As I ceased reading Ernest burst into a loud {it of laughter,
and at last rushing.r from the table, began dancing about so wildly
that a little letter fell from his pocket. I was about to pick it up,
but he was too quick for me; and, holdingr it; firmly, he exclaimed,

" This is a private letter to me, papa, from "'ood Grange, but
more likely, however, to be true than the dcspateh from good
Sir Philip, who appears too ready to believe all he hears."

"You are really puzzling me, Ernest," I said, gravely. " Did
Fritz leave this letter with you, to be given to me alter he left, or
has he indeed discovered the traces of the hyena ?"

"No and yes, papa," said Ernest. "A carrier pigeon brought
me the letter you have read last evening, but he arrived at the
pigeon-house too late for me to get at: it. Another pigeon brought
this letter, tied under his wing, early this morning. I will read it
to you word for word.

" ' Wood Grange. the 15th of the present month.

" 'Dearest Parents and Brother,--A frightful hyena has killed two lambs and a ram at:
Wood Grunge. Our dogs caught it, and little Frank shot at it so cleverly, that it tell dead
immediately. It. has taken us the whole day to remove the skin. The pemmiean stlltl is

good for nothing . m
" ' Love to all from your Son and Brother, " ' l- ttt'rz.

"Ila, ha!" laughed I: " that is a regular hunter's letter. God
be praised that. the all'air with the hyena. ended so favourably as
appears. He must have. newly arrived by the river at Wood
Grange. Had he been long,r there, he would have made line
havoc with our sheep and goals."

"I hope the boys will be careful," said the mother. "I only
wish we could call them home, or fetch them quickly."
" It will be better to wait, dear mother," said Ernest. "No
doubt there will be another letter by this evening's post," he
added, with a smile.

That evening, at an earlier hour, we saw a. carrier pigeon arrive
at the pigeon-house. Ernest climbed up. and found, tied loosely

under its wing, the following letter. It was certainly quite la-
conic.

" A peaceful night-- this morning very hot--cruise on the Wood Grange lam--captured
black swan, a royal heron, cranes--unknown animal escaped--Prospect Bill tomorrow.
Best love to all. " an

 

This concise letter eased the mother's mind not a little, as it led
us to conclude that no second hyena could be in the neighbourhood.
The despatch, however, still remained unexplained; and we felt- it
was necessary to wait, and hear from the boys :1 full account of
their movements on their return home.

Shortly after dinner 011 the fourth day of their absence another
carrier pigeon arrived with the following letter :--

"The defile by the river is forced. As far as Sugarcane Grove all is laid waste. The
smoking hut has disa peered. The sugar-canes are torn up and broken. Numbers of
enormous footsteps of uge beasts appear everywhere on the ground. Hasten, dear father,

to our help. We can neither go forward nor retreat; and although we are safe now, we
know not what danger is at hand."
On the receipt of this letter I did not lose a moment. "'ithont
delay I saddled the onagcr, and, telling my wife to follow me with
Ernest next morning, I sprang upon my fleet courser, and galloped
off at a quick pace.

I accomplished in three hours a journey that usually took six,
and my appearance was received by the boys with shouts of joy.
Without delay I proceeded at once to see with my own eyes the
terrible destruction, and know immediately that the large footprints
in the earth were those of elephants, and sad was the devastation
and ruin they had left behind them.

The thick posts which I had erected to close the narrow pass by
the river lay broken on the earth like reeds; and a grove of trees,
which we had planted to form in time a pleasant summer-house,
was destroyed, both roots and branches. In the bamboo thicket
the young and tender plants were all eaten or torn up; indeed, it
appeared as if the elephant troop had been accompanied by other
animals, for I found several smaller and fuller footprints in the
soil, which seemed to belong to the hippopotamus.

\Ve gathered a large quantity of wood to keep fires burning all
night round the tent, as a protection against the attacks of these
animals in the night, Fritz and I, with our guns in readiness, keep-
ing watch during the whole period of darkness.

About noon on the following day Ernest and his mother arrived,
with the cow harnessed to the cart, well loaded with provisions
for a long stay; which appeared necessary, for it was evident we
should have to erect a dwelling in the neighbourhood as soon as we
had repaired the barricade at the entrance of the defile.

This done, I readily agreed to the earnest wish of Fritz that we
should build a summer-house something after the plan adopted by
the natives of Kamschatka

In place of four posts I substituted the stems of four beautiful
trees, standing, in the form of a. quadrangle, at. a distance from each
other of about twelve feet.

At the height of twenty feet from the ground these four trunks
were united by four strong split bamboo canes, on which we laid
boards fora flooring. From this floor we raised thinner bamboo
canes for walls, and to divide the space into apartments. The inner
branches of the trees were partly cut away, and partly entwined
round the canes, which closed the openings between them; the
outer branches I allowed to remain as additional security.

To form a roof we trained the upper branches and fastened them
to the tops of the thin bamboo canes; over these was laid bark
to keep out the rain. The staircase was merely a plank with
places cut out for steps, and a hanging rope to assist in climbing it,
something like a ladder on a ship's side.

The space below the rooms was divided into stalls for the cattle,
and a fowl-house. In front of them we lengthened the flooring to
form a balcony, similar to that at Falcon's Nest, and upon this the
entrance-door to the rooms opened. This balcony we could .use as
an observatory, for it commanded an immense prospect. The walls
of the stables and fowl-house were constructed of cocoanut~palm

 

KAMSCXIATKAN DWELUSG.

wood, cut in strips and nailed obliquely across from one tree-stem
to the other, leaving space {or an entrance, and forming a lattice-
work, which had a very pleasing effect.

This work scarcely gave us breathing-time during the day for a
whole month, but the boys made several excursions to Falcon's
Nest and Rock House to look after our domestic fowls and pigeons,
and to bring back a report of the plantations and vegetable gardens.
\Ve found time also on a few evenings to listen to the story of their
adventures during their four days' absence on that memorable ex-
cursion, which must be related in another chapter.rmrz RELATES THE anrnxrvmzs or THEIR Excuaswx.

' HE evening chosen for this narrative was calm and peaceful,
and we had progressed so rapidly with our smnmer-house,
that we were able to seat ourselves on the new floor and-

listen at our case.

"I watched you cross the bridge in safety," I said, "and yet I
felt uneasy at the prospect of your absence."

" Yes, papa," said Fritz, " perhaps you did, but not after you
received the despatches by our postman."

" Certainly that relieved both your mother and myself from
anxiety, for the (lay at least on which we received them; and,
indeed,I am thankful you had such a means of communication,
especially when you wished to send for me. But how came you to
discover these carrier pigeons? I was not aware that we had any
of the species."

"Ernest found them out," said Fritz: " they are described in his
Natural History as large, dark birds, with purple throats, and a red
circle round the eyes."

"Ah, yes!" I replied, laughing; "I saw you take those four
pigeons, and was amused at the idea, for I knew they would be
tough eating; yet by the whispering and mysterious consultations
going on, I supposed there was some surprise in store for us."

"And so there was, papa, and a very useful mystery, too," said
Fritz; " but now let me tell you of our first adventure with the
liyena.

" Nothing occurred till we approached the farm, and then we
heard, to our surprise, loud bursts of human laughter among the
bushes, which appeared to alarm the animals terribly. The dogs,
who were in advance, ran back to us snarling and growling, while
the ostrich at once bolted with his rider, and ran wildly into the
marshy rice-field.

" 'There is something wrong, Frank,' I said: 'yon must be ready
to fire, for it is as much as I can do to hold in these animals.

441
Keep close to me, and let us discover what this unusual disturbance
means.'

"Frank raised his gun, with his finger on the trigger, and while
I held in the butl'alo and the ox firmly, the brave little fellow ap-
proached the bushes and peeped in. There stood a hyena with his
paw on a ram he had just killed, at about forty paces distance, and
Jaughing hideously. At this moment the dogs rushed past Frank,
and, barking and yelling, ilew towards the horrid beast ; but before
they could reach him Frank had fired; the ball, passing through
his fore leg, entered his chest, and the monster fell to the earth.

" I hoard the shot," continued Fritz, " and, fastening the frighted
oxen to a tree, I ran to help Frank; but, fortunately, I was not
wanted: the two dogs had rushed upon the animal, dragged away
his prey from him, and when I and Frank reached the place, we
found the creature quite dead. Our brave Brownie had seized him
by the throat and finished the business. ""0 all raised shouts of joy
as J aek returned with the ostrich, and wasn't he astonished when
he saw our horrid enemy lying dead! The creature was as large
as a wild bear, and on his back, from the head to the tail, he had
thick black bristles standing on end. The dogs would never have
been able alone to kill such a fierce strong creature, so it is wed for
us that Frankie was so brave."

"It makes me nervous to think of it," said his mother, " although
I am glad Frank was not afraid: that would have made it much
more dangerous."

" I was a little afraid, mannna," said the ho ', " when the creature
laughed so horribly; but I thought I could hit him more easily
while he was eating, and so I did. and I felt proud of having killed
such splendid booty."

" And how did you manage the ostrich, Jack ?" asked his mother.

"OhII covered his eyes, and he got over his fright when the
laughing was stopped." .

" The skinning was a. dillicult process, papa," exclaimed Fritz;
" we wanted you and the syringe to help us; but the hyena's skin
is coarse and rough compared to the bear's. This was our first
day's work, and when we reached "'ood Grange I sent those letters by
the carrier pigeon, as you know, papa. We had our supper in the
tent, and laid down to sleep on the bears' skins, lighted fires round
it, while one of us kept watch in turns, with our guns in readiness.

" We had made up our minds to occupy the next day in ex-
ploring Black Swan Lake, and I was to cruise near the shore in my
canoe, while Jack and Fritz followed on foot, as near the water asFRITZ REL/1 TES THE ADVENTURES. 443

they could walk without sticking in marshy ground, and at every
point where I expressed a wish to stop on our way back they set
up a tall bamboo cane.

" I wanted so much to take some black swans alive, and almost;
on starting in the canoe, I came upon two old birds with their
young ones. I had some trouble to catch even one, for the old
birds beat me with their wings, and tried to upset the canoe; but

 

SETHXG UP THE BAMDOO.

I've got them all safe, as you know, papa,in the river, fastened with
strings to the shore, and won't they look beautiful in the duck-pond at
Deliverance Bay, or in the Jackal River, when we have tamed them?

" A few minutes after seeming the young swans we saw a bean-
tiful bird standing on the shore, with long legs, a purple breast,
and a crest of crimson-tipped feathers on its head. I threw a lasso
of fine string round its neck, and although it struggled very much,
I made it my prisoner. I think it is the royal heron, papa, and 1
do hope it will live and become tame.
 

" But I had a fright after this, though not so bad as the boys
who were walking; a great ugly beast rushed out of the rushes,
just. in front of them, hissing loudly. "'0 were so taken by surprise,
that we never thought of firing till it was out of sight. It; was of
a dark brown colour, and something like a young rhinoceros, but;
without tusks, and it had such a long snout and upper lip--a most
ugly animal: what could it have been ? "

 

HERON.

" By your description, Fritz," I replied, "I believe the creature
was a species of tapir. These animals frequent the banks of large
rivers in South America; but they are very harmless."

"A flock of cranes came next," continued Fritz, "just as we
passed the corn-field, and these we fired at with arrows. Four or
live fell, as you have seen, papa, but two of them are unlike the
others, and have larger wings."

"I noticed it, my boy," I replied: " these are Numidian cranes,
and among them is one of those called the demoiselle crane, from
 

the affected and fantastical movements it performs on its legs, almost
as if it was dancing."

" That evening, although we returned home very tired," said
Fritz, going on with the narrative of their adventures, " we enjoyed
our supper of cold peccary ham, cassava cakes, and potatoes baked
in the ashes, very much. Sometimes for dessert after dinner, we
gathered guavas and other fruit. But, momma," added the boy,
"you were right about the pcmmican ; it was not at all nice, so we

gave it to the dogs."

 

Tal'llt.

" I daresay the instructions you gave me were not quite eon'ect,"
she replied with a smile; " but we will try again some day, perhaps
the second attempt will be more successful. But go on with your
adventures, Fritz."

" \Ve intended to pay a visit next day to Prospect Hill," he said,
" but on reaching the pine- vood, we found a whole troop of mon-
keys seated on the branches. They howled and challercd and
guashed their teeth at us, pouring down upon us at the same time a
hailstorm of pine-cones. \Ve had to run from side to side to avoid
them. At last I fired a few small shots among,' the rebels, which
sent them flying, and we continued the rest of ourjourney in peace.

"But when we reached Prospect Hill, such a scene of destruction
presented itself! "'0 have been too busy, since you came, with the
 

repairing here, to spare time from our work to show it to you; but,
oh 2 papa, you will be sorry when you see it.

" Every place is broken down and destroyed by those dreadful
monkeys. We could only unharness the animals from the cart and

 

LONG-TAEED HONKEX'S.

the sledge: it was impossible to unload. The but had disappeared,
and we were obliged to put up our tent for a sleeping place. How-
ever, I determined to try and exterminate these mischievous animals.

"\Vc had milked the goats before leaving \Vood Grange, and I
placed a small quantity of milk in several cocoa-nut shells, with
palm wine and bruised grain. Into each of these I poured a few
drops of the poisonous gum of the euphorbia-tree, which you had
given me, papa, in a calabash bottle for some purpose. These cocoa-
nut--shells I hung on the young palm--trees close by, and placed a
few 011 the fallen trunks of other trees.

"All this employed us till late in the evening. Our animals
were lying down 011 the green turf enjoying their rest when we
returned to the tent; but before entering it, the appearance of a
strange light in the distant horizon, where the sea and sky seemed
to meet, induced us to climb to the high ground on Prospect Hill,
for I thought it must be a ship on fire. But while we stood look-
ing earnestly at the light, the round disc of the 1110011,large and
full, peeped above the horizon, and presently such a glorious light
streamed over the sea. and the country all round; it was quite
beautiful. I could have read a book in the moonlight.

"While we thus stood on the hill, there suddenly sounded in our
ears the loud snarling or hissing cry of seine strange animal, and
the crackling of grass and reeds under heavy feet, that seemed to
be passing over the rocks into the sea.

" Brownie and Fawn as well as the j'lclx'll must ha\e heard it, for
they all set up banking and howling in a frightful manner, but
the dogs could not rush out, f01 we had tied them up in the tent
for fear they should touch the poisoned think intended {01 the
apes. \Ve, however, returned quickly to the tent, and alter reno-
vating the fires we had lighted, laid down 011 our bear-skins to
sleep, but we had very little rest. The moonlight roused the
monkeys ; we could hear them snarling, chattering, and howling
near us for hours, and then all became so still that we fell asleep,
and did not wake next morning till long after sunrise

" Oh, papa!" continued Fritz, "' what a dreadful poison that
euphorbia must be; when we left our tent the sight of so many
dead monkeys horrified us. I believe our possessions are now safe
at last. As quickly as possible we threw the dead bodies into the
sea, and burned the cocoanut-shells and flasks that had contained
the poison."

"It was a dangerous performance, Fritz," I said, "and a sad
necessity to destroy all those living creatures so quickly: but do
not let us talk about it. You have not yet described the capture
of those beautiful birds with the long tail-feathers."

"Ernest says they are called birds of Paradise," he replied, "and
indeed they have the most beautifully- eolomed feathe1s I evei saw.
W' e weie walking thiough high g1ass near the 1iv 01, when the dogs
started quite a flock of them. I3 sent up my eagle, and he biouglit4-1" SWISS FA 1111. Y ROI I\.SO\'

 

1lu1111 r1110, 11l1i1-h 11111 tiemhlinrf and t011'ified 111 the 1111155; and as I
saw another f1111i11_1'1, 1 11111 s111e 110111 fea1',I 1111111 0111, 1113' hands and
caught. it, 11hi11: 11111: picked up the other; both were 1111111,,1 111111
111111111.t "

"I 11111 1111111 these 101' e13' ereatmes me not injured 11111/ "1 1'0-

plie1,l " 111111 I think they \1111 be easily 1111111311, for they me as gentle
as 11010s

 

BIRDS 011' PARADISE.

\\ hile we remained at this spot and during;1 the building of 0111
11111 sunnner residence, I allowed the 1103s to make short e\eu1'-
sinus in the 1111i11hhm11'11oed alone, as 11 change, and 11103 made
s111-11111 flesh diseo1'01ies in consequence. 1"1itz 011 one occasion
111111154111; 1101110 110111 the opposite shows of the 511011111 1:110 sorts
0111,11it 11111'111i1111i11 size, but not in. appearance. One of 1110111110
suppused to he 3'011112 cueumbels 01' 1rl1e1'ki11s; 1111:,011 tasting
111111111115001111'11111111111 those he had 111ist11ke11 f01 gherkins were
bananas, and the 011101 the valuable cacaonut {1011101110 seeds of
which chocolate is made. These seeds, "hich an: exceedingly
bitter, are contained in a soft, fleshy fruit, with a sickly taste. The
banana was not much better, having the flavour of a rotten pear.

It is strange that both these trees should produce an unpalatable
fruit which, by preparation, can be made so pleasant and valuable.
The cacao-seed, after being removed from the fruit, is dried,
pounded, and mixed with spices to form delicious chocolate. The
banana is very much admired by the natives of both the Indies, in
which it grows, but when sent to Europe, it is generally as a sweet
preserve.

"If that be so," said my wife, "I should like a few seeds or young
plants for my nursery. I can no doubt also make a delicious pre-
serve of the banana."

" Of eouise you can, dear wife," I replied; " and Fritz can easily
procure for you a few of the young shoots; but the cacao-seeds re-
quire a very watery soil, so that it is too late in the season for them
now. However, the fruit may keep till the rainy season, and then
the seed must be sown the instant it is taken from the pulp."

On the day before that- on which our return to Rock House was
fixed, Fritz started in his canoe to obtain for his mother a supply of
young banana plants and the cacao fruit, which were to be found
only on the opposite shore of the Eastern River. Behind him, as a
sort of raft, he towed a bundle of reeds, which floated on the sur-
face of the water. This he brought back in the evening with him
fully loaded.

His brothers rushed to the strand, and chased the canoe to secure
the vegetable raft and its contents. Ernest and Frank seized it as
he neared the shore, and at the same time one of them threw a
loaded bag, that had slipped half into the water, to Jack, and told
him to take care of it.

Away ran J aek with the bag, full of curiosity, behind a bush, and
opened it just wide enough for him to peep in.

" Oh, you great fellow!" he cried, with a start; " what a monster
you are! you made me jump nearly out of my skin."

Then he closed the bag carefully, and, placing it again half in and
half out of the water, made it fast to a tree. The reason of all
these performances we (lid not learn till later.

By this time Fritz had sprung on shore, carrying a bird with its
legs and wings bound, and full of joy, for his booty was a beautiful
sultan or water--fowl. The legs and feet were red; the chief
colour of the body and wings a rich purple, changing on the hack
to dark green, flocked with red spots, and on the throat to brown.
The creature was gentle, and appeared likely to be tamed easily.

30
The beauty of this new arrival pleased the mother greatly, and she
determined to take it under her own immediate care.

Fritz had met with many strange adventures in his cruise up the
river, and his description of the beautiful country through which he
passed would have tempted as to visit it, but for the creatures by
which it was inhabited.

Green fields, trees loaded with fruit; on one shore; and on the
other, overhanging mountains and majestic forests. Here and there

 

ELEPHANT-5'.

hoops of birds 11ith glorious plmnaue producing such an unheard-
of 111i.\ture of sound: that their eaekling, quaclting, gobblinn, and
sue 11111111r made him almost "idd3'. Tl1e1e were f'ui11ea-[o11'ls, pea-
cocks, and 1111111be1s of birds, with a fe1v.:ulta11 fowls, one of 11hieh
he had 111111111ged to capture.

Farther on he passed a whole forest of 111imosa-trees, in which
from ten to twenty elephants were peacefully feeding on the large
branches of the trees, which they tore 1101111 with their t1uuks with
as much ease as him could have b1ol1'e11 oil a sugm- cane. They
then entcted the river, and stood 111 the water as a means of cooling
themsel1 es duiiwr the lietce heat of the (1113'.
 

 

At a point further down the river 1" ritz observed a number of
pantheis, their spleiulidly--marked fur shining in the sun's rays.

" I felt for a moment inclined to try my skill as a. marksman on
one of these fellows," he said: "but while 1 hesitated a rushing
sound startled me, and I saw the water, at about a stone's throw in
front of me, boiling and foaming, as if some large spring had
suddenly burst forth beneath it.

 

HIH'OI'OTAMI.

"Suddenly there arose from the water a hideous animal, that
made me shudder, it-s loud bellow resembling in some measure
the neighiug of a horse; while the creature, opening his wide jaws
displayed a row of frightful teeth, which seemed to be stuck 111 the
gums like a regiment of Spanish lancers. .

" I turned at once, and fled from the spot like an arrow, rowing
with all my strength till I reached the current, while the perspira-
tion rolled down my face. I never looked back till, at a bend of
the river, I lost sight of the monster. I then took up my paddle

30--2
 

again, and did not feel safe till I had reached a point which I knew
"as not far f1om our tent."

110111 this desc1iption I at once decided that the neighbourhood
of the E astc1 11 River and the G1een Valley was, in spite of its
\eidme and beauty infested "ith \\ 11d animals, and among them
the (-1eat1ue which had so ala1med Fiitz. It "as no doubt the
hippopotmnus or sea- -horse. He had, however, made many dis-
coxe1ies, and had not only obtained the 1equi1ed plants and seeds
fo1 his 1110the1, but also a handsome water- fowl.

During the absence of Fritz we had been all very busy in pre-
paring for our departure on the following day.

The boy, however, had not lost his courage by the alarming
sights he had seen 011 this exemsion, for he begged me to allow him
to return to Rock House in his canoe.

He could, he said, double the prmnontory of False Hope, and
then keep inshore till he reached the Jackal River.

I readily gave my consent, for I felt it would be of great im-
portance for one of the boys, at least, to learn the navigation of the
island, and also to ascertain if it were possible to reach the pro~
montory, or the Arabian Watch-tower, by a nearer way than by the
open sea.

Early the following morning we started from home with the cart
and the sledge, well laden, and the numerous feathered folk care-
fully packed in baskets.

I had decided to place the mountain fowl and the cranes, with
a few other birds, 011 the two islands; the black swans, the sultan
fowl, and the royal heron were to be set free on the marsh.

This marsh, near the duck-pond, had grown into a lake since the
heavy rains, and we hoped to tame the new-comers by feeding them
110w and then with tit-bits from our own. hands.

The old bustards were to retain the privilege of being near us at
meal-times, as they were accustomed, standing gravely waiting for
their share.

011 the evening of our arrival at Rock House, and while seated
in the veranda enjoying the cool fresh air, Fritz returned, and
hastened at once to relate his adventures. 011 reaching Cape False
Hope, he had skirted the opposite shore of the island, which we had
never yet reached by land, and found it in some parts a chain of
high rocks, and in others fertile country.

On many of the clefts of the rocks, and at their feet, were groves
of bushes covered with blossoms that filled the air with their sweet
perfume. These flowers were small and white, with pink centres,
and petals tipped with green. The heart-shaped leaves, however,
as well as the stalks, were thorny. He also found another white
flower, with slender leaves, not unlike those of the cherry-tree
blossom.

This flower greatly resembled the China tea-tree, and the hope
that it would prove so greatly pleased the mother. The former I
took for the blossom of the caper, which is a creeping plant growing
in the crevices of rocks and on old ruins.

While Fritz was relating and producing the results of his cruise,
a sudden noise was heard in the direction of the duck-pond, which
new here the name of Swan Lake since the river had overflowed its
banks.

The sound was a hollow, ghastly bellow, not unlike the angry
lowing of two fighting oxen, and our dogs rushed out barking fu-
riously. I started up hastily, and called to Jack to bring me my
double-barelled gun, while the mother, Ernest, and Frank rushed
into the house. Fritz alone surprised me: he that was so ready to
seize his weapons, now stood leaning against one of the supports of
the veranda laughing most unmercifully. This, however, eased
my mind; I re--seated myself and said,

" I suppose you know it is nothing but the bellow of a bittern or
a marsh pig ? "

" Or," said Fritz, "most likely an evening serenade from Jack's
giant frog."

" Ho! he!" I exclaimed ; " this is one of the tricks of that clever
young gentleman, is it? I understand now the mystery of the sack,
and why he wished to start before us on the way home!

" It is all right, wife," I called out; " nothing but the creaking of
a frog."

" A frog;" she exclaimed, as she answered my call, followed by
Ernest and Frank.

" Yes, mamma, a giant frog, which I brought home for Jack on
my last excursion. Is it a European frog ?"

" Oh, no," I replied: " the giant frog is a native of America, and
sometimes grows to the size of a rabbit. Another species which iii-
habits South Africa, where the heat (luring both day and night at
some parts of the year is most oppressive, keeps up a continual
creaking. The giant; frog eroaks only at night, and his music, when
near at hand, is not very agreeable. I hope, however, that our
heron will soon put; him to silence, and in the meantime we will let
him remain."

Jack, who had rushed off quickly to the pond on hearing the un-
earthly noise, came back while I was speaking, and looked very
much annoyed at the behaviour of his new playthiug.

" It is a great ugly thing, papa," said the hey, " but not half as
big as a rabbit. I think it is what they calla bull-frog: but if it;
wouldn't eroak so loud, I should like to keep it and see how large
it; would grow. I don't think the heron or even the cranes could
swallow it now, even if they were to try."

" You may keep him if you like, my boy," said his mother; " but
don't let him come near the house; and as to his noise, we shall
perhaps get used to it." '

 

FEOG.

After a few days' rest, my wife begged me to plan a last excur-
sion for the summer to lr'alcon's Nest, and employ our energies in
restoring and finishing the inside of our old summer palace. I
willingly agreed to her wishes, only waiting till the boys had finished
the hullhlo-liek, which they were now busy in laying out.

ln two days this was completed, and we all started ofl' eagerly
on our expedilinn to Falcon's Nest.

We found everything as we had left it, but in a very unfinished
state. Our first work was to cut the sides of the arched roots into
shape and polish them. The terrace upon these roots was repaired,
and the flooring covered with a mixture of tar and resin to make
t...
C}!

 

it water-tight, A roof of bark was placed over the upper balcony,
outside our old sleeping-apartmentg this roof also overhung the
terrace beneath, and across the railings of both we nailed lattice-
work, so that we really had now two balconies round the tree
castle.

The tarpaulin over the sleeping-room was removed to make room
for a new roof, formed of bark and tree branches, similar to that in
our Kamschatka stumner-house at \Vond Grange. When finished,
our summer palace presented an exceedingly attractive appearance.

This beautifying completed. Fritz, as usual, had some new plan
to suggest. He proposed that we should erect a battery on the
heights of Shark's Island, on which to place our four-potmder
cannon. This proposal cost me a great deal of bead--breaking,r
thought.

I arranged my plans at last, and then embarked on board the
yacht- and sailed to the island. The cannon was first lifted from
the carriage, and the latter raised, by strong cords, a Windlass, and
pulley, to the top of the rocks. The cords, which had many knots,
hung from the summit and served as steps for us to elhnb up. It
was a dil'ricult- task to raise the cannon and place it on the waggou,
but we succeeded by pelsereranee at last.

It stood with its mouth towards the ocean, and behind it was
built a guard-house of boards and bamboo canes. A tall thick
cane was also placed near the cannon, with a loose flag, fastened
to rings by a strongr cord, to be drawn up and down for the aid of
any royagers of our colony when out at sea alone. This under-
taking occupied two months, and there arose a tumult of delight
when the flag was hoisted for the first time, and a salute of six
shots, which re-echoed from rock to rock, was fired in honour of
the occasion.
AFTER TEX YEARS--PEARL BAY.

HAPTER after chapter of this story has been added during the
years that ha\e rolled by since I and my family weie cast
shipwrecked and alone 011 the sea-5rirt slioies of this island.

During,r the ten 3'ea1s which l1a1e elapsed I lime endem oured to
recor,d stop by step, 0111 doings, "liether in hunting' ,ship building,
oi inakiii5r discoveiies which, by intelli5renee and thought, could he
turned to account.

I am now anxious to describe the result of these exertions, and I
shall be satisfied if the design of the book is sufliciently clear to the
311111155 reader to more what the membeis of a family who, even
under tryinfr ciieumstances, live piously and in harmony together,
can peiforin by industry and DCISC\01'IIICC By the blessing of God
on their endeavours, they are strengthened and made successful,
and fitted to become useful members of society and of the com-
munity to which they belong.

The story will prove also how innumerable are the gifts of the
Creator as seen in nature, if we seai'ch for them, and that not one of
these benefits can be too trifling to be made useful and profitable to
ourselves by intelligence, industry, and a well-ordered mind.

But instead of pausing in my 11'111ati1 e, as a iiishinrr stream sud-
denly a1rcsted 111 its couise, I will glance back, and0 5ri1'e a short
sketch of our work and its 1esults dining the ten yeais that we
have remained 011 the island.

0111' boys have grown 11p, in a certain sense, different in mind and
person to childien accustomed to associate with otheis of their own
ago. Their physical powers lime been strenuthened by laboui, and
their minds developed by the excuisions and discov eiies 11eha1e
made and conve1sed about.

'l'heir knowledge of languages and literature has been kept up by
reading,r and study duringr the rainy seasons, especially by Ernest,
who is of a studious disposition, and less actively inclined than his

4:16
 

 

brothers. Fritz, however, is the most proficient in the English
language, which he reads and speaks with great correctness. They
are all now healthy and handsome young men.

Our dwelling-places, both at Rock House and 1" alcon's N est, have,
during the last few years, been much improved, and were now not
only attractive in appearance, but convenient and healthful. Rock
House especially formed a capital warehouse for our stores, as well
as an excellent winter residence.

The greater part of the year, however, we have spent at Falcon's
Nest, for there we had excellent shelter for our fowls and stalls for
the cattle and sheep, as well as for the game we wished to preserve
alive. Here also were the bee-hives, which supplied us with honey
in great quantities. But the increase in the number of bees, which
obliged me to form several new hives, had attracted a bird of beau-
tiful plumage, named the bee-eater, and this necessitated the de--
struction of all we caught. Two, however, were preserved to adorn
our museum, which was still a great pleasure to us, especially on a
Sunday. The contents of this museum have increased in number
so rapidly, that we have been obliged to fit up another space in

took House to be entirely devoted to these curiosities.

{ock House has also been greatly beautified and improved, both
within and without. The veranda has been extended by two wings,
one at each side, and the creeping plants at the foot of each bamboo
column or support have grown luxuriously, and now twine round
them even to the roof, which they completely cover, hanging down
from the eaves in amost picturesque manner, and forming a pleasant
shade.

Close to the rock, and under one wing of the veranda, stands
the fountain, formed of the turtle's shell, and, as we often sit in
the open air (hiring the evening, the splashing of the water, as it
trickles into the fountain, has a very pleasant and cooling sound.
Another fountain, constructed from a large hollow bamboo cane,
has been erected under the opposite wing, for the sake of symmetry.
This time we were not fortunate enough to obtain a large turtle-
shell for the purpose.

At the end of each wing, the roof of which covers the fountains,
two broad steps have been placed, and the whole frontage pre-
sents the appearance of the exterior of a house in China.

Thelandscapebcfore us is in the highest degree romanticandcharm-
ing, and forms a striking contrast to the ridge of rugged rocks behind.

Between our dwelling and Deliverance Day are spread out in
order and fertility shrubs and trees, both European and natives of
 

the soil; Shark's Island is covered with coeoanut-pahns and pines.
On the strand a thick growth of mangrove--trees resists the advance
of the waves

Near the crest of the rock on Shark's Island stands the guard-
house, with its four-pounder cannon, and its raised flag flutteringr
in the air. In the foreground lies the old duck--pond, enlarged by
an overflow of the sea, which has covered great part of the Jackal
Marsh, and new forms a considerable lake.

On its dark blue waters float the majestic black swans, their
plumage formingr a pleasant contrast to the snow-white geese and
many--coloured ducks, but all in social companionship.

Our gardens and plantations extend nearly to the lake, and on
the IIIarshy ground round it, and through the rushes, can be dis-
linguished now and then the red crest of the sultan marsh-fowl,
the purple flamingo, the red-tipped feathers of the stately herons,
and the .\'nmidian crane--all associating in perfect harmony, and
quite domesticated. Beneath the stately trees and shrubberies
IIIarchcs the ostrich, quite at his case. The cranes and bastards, as
usual keep close toouI iields,uhile the beautiful Canadian 01 heath-
foul, and the mountain- hen, can be heard rustlinyr In the bushes

\hm'e us lly the pigeons hem and them, or, seated on the roof of
the veranda, dIess their beautiful plumage before our eyes, their
Soft ermine; IIIingling with the sound of the trickling fountains. In
fact, the region mice so wild and unfruitl'ul seems to have vanished,
and, as the consequence of our industry and perseverance, its site
has become a veritable Paradise on earth.

0n the shore of Jackal River, from the highest ground almost to
the water's edge, grow orange and lemon-trees, Indian figs, and
many thorn-hearing shrubs, so closely together that it seems impos-
sible for even a mouse to slip in. I had some thoughts once of
cutting a road thIough this thicket but in itself it pIesented such
a bulwaik against iIitIndeIs, that I consideIed it safer to leme it.

The Spanish canes rendeI the way round the marsh equall)
impassable, and as the ti)""il\\l)litlj_{0 is alw'ays up as a r,nle Peck
Castle is truly protected on all sides. At night the stillness is so
great, that no sound can be heard but the croaking of Jack's bnll-
frog \v-hith has hitherto escaped the ians of the heron or the cranes.

lietuecn onI dwelling and the Jackal River we had preserved
a little coIneI in which to Iaise the cotton-plant, and at 'Wood
Grange the cotton-fields are Very extensive. III fact, our kitchen
gardens, orchards, plantations, corn-fields, and shrubberies were, at
the end of ten years, as productive and flourishing as I could wish.
We had found some difficulty in keeping nfl' thieves from the

ASTELOI'ES.

 

corn and fruit, in the shape of squirrels, parrots, and even the wild
birds we had domesticated ; besides sparrows, tln'uslies, field-mice,
and similar robbers by night. However, by scaring them at one
time, and a few small shots at another, we generally succeeded in
saving,r our crops and securing a plentiful harvest.

()n Shark's Island also the rabbits have multiplied amazingly,
and they have not only supplied us with food from year to year,
but also with their soft and useful fur. 'Whale Island, though
almost as fruitful as Shark's Island in vegetation, proved unsuitable
to the antelopes. Perhaps the island was too exposed for these
delicate little creatures, for they did not thrive or increase in
numbers till we removed them to Falcon's Nest.

Since then I had carried to \Vhale Island all our arrangements
for candle--making, tanning, cleansing and combing wool, and all
other work that has an oil'ensive smell. At first our workshops
were in the open air, now they are all covered in and roofed.

Wood Grange Farm is in a flourishing condition: we have a large
number of sheep, goats, pigs, and poultry, as well as oxen and cows.

Storm and (:rumhler are still living, as well as the good old cow
from the wreck; but our young cows now also supply us with
milk and cream, and we are provided with mutton, beef, and veal
from our own herds and flocks. Among the oxen and cows, how-
ever, are some more favoured than others.

One of them is a young pet cow, of such a pretty creamy white,
that we gave her the name of Snow; and an 0x with such a tremen-
dous YUlt'C, that the boys call him Roarer.

There are also young wild asses so fleet of foot, that we have
given them the names of Arrow and Brisk; and one of Fawn's
pups was honoured by Jack with the curious title of Cocoa. The
boys will sometimes even now make it necessary for us to stop our
ears as they shout, " ()h! hallo! hi0! Cocoa!"

Hunter, the jaekal, has been dead some time, and his place
supplied by another, found in a hole in the rock, as before, by
Fritz. lie is not so tame as Hunter the First, but quite as clever.

At Falcon's Nest, as well as at Rock Castle and lVood Grange,
the kitchen gardens and potato-fields have flourished wonderfully.

The shoals of herrings have never failed to visit us yearly; and
with our large and increasing farm stock, a supply of game has not
been so necessary; the store of guns and ammunition, therefore,
has lately been seldom invaded.

In fact, I found myself, at the end of ten years, the owner of
fields and meadows, orchards and plantations, and three different
residences, and as rich in farm stock as a wealthy farmer in the
dear old country.
 

"'4: had all learnt experience in 0111' industry. My boys had grown
from youthtomanhood,and gained both mental and physical st rengl h.

Fritz, now in his t11'enty-fourtl1 year, is of middle size, but
muscular liigl1-',spiiited and rather hasty.

Ernest t110 yeais younger, is tall and slight, cool and indolent, but
far superim to his hr'othei 111 intellectual power and iciined IaStes.

Jack, at .t1V',e11t3 is near13 as tall as lrilz, and very like him in
many 1espects, but of a larger build, and possessing smartness
with act11 1tv of mind and bodv, and gieat stability of character.

1'1 ank, the youngest, is difl'erent 111 Dcharactei to all his brothers.
The iniliience of Jack, however, has been very great over the boy
four years younger than himself, and 'he often exerts that power.
All of them possess a candid straightl'oi'11'ardness of chamctcr, a
respect and adherence to religious duties, and so many of those
good impulses which spring from manly feelings, that I can still
easily influence them.

Such is our little colony at the end of ten yeais, (llllinf' 11hieh
11'eha1e seen no human being e\'eeptiug each otl1e1;3'et we still
maintain the hope of 111i.\ing once more in the companionship of
man. If at times I have felt a sinking at the heart when I eon~
sidercd our isolated condition, I have concealed my trouble from
my dear ones, and turned my thoughts with a prayer to the
Almighty that He would keep me always strong in my hope and
must in Him.

My sons, when not employed in any 110111 011 the estate, are
still fond of making excuisions, and aie often absent the whole
day in seaich of new diseo1e1ies. The pinnace and the yacht
have been preserved and kept in good repair, and Fritz's canoe
greatly strengthened and improved. The pinnace still lies in the
dock I formed for her in days gone by, by damming up a portion
of the river near the Flamingo Marsh. "'e have more than once
been. out to sea in this pretty boat--my wife, the four boys, and
myself--and have even ventured almost out of sight of land; but
a recollection of the storm we had once experienced made me
hesitate to take such a voyage often, although we always had the
compass 011 board.

Flitl, as fearless as e1' er, often paddles his canoe to a gicat dis-
tance; and it is \ei'y unusual for him to retinn without llfl\il||_;
made some new discov e13, 01' with asupply of sea- -bi1'ds, dead or alive.

011 one occasion, aftei paying a visit to the Gieen Valley, he
brought home a large captuie of guinea-{01115 and the boys at once
hastened to build an enclosuie for them of bamboo canes of such
 

an enormous size, that it; looked like a large bird-trap, with a trellis-
work of thin laths for a sloping roof. The birds were attracted to
this large cage by throwing a quantity of seeds and berries on the
ground within it, and after awhile they became so tame and
reconciled, that they would come to our dinner-table for any little
tit-bits we liked to throw to them. Many wild birds have been
brought alive by the boys to these cages, and tamed in the same
manner with very little dilliculty.

One day very lately l-'rit'z started early in his canoe, promising to
return before nightfall; but evening approached, and no trace of
his boat could be seen on the sea, even with the telescope. lt'eeling
anxious, I and the boys proceeded at; once to the dock, and,
launching the yacht, crossed to Shark's Island, and mounted the
heights on which our guard-house and cannon stood. The flag was
always hoisted while either of our party was at sea as a beacon to
help them to return; and after again sweeping the horizon with
my glass, and seeing no signs of the canoe, I determined to fire a
signal from the cannon.

The report was re-echoed from the rocks, but for a. long time
no canoe was to be seen. At last a little black spot was observed
floating on the water, and through the telescope we discovered it
to be our pseudo-Greenlander in his canoe. He neared us slowly
and with seeming iudill'erence, as if in no hurry to reach the coast;
therefore Ernest, to rouse him, exclaimed to Jack, as if he were
the ollicer on guard.

"Number One, lire E "

Then we all raised a joyful hurrah, and descended quickly to
the strand, in hopes of meeting him when he reached it, that he
might return with us in the yacht to llock House.

But as Fritz approached the island, I understood in a moment
the cause of his slow movements: an enormous booty floated,
bound, at the side of the canoe, and by the head of the walrus in
the bow lay a similar bundle; and, above all, behind the boat, in
the water, a bag of considerable size was being towed, which must
have greatly interfered with the rower's progress.

" Welcome, 1" ritz, welcome!" I exclaimed to the boy, who was
still at some distance. " Vhat news from land and sea do you
bring? At all events, I perceive you have brought a. large booty,
and [ praise God that you have returned safely at last."

"Yes,I do thank Heaven," he replied, "that I am home again safe
and well, with all my cargo; besides, I have made discoveries and
.met. with adventures that will, I know, be greatly appreciated."
 

At home that evening, after a little rest and refreshment to our
traveller, we all seated ourselves with great curiosity to hear an
account of his adventures.

"I must ask you first, dear father," said the younf,r man, "to
pardon me for leaving this morning without your knowledge, but I
was anxious to start early on an excursion 1 have long wished to
make, and I did not like to awaken you so soon. Besides, I knew
that my canoe, being light and easily paddled, would carry me
safely, even in case of a storm. I took with me a supply of pro-
visions and a flask of mead, filled my water-skin, fixed the mariucr's
compass right before my eyes on the deck, and then bound a
harpoon to the stern, supplied myself with a boat-hook and some
fishing-lines, but not my best firearms, lest they should get spoiled
by the wet.

"I had, however, a couple of pistols in my girdle, and my eagle
was perched near me on the prow, as if watching for prey. It was
a beautiful morning, and the calm sea attracted me irresistibly to
carry out my plan. I stepped on board the canoe, and, seating
myself, paddled quickly towards the current from the Jackal River,
which soon carried me out to sea, while I carefully watched the
bearings of the needles in the compass, that I might know how to
steer my way back without failure.

"As I passed the spot where our ship was wrecked, I saw beneath
the clear water, a quantity of useful articles lying at the bottom of
the sea--cannon, iron bars, and shots of all sizes--which I really
think might be raised at low water.

" I then turned my canoe in quite a. different direction to any we
have ever taken at sea, yet keeping near the coast, and continued
for some distance under broken and overhanging rocks.

"Numerous sea--birds of every description flew screaming over my
head, or, perched on the rocks, seemed to watch my progress with
suspicion. A little further on a number of marine animals, such as
seals, walruses, and sea-bears, were lying in the clefts of the rocks,
and seemed ready to spring from them upon me, in spite of their
enormous bodies.

"I must own I was glad to escape from these wild-looking crea-
tures, by pushing my canoe further out to sea, and, after rowing for
about an hour, entered a current that led me to a narrow stream
under arched rocks, forming a, rocky portal, which Natale, in mag-
nificent grandeur, had built, putting to shame the imitations of man
in their buildings of so-called Gothic and Grecian architecture.

" Here and there were openings in the vaulted rocky roof, which
 

raised itself to many lnmdred feet abo1e the level of the sea. In

this shadowy r'et1eat a most unusual number of sea- birds, which had
built their nests among the rocks, were flying about They were
scarcely larger than a wren, and their white breasts contrasted
ple11s1111t'l3 with the lirrht green feathers of the wings and the dark
plinnage of the rest of the body.

" Thousands of their nests appeared on ev et 3' side, and seemed to
he formed, not 1-'e13' skilfully, howe1c1', of feathers and thistle- (1011.11
Strange to say, each of these nests rested upon a kind of support
resembling a spoon without a handle.

" I separated one of the empty nests carefully from the rock, and
discovered that the interior was constructed of dry moss, mixed
with a substance something like fish glue, which fixes it to the
rocks, and I have brought it home in my fishing-tackle bag for you
to examine."

" From your description, Fritz, I should imagine that this nest
belongs to a bird named the sea-swallow. The Chinese consider
it a great delicacy for their table, and it forms a valuable article of
connnerce in China. I think, dear wife, we might make a trial of
this nest if you will cook it for 11s to taste ; the nests would be a great
addition to our storehouse, if it proves edible, as there are so many."

" Well," said the mother, "my knowledge of cooking is certainly
s11|1icient to make a. jelly of a bird's nest, if the thing is possible; it
must, however, be first washed and cleaned."

" Oh, yes mother. "' was the reply; " we will do that if only you
11' ill give its the pleasure of tasting it this evening."

" 1"11the1'," said Fritz, " where can these sea-swallows obtain the
gelatinous stuff to fix their nests 011 such curious supports ? "

"' It is not correctly known," I replied; " but it is said that these
birds obtain it from the foam of the sea, which they carry in their
beaks and spread upon the clefts in the rock in which they desire
to fasten their nests. But go on with your adventures, my boy," I
added; "I am curious to know what other discoveries you have
made."

" 0n lca1ing the rocky vault, which e1'tended for some distance,"
(ontinued F1'it/,"I entered the wate1s of a magnificent bay, the
shore of which appeared in the highest state of fe1tilit3', and
stretched far 11111 .13 inland. Be3 0ndD rose high steep rocks, over
which the 11 ate1s dashed. Behind this rocky wall the ground had
a marshy appear,ance but a vast chain of cliffs shut out the 1-'.iew

" While my little skiff floated swiftly o1e1' the clear transparent
wate1s, I noticed a quantit3 of shell- fish of the 11111110 01' double
shell kiml,similar to the oyster, lyingr at the bottom of the sea.
They appeared to be tied together, and fastened to the underlying
rocks by filaments or hair-like threads. I imagined these fish must
be as wholesome food as oysters, so I fished up a few with my boat-
hook, and, being near, I threw them on shore, intending on my way
back to place them in a bag tied to the side of the canoe, and, by
keeping it half in the water, preserve them fresh.

"But when I reached the spot on my return, I found that the
heat of the sun had opened the shells, and that the contents were
unfit for food. I then fished up about a bushel more, and these l
have brought home, not because I think they are lit to eat, but on
account of the little seeds which I found in the tlesh when l
attempted to eat one. Some of these seeds are about the size of a
hazel-nut, and just like pearls. I have brought home a large
nmnber in my bamboo box."

" Show them to me, Fritz," I said hastily ; and as he placed them in
my hand, I saw in a moment that they were shining beautiful pearls.

" You have made a valuable discovery," I continued: " these
pearls are worth a large sum; and yet here they are as useless, as
regards profit, as the doubloons in the captain's sea-chest. How-
ever, take care of them, my son, they may be of use some day."

" I ate my dinner after this discovery without the oysters," con-
tinued Fritz, "and then started on my return home, only pausing
once to fill my skin with sweet, fresh water from a spring, after
having taken a refreshing draught.

" I noticed many sea-birds of different kinds after leaving Pearl
Bay, as I must now call it; and before reaching the current; which
led into the open sea, an albatross, frigate-birds, sea-gulls, and wild
ducks flew and fluttered impudently around me.

" I managed to knock down one or two of the largest birds, and
to shoot others; but I had some ditliculty in conquering the alba-
tross, who was only slightly wounded in the wing. IIe kicked with
his feet and struggled so violently that I expected he would escape.

"At last I bound his legs and wings, and continued my home-
ward journey. It certainly was a great relief when I arrived in
familiar waters, and saw the welcome flag flying from the top of the
rock."

I'Icre ended, as I supposed, Fritz's narrative; but when he left
me to attend carefully to the wounded bird, and make him comfort-
able for the night, I could not: quite undetstand the reason of so
much anxiety on his part respecting this bird's fate. I discovered
the cause, however, before retiring to rest.

31THE MYSTERIOUS MESSAGE--THE Lioxs.

FTER attending to the albatross, Fritz left his mother and his
brothers busily engaged in looking at the birds he had brought
home. Passing me in the veranda, he, by a secret glance

and a signal, made me understand that he wished to speak with me
privately.

I followed immediately, and joined him at a little distance.

"Father," he said, as soon as we were alone, "I must take care of
that wounded albatross: I did not tell you all just now. While
the poor bird was struggling to escape, I saw wrapped round its leg
:1 piece of white linen, and after I had secured him I took it off, and
found written on it in English, quite distinctly, the following words:
'W/za will rescue an mtforlmmlv English girl from a care in the
lonely rocks near to a volcano?"

The reading of these words caused me a kind of electric shock: I
read them over two or three times. At last I said,

" Fritz, can it be true ? a poor young creature alone on a desert
isle! Great God ! what has she to live upon? and how did she get
there? Fritz, this troubles me greatly."

" Perhaps, father, I could send a message back by the albatross,"
said Fritz ; " I think he will be able to fly in a day or two."

"Very well," I replied; "but not a word of this to the rest: it
would make your mother anxious, and you are not sure of being
able to find this poor lost one. I must, however, arrange for you
to be able to go on a voyage of discovery, without exciting any
suspieion."

Fritz readily agreed to this, and on the morning of the third day
after receiving the message, he wrote on another piece of mg these
words--" Trust 1'71. God. No doubt 71pr is at 1mm ."

This message Fritz tied on one of the legs of the albatross, and
the rag with the message he had received on the other. Then taking
the bird down to the beach, he loosed his bonds and set him free.

465POSI'MAI\

S

FRI'YZ
 

For a few moments the creature stood as if stupefied, and then sud-
denly rose in the air, and although he moved his wing with dilliculty,
soon disappeared, to the great joy of Fritz.

During that day I took the first opportunity, when we were all
seated together in the veranda, to remark in a very grave tone,

"I have been thinking, dear wife, that our eldest son Fritz is now
of an age to be dependent on himself. I shall therefore from this
time leave him free to act according to his own judgment, and to
take any exclusions or voyages alone which he considels necessary,
without asking permission. Of course if he asks my advice I shall
be ready to give it."

Fritz appeared overcome by my confidence in him, while his
mother, feeling proud of her son, rose, and putting her arms round
him, kissed him affectionately, and exclaimed with tears in her eyes,
"God bless and preserve thee, my son!" then to conceal her emotion,
she hastened away to prepare the evening meal.

The boys, or young men as I should now call them, were a little
surprised at my remarks about Fritz; hut, light-hearted as ever,
they ran to their mother to beg her to prepare some oysters for
supper in the shell. Frank, however, could not wait, and tried to
open two or three with his knife. He succeeded with two, and
found within them three large and three small pearls, which ap-
peared so beautiful that a new idea struck the boys.

"If we could make an oyster bed in Deliverance Bay," said Ernest,
" we should have pearls by bushels."

" You might have pearls," I said, "but not oysters fit for food.
This beautiful pearl is only formed in the flesh of an oyster when it
is diseased, or after the shell has been injuret ."

This information slightly damped the ardour of my young people,
yet they still determined that on the first opportunity Fritz should
take us to Pearl Bay, that we might obtain a store of oysters for
our new oyster-bed.

With this excursion in prospect, Ernest also constructed a kind of
scoop and a cutting machine, to remove the empty nests of the sea-
swallows, of which such beautiful jellies could be made. In the
meantime Fritz worked zealously but silently in making space in
his canoe for another seat, which revealed to me the fact that he
was encouraging hopes in his heart which might never be rea-
lized.

His brothers very naturally imagined that Fritz was trying to
make his canoe suitable to accommodate one of them as well as

himself, and he did not undeceive them.
31--2
 

\Ve now began to prepare for an excursion to Pearl Bay and the
other places discovered by Fritz on his last voyage; and a very
rich store of provisions we packed up for our journey. Fresh
pcnnnican, cassava cakes, pastry from wheatcn flour, nuts, almonds,
and a cask of mead as a. refreshing drink--all these were stowed
away in our yacht.

\Ve embarked at last on a day when the wind was in our favour
and the tide served, and encouraged by the good wishes of the
mother and Frank, who remained at home. "'0 were accompanied
by Master Nip the Second, Nip the First having been dead for some
years as well as poor old Turk. Floss, who was still brave in her
old age, was not left behind, while Brownie and Fawn gladly joined
us on board.

Fritz look the lead in his canoe to show us the way, and Jack,
who wished to be pilot, occupied the seat in the canoe which Fritz
had prepared for another purpose. Following in his track, I deter~
mined to hoist a sail till we reached more peaceful waters.

The various points touched by Fritz were pointed out by him as
we sailed along in the track of the canoe. The sea was calm and
smooth, and transparent as a looking-glass. The nautilus passed us
in full sail. We saw the shell-fish beneath the clear transparent
water, and numbers of sea-birds were skimming its surface with
rapid wing. As we passed this spot, we gave it; the name of
Nautilus Bug].

At length we approached the grand portal to the stream which
ran beneath vaulted rocks, and were astonished at the rugged"
grandeur of the spot. The majestic beauty of these arched rocks-
struck me with awe. The great Master Builder had here formed
one of nature's temples, far exceeding in beauty and elegance the-
most stately cathedral ever erected by man.

The sea-swallows, however, diverted our attention from the
wonders of nature, and Ernest and Jack beged me to allow them-
to land upon the rocks, and cut down as many of these succulent
nests as they could find empty.

The passage beneath these vaulted rocks was very pleasant, till'
on arriving in the broad beautiful bay to which Fritz had given the
name of Pearl Bay, I decided to stay all night and sleep on board:
the yacht.

A tire was lighted on the shore, and we cast anchor at a little-
distance. The dogs remained near the tire, and Fritz, after mooring
his canoe alongside the yacht, came on board for the night.

We slept peacefully, except when disturbed by the howlings of.'
 

the jackals on shore, which not only provoked the dogs to bark, but
also induced the jackal, Hunter, to join in the howls.

At break of day we were all on the move, and after a hearty
breakfast continued our voyage, Fritz still leading the way in his
canoe. Dining this day we managed to secure a large store of
oysters, and I also found on the shore a kind of vegetable kali or
soda, and collected a quantity to carry on board, as I well knew it
would be useful.

0n arriving at the point to which Fritz had extended his explor-
ing excursion, the young man came on board while his brothels
were absent, and said,

"Father, do you think you can find your way back without my
assistance? You know why I ask."

"Of course I do, my son. I quite understand your anxiety to
discover the volcanic island spoken of in that mysterious message.
Have you sufficient provisions on board? for you must not go home
to alarm your mother."

"No, father, I will not do that. I have enough provisions, and
I hope to discover the volcanic island after all. I shall therefore
turn back to-morrow before you and my brothers are up: you can
easily tell them when they miss me that I am acting independently
in thus leaving you, as you informed them I was at liberty to do."

But Fritz was not to leave us next morning as he wished, owing
to the appearance of a very unpleasant visitor in the evening
twilight. \Ve had been preparing our supper on the shore, and
Fritz was still in his canoe, making arrangements for an early start
in the morning.

Fortunately our watch-fires were already lighted for the night;
yet that did not prevent us from hearing a most fearful yet deep
low roar, that echoed among the rocks like thunder. I could
imagine not-hing less than the approach of leopards or panther-s,
yet while the sound sent a thrill of terror through my veins, I did
not imagine anything so dreadful as the presence of a lion.

But we were not long in suspense. A huge beast approached
at three bounds, but was stopped by a stream which flowed between
the shore and the inland country. I saw in a moment that it was
an enormous lion, such as are exhibited in menageries in Europe.
At finding this stop to his progress, the creature seated himself on
his haunches like a cat, and glared at us with his fierce eyes. At
the first sound of his awful voice, the dogs and Nip had slunk
away to the space in front of the fire, which concealed them from
the enemy; and for myself I seemed almost paralyzed, and un-
 

able to recover my presence of mind. Presently the lion rose on
his four legs, and began pacing up and down, as if searching for a
convenient place to spring across the stream, lashing his tail while
he walked with angry impatience.

Again the deep low growl sounded in our ears, as the animal
stooped to quench his thirst in the running stream; and after again
wandering backwards and forwards without finding a spot narrow
enough for him to spring over, he laid himself down on his stomach,
and, lashing his tail in a rage, glared at us with flaming eyes.

But before I could decide whether it was best to fire, or to
return to our boat, the sound of a shot passing through the air in
the growing darkness so startled us, that Ernest exclaimed, in
terror,

" Father, Fritz has fired from his canoe!"

At the same moment the lion sprang into the air, gave an awful
roar or groan, stood still for a few seconds, staggered, fell on his
knees, and remained without movement.

"We are saved ! " I cried, as we rushed back to the boat. "The
lien is shot to the heart! He will not move again, thanks to Fritz!
tlltemain in the boat, boys, while I go to assist him: he may still be in

anger."

I sprang again on shore in shallow water, and the dogs met me
with joyful movements expressive of their relief from the fear of
danger; but these gambols were soon at an end. As I approached
the spot where the dead lion lay, a second, smaller but not less
formidable, beast came from the wood, and, with one bound,
alighted opposite the spot we had left to return to the boat.

It was evidently the lioness, in search of her royal mate, and well
for us that they had not been together at first. In a very short
time she reached the place where the monarch of the forest lay.
She felt him first with her paw, sniffed round the spot, licked his
bleeding wounds, and then, gnashing her teeth, uttered a howl of
distress that echoed horribly through the night air.

Puff! another shot; and the lioness uttered a cry of pain. She
had been wounded in the right foot, but she was still dangerous. I
also fired my shot, breaking her jaw, and causing her to fall and
utter howls of pain and rage.

Our dogs now took courage, and rushed upon the prostrate
animal. Then followed a scene of fearful warfare too horrible to
describe. The darkness of night. the growls of the lioness, the
howls of the wounded dogs, I can never forget. I remained for a
moment too overcome to fire a second shot, and in that moment the
monster, with one stroke of her uninjured paw, crushed out; the life

LION.

 

of poor Floss, who had seized her by the throat. Too late to save
 

her was the second shot of Fritz; too late when I was able to
venture near, and thrust my hunting-knife into the breast of the
lioness; too late when Fritz reached the battle-field. The terrible
beast was (lead, but it had cost us the life of one of our dear old
brave champions.

With cries of joy we called Ernest and Jack from the boat to
Lake part in the triumph. They came hastily, and with tears of
satisfaction, threw themselves into our arms, for they had suffered-
painful anxiety on our account. The watch-fires were again
replenished, and we returned with lighted torches to examine the
battle-field, and remove, with great regret, the body of our brave
Floss. '

To our horror, we found that the jaws, as is usual with bulldogs,
had closed convulsively on the throat of the lioness, even in death.
We, however, removed the poor animal ; and Fritz and his brothers
having dug a deep grave, they buried our faithful Floss, not without
a few tears from her young masters, of which, however, they were
not ashamed.

Ernest was requested to write an epitaph on our old companion,
which he promised to do on the following day, but this time in prose,
not rhyme.

I examined the wounds of Brownie and Fawn ; and as they were
not dangerous, I anointed them with a little oil, and, leaving them
plenty of water to drink, they laid themselves down to rest near the
watch-fires. I and my boys, after taking some wine, which we so
truly needed, followed the example of the animals, and rested in
peace till morning.

"'e did not rise till late; and, after a substantial breakfast, for
we were very hungry, I decided that we would not remain any
longer in the neighbourhood of the forest, but proceed farther up
the bay, to the spot described by Fritz as being fertile, and as
verdant as the Green Valley.

Fritz, who had promised me that he would put off his visit to the
volcanic island till the mom-ow, led the way, and paddled in advance
of us, the increment of our yacht in the calm, still water having a
soothing influence after the fearful disturbance of the previous night.

I noticed, as we sailed along the coast, the entrance to a little
river, which flowed between a charming country and the outskirts
of the forest.

We entered this river, and proceeding for a short distance inland,
anchored thoughtlessly, on the banks which bordered the forest.

Ernest and Jack immediately decided to land and explore the
 

country, Fritz remaining with me on the boat. The two dogs, in
spite of their battle on the preceding night, readily followed the
young men, and the jackal, who had kept at a respectful distance
from the lions, hastily joined them.

We were conversing on the subject always uppermost, as I after-
wards discovered, in the mind of Fritz--on the possibility of res-
cuing the English girl who had sent the message.

" Perhaps she has no food or water!" exclaimed Fritz; " and in
that case the delay of even a (lay is dangerous."

"She does not say that she is starving in the message," I replied;
" yet I almost regret that you did not go at once instead of accom-
panying us on this voyage. The fact is, I feared to allow you to
venture on such an uncertain expedition as the discovery of :1 vol-
canic mountain. It must be at a great distance, for we have seen
no signs of even smoke from the highest points of our island."

Fritz (lid not tell me then,but I found out afterwards, that hehad
made more than one short trip in various directions with the hope of
discovering even the smoke from a mountain top, but without success.

My two sons had not been absent an hour when we were much
startled at hearing a gun fired on shore, and the report followed by
a great cry and a second shot.

Fritz, without a word, seized his gun, sprang on shore, and rushed
hastily to the spot, from which now sounded the fierce barking of the
dogs and the yells of the jackal. I followed him quickly, and as we
drew near another shot whizzed by; and presently the words "Vic-
tory! victory !" resounded through the air in joyful tones.

Fritz was more rapid in his movements; and when I at last over-
took him, I was alarmed at seeing him, with Ernest, supporting his
brother J ack; who, pale and trembling, seemed ready to fall.

" My dear boy," I exclaimed, " what has happened? where are
you injured ?"

"I do not know," he replied, his teeth chattering as he spoke.
" Some monster attacked me, and I thought it was another lion."

" I believe Jack is not really hurt, father," said Ernest; " but we
have had an encounter with a wild boar--an enormous beast--with
tasks at least six inches long. He was digging in the soil, and
when the dogs attacked him, he rushed at poor Jack and knocked
him down: you know he is always so daring in danger, and he went
too close. My first shot disabled him, and enabled Jack to get up,
and the dogs, with the jackal and my second shot, followed by one
from Fritz, completed the victory."

." I hope you are not really injured by the horrid beast," I said as
I examined his chest and his arms; and, finding no external injury,
I continued, " You have had a serious shock, my boy, nothing more,
I feel convinced ; yet to be thrown down by such a creature is enough
to shake the strongest nerves, especially after what occurred last
night, and I thank God that you have escaped more terrible danger."

I then gave the trembling patient a glass of Canary sack, a flask
of which I had fortunately brought with me, and, leading him to
our little cabin on board the yacht, told him to lie down, as I hoped
a little refreshing sleep would calm his nerves.

"Father," said Ernest, when I returned to examine the large booty
he had secured, "this animal has made a discovery for us. He was
digging for truffles, and there are quantities of them here. ' I thought
at first they were potatoes: I have a few here to show you. Master
Nip dug them up also, and ate a large quantity before I could stOp
him."

"This is a splendid discovery, Ernest," I said, after examining the
tubular root; "and, if I am not mistaken, they are of the best species.
You must obtain a supply to carry home to your mother."

The boys tasted these roots, and pronounced them similar to the
common potato when raw, and not very palatable.

"They are not generally cooked like potatoes," I replied, " but
are cut open and dried before they are used, in Europe."

"Are they found in all European countries ?" asked Fritz.

" Sometimes in oak forests, but the largest quantities grow in
France: they are considered a great addition to sauces and stews at
the tables of the rich in that country."

" Do they bear a flower, or have they a stem by which they can
be recognized ?" asked F ritz.

"No; nothing appears above ground, but their position is dis-
covered by the odour, which is very powerful. To obtain a store
for your mother you must take the dogs with you: they will find
out the whereabouts of these roots. But now let us see what is to
he done with the monster which has caused us so much alarm: it
must not be left here for the dogs and the jackal to devour."

I made this remark because I could see that Fritz was anxious
to assist with the preparation of the bear, and therefore unwilling
to leave it till the next day.

" Well," exclaimed Fritz, as we advanced closer to the monstrous
animal, "this will be a good opportunity to replace our W'estphalia
hams: the haunches of this creature will be of an enormous size."

The preparation of the boar, the removal of the skin, and the
cutting up of the body into joints occupied nearly the whole day.
 

Ernest requested that the head should be dried whole and pre-

WILD BOARS

 

served for our museum, to which I readily consented. The dogs
and the Jackal were feasted with the refuse. They were, however,
employ ed by Trnest to discover the trullles, and obtained quite as
many as he 11'.ished

. I'ritz b1oke of] knee branches from the t1ees, which he interlaced

'one with the other to PS01m sludges, by 11hicl1 to carry our booty to
the shore. 111 leading them I noticed among the truflles some
roots of a ditl'erent shape and colour. 011 opening one I found
it contained a ball of yellowish wool, which I knew was the produce
of a tree growing in Nankin, a country of China, and much used in
Europe for the 111a11ufactu1'e of a material for dresses both of men
and women.*

I was greatly pleased with this discovery, as I knew my wife
would be glad of the wool, to spin iuto thread and weave into a
material so usefully cool for 0111' dresses and her own.

The dogs drew two of the tree sledgcs, and Fritz and Ernest the
others, so that we reached the shore with our booty and carried it
on board without any accident. Jack assisted in this work, for
although he still looked pale and shaken, his long sleep had refreshed
him.

After our work was finished, we again stepped on shore, and
lighted a tire between stones, as usual, to cook our supper. As
soon as it was clear and glowing, we placed potatm-s in the hot
ashes and some slices of the boar's ham 011 the stones. I was glad
to observe that Jack enjoyed his supper of fried ham and baked
potatoes as g1eatly as the rest of us

Next 1110111i11rr I decided to start early on the homeward voy ago,
for the flesh of the wild bom required to be salted and smoked as
quickly as possible. Besides, we had been absent four days, and
I knew the mother would be anxious.

Another reason for this return presented itself. I was unwilling
to hinder Fritz from attempting the discovery of the writer of the
message, although I looked upon it as a wild scheme, and likely
to fail. However, the yacht and the canoe could easily start
together and by degrees we should lose sight of Fritz, without
causing any su1p1ise to his brothels

"'e sailed, therefme, ne\t 1no1 11111" at an early hour, and a1ri1 ed,
happily without accident, in Deliverance Bay, to the great joy of
the mother and Frank, but the absence of Fritz I could see caused
my wife some little uneasiness. Part- of our adventures were hastily
related, but we were so overcome with fatigue, that fuller particulars
were deferred till the next day.

' Called Nankecn in England, and very fashionable at the time this story was written, but
now out of date and almost. forgotten.THE SEARCH FOR FRITZ--A \'isrron.

UR adventures proved deeply interesting to the mother and
Frank, but created some little anxiety in the mind of my
wife, respecting the dangers we still incurred in these voyages:

and excursions. Our description of the battle with the lioness, and
the near approach of the lion, his glaring eyes, and his frightful
roar, filled her with apprehension. The account of Jack's danger,
when attacked and thrown down by the wild boar, made her
tremble; and she could scarcely be induced to believe that he was
uninjured, especially as he still looked pale.

Frank mourned over the death of poor old Floss wilh true regret,
while Ernest produced the epitaph he had written to he placed over
her grave.

I had not yet heard this effusion, and I asked him to read it
aloud: It ran as follows:

DEFEAT" I.\' THE COLD GROUND "PS313
FLOSS,
A FAITHFUL DCG,
AND ALSO A TRUE FRIEND.

BRAVE, thKOXO, AND HEROIC IN THE HUNT,
FEAIILESS 0.\' THE IIATTLB-HHLD, AND
"'ATClll-'UL F01! THE INTER ' " ' OF THOSE ellH SERVED,
SHE MET HE." DEATH
FROM THE PAW OF A LION, "'IHCII
5H3 HEROICALLY ATTACKI!"

TO SAVE THOSE SHE LOVED
FROM .\ SIMILAR l-'ATI'L

 

l"

" Capital, Ernest cried Jack: "that epitaph shall be placed
on her grave as soon as possible. I'll take care of that."

The flesh of the wild boar was, however, gladly received by the
mother, as well as the trufiies and the N ankin wool-pods. I had
brought with me also a few seeds of this plant to be sewn in the
vegetable garden. The hams and other portions of the wild boar
were salted quickly, and prepared for smoking; a few parts only

4-77478 SWISS It'll/1L Y 11'0l1'1\ SO. V.

were saved to he eaten fresh. The head would have been a delicious
:lish, l knew, if baked in the ]lotte11tot fashion; but: I would not;
break my promise to J'Irnest that he should have it in his museum.

1 forgot to state that I had managed, before leaving the spot, to
take 1111' the skins of the lions, as i knew they would make beautiful
mats for the feet in 11'inte1, if e:'11et'ull1' cleaned and dressed. My
11'il11, l1o11"11\11r, could not look at them yet without. :1 shudder. These
ski11s,11'it|1 that; 111' the wild boar and the head of the 111'e1',1t1ne were
11 111 .\t day 11111111' tanner-1' 11'111-kshop 111 \'l1a1'k's Island.

' sell, during wlii1h 1111 worked hand at dressing the
skins,l1ut l'r1 . still remained absent. ()u' anxiety at. length 1.10-
11111111 so great, that I determined to follow him, at leastas far as
l'earl |ia_1.

My proposal created great s:1tisfa1'-tio11, and my wife readily
:1; ed to be of the party, especially when I explained to her that I
intended to sail in the pinna .e. \\'itl1 :1 large store of provisions,
11'1: e1nba1'l1'1-1l one 111111 1110111ng with a favourable wind, and quitted
1|1epeae1-I'ul home 111' "111-11' llunse amidst. joyous hurmhs and the
barking of the dogs who accompanied 11s on board. \Ve very
quickly reached the entrance to Church lliver, as we had named
the stteani beneath the vaulted rocks, and passed through the
opening, with such great; force, ho11'e1 er, that we came to a stand-
still suddenly. and it- then seemed as it' we had r1111 aground on a
sandbank.

The sudden shock threw us all t1'1gether on the deck, and I then
believed We had struck upon some rocks, for some object in fmnt;
seemed to bar our pa sage. All at once before 0111' astonished eyes
the obstruc1ion di '1111'ed into water. At a distance of a few paces
we heard a great 11111. 1, and presently saw what appeared to be an
i111n11'11s1: 11'at1-1'spout rise in the air, and then fall in heavy showers
like rain on the surface of the sea.

" l-'athcr. " 11111.1imed Fauk, who had been the first; to recover
trom 1|1e shot-11', "is not; that one of those 11'aterspouts which are so
1l.1 :rous 111 sailors ?"

" I do not think this is a \1'aterspout, Frank," I repliet , " because
it rose in two columns of water, and a real water-spout has the
appearanee of a pillar. As it; sometimes bursts ove ' :1 ship, it; is of
vourse a very dangerous object to meet."

I was about to express my opinion that; what we had seen was

:utsed by electricity, when another shock, thonnh not: so violent,
induced me to believe that this time 11'e11cre really afriound. But
the 11111111 1:15_vainst. which 1111 had strm'k was now evidently swim-THE SEARCH FOR FRITZ--A VISITOR. 479

 

ming, and looking out, I saw an ungainly mass floating near us,
which I recognized as an enormous fish.

I instantly prepared my little cannon, to be in readiness to fire
at the monster when it again rose to the surface. In a few moments
it reappeared, and two shots from the cannon took fatal effect.
It struggled violently for some moments, then swam hastily to a
sandbank, on which it sank, leaving a trail of blood on the foaming
surface of the sea. I believed the creature to be the cachalot
whale, and I knew that the supposed u'aterspout was caused by the
jets of water which these creatures throw into the air when they are
angry. No doubt it had been sleeping on .the water when we ran
against it, and threw the jets from its nostrils in a rage at being
disturbed.

I was anxious to examine it more closely, although my wife
complained of the danger incurred by having anything to do with
these monsters of the deep. I reasoned her at last into compliance,
and we approached the sandbank.

The monster appeared to be at least forty feet long, and not
quite dead, for he lashed the shallow water with his tail so violently,
that he completely covered us with water and foam. "'0 found it
necessary, and also merciful, therefore, to put him out of his misery,
and the animal very soon breathed his last and moved no more.

We were about to express our joy at this unexpected triumph,
when another circumstance suddenly attmcted our attention. At
seine distance we perceived a canoe, with, as we believed, a savage
inhabitant of the country paddling along hastily towards us. As
soon as he found himself observed, he disappeared behind a promon-
tory.

I was rather alarmed at the thought that he was gone to fetch
others of his tribe; we therefore reloaded the cannon, got our arms
and ammunition ready, and waited for his reappearance.

It was not long before a canoe with a single rower again came in
sight, and seemed also to be actingr as a spy upon our movements.
[ then decided to hoist a white flag, as a token of our wish to be
friendly, but in vain. This savage also disappeared, and presently
one and then another showed himself on a point of land at a little
distance, and then vanished. Once more the savage in the canoe
presented himself. I therefore immediately seized my speaking-
trumpet, and uttered a few words of our peaceful intentions in the
Malay tongue, that I had learned from a book of travels, but with
no result. '

At last Jack, who was becoming impatient, took up the speaking-
trumpet, and pronounced, with great energy, a few nautical words
in English, which, however, appeared to be lost in the air.

But not so. In a few moments we saw the canoe approaching
with the savage in it, paddling towards us, and a green bough fastened
to the prow. As it drew nearer a burst of laughter greeted the
rower, for in the swarthy savage we recognized our own Fritz, who,
with friendly signs and kisses, thrown to us comically from his
hand, paddled swiftly towards the boat.

In a very short time he reached the pinnace, and we took our
brave boy on board, canoe and all, where, amid much laughter he
was fondly kissed and Welcomed, in spite of his blackened face. As
soon as we allowed our traveller to speak, he promised to give us
every explanation, which, he said, was impossible while questions
and inquiries fell upon him in a storm on every side.

At last I drew him apart, and asked, in alow voice, if his journey
had been successful.

" Yes, father," he replied, " entirely so; and I have pleasant news
for you"

I could not question my son further, as his mother drew near,
and insisted that he should wash the dark stains from his face and
hands, as she could not bear to look at him with that face so like a
negro's.

He went immediately to comply with her request; and after
washing his face, and rubbing it with almond powder, the young
European was no longer a negro, and stood once more before us in
his own person.

His first question related to the firing he had heard near the
entrance to the bay.

" I was much alarmed," he said; "for I never supposed you would
put out to sea in your pinnace now she is rigged so like a yacht,
and I imagined, therefore, that it was a strange vessel with two
guns similar to ours."

'l'hereupon I explained our adventure with the cachalot whale,
which greatly interested him. I then asked if he could recommend
a suitable spot in which to cast anchor.

" Oh, yes," he replied, in a mysterious tone; " there is a pretty
little island not far from here. I will lead you to it at once."

I smiled at his eagerness as he lowered his canoe into the sea
again, while his mother and brothers looked on in surprise, and
wondered what great discovery he had made which he was about to
show us.

He unfurled the sails of the yacht, ran up the rigging, drew the
ropes, and, telling me which way to steer, sprang lightly from the
boat to his canoe, and led the way, like a pilot, to a picturesque
little island in Pearl Bay.

During this little voyage I had only just time to give the mother
some account of the message which Fritz had found tied to the leg
of the albatross, and the reply he had sent back by the same
messenger. I wished also to explain the object of his recent
absence, and the happy result of his enterprise, so that she might
be prepared for the appearance of the young English girl, who, no
doubt, was on the island to which he was leading us.

"Why did you not tell me this before?" she asked; and I could
see how much the news had startled her.

"I was unwilling to raise hopes that might not be realized," I
replied; " but now, happily, there is no longer need for conceal-
meat."

The boys evidently suspected something, but I said not a wontl to
them.

" Let this young English girl make her own way," I said to my-
self. " If she is worth anything, she will easily do that."

We anchored on the shores of a little island, near a beautifully
situated wood, and Fritz immediately landed. followed by myself
and his brothels, who assisted the mother to reach the shore.

I saw the young men glance with great curiosity at a little cavity
between the branches of a tall palm tree, which appeared to have
been used as a resting-place.

Before it on the shore stood a fire-hearth, constructed of pebbles,
and in the centre of the fire, instead of a saucepan, was placed a
beautiful, but gigantic, mussel-shell.

Fritz was in advance of us, looking earnestly into the wood, and
as if he scarcely noticed that we had landed.

Presently he raised his voice and shouted, as one sailor shouts to
another,

" Ho! hallo there, up aloft i"

We heard a rustling in the tree, and presently there appeared,
gliding lightly down the stem, instead of a young girl, a beautiful
youth, dressed in sailor's clothes.

The young stranger, on seeing us, stood still, looking greatly em-
barrassed, and we were also too much taken by surprise at first to
s eak.

I)Fritz came to the rescue. Taking ofi' his plumed hat, he led the
young sailor to his mother, and exclaimed,

"Let me introduce to you, my mother, the young Lord Edward

32
 

Moutrose. Will you not Welcome him as a friend and a brother to
our family circle? "

\Vithout a moment's hesitation we hastened to offer our earliest
welcome to the timid stra11ge1,wl1ose 111a1111e1s were so refined and

gentle, that he won our hearts at once

As the head of the family, I ad1a11ced, and, taking the hand of
the forsaken youth promised him my f1ie11dship and p1otection.
He replied timidly in a few words, and then turned to the mother,
as if asking for her motherly care.

My wife and I guessed rightly that Fritz would not wish to betray
the sex of the stranger to his brothe1s while she wore the sailor's
attire. The young men were, however, at once attracted by the
young sailor, and overjoyed at the prospect of a new companion.
Even the (logs welcomed his appearance, and frolicked round him
joyfully. My sons ran hastily to the yacht and the canoe for the
camp table, and camp stools, and other necessary articles of crockery
and table appliances, rather before the regular supper-hour, for on
this occasion they determined to prepare a royal feast as a welcome
to the visitor.

The mother, also, was not in the least sparing of her supplies, and
seemed ready not only to employ her skill in p1epari11g a rich repast,
but also to make some delicious dishes with almonds, raisins, and
cassma cakes sweetened with suga1. I11 assisting the mothe1, how-
ever, (lming these pe1fo1manccs, :the y oang Edwaul nea1ly bet1ayed
his sex by the knowledge he display ed; but the young men were
still deceived; and some flasks of our best mead and a bottle of
Ca11a1y sack added to the feast, rendered them almost boisterous in
them gaiety of then sphits.

The appeaiance of a human being of any description, after so many
years of isolation from our fellmr-creatures, would of itself create
excitement; but this gentle, modest, silent youth, who had been
thus 111ysteriously discovered, was in himself so charming, that I
could quite uncle1stand-their anxiety to make him feel himself at
home with them.

When I considered it advisable, however, to give the signal for
retiring, the stranger rose at once to proceed to his home in the tree;
but he was prevented by my wife, who had prepared a more agree-
able nigh't's lodging on board the yacht, and without a word he
followed her.

My sons having lighted the watch-fires, seated themselves 1ound
them to discuss the event of the evening and a numbe1 of pine-
apples, while with st1o11g cmiosity questioning F 11t/
"\Vhatever induced you to go in search of a stranger?" asked
Frank, " or, at least, how did you know where to find him ? "

Fritz, in reply, at; once readily related his adventure witlt the
albatross, described the message which was tied to its leg, aml all
that; had occurred since, from beginning to end; but he so mixed
up the name of Jenny with that of Lord Edward Montrose, that
his brothers began to suspect something of the truth. A question
front Jack settled the matter.

" Did yott not understand the Malay words, Fritz ?"

" Yes," he replied g" but. they alarmed me still more, for my head
was full of Malay pirates, the young Edward having told me that;
they infested this coast. But when [ heard these English nautical
terms, I believed it was an English vessel coming in search of
Miss Jenny, aml l "

" Ha! ha! ha 2" laughed the boys merrily; and Ernest exclaimed,

" You have betrayed your secret, Mr. Frederick: your young lord
is transformed into a young lady, and our new brother into a gentle
aml amiable sister. Long live Miss Jenny 2"

Fritz was fo ' a moment disconcerted, but soon recovered himself,
and joined heartily in the joyous cheers of his brothers, till I at:
length reminded them that it \' time to retire to rest for the night.

1 related to my wife the discovery made by our younger boys,
aml on rising next morning she arranged Some of her own attire,hy
a little alteration, to suit the young English girl who had been thus
thrown upon her motherly care and tenderness. She provided her
with a comb to smooth out; her long golden tresses, which had, on
the evening previous, hung loosely on her shoulders, giving her, in a
boy's dress, the appearance of a youth of fourteen, aml then pre-
sented her to the family in her real character.

The young men came forward at once to address her as " Miss
Jenny," feeling half inclined to joke her on the deception she had
practised upon them; but she looked so gentle and ladylike, and
blushed so painfully, that. they changed their tactics, and treated
her with brotherly kindness and respect.

For breakfast Fritz had made some chocolate for Jenny, who had
been accustomed to it in her native country; and after we had
finished, I was preparing myself to hear some account of the young
stranger, and also front Fritz a description of his adventures aml
doings during the five days of his absence. But he set aside my
curiosity by reminding me that; the cachalot whale must; not; he
allowed to remain ttmler the burning sun, if we wished to obtain
anything from it.

 

 

32--2
" Is any part of it edible ? " asked Ernest.

" I think not," I replied ; " but, like other whales, it is useful for
its oil, as well as for a beautiful white waxy substance, known as
spermaceti, found in the enormous head, and which sometimes
furnishes as much as twenty tons. This will be very useful to us,
as it makes beautiful candles. My only trouble will be to find
Vessels cnourrh to eariy it an '1) "

T hen Jenny said modestly, "\Ve use hcmpen sacks in England.
W'ould you not try them? they would certainly carry the sperma-
ceti, I think"

This idea appeared so feasible that I had all our sacks emptied,
and after being well beaten 011 a flat stone to thicken them, they
were placed on board the yacht, the young men following with the
two dogs and the jackal. Fritz, however, accompanied us in his
canoe.

"'0 were not long in reaching the sandbank, where the monster
lay drying in the sun ; but no sooner were we alongside than the
(logs, Brownie and Fawn, rushed towards it, and, before we could
reach the spot, such howling, barking, and snarling were heard
behind the stranded fish, that we feared the (logs had met with
some dangerous enemies.

We airivcd in time to see a troop of wolves disputing fiercely
VVith our dogs their light to the pr.ey Two of the wolves already
lay dead on t,the sand, and two othe1s we1e beinrr held fir'ml) by the
dogs; the rest had lied \Ve also 1ecognized among the wolvesa
few jaokals.

At this moment our tame jackal, which had remained close to
Jack hitherto, suddenly caught sight of his fellows. Instinct was
too strong for him: he started forward with a bound to join them,
quite disregarding the calls or commands of his master.

Fritz would have fired at the deserter, but I prevented him from
doing so, because I feared that the mother and the young stranger,
whom we had left 011 the island, would be alarmed if they heard
tiring. Meanwhile, the wolves had been vanquished by our brave
body-guard, who returned to us, however, rather the worse for the
strife, with bleeding wounds and ears greatly torn. Jack took
charge of them, and, after awhile, I saw with satisfaction that the
poor animals were licking each other's wounds, which I knew
would prove a. far better remedy than any salve.

The way being now clear, I seized one of the sacks, and held it
open near the head of the creature, while Fritz mounted the
slippery side of the mountain of flesh, and with one blow of his
hatchet laid open the skull; and hy using a scoop, I quickly filled
the sacks one after another with a good store of spermaceti.
These we carried on board the yacht, with the four dead wolves,
and returned to the little island a short time hefore the dinner-
hour. The mother and Jenny had provided for us a most. excel-
lent repast during our ahsence.

I intended on the afternoon of this day to take the skin from
the wolves, and in this I required help from all the boys. Jack,
however, was anxious to reclaim his jackal, and Fritz wished to

 

WOLVES AND YOUNG.

carry the bags of spermaceli to Shark's Island on his canoe. I
was, therefore, rather in a dittieulty.

"I will recover the jaekal," said Jenny, with :1 smile, "if Fritz
will lend me his canoe to-morrow. I am not afraid of going alone,"
she added: " when you hear my history you will understand why.
I shall only require some pieces of a wolf's skin."

I was surprised at this during spirit in so youngr a girl, but I
agreed to her proposal willingly, for I could see that, my younger
sons were inclined to treat the matter as a joke. However, Jack
remained at the island with his two brothers to assist me in skinning
the wolves, while Fritz started in his canoe to carry the bags of
spermaeeti to Shark's Island.
Tmring the evening and part of the night; Jenny was employed
in the cabin with the mother in cutting out and making for the
jackal a muzzle of the pieces of wolf's skin. She rose early, and
alter break last was provided with a flask of fresh water and a basket
of provisions. Fritz wished to assist her, but she sprang lightly on
board the canoe rrrraided, and paddled out into the bay with a
cle1crness and case that surprised 11s all.

On re: ltlrlllf' the sandbauk, as she told us afterwards, she passed
rornrd it at tirst, and landed 011 the hanks of the stream near the
wood, but there appeared no signs of the jackal. She had brought
with her from the canoe rrreat and water tn terrrpt him, and at last
she stood still, and, raisinrr her voice, eallcd"1[unter' Hunter. "'
in gentle and friendly tones; then she wandered from point to
point at a little distance. and called his name arrain.

1'1eserr'l1 she saw the poor animal slowly approaching, rand look>>
i119; almost dead with hunger. She threu him a piece of sopped
biscuit. still cautiously approaching nearer, and at last placed before
him some pernrrricarr rrroisterred with water in a calahash-shcll.
"'hile he was eating it with famislrcd eagerness, she threw rormd
his neck a piece of cord, speaking kindly to him all the time, and
then, still holdingr the end of the cord, filled the calabash-shell with
water, which he drank eagerly. It was not difficult after this to
place the rrruzzle on his nose and lead him to the canoe. He sub-
mitted without a struggle; indeed, he secured to he fascinated with
his new mistress, and even allowed her to tie his hind legs loosely
together and place him before her on the (leek of the canoe.

All this occupied tinrc, and it was not nrrtil nearly noon that we
espied the canoe approaching. As it drew nearer we all stood on
the shore and saw the little maiden paddling bravely towards the
land, with the jaekal seated gravely in front of her like a regular
passenger, and looking.r so comical with his new muzzle, that the
canoe was received 011 reachingr the land with shouts of laughter.

Hunter was quickly released from his muzzle and his bonds, and,
indeed, appeared so lrrrrrrbled and ashamed of himself, that we had
no doubt he had been scouted by his 01111 species and left to starve.

At all c1',ents the young English (rirl was loaded with thanks and
conrrratnlations by us all, and we felt that in our isolated position
we could not have rrret with a companion so suitable as a daughter
and sister as Jenny \Iontrosc.
THE 1\lt\'1-I.\"l'l'11E[\' 01" l-'Itl'l'Z--JEXNVS 1115'1'0111'.

N()\V heeame anxious to return to 111101: Castle, hut before
doing so it \1'11s1101'0ssa1'3 t111isit the spot, 11011 the burning
111111111111in, at 11111111 Jenny 111111 1011 1111 she 111111 saved from

shipwreck.

I felt also that this was the time to hear 1111 1111-1111111 of the
adventures of Fritz during his live days" ahsenee, 111111 also 11 little
of the history 111 this young girl, whom we were anxious to reeeive
as 11 dear daughter 111111 sister.

;\111'1' dinner, therefore, on the day of the jaekal's return, we
50111011 ourselv 1< 1111 the shore 111 listen to Fritz. Jenny retired to
her little ree ' 11 1111' tl1e11'ee with 11 hook Ernest 111111 11-111 her. She
shrank from hearing 11 description 111 herself 111111 1101' doings, 111111
judged rightly 111111. Fritz would speak more freely during.r her
absence.

"You will 1'011101111101'," he hogan, "that when I paddled away
from the boat, I intended to proceed at once towards the open sea
in my 11115.,rile canoe. I was 11111 111' ene1gr_1' 11111 e1111$1ious of danger,
and argitale1111i111 a thousand 101113 1'esp1-1ti11g the safetv 111 this pom
shipwrecked English girl. Still, I 11': 1s hopeful of success, and did
11111 lose courage; and 111te1 0111111110111lit1g 1111's111 to the eate 111'
1"'1111i11e111?e, [1111111111111 11111112 hopeful, 111111 11111 111 theidea 111111.11 l
dared this expedition, it 111ig11t lead to association \1i111 our species,
and perhaps furnish the means 01 our leaving.r this isolated position.

"011 machine the open sea, the wind, although li;.1'111',ca1111-
1111111 a quarter likely to 1-1-111'3' me 1111111111.: dangerous r-11111s 11 it 111011-
with 1rreater force 111-111, howe1 e1, s1-1'11Lelv 1'1-111-111111 l"e111111ay when
11 gale 1'1111se 11111111 1111'1-111011ed to 1'11i1e me on the rock) shore 1
1111-111le11, 111111 1 dared 11111, [1101111110, venture 1111'1111-1 out to sea lest
the \1'1'111-s should 1110111011111 1113' liltle skill'. 1"'1111111113 evening the
1111111 111111-11, 111111 I thanked (.1111 1111 1111' knees 1111' 1111' preservation.

1S7
" I could not. however, venture on shore, but Ifound a corner for
the canoe beneath an overhanging rock, sufficiently protected from
the wind, as well as inaccessible to wild beasts; and here, on aheap
of sand and broken rocks, between two large stones, I slept: peace-
fully, after eating my supper of cold meat, for I feared to light a
tire either for supper or breakfast, lost it should attract; savages to
the spot.

 

TOL'CAS.

"I had a refreshing: night, even on my hard couch; and on rising
next; morning, with lighter spirits, found myself near a roast; quite
unknown to me. I still kept. close inshore, examining the summit
of every elevation of rock or hill, with the hope of discovering some
signs of a volcano.

"The (roast; was sandy and barren, but I could see outlines of
thick fore. s in the distance; and as l drew nearer I noticed that
the houghs and lower stems were covered with a wonderful growthTHE ADVENTURES OF FRITZ--JENNY'S HISTORY. 489

 

 

 

PA RROT.

of creeping plants. 1 took these creepers for pepper-plants, fur a
large number of toucans, ur pepper--birds, who feed on this fruit,
surrounded the canoe.
"I ceased paddling now and then for awhile, to watch these birds
which were lively and even playful in their movements. They
would break 011' the little pep1'1er-g1'apes, throw them in the air, and
catch them most cleverly in their open heaks.

" \'1-r1' shortly after this I found myself in a vast extent of ocean.
althoug 1 really a hay, and in one point an arm of the sea ran inland
from it'. This I determined to explore.

" .\t'te1' 1"e111a1l1'i11rr that the tide had just; turned, and would carry
me 11111111111 for some 1lislan1'e,l tested my paddle, and" tune my self
up to the enjoyment of the splendid scenery which lay sp1ea1l out
on lmllt sidesof the st1eam. At length to 1111' surprise, l 1liseo1'e1e1l
that this heantiful com1tr1 was not only occupied hy birds of \a1'ied
plum 11-1>> 11l111l1 made the ai1 111elodious with theirsongs, hut; l11'
elephants l1ippopota111i, and 1: 1en glisteningr serpents.

" ()n 111:1l1'i111r this 1lis1~lo1er\', I paddled 1111iel1'ly :111':11' for miles, in
spite ot the heat, l1et'o1'1-.l1ould find a spot on which it appeared
safe to land.

"After some. hours l 1111e11po11.1e.1l111 and pe11et'ulcom1t11' whete
no sound disturhed the stillness hut; the My itterot' hirds, the h11111n1ing
ot' hees. and the rushing of a waterfall from the distant: rocks.

"Here I landed, and, tinding :1 number of line oysters 011 the
beach, I lighted :1 tire, and cooked some for my supper; then.
1111'11'11'i11g my canoe to a large stone, and 1'111shing it from the shore.
I detern1ined to sleep on hoard as the safest plate.

" Next 111111'11ing I a11ol1'e ea1l1', and, with :1 thankful heart pio-
ceeded on my way till .1hout. noon, 11l1e.n, fe1li11g ti1ed, I dete1111ined
to land 11cm :1 little. Wood in which :1 great 1111111l.1er of parrots kept
11p :1 ttemendous chatteringr and s1-11-amiu-r.

' llete, as all appeared sale, l released 1111' eagle, uncover 111 his
e11-s and set him her: to tind his 111111 hre' 1k .1st' and mine. "1'
1013 soon retained with a 11:111'ot, 11hi1- I1 I ga1e him for himself. and
then tired :11111'111g the trees, where. I had ohserred many larger hirds
than parrots, which I thought would he agre 1:1l>le eating.

"Two fell, and while. pieking them 1111 I heard behind me a
rustling among the. trees, like the 111111'ements of a sea--crab or a turtle.
l turned at the sound, and saw, with :1 sinking heart, an e11or111011s
tiger. at not more than ten or tifteen paces distance from me! It
was too late to run. for with one hound he could have reached me.

" For :1 moment I stood motionless; and then upon the tiger's
head pounced the eagle, dazzling the beast with his broad flapping
\\'ing's. and tiereely attacking his head with his beak and claws.

"I took courage. Th1- tiger, too much engaged in defending
himself, did not notice me. I 5.111 he 1111s in 1111' peuer , and, ap-
preaching nearer, shot him through the l1e:.1d '1it I could sear1el1'
rejoice o1 er my 1'ict_",m1 1'01 111 his fall the eagle, "llOSO talons 11 (-111
embedded in the tiger s skin, fell with him, and was crushed to
death beneath the aiiitnal' s "eij'ht.

"I lifted the remains of 1111' l11ithful pet from under the monster,
and with team carried it to the( 1,-111100 leelins: that his last act 111111
been his greatest, for he had 5111' ed 1111' life at the expense of his own.
I have brought him home to l- -1- stuffed, and plaeed' 111 our 1111151111111."

 

'l lIiHlt.

This account of the earrles death pained us all "really, although
the ewitement caused by the 111-11 1111'i1' al had so occupied 11s, that:
the cr"catutes absence had been unnoticed. \o remark, ho11'e1' cr,
11 '19 made. to interrupt 1" ritz, who continued his narration.

"I quilted the place in sadness, lJCillf' 11m an\i11us to continue
1111,1011rne1 to spare time {01 skinninrr the tigrer, "hose shiped fur
"as 1'e11' beautiful; yet, as I paddled on, I "as ((11151 1011s ot 11
feeling of discoumeemenl, and I had almost made a 1lete11ninalinn
to tu111 hack and give 11p. attemptingr to de er the sender of the
message, when suddenly a number of lof11' 1111 11s appealed in the
distance, and from one of the peaks rose a slight 11"teath of tire-
tinfred smoke llllullLIll the. (lear air.

"The si1rht. filled me 11ith 11011 life. I paddled forward with all
my strength, and at length reached the base of the mountainous
rock, which rose from the centre of a small but fertile island.

"I paddled for some distance along the coast before I could
discover a suitable landing-place, for the slopes of the rock extended
in some points to the water's edge. At last I reached a shingly
beach, spreading,r inland for some distance, and bounded on the right
by a, little forest that clothed the mountain's side. I sprang on
shore like another William Tell, when he escaped from the tyrant
('leslcr to be the saviour of our country, and after walking for a
little distance, I came suddenly on a bend in the chain of rocks, and
the next moment beheld, with joyful astonishment, the first human
being 1 had seen for many years besides those of my own family,--
a youthful figure dressed like a boy, who was seated near the foot
of a burning rock by which I had been guided.

" .-\t last, when within a few paces, 1 said with deep emotion, in
English,

" ' \Veleome, shipwrecked daughter of England l I am come
to rescue you. God in His mercy has helped me to find you, and
answer your appeal for aid.'

"1 have often feared that my pronunciation of these English
words made them dillicult to be understood. However, after a
while Jenny seemed to comprehend, and at last- she spoke to me in
French, as she does now to us all; but she was so agitated and
timid that I could scarcely make her aware of the change that
awaited her in this lonely spot.

" l was myself almost too much overcome to explain; but at
length we became more composed, and able to ask questions and
make replies that were very satisfactory.

" l seated myself by her side, and told her of our own shipwreck,
and how my parents, three brothers and myself, had lived on an
uninhabited island for ten years, had cultivated the land, and made
homes of our own, and had new sheep and cattle and poultry in
almndance.

" She seemed quite surprised at; this recital, and scarcely able to
believe it; and yet, as she told me, she had made herself a nest, in
the thick branches of a tree in the forest, and that the things she
had saved from the wreck were stowed awayin a grotto near where
we sat:

"' I am wearinga sailor-boy's clotlies,' she said, blushing, 'because
I can climb the tree better, and move about more freely while I am

alone; but, before you take me to your relations,I must change
inv dress.' "
" And did she tell you about herself or her relations, Fritz ?" I
asked, " or anything of the ship in which she was wrecked ? "

" Oh, yes, my father: she told me that her father, a major in an
English regiment, had been in India for many years: that she had
lost her mother when only seven years old."

But; we heard in time the history of this youngr girl, which shall
here be related. After the death of his wife, the inajor's pride in
his dearly--loved and only child made him determine, not only to
take charge of her education himself, but to bring her up to ride
like an Amazon, and even to he accustomed to the use of firearms
--in short, to be fit; for any society, and yet able to act with courage
and self-help in case of peril or reverse of fortune.

Tire natural aptitude of Miss Montrose made her, with this
training, a self--controlled, accomplished girl, even at the age of
seventeen, and as clever in the management; of a gun anda horse as
in more womanly accomplishments.

About this time Major Morrtrose was promoted to the command
of a detachment of soldiers in the service, who were going to
Europe in a transport; ship of war, with a number of invalidcd
soldiers. Of course his only daughter could not accompany him on
board a man-of-war to England, and as the major was unwilling
to leave her behind in India, he took a passage for her in a fast--
sailing passenger-ship, and entrusted her to the care of his friend
Captain Greenfield, who commanded the ship ; so that he hoped his
daughter would arrive in England, under proper care, as soon as
himself.

Miss Montrose, therefore, went cheerfully on board the corvette
" Dorcas," under the care of Captain Greenfield, and sailed two days
before her father from the Hooghly, at; the mouth of the Ganges.

The voyage for the first few days was very pleasant and pros-
perous, but the appearance of a French frigate* and a frightful
storm drove the "Dorcas" far out of her course, and prevented her
from reaching the harbour of the island of Batavia, as the captain
had hoped to do.

Driven still farther eastward by stormy and adverse winds, the
ship at last struck on a rock on the northern coast; of New Guinea,
and the sailors and passengers had only time to throw themselves
into the boats on an unknown sea, and endeavour to find a shore
on which to land in safety. But; the boats were soon separated in
the darkness of night, and the one containing Jenny Montrose
beearrre a complete wreck on the rocks which surrounded our

' England and France were at this period at war.
 

lonely island, and, strange to say, the young girl was the only one
who escaped with life.

" She described to me," continued Fritz, " her recovery from the
insensibility which had been caused by the fierccuess with which
the waves had dashed her on the shore; and after rousing herself,
and at once submitting to circumstances, she determined to search
on the lonely shore for the means of nourishment to keep her
alive, for she still hoped that the boat had been saved, and would
return for her.

" A few articles washed on shore, some of which were her own,
and a sailor's chest or locker, containing, among other useful things,
a tinder-box * and matches, were very acceptable. She could new
light a fire and prepare her own food, which consisted of fish,
oystcrs, mussels, and fruit of several kinds. The sailor-boy's dress,
which she had hastily assumed when the ship struck, she still were,
as you know, father, when we found her.

" living a good swimmer she knew it was a more safe dress, in
case of danger on the sea, than female attire. Indeed, she assured
me that; had she not been able to swim when the boat; was capsized,
nothing could have saved her. Yet most of all is Jenny thankful
that (iod in His great mercy not only saved her life, but sent the
wounded albatross to be tended and cared for till it was welI enough
to carry a message to those who could rescue her."

It was midnight before all this account of Jenny Montrosc and
her rescue was finished. She had passed us, with a pleasant good-
night, on the way to her sleeping-berth on hoard the yacht, and we
all rose to retire to rest, full of gladness at this addition of a dear
daughter and sister to our fantily circle.

At breakfast; next morning we assembled with the feelings of near
relationship to the young English stranger, and more than ever
anxious to take her to our home at Rock Castle. I also wished her
to look upon my wife and myself as her parents till we could com-
municate with Major Montrose.

I asked her if she could remember the date of the shipwreck, but
she had not; kept account of the days and weeks as they passed on
that lonely island.

Fritz asked her how long a time had elapsed before the albatross
returned with our message in answer to hers.

" Oh 2" exclaimed Jenny, " I was getting quite sad and despairing
when the bird returned with those words in English, ".l'rust in God,
help is at hand,' fastened to his leg. I was beginning to feel as if

' Before lucil'er matches were even thought of.
1 was the only human being in the world, and that I was left all
alone among the rocks to die; but I shall never despair again, for l
have learnt to trust Him always. Besides, has He not; given me
new parents and brothers, whom I can love and trust? and I hope
I shall prove as useful and childlike to theln as they can wish."

" Dearest, much-valued daughter!" I exclaimed, "you cannot be
more thankful for-meeting with us than we are at being,r able to save
you. A dear little helper you will he to us, my daughter, and
doubly welcome as long as you remain with us on that account."

"Perhaps, dear Jenny," said the mother, "you may he happier
here, as a member of our little colony, than in a world over-laden
with a host of cares in every class of society. At all events, I am
rejoiced to have found a daughter who is so ahle and willing to help
me in my advancing years, and he to me truly as a daughter."

"'hen we had finished breakfast all was hustle and haste: the
provisions and articles useful at meals were quickly carried on
board, with Jenny's box, and other things brought from the cave
under the burning rock; I-'ritz hastened to prepare his canoe ;
while his brothers hoisted sail on board the pinnaee, and got
everything"r in readiness for the voyage.

\Ve started early. The morning was delightful, the sea calm,
excepting for a slight ripple caused by the gentle breeze which
carried us towards our colony, and 1 determined to proceed towards
the promontory of False Hope, and land first at Prospect Hill,
which we reached before sunset.

"'ith great; astonishment Jenny had observed our watch-tower,
with its guard-house, cannon, and flag, on the heights of Shark's
Island, near which we passed. lut; her delight was still greater
when we landed at Prospect Hill, and proceeded through the farm
and plantations to our Kamschatka summer-house in the trees. In
front of it she paused, and exclaimed,

" Why, this is Fairyland! I can scarcely believe it is true."

lut when seated at supper in the cool tent which we erected,
Jenny found it all true, and retired with the mother to the dwelling
in the tree to rest, feeling as if a new life had been opened to her
even on a desert isle. I and the boys lighted our watch-fires, and
slept peaceably in the tent.CI--IAI'TEI: XLI.
run wmcoun AT rock not'sE--COXCLUSIOX.

D l EXT day the young men led their new sister to the farm at
Wood (-trauge. Her pleasure at once more beholding a
beautiful landscape and noble trees, as well as verdant;
meadows, was almost childlike in its earnestness. She was equally
delighted with the domestic animals in our farm--the sheep and
cattle grazing in the meadow, the goats with their kids, the pigs,
the fowls, the turkeys, guinea-hens, ducks, and geese filled her with
wonder when found on an island which ten years before had been
uninhabited.

Jenny Montrose was a lover of animals, and this fact was quickly
discovered by them, while she petted and coaxed them, and made
as much fuss as a little maiden over a New Year's gift or a doll.

Alter lookingr all over the farm we again set sail, and leaving
li'aleou's Nest for another visit, proeeeded at once to \Vhale Island,
the two young men, Fritz and Frank, remaining behind to carry out
plans of their own.

The rabbits on this island greatly pleased our young Visitor. I
told her she must now look upon them as her own property, and
that I hoped she would soon have time and inclination to prepare
and weave their silky hair for her own use.

After leaving Whale Island we steered towards Deliverance Bay,
and on reaching,r the entrance :1 grand salute of twelve shots re-
eehoed from rock to rock. Ernest, however, was not quite satisfied:
he thought it should have been thirteen. He had read, he said,
that a salute of honour should always be in odd numbers. I there-
fore gave him permission to follow that rule in our answer from the
pinnace.

While passing Shark's Island we saw Fritz and Frank coming to

4m;
 

meet us in the canoe. They were soon alongside, and Fritz, in a
loud voice, hailed us and exclaimed,

"In the name of the whole colony of this island we hid you
welcome to Rock Castle, and we regret that we have not had the
honour of your companionship in this voyage, but our duties at; the
castle have rendered it impossible."

We were greatly amused at all this, but the joke was not for-
gotten, as Fritz turned the canoe and piloted us through the bay to
our usual landing-place. The younglnen sprang on shore and stood
ready to assist the mother and their visitor with true politeness.
Then they turned and led the way to Rock Castle, through the ear-
dens, orchards, and shrubberies which lay on the rising ground that
rose gently to our dwelling.

Jenny's surprise was at its height as she passed these signs of
Cultivation, but it changed to wonder as she gazed on the frontage
of the castle in the rocks, with its broad balcony, its fountains, its
large pigeon-house, and the mnbmgeous foliage that crept over
columns and roofs.

My surprise and my wife's equalled the young girl's when I saw
a table laid out; in the veranda with every article, new or old,
European or the production of the island. Home-made china, bam-
boo and cocoa-shell vessels, glass tumblers, decanters, spoons, and
forks, from the captain's chest were upon the table, but not empty.

Canary wine and mead in flasks, splendid pine-apples resting on
green leaves, oranges in pyramids filled the china dishes, fresh milk
from the cow stood in calabash bowls, while the centre of the table
was occupied by dishes containing cold fowl, ham, and dried fish;
and at each end of the veranda was fastened a bird with outstretched
wings, from our museum. Over the table was suspended a large
piece of linen cloth, on which had been placed many-coloured flowers,
forming, in large letters, the following words:

"Welcome to Jenny Montrose, and may blessings attend her en-
trance into the home of the Swiss Robinsons."

Almost too much overcome to speak in reply to this welcome,
the young girl stood still till I took her hand and led her to a seal
between the motherand myself, as the place of honour. Ernest and
Jack also seated themselves opposite to us; but Fritz and Frank.
who considered themselves the entertainers, would not sit down, but.
waited upon us with table napkins on their arms, carved the joints,
poured out the wine, and changed the plates, like. waiters at an hotel.
So gravely and correctly did they fulfil the duties of their otlice,
that we often forgot to continue our meal while looking at them.

' 33
 

After dinner the young men took upon themselves the task of
showing Jenny their beautiful rock castle, to the maiden's great
wonder and delight. In the house and the cave, through gardens
and fields, to the winter stalls of the animals, the cart, sledge, and
boat-houses, they led her with eager anxiety, not wishing to leave
a single corner unnoticed. At last the mother, fearing the poor girl
would be tired, went out and good-naturedly relieved her from the
services of these thoughtless cavaliers, who were not a little dis--
concerted in consequence.

On the following day we were all ready early, and after breakfast
started to pay a visit to Falcon's Nest. I considered it advisable
for us all to go together, as some repairs and arrangements were
sure to be necessary, which would detain as several days.

Our beasts of burden were all at Falcon's Nest: we had, there-
fore, to perform the journey on foot. J ack, however, mounted the
ostrich, to the great amusement of Jenny, and rode on quickly in
advance. At the end of a quarter of an hour he returned with a
troop of animals, and amongst them the ox and the buffalo and the
onager. Nothing could induce Jenny to ride either of these ani-
mals, at least until she became more used to them, and had an op-
portunity of trying when they were not in a hurry. So the animals
were driven back to their grass in great content.

We found, as I expected, a great deal to do in repairs to our
aierial castle and the stables for the animals, for we had to be ready
for the rainy season, which was drawing near.

The young men were therefore busily engaged till the evening
every day, but the mother had a sweet and useful companion in
Jenny, who helped her in confectionery and needlework. She
quickly, however, became accustomed to the beasts of burden, and
allowed Jack to place her on his buffalo, which she soon learnt to
ride fearlessly.

The work at Falcon's Nest occupied as a whole week, but it
passed very pleasantly, although threatening clouds and now and
then a shower drove us all to the shelter of our castle in the tree
or to the gallery round it over the stables. The presence of the
young girl and her gay talk were new to my boys, and seemed to
inspire them with fresh energy.

Before returning to Rock Castle we paid a visit to Wood Grange,
to gather in a store of rice and other useful articles, especially straw,
for making mats and baskets, small canes for hurdles and hen-coops,
to be made during our stay indoors while the rain lasted.

On our return to Rock Castle we formed quite a procession---h

beasts and birds, apes and dogs, carriages and baskets, and Jenny
.on the buffalo, with Fritz as her protector. Although it was plea-
sant as we rode along to observe the varied scenery of wood and
meadow, rock and valley, and beyond all the great sea, yet we were
glad when we arrived to be able to make everything ready in our
winter home. Only just in time, however, for the rains very shortly
commenced, and were accompanied by storms of thunder and light-
ning. We again heard the roaring of the waves as they dashed
against the shore, and knew by the howling winds that the season
.of winter and rain had commenced.

But this lonely period passed far more pleasantly than ever,
thanks to dear Jenny, whose vivacity and accomplishments made
our hours of recreation pass quickly. She taught us how to make
mats, and even carpets, of plaited straw and rushes, while she
amused us with tales of her life in England and India.

She induced me to recall memories of our own native land, and
listened earnestly to our descriptions of Switzerland and its moun-
tains and valleys.

In the evenings, when we were all assembled, she assisted the
boys in their study of the English tongue, and made them speak
it so constantly, that Fritz in particular, who had studied it alone,
became quite proficient.

She already spoke French, so that she very soon acquired the
Swiss language, which so much resembles it. In fact, this rainy
season was a. happy time; and when at last the sunshine of spring
chased away the clouds, and the rain suddenly cleared, we could
scarcely believe that so many weeks had elapsed since we had
been first made prisoners.

But the beautiful spring, and the duties it brought in field,
orchard, and garden, aroused us to activity, and Jenny was quite
ready to join us, or to assist the mother in her poultry-yard or
kitchen.

Fritz and J aek expressed a wish one morning to proceed to the
heights of Shark's Island, to examine the coast from our guard-
house, and discover whether any signs of a wreck had been cast
upon our shores during the season of storms. I advised them to
search the horizon with the telescope, and also to fire two signal-
guns, in case of a ship being in any position near us to require
assistance.

The shipwreck of J enny's ship so near our coast made us imagine
it possible that a similar disaster might happen.

The young girl, although she had learned to love us all, especially

33--2
" mother," as she called her, would yet sometimes express an anxiety
to hear of her father. "'0, had no means of doing so, excepting
through a ship touching at the island, or approaching near it.

The young men proceeded at once to the heights of Shark's
Island to carry out their wishes as well as my own. I was not
then acquainted with the longing for their own country which the
appearance of the little girl from Europe had created in the minds
of two of my sons.

Their astonished excitement may therefore be understood when,
after scanning the horizon and the coast without result, they fired
two signal-guns, and the reports were answered from a distance
westward by thme distinct shots.

The young men were at once overcome with a tumult of feelings
--joy and anxiety, doubt and hope. They fell upon each other's
necks, and remained for some moments speechless.

At last Fritz found words, and exclaimed,

" There are human beings close at hand, Jack! God has at last
sent us the means of returning to our fatherland. Let us at once
go and tell our father."

They reached the shore by the shortest way, and, jumping on
board the canoe, rowed with all their strength to the beach, where
I stood.

"What is it? what has happened? ' I asked, as I noticed their
excitement.

" 0h, father, father! have you not heard ?" was the reply, as they
rushed into my arms.

1 had not heard a sound, and I could not at all comprehend the
meaning of this agitation.

" We heard three cannon-shots in answer to ours E" cried F ritz,
rousing himself.

" The echo of your own," I replied; for I could not imagine any-
thing else possible.

" N o, father," he said; " we have often heard the echo from our
own firing, but not like this. The third report was too long after
oms to be an echo."

I knew not what to think of this information. I had never-
considered what I should do in the event of the arrival of a
European ship. But was this a European ship, or Malay pirates,*
or a ship with the crew and passengers in danger on some dangerous

" In olden Limes ships that had a crew of robbers were called pirate vessels. These sea-
robbers attacked richly-laden ships, and took all they contained, often killing the crew and.
passengers to enable them to do so.THE ENGLISH SHIP.
coast? I knew not. I therefore assembled my household, and we
took counsel together, for it was a matter too important to be
settled with Fritz and Jack alone.

Meanwhile night drew near, and we put olf all further discus-
sion till the following (lay, and I then gave orders to my three elder
sons to watch with me in turns, from hour to hour, in the veranda,
and listen during the still night air for any signal-gun.

Although the first part of the night was calm, a storm arose
about midnight, and the howling wind and pelt-ing raindrops made
it impossible to hear any sound.

For two days and nights the storm raged, and not till the third
morning broke, clear and bright, could I venture to our guard-
house. Jack accompanied me, carrying a large flag, to be raised or
lowered, as a signal to those at home whether we had good news
or were threatened with danger.

The sea was still rough, but the air clear, and I decided at last
that Jack should tire three times, and then listen for the reply, for
I still had my suspicions that it was only the echo. Jack fired,
leaving an interval of two minutes between each shot.

We then listened attentively, and presently through the air came
the boom of a distant cannon ; a pause of two minutes, and then a
second and a third. Seven shots altogether sounded in our ears.

Jack began dancing about like one inebriated, while I hastily
raised the signal-flag, and waved the other brought by Jack over
my head.

Suddenly I remembered that we knew not whether the guns we
had heard were fired by friends or enemies.

" What a fool I have been to raise the flag," I cried, " and
perhaps raise false hopes 2 "

I instantly re-charged the guns, and, telling Jack to remain as
sentinel, hastened back to Rock Castle.

I found my household in a state of great agitation, and they
came forward to meet me full of earnest inquiry and curiosity. I
explained the shots we had heard in reply, but I was obliged to
tell the truth respecting my fools; and then I announced my
intention of going in the boat with Fritz to explore the coast, turd,
if possible, discover the vessel.

We took on board arms and sabres, with guns and pistols, to be
used only in self-defence, and the harpoons to he carried as lanees.
We rowed away in silence from Deliverance Bay, and steered to
the left round a rocky promontory that stretched far into the sea,
which we had never yet passed.
011 reaching the extreme end of this point or cape, we found
ourselves at the entrance of a little bay, and, cautiously advancing.
we espied a. large ship, evidently European, with the English flagr
flying at the masthead. Our hearts rose in earnest thanfulncss to
God at this discovery, but I still felt the necessity of caution.

I could scarcely prevent Fritz from rushinginto the sea--indeed,
I felt almost inclined to do the same myself; but I remembered
that the Asiatic pirates often carried the flags of other nations, for
purposes of their own. I however decided to venture t1"1ca1e1, and
find out to whom the vessel leally belonged.

We rowed slowly forward, close within shore, examining the
stranger curiously. It appeared to me to he a small frigate, lightly
laden, and with eight or ten tolerably large guns 011 'each side.
She lay at anchor at a distance from the land, as if for repairs, and
on the shore we saw three tents, from which smoke arose, making
us suppose it Was the dinner-hour of the crew. Presently 011 deck
appeared an officer in the uniform of the English navy, whom
sharp-sighted Fritz considered must be the captain.

\Ve innnediately approached within hail of the ship, and in a
moment the question came through the speaking-trumpet,

" What are you ?"

" Englishmen," was the reply by Fritz in English.

" What ship ?"

" No ship. \Ve will come again."

Without another word we turned away. and rowed quickly round
the point. \V e had discovered that they, the strangers, were
English; that the vessel was a man-of-war frigate; and that
now we could visit them on more equal terms, and offer them
hospitality.

This joyful news caused great excitement at home; and the
nmther advised that we. should get the pinnace in readiness, and
go in state to visit the English ship, and not as adventurers in a
poor little canoe.

This proposal was received with great acclamations J enny was
unusually excited: indeed, we \ve1e sca1cely able to sleep all night
f-o1 tliiukinjr of the mouows voyage, when we should meet so
many of 0111 fellow- -c1eaLures, and pe1haps learn news of the home
we had lost fm so many ycais.

The pinnace was quickly prepm ed next 111orning, and hedecked
with [laps as fo1 a joyful occasion , and before 110011 we we1e all 011
,ho11r,d neatly attiied, and with a fair wind steering towa1ds the
point beyond which was the bayin which the frigate lay at anchor.
 

As we approached within a short distance, we hoisted the English
flag.

Great was the astonishment of the ship's company as our pretly
vessel proceeded proudly 11p the bay ; and when within gunshot of
.the frigate we dropped anchor, and greeted them from our deck
with 101111 cheeis.

Fritz and I then stepped 011 boa1d the boat of the pinnace, and
10wed to the ship to pay 0111 1espects to the captain. He 1ecei1 ed
11s with great politeness, and after inviting us on boa11l, led 11s to
his cabin, and brought out some old Cape wine, in a most friendly
manner.

He then inquired to what good fortune he owed a visit from a
gentleman carrying an English flag, and in such outlandish seas as
these.

I briefly explained the circumstances which had brought me to a
neighbouring island, and 110w for ten years I had struggled, with
my wife and four sons, against diliiculties which were happily over-
come. I then mentioned the name of Jenny Montrose, and spoke
of her father, now Sir \Villiam Montrose, and Captain Greenfield,
who was taking her to England, when his ship was wrecked not far
from our island, with an account of the young lady's discovery.

All the parties I spoke of wow 111101111 to the captain, 11110 told
me his name was Littlestone, that he commanded the f11rr1tc
"Unicorn and was 011 his way to the Cape of Good Hope with
despatches from New South \Vales. He had been driven by stress
of weather 011 the coast, hoping to find a friendly port ; but as none
appea1ed,11e had chosen this bay as a place of sheltei, and had
anchored here for a time, till the damage done to the ship 111ight be
made good. He had heard the shots and a11s111,11.d them, and was
pleased to find that they had been the means of leading 11s to visit
the ship.

Before leaving I invited the captain to visit my yacht, which he
readily promised to do on the following day.

Accordingly, the next morning a 111an-of-war's boat ar1i1'cd with
Captain Littlestone. He brought with him an invalid gentlemen
named VVolston, who, with his wife and two little daughters, aged
ten and twelve, had been saved from a wreck and carried on board
the f1igate.

Mr. Wolston had intended to pioeeed to the Cape a111l1enn1i11,
where he hoped to 1ec111it his health and st1e1111tl1,but 011 healing
an account of 0111 teiritory f1o1n Captain Littlestone, he 11 as anxious
to be introduced to 11s. We 1eceived our visitois coulially, and
poor Jenny seemed overjoyed at meeting one who knew her father.
[presented the captain with two baskets of English and foreign
fruit of our own cultivation, which to sailors who had seen no land
for weeks was a great boon. It made him more than ever anxious
to visit the island and see the gardens and orchards which could
produce such fru i l'.

 

MR "'OLSTHS.

\Ve returned to our island after astay of two days near the
" Unicorn," and on the following day Fritz, in his canoe, sailed to
the " Unicorn" to pilot the man-of--war's boat, with the captain and
Mr. Wolston, to our shores. Their surprise at all they saw on the
island, as well as at the prosperous condition of our flocks and
herds, was only equalled by the wonder they expressed at our
dwellings. especially Rock Castle.

Mr. Wolston, indeed, expressed a wish to remain with us on the
island, if we could also receive his wife and two daughters. To
 

this arrangement we both readily agreed, feeling naturally that the
two girls, though young, would be companions for Jenny.

"And now, Miss Montrose," said the captain, " what am I to do
for you? I cannot offer to take you as a passenger in a man-of--
war, as it is against the rules; but as soon as I reach England I
will inquire about your father, and no doubt a vessel will be sent
to these shores to enable you all to return to your native countries.
What say you to that, my friend ? " added the captain, addressing me.

My wife and I had already talked the matter over, so I was
ready at once to reply. -.

"No, Captain Littlestone, I have no wish to leave this pleasant
island, nor the homes which are the result of our own labour and
industry, with the blessing of God, and my wife also tells me she is
willing to live and die here; but as to my sons--"

I paused, for I could see by the eager glances of Fritz and Jack
what their answer would be.

"Father," said Fritz, "Jack and I have been longing for this
opportunity of returning to Europe for years. May we have your
permission ? Mother," he added, with deep emotion, " can you
spare us?" And he rose and placed his arm round her neck, for
although she had feared this result, yet she was scarcely prepared
to realize it.

"Talk it over, my friends--talk it over," said the captain, "and
let me know your decision before I sail, which will be no doubt in
about a week."

And so it was arranged. The man-of-war's boat was to bring
Mr. and Mrs. Wolston and their two daughters in a few (lays, and
the decision respecting our sons was to be sent back in a letter by
the crew, unless the captain came himself, which was not unlikely.

As I expected, Captain Littlestone came himself, and I was
charmed with the little daughters of Mr. \Volston. I knew that
their residence with us would incur great alterations, yet that was
of no consequence when we considered the advantage of companion-
ship for ourselves and our children.

It was at last decided that when a ship came from England for
Jenny Montrose, my two sons should accompany her to that
country. Then the captain addressed me:

" My friend," he said, "you have laid the foundation of a new
colony among these islands. On reaching England I shall lay the
matter before the Government, if you are willing to acknowledge
that Government, and to become subjects of the King of England.*

' In 1814 George III. was King.
The name 1 intnnd to pmpose for this colony will be 'New Switzer-
land.' Do you approve of this title 7 "

My he: at "as too full to speak for a few moments, but at last I
said,

"The name will be an honour to 1110, and I shall be proud of
being the subject, as a Colonist, of the British realm."

This answer was received by my sons with shouts of approval,
and the universal cry, "Hurrah! hurrah! New Switzerland for
ever?"

And then, with warm eongmtulations and hopes of meeting
again, especially from my boys, the captain stepped on board the
111a11-ot-war's boat, and, amidst; the hearty cheeis of the sailors and
the waving of handkerchiefs from the shore, Captain Littlestone
sailed away from our island, standing up in the boat to wave his
cocked hat in farewell to us all.

11>> 11 ~11 11 * 1(-

Six months passed: the autumn was approaching; but, as yet, no
ship had reached our shores. Great additions and alterations
had been made in our dwellings Several chambers were formed
by encroaching upon the interior of our salt cavern, to provide
winter accommodation for Mr. "'olston and his family. "lliile
digging farther hack in the care, we, to our surprise, came suddenly
on another openingr in the rock, at the extreme end of the cave.

With the help of my sons, and the assistance of M1~.\Volsto11,
"hose health had fireatly i111proved, \1-e formed at this part of the
cave a dwellinrr similar to 0111 01111, and erected a veranda and
pigeon- -l1ouse , the forn1e11,at the end of the si.\ months, was ahead)
covered with creepingr plants.

As to the ladies, they had spinning--wheels and weaving machines.
They made linen and llanncl and cloth from the wool of the sheep
they knitted stockings, made and mended our clothes, helped in the
cooking--for we all took our meals together--and, in short, the
younger ones were being trained by my wife to make useful and
clever housekeepers.

The hooks and thauing 111aterials brought by Minnie and Lucy
Wolston new a gloat atl11111t110e both to themselves and Jenny
The lattei was able to sketch 11nd paint landscapes and flowers .
lrom nat111e,and to teach the tuo girls what she knew herself.
She had, l1o\1c\e1, 11101e pupils 111 the minv season, f01, by the light
of spe11nateti candles, the young men could amuse themselves for
hotns \\ ith this pleasant aceomplislnuent, under Jenny s guidance

And so the six months wore away. The rainy season was just
 

over, when one morning Jack, who had been on the look-out for
some time, heard agun fired at sea. He rushed into the field, where
I was busy with Fritz, exclaiming,

"Father! there is a signal-gun ! did you not hear it .1"

"No," I replied; but at that moment sounded the report of
another.

Fritz threw down his spade.

"Go and answer them, Jack," he cried, as he ran towards the
shore; "it is the English ship we expect; they want a pilot."

I was left alone with a full heart, and for a few minutes was
unable to move. These guns were a signal that I should lose my
boys, and my adopted (laughter. At last I turned towards Rock
Castle, and found my wife sitting,r at work in the veranda.

" It; is come at last," I said, sadly.

" What has come ? " she asked in a tremblingr voice.

" The ship from England," I replied.

She turned very pale, and said presently,

"It is God's will; we cannot keep the young birds in the nest
always."

Louder and stronger reports aroused us, and my wife, rising,
accompanied me to the shore, from which we could look across
the bay.

There in full sail came a stately ship, which presently entered
Deliverance Bay, and approached as near the shore as the depth
of the water would allow. Then from the deck rose cheers, that
were re-echoed from the rocks, bringing Ernest, and Frank, and
every inmate of the dwelling to the spot on which we stood.

"A ship from England!" exclaimed Jenny Montrose; " it is
come for me. Oh, mot-her, mother! how can I leave you C!" And
she threw herself into the arms of the adopted mother whose love
she had won.

Ernest and Frank looked grave and were silent. Meanwhile,
on the beach was a great commotion: the ship's boat was landing
passengers, among whom were Jack and Fritz.

" They are come for us, mother!" they exclaimed, as they ap-
proached; but her pale face and tearful eyes checked their eager
J0 .
X'Father," said Fritz, " here is the captain. He has brougnt
letters for you and Miss Montl'ose."

I took mine quietly. One of them was evidently a Government
despatch, the others were from my friends in Switzerland. Jenny
seized hers, and ran away to read it alone; while my wife only'
 

had the presence of mind to invite the captain to our home, and
offer him some hospitality.

It proved as I expected. An English vessel, with emigrants to
New South Wales, had been chartered to call at a bay in a certain
latitude and longitude, but being rather alarmed at the appearance
.of the rocky coast, the captain had fired two signal-guns, in the
hope of finding a pilot for his ship in these dangerous waters. He
understood, he said, that he had to take back with him at least
three passengers, a lady and two gentlemen, and as he should sail
in three days, he hoped they would be ready to accompany him.

The captain spent a pleasant evening with us, and promised to
return on the niorrow, and go over the estate with me. He
congratulated me on the colonization of New Switzerland, and
made himself altogether very agreeable. But it was only by a
great efl'ort that my wife, Fritz, and myself could converse or
listen.

We longed for an hour alone to talk over this sudden separation,
.and both my wife and I felt sure that Fritz had another question
to ask before he decided to sail to England.

The brothers understood his wish to be alone with his mother
,and me. Jenny seemed also a little conscious; and when they
retired to rest, she rose quickly to follow their example.

But when she approached to wish my wife good night, she could
.only throw her arms round her neck and exclaim, amidst her tears,

" Dear mother, how can I leave you and dear father after all?
but papa's letter requests my return to England with the captain,
and I must go."

" My dear daughter," I said, for the mother seemed unable to
speak, " your father must be obeyed. \Ve have no right to keep
you here. And now cheer up, Jenny. You will, perhaps, be able
'to visit us again in this island some day with your husband."

She blushed and smiled through her tears as she wished me
good night, and then, with a hasty word to Fritz, she disappeared.

" Father, do you know my secret ? " he asked.

" My son, I do know it," I replied; "but, without the unquali-
lied consent of Sir \Villiam Montrose, I cannot encourage your
(hopes. Have you said anything to Jenny ? "

" No, father, not a word; and I only speak of it to you now that
I may be free to ask her father's approval when we reach England.
Mother," continued Fritz, "you have seen Jenny in her domestic
.charactcr. Could you receive her as a daughter ? "

"With the greatest love and confidence," she replied; " and
 

although you are both going to leave us, it will be a happy day for
me when I hear that she is your wife."

The young man's heart seemed too full for words: the tears
stood in his eyes, and at last, with an cll'ort, hc pressed my hand,
took his mother in his arms, and exclaiming " I bless God for my
parents 1" hurried from the room.

Next day all was bustle and activity; the sailors' chests were
brought out and packed with everything the mother considered
necessary for the travellers. The spirit of activity appeared to rule
in the household, while many gifts were exchanged between the
young people, to be preserved as tokens of remembrance.

I gave the two young men a share of my possessions with which
to begin the world, and as a means of commerce--among other
things, pearls, coral, precious stones, and other valuable productions
of the island, which I knew would be most precious in Europe.

I also gave them earnest advice, which was founded on trust and
confidence in God and nry own experience. I reminded them of
my teachings during their childhood and youth, and begged them
never to wander from the paths of virtue, or forget the duty they
owed to our Heavenly Father, who had preserved them in so many
dangers during our stay on the island.

The young people were expected to be on board next (lay at- four
o'clock. I had, therefore, invited the captain and the ship's olfieers
.to a farewell dinner.

They arrived in the boat which was to take the luggage on board,
and I was glad of the opportunity to place in the hands of the
captain several articles in my possession belonging to the captain
of the ship in which we had been wrecked,in the hope that possibly
he might be still living.

' I had placed them in a casket, found in the captain's cabin, with
the gold pieces and money, as well as apaper containing an account
'of the shipwreck, which I had compiled, and also a list of the olficers
and crew of the ship, which was found in the casket.

The captain promised to make every inquiry, and to place the
casket in safe keeping. He was also glad to supply me with guns
and ammunition in exchange for provisions. I had, therefore, sent
on board cattle, sheep, and poultry, as well as salted meat, dried
fish, vegetables and fruit of every kind, which were of the greatest
value to him and the passengers.

At dinner- we endeavoured to be cheerful and in good spirits, for
the sake of our travellers, and the agreeable good humour of the
visitors made this task less difficult. At last, after two toasts. one
to the prosperity of New Switzerland, and the other to the safe pas-
sage of our ship, the leave-taking time came.

We preferred to say farewell on shore. The brothers, although
pale with emotion at this their first separation, kept up bravely;
hut when the last moment came, they threw themselves into each
other's arms, quite regardless of the eyes of strangers. Jenny clung
lo the mother with streaming eyes, and almost unable to speak.
Then I look the young English girl in my arms, and after an
all'eetionate farewell to one whom I one day hoped to call my own
daughter, gave her up to Fritz, who led her on board the boat.

Then came the worst parting of all--the mother from her two
tall sons; but they were brave and hopeful: they embraced her
fondly, and whispered hopes of another meeting with cheerfulness
and encouragement. The mother's was the last kiss. She seated
herself on a camp-stool near the shore, for she had no power to stand.
I stood by and held her hand. Ernest, behind his mother, threw
his arm round her shoulders, while Frank, nearer the water, took
oll'his cap as the boat moved, and gave three cheers, which were
answered from all on board.

We watched the progress of the boat, saw our dear ones embark
on board the vessel, and did not more from the spot till the good
ship had rounded the point and was out of sight.

as a- -x. ->.'- as *

I had placed in the hands of Fritz before he left the journal of
our doings on the island after we were shipwrecked, and desired
him to employ a printer in Europe, and have it published.

I hoped that this simply-written story of our lives on the lonely
island, if ln'ought before the eyes of the young, would point out to
them what great results may be achieved by industry and per-
severance, in spite of difficulties, and, above all, prove to them
that the blessing of God will certainly rest on any undertaking
which is carried on in a right spirit, and with a firm confidence in
His protection and assistance.

* -).'- 'X- 9% re *

It is late in the night. On the morrow my dear ones will be far
away.

My story is told. May God be with us and our absent ones. I
greet thee, Europe; I greet thee, old Switzerland. May New Switz-
crland in the future be strong and flourishing, pious and happy in
herself as thou.

DALZH-'J. BROTHERS, CAMDEN PRESS, LONDON, NJV.
QMOaHsSSDGT.

/

/ .31 LE...>> u' .7.>> S' .5;

  

 

 

\\

 

y.k
I.'

.~ .
n ." ...\ .
. l.\..1,.
r
.k.
....|
x

. .,\...( <<x, v'.\\\.C/:...._...w
\ SS\\SS3\V\9$\SS&
\ 4 D. u .. .

.- IrC/u\ 0., I
. . xxx SSSSSSxSSxSSSSxSSSS