FOE.

l).-\N I [CL DHT H E L I F E '9

AND

STRANGE S URPRISIN G AD VENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE

0f Yer/z, Man'ner.

AS RELATED BY HIMSELF.

BY

DANIEL DE FOE.

mm an Autobiographical .Memoz'r of Me Azctleor,

AND A

LIFE OF ALEXANDER SELKIRK,'

BY WHOSE RESIDENCE ON THE ISLAND OP JUAN FERNANDEZ THE WORK WAS SUGGESTED.

 

 

 

       
 

HUBBARD 131205., PHILA. 8c BOSTONfi-J .;.'
E. Hmmp'ono & Co., CINCINNATI AND CHICAGO; A. L. BANCROF'T..; ' '
hmcxsco; Gooowm & Co., New ORLEANS.
1872.I
\
_ ._._......- V . ._._. ..._--.____
Eulurrd Ilucnrdiug In Act of Cur-gross, in the your 1872, by
HUBBARD BROTHERS,
In lllo 0mm of (hr Librarian of Congress, at. Washington, D. C.INTRODUCTION.

 

E FOE published "Robinson Crusoe" in 1719, under
the following quaint title : "The Life and Strange Sur-
' - 4' prising Adventures of Robinson Crusue, of York, Ma-
riner: who lived eight-and-twenty years all alone in an
uninhabited island on the coast of America, near the
mouth of the great river Oroonoque; having been cast on
shore by shipwreck, wherein all the men perished but
himself. With an account how he was at last strangely
delivered by Pirates. Written by himself."

Like "Paradise Lost," this romance, destined to so immediate and
lasting a popularity, is said to have been offered to "the whole circle of
the trade" before any publisher could be found willing to incur the risk
of producing it. Its success however was so great that four edit-ions

were printed in as many months. It appeared, in the first instance, with
the following preface :--

  
 

li' ever the story of any private man's adventures in the world were worth making

public, and were acceptable when published, the Editor of this account thinks this
will he so.

The wonders of this man's life exceed all that (he thinks) is to be found extant;
the life of one man being scarce capable of a greater variety.

The story is told with modesty, with seriousness, and with a religious application
of events to the uses to which wise men always apply them : Viv... to the instruction

of others, by this example, and to justify and honor the wisdom of Providence in all
the variety of circumstances, let them happen how they will.

The Editor-believes the thing,r to be a just history of fact; neither is there any
appearance at (when in it :and however thinks, because all such things are disputed,
that the unproveinent of it, as well to the diversion as to the instruction of the

reader, will he the same; and as such, he thinks, without further compliment to the
world, he does them a great service in the publication.

The great success of the first part induced De Foe to write a second,
which was published in August, 1719; Part I. having appeared in the 2;;5
previous April. A map of the world accompanied it, to give a greater "
appearance of truth to the tale, on which the travels of Crusoe were

indicated, and its proper place assigned to the island.
Author's preface to the 2d Part :--

The success the former part of this work has met with in the world' has yet been

no other than is acknowledged to be due to the surprising variety of the subject, and
to the agreeable manner of the performance. ' ' i '4

The just application of every incident, the religious and useful hfeihncea drawn: .
g .i' 5
.
from every part, are so many testimonies to the good design of making it public, and
must legitimate all the part that may be called invention or parable in the story.
The second part, if the Editor's opinion may pass, is (contrary to the usage of
second parts) every way as entertaining as the first; contains as strange and sur-
prising incidents, and as great a variety of them; nor is the application less serious

or suitable; and doubtless will, to the sober us well as ingenious reader, be every
way as profitable and diverting.

In so far as Selkirk passed a certain number of years on an uninha-
bited island, he may be truly said to have furnished the idea of Crusoe;
but the subordinate figures, the grouping, and the scenery are altogether
due to the genius of De Foe. Herein he affords an exact parallel to
Shakespeare, who derived the plots of his immortal dramas, now from an
Italian romance, now from passing events.

Whatever may have been the origin of the tale, however virulent may
have been the attacks made against its author, as he himself says, by
political enemies and senseless critics, the judgment of the most enlight-
ened men of all nations has placed " Robinson Crusoe" upon a height
which no sounds of animosity can now reach. \Vhat pleasure has this
wonderful tale given, and still gives, to all readers! Young and old,
rich and poor, find in its pages an unfailing source of pure delight.

It blends instruction with amusement in a way no other production of
human intellect has ever succeeded in doing. \Vhile depicting a solitary
individual struggling against misfiirtune, it indicates the justice and the
mercy of Providence; and while inculcating the duty of self-help, asserts

the complete dependence of man upon a higher power for all he stands
in need of.

If we consider novels in their relation to life, "Robinson Crusoe"
must win the prize for truthfulness and reality. How naturally the in-
cidents occur! There is no deference shown by the author to the exi-
gencies of his story, nor to dramatic effect. The characters appear as
they do in real life--exercise some influence for good or evil on the
principal figure in the tale--and then disappear, to be seen no more.
Take, for instance, Xury. Would not a novelist of less power have
brought him forward, over and over again, after he had once introduced
him as the faithful friend of the hero? But De Foe saw fit to do other-
wise. Xury is brought upon the stage; assists the escape of the chief
personage in the drama; and is seen no more. Is not this the way of
real life?

Nor does the effect of reality stop here. So natural are all the chn-
racters, that we seem to know them personally--to be ourselves assisting
at the scenes recorded in it.

For these excellencies the learned and the good have uniformly per-
sisted in singling out " Robinson Crusoe" for special commendation. To
mention only two--Rousseau held that it was the book a boy should read
first and read longest. Dr. Johnson remarked, "Was there ever any-
thing written by mere. man that was wished longer by its readers, except-
ing 'Don Quixote,' 'Robinson Crusoe,' and the ' Pilgrim's Progress?"
In conclusion, we present to our readers the touching lines in which
Cowper supposes Alexander Selkirk to record his feelings :--

I am monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.

0 Solitude! where are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face ?

Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Thnn reign in this horrible place.

I am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech--
I start at the sound of my own.

The beasts, that roam over the plain,
My form with indifference see;

They are so unncquainted with mhn,
Their lameness is shocking to me.

society, friendship, and love,
Divinely bestow'd upon man,

Ohl hudI the wings of a dove,
How soon would I taste you again!

My sorrows I then might assuage
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age,
And be cheer'd by the sallies ofyouth.

Religion! what treusure untold
Resides in that heavenly word!
More precious than silver and gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.

 

But the sound of the church-going bell
These valleys and rocks never henrd.

Never sigh'd at the sound ofa knell,
Or smiled when a Sabbath appear'd.

Ye winds, that have made me your sport,
Convey to this desolate shore

Some cordial, endearing report
Of a land I shall visit no more.

My friends, do they now and then send
A wish or a thought after me?

Oh ! tell me I yet have a friend,
Though A friend I am never to see.

How fleet is a glance of the mind!
Compared with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
And the swift-\ving'd arrows oflight.

When I think of my own native land,
In a moment 1 seem to be there;
But, alas! recollection m hnnd
Soon hurries me back to despair.

But the sea fowl is gone to her nest,
'l'he beast is laid down in his lair;
Even here is a season of rest,
And I to my cnbin repair.

There's mercy in every place,

And mercy. encouraging thought!
Gives even nfiliction a grace,

And reconciles man to his lot.CONTENTS.

"mom or 'i'l'il Anagi........................ .....

 

...l.......................mC/.1-;

CHAPTER I.

My Birth nnd Parantago--At Nineteen Years of Age 1 determine to go no Sen--Dianna"! by my Parents--
Blow with n Schoolrellow, and go on board Ship--A Storm arisen, during which I am dnulfully frighb
anal--Ship mundane--Myself nml Crew saved by I. Bout from another Vessel, Ind landed nenr Yarmouth
--hloet my Companion'n Father there. who ndviul me never to go to Sea more, but nil in vain. -- as

 

CHAPTER II.

Make I Trading Voyage to Guinen very surecnl'uIIy--llmth of my Captain--Soil nnothcr hip with his
Mute--The Vengeance of Providence rnr Disobulin-ncu to Parents no" o'ertnkea mu--Taken by a Sal-~-
Rover. and all sold as Slaves--My Mash-r frequently sends me n-ilshin which sum, <<a nu Men 0! Escape
---Mnke my Esrnpe in an open liout. with n lion-m lloy.-u---- ......... .....

  

 

..... ............. 4.>>:

CHAPTER III.

.'lnke {or the Snulhiranl, in hopes of meeting with wine l-iuropenn \'crsel--&> Savages along Shore---
Shoot a large Leopnrd--Ani inky-n up lIy n liemlinutmnn--Arrive at the Brnzilsi and buy u Settlement
there--Cannot be quiet, but fiiil on n Voyage of Adventure in Guinen--Ship strikes on u Sand-hank in
unknown Laud--All ion but myself. who am nlriren ashore, hnlfdeml.- n -~ .. -- .. - - -- -~ -~ -- -- .. - 5!:

CHAPTER lV.

Amour-ante of the Wreck and Country next Day--Swim on bmml of the Ship, and, by means of 3 Con-
trlranee. get it quantity of Stores on ShorehShoot n llinl, but it turns out perfect Carrion--Moraine
upon my Situnlion--The Ship lulmrn oi! anl. mnl totally low--Set out in search of nproper piano for
a Habitation--Sue numbers of (finals--Melancholy lh-llectionx.~

 

.....-........- 7::

CHAPTER V.

-
i begin to keep a Journnl--Christen my desert lrlnml the island of Despair--Fall upon various Schemes
to make Tools, ankets. Am. {Ind begin to build my "OHXFA' a great loin of an Evening for Candle. but
full upon an expedient to supply the wnno--Slmnge discovery of Corn A terrible Earthquake and

ammunn... ........ .. .......... ......

 

CHAPTER VI.

Observe the Ship drlren farther aground by the late Storm--Fromm :t nut quantity of lemrioa from
the Wreck--Catch a large Turtle--l fall ill orn Fever and Agile--Terrible Drwun, and scrim" Reflections
thereon--Find a Bible in one of the Seameu': Chesu thmwn whom, the reading whereof gives me great
eomfort. ~ - -

 

. ............... .. ...... .....'.. .............. . ......... . ...... ....... ..v.. ...... 11,-;

CHAPTER VII.

1 begin to talus a survey of my "lend--Discover plenty of Tobacco. Crepes, Demons. Mid Sugar Canes
wild. but no human lnhnhilnnta--Resolre tn lny up :1 Store of these Articles. to furnish me against the
wet Season--My Cut. which I suppose ion. returns with Kittens--i regulate my Diet. and shut myself up

for the wet Sewn--Sow my Grain. which comes to nothing: but i discover and runi-ely my error--Take
muntoi'theooumor lbchthor.~---u ...................... . ......... .... .............. "3

CHAPTER. VIII

like nuoond Tour through the island--Catch a young Parrot, which I nMrwarda tench to weak--My

mode of sleeping at NightPl-'ind the other aids or the Island much more pleasant than mine, and covered

with Turue and Sea-fowl--Cntch n young Kid, which I tame--Return tomy old Habitation--Great plague

'flhmy [{.rvuf .. "hummus
8
 

CHAPTER IX.

I attempt to mould earthenware, and succeed--Description o! my mode of baiting--Begin to make a Boat
--AMr it is finished, am unable to get it down to the watehSerions Reflections--Hy Ink and Biscuit
exhausted, and Clothes In a had state--Contrive to make a Dress of Skins.- -- .. . . 13:,

CHAPTER X.

I succeed in getting a Canoe afloat, and set out on a Voyage in the Sixth year of my Reign. or Captivity--
Blown out to Sea--Reach the Shore with great dimeulty--l-'all asleep, and am awakened by a Voice cali-
ing my name--Devin various schemes to tame Goats, and at last succeed ------- ------ ....... .. - 148

CIIAI'TBR XI.

Description of my Figure--Also of my Dwelling and Enclosures--Dreadful alarm on seeing the Printof a
Man's Poet on the Shore--Reflections--Take every possible measure of precaution.-----u----o- 15'.)

CHAPTER XII.

I observe a Canoe out at Sen--Find on the Shore the remnant of n Feast of Cannibals--Honor of mind
thence--Double arm mymlr--Terribly alarmed by n Goat--Discover a singular Cave, or Grotto, of which
I {aim my )Iugaflno--My teal-son account of the Savages begin tosuhside.- ............ - ....... u? 171

CHAPTER XIII.

Description of my Situation in the Twenty-thinl year of my Residence--Discover Nine naked Savages round
a Fire on my side or the Island--My horror on heholding the dismal work they were about--I determine
on the Destruction of the next Party at all risks--A Ship lost all the Island--Go on board the Wreck,
which I discern to be Spanish--Procure a great variety of Articles from the Vessel.- ---------- -- .. - 184

CHAPTER XIV.

Reflections--An extraordinary Dn~am--Diseover Me Canoes or Savages on Shore--Churn from my station
two miserable Wretchos drugged nut or their "outs to he devoured--One of them makes his Escape, and
runs directly towards me, pursued by two others--I take measures so as todcstroy his I'ursners and save
his Life--Christen him by tho Name of Friday, and he becomes a faithful and excellent Servant..." 197

CHAPTER XV.

l am at great pains to instruct Friday respecting my abhorrence of the Cannibal practices of the Sav
lie is amazed nt the eil'eets ot' the Gun, and considers it an intelligent being--Begins to talk Englls l_'o-

rahly--A Dialogue--I instruct him in the knowledge of Religion, and Ind him very apt--He 0! '
to me some white Men, who had come to his country, and still lived there.- -- noun -- --- ----- .. 2"

CHAPTER XVI.

l determine to go over to the Continent--Friday and I construct a Beat equal to carry twenty men--Ills
dexterity in managing her--Friday brings intelligence of three canoes o! Savages on Shore--Resolve to
go down upon them~Fridny and I tire upon the Wretches, and save the life of a poor Spaniard--List of
the killed and wounded--Discover a poor Indian bound in one of the Cannes, who turns out hobo Friday's

Fgmur_.........u"nun..."onuu. alto.aaooaanlanaaoonooauaoaanaoaaalooo eases-00.0.00... 23'.

CHAPTER XVII.

learn (rem the Spaniard that there were sixteen more or his Conntrymen among the Savages--The Spa
uiurd and Friday's Father, well armed, sail on a Mission to the Continent--I discover an English Ship
lying at anchor oil' the Island--iler Boat comes on Shore with three Prisoners--The Crew straggle into

the Woods, their boat being aground--Discover myself to the Prisoners, who prove to be the Captain and
flats of the Vessel, and a Passenger--Secure the Mutineers.------------------------ "deg""""" "'3'

CHAPTER XVIII.

rho Ship makes Signals ibr her Boat--0n receiving no answer, she sends another Boat on Shore--Mather"
, by which we secure this Best's Crew, and recover the Ship.- ...... ............ .................. -,5_-

CHAPTER XIX.
I take leave of the Island, and, alter a long Voyage, arrive in England--Go down into Yorkshire. and dillo commas.

 

 

lhe grater put of my Fully dead--3min to go to Iii-hon hr lnformItion mung my PlIntIllon

at tho llrIziIo--Mcot In old Friend than, by whose manna I become rich--Set out for England nwarlnnd
~Mnch "my": by Wolveaon m. M .......... :51

 

CHAPTER xx.

Strange DIttlo betwixt Friday and I BeIrs--Terriblo cnmcment wlth I whoio Army of Wolvea--Arrivo
in England <<rely. and nettle my Itl'IirI them--l mIrry and tho I aniiy.- -- .. nu - - ---<< ------ ~ .'.~'ll

 

PART II.

CHAPTER I.

Reflection--Unsealed flak. of Mind, Ind Conversation with my Wife thcmn--Purchm I PIrm in tho
County of Milford--Lone my Wire--l dohrminn to revisit my lslnnd. Ind for that purpose mttlo nil my Af-
rIirs in Englnnd--Deuriptiun ofthi- Cargo 1 oIrrii-<<l out with Int--SA"! the Crew ofn Venn-l hurntnt Sen. 21h!

CHAPTER ll.
ski? {or tho Went lndics--Distmuing Account or I Bristol Ship, the Crow 0! which we mm In A auto 0!
Slnrmtion--Arriw nt my island--Friday's joy on dismruring it--Aflu'ling interview betwixt. him Ind
his l-'nthor on innding--NIrrntiw of the Ocrurrvnu-s on tho hiIml during my Absenco.- - 110'!

 

 

CHAPTER III.

Nnrrntirn continuod--Inroiunco of ihroo of tho Englishmen to tho Spnninnln--Thny nru disarmud and
[in-ugh! to order--A gn-nt body of Sung" lulu! upon the lslnnd--Thi-y turn out to hu two min-rm Nuxlnnu
nu-t thorn by chance--A bloody Battln betwixt thom--Sm'i-mi of tho vanquished l'nrly "curt-d [- the

5,..miln).................. .......... ...... . .l

 

CilAl'Tl-IH 1V.

fn-nh broilr hotwixt the turbulent Englishmen nnd the Spnnlnrils--Tho English make I \'oyngo to the
Mail-innit, Ind roturn in twcnty-tvro Dnyr--l'nrticulnrs of their Yong--Description ot' the Mon and
Women they brought with thvm--'i'he Colony distort-ml by nu unlucky accident to the Suns", who
illfndu tho lalInd,hnt In' dl'fl'lkfl.--....... .....

.......... ..... .......:'.'i'l

CHAPTER V.

i'ln- island in lnuulcd by n rurmiilnluiv Flt-ct or Snrngrs--A terrible Engagement. In which the Cnnnthln no
uttr-rly routed--Thirty-suren n'retcht-x. the sun-iron. IN rum-(l, Ind employed by my people In mrvnnu
--ih-rcription of Will Atkinr'a ingenious contrirnnm (or his accommodation" - . . . . . .. .. . . . .. . . . . . . . 356

CHAPTER VI.

i hold Convolution: with the Spaniards. nnii lvnrn the History of their situItion among the Sanger. from
which I relieved them--l inform the Colony for I'hIl. purposo I ma come, nnd what I IIIIBIII totio {or thrm
--Diatrihution of thn Stan-s i hrought with mn--Thi- i'rii-nt I lnft'd nt Sen noiomnim the Murringca of tho
Sailors and Female indium. who haul hitherto lived togr-tln-r as .\lIn Ind wm.- -- -- ---- -- - -- -- -- - :68

CHAPTER VII.

Sincere Ind worthy chnrncter of tho Priest--Dialogui- with Will Atkinu Ind myself-Conversation bt-twlxt
Atkins nnd his indiIn Wife on the snhjvctot'Religion--Her llnptlsm--Sotllumnntofthe Coinlnonn-vnith. iiilti

CllA I'THlt \'l ll.

l anti-ruin thn prospect of converting thu lnilinno--Aminhle ell-meter of the Young Woman we saved in I
l'nniiahrd state at Sea--lier own mlntinu other Juliet-lugs {mm hunger--Sail from tho hinnd for the tin>>
silo--Encounter Ind rout :1 whole fleet of Samson--Daub of PridIy--ArrivIl at DruiL- .. -- ....... M

CHAPTER ix.

l deopatch I Number ofldditlonni Recruit; unit I QuIntity of rxtn Stores to the hind. In! the my lou-
d it im- over--I dcurmino Iago with the Ship to tho But lmiioo--Arrlrnl It Emulate-Dwain" 0deg

9,anmm"...................................t....................... .................. '20

' CHAPTERX.
.-mflumwlth mcflgphowon "canto! tho Ornith- pmtlnd It Manama--liv- nun loot on m
 

Ami-inn Sham, oil the Gulf of Porno--Tho Scum-u rum-u to null. if I continua on bowl, In eon-queue.
or which 1 an ion on more--links nvary Mum-moons trading Voyage In company with In lingual:
llerclllnl. und punch>>. . "ml, which, II tum out. LII. Onw had nuuniod 5nd run "my wiIh- - 4:15

CHAPTER XI.

Make It IrulIng Voylgn In this Ship--Put Into the River Cambodia--Am waned of my Dung" by n Goun-
try-mu, in consequunu of which we act. nil, und m purauud--GNII diIMulcy in uniting our Em" <<a

CHAPTER XII.

obliged to come to mchor on n Sungn 00m, to repair our Ship--Wane tanked by Ihn Nguyen, whom any
CurponIAr (infirm lay-whimsical nontrivuno--Surioul Reflections upon our diugmlbio Situation. 4."!

CHAPTER XIII.

We arrive In Chin. In utety--Diapooo of the Ship--Mpuon of tho InhibihnIO--Arriu n Putin, dud
mm In opportunity of humming u. Europeu-u . . .............................. .......... ...... . 4"

CHAPTER XIV.

Be! on: by the Oman--Account of the nimble Elm we look with no--I-'uthrr description of the In
wrior oI Chino--Pm the great Wall--Auschd by Mn, who no diaper-ed by the Resolution of n
Soak )lun-hunb--Thn old Pilot am my Lib--We m ugnln stacked, and dam tho Mp - -~~- - 470

CHAPTER XV.

Further Amount of our Journey--Mullen otu: Idol, which In annoy--Gm: dung" "incur thereby
...;hwung of our Travel: august, Mumy,.......................... ............. .............. 439

CHAPTER XVI.

Convolution: with a. Ruuinn Grannies--Sat. out on my Journey Kannada--Burundi by Kahuna" on
him Road--Arrival It AnhugoI--SAII from them und nrriva ukly In Raglan-<<nu -- ......... 505

APPENDIX--lain m Alumnus or Luann 3m.........................<<m........... 519

 

LIST OF ILL USTRAT iONS.
FADE

2 Crusoe Slowing In his Boa.

1' Friday iiumhiu..
34 Crusoe and Friday
35 Cruwu and Friday out Shouting
41 Crusoe uml Friday on tho Hill
4-1 Discovering the Llulinonm.
49 Crusoe very ill ......
MI Fri-in)- und the Bear.
'15 Crusoe hurried..."
96 Cnuou Welcomed by tho Spunian'i
97 Tiu- Slnnhmi Introducing Canon.
112 Firing the flu: ........
118 The Vugrunu In tho Wood
121 Fight with the (hnniball
122 Marrying Ihn Three Ooupi
133 Prim Ind Negro Woman. .
135 Firing tho Town ..
" Turing the thh..................

      
     

iImIirl Du Pu". (Portrait).
.\ g llw iIn-ukum.
lhu' III-mu."
IIul-inwn Gnu
('ruau- xuhl iloh III-mud Ship
'l'ln- slunu ..... mm...

;\II:II'k of [In Sillll'o Rover.
l'I'INm' n S

 

    
     
         
       
     
     

   

  

 
  
        
  
 

     
  

 

 

   
       
    
    
 
 
     

('I'Imn- l ug his Ru
('rllsuc Writing his! Juurnal
('nmm Dimwm the mun-y
('num- ill. h'lltlillg tho Bibin
('I'mam- in his Dom!
(,'nmu-'s Cut Family
("mam linking Burke"...
Teaching the Purmt to bulk.
Crume Making | 00M"...
Crusoe Sunk-(l by Hearing I Voice
Crusoe n! Dinner......................
Crusoo Terrified by Seeing I Footprint
Crusoe in his-Form...MEMOIR OF THE AUTHOR.

DANXEL For: (for the DE was prefixed to his name by himself, at a late period
in life) was the son of James Foe, a citizen of London, who carried on the busi-
ness of a butcher, in St. Giles's, Cripplegate; but having "got a good estate by
merchandise, left off his trade" several years before his death. He was "a
wise and grave man," sincerely attached to the Presbyterian form of worship 5
and when his pastor, the Rev. Samuel Annesley, LL. D., was ejected from
the parish of Cripplcgate by the Act of Uniformity, in 1662, he followed him,
and worshipped at the chapel in Bishopsgate for many years.

His son DANIEL was born in 1661, the year following the Restoration; and
after receiving a competent "house education," and as far as " the free-school
generally goes," about the age of fourteen he was sent to a dissenting academy
at Newington Green, then superintended by the Rev. Charles Morton, who
was afterwards pastor of a church in Charlestown, Mass, and vice-president of
Harvard College. Here he received as much of a collegiate education as could
be obtained by a dissenter at this period, perfecting his acquaintance with lan-
guages, natural philosophy, logic, geography, and history; and, under the
special direction of his tutor, going through a complete course of theology.
In one of his "Reviews," in 1705, he says, "I owe this justice to my ancient
father, still living, and in whose behalf I freely testify, that if I am a blouk-
head, it was nobody's fault but my own, he having spared nothing in my
education."

It was the intention of his parents that he should become a Presbyterian
minister, and his education was adapted to that profession. The cause of his
abandoning it has been a. matter of some speculation, but the reason may pro-
bably be gathered from the peculiar character of the times. He completed
his aeademical career in the year when Monmouth had just returned from the
slaughter of the Scottish Covenanters at Bothwell-bridgc, and when "it. was
not- safe for a dissenting minister to be seen in the streets of London," the
liberties of England being prostrate before the court and high-church party;
and need we wonder that a person of his ardent temperament should be drawn
aside into the rcligio-political contests of the times? He himself merely
says, "It was my disaster first to be set apart for, and then to be set apart
from, the honour of that sacred employ."

At the age of twenty-one, he began that career of authorship which he con-

tinued unremittingly for the some of half a century. His first attempt is a
12
 

small quarto volume of thirty-four pages, with the ridiculous title of "Want
Grape- Gownorum ; or a Looking-Glass for the Young Academicks, new Foyl'd.
With Reflections on some of the late high-flown Sermons: to which is added,
An Essay towards a Sermon of the newest Fashion. By a Guide to the In-
feriour Clergie. Ridentcm dicere Verum Quis Vetat? London: Printed for
E. Rydal. 1682." It was intended, says De Foe, "as a banter upon Sir
Roger L'Estrange's Guide to the Infcfior Clergy," and seems to have produced
a much greater efi'eet than the nature of the performance warranted. As a
specimen, we will selecta passage from the "Essay towards a Sermon of the
newest Fashion." "Were I now to preach before a great magistrate that had
the power in his hands, I would say,--My Lord, you bear not the sword in
vain. Let them [the dissenters] be fined and imprisoned, nay hanged, my
Lord. Now, if my Lord should say, Do you endeavour to convince them of

their errors by sound doctrine and good example of life. Then would I say,--'--

No, my Lord, they will never be convinced by us; for we have not wit nor
learning enough to do it; neither can we take so much pains. "I'is easier to
talk an hour about state-affairs and make satires against the fanaticks than to

preach convincing and sound doctrine. The fanaticks, therefore, must be eon- ' '

futed by bolts and shackles; by fines and imprisonments; by excommunica-
tions and exterminations; and therefore, pray, my Lord, let 'em be scourged
out of the temple; let 'em be whipped out of the nation."

In 1683, he produced "A Treatise against the Turks." The Turks were at
this time threatening the existence of the Austrian empire; and on account
of the persecutions of the Protestants by that power, their irruption was
looked upon with complacency by many of the dissenters in England, and the
design of this work was to counteract that feeling. '

In February, 1685, James II. ascended the throne, and immediately mani-
fested his attachment to Popery, and his intention of governing in defiance of
the laws. At first he was supported by the high-church party, and the dis-
senters seeing no prospect of being delivered from the shackles in which for the
last twenty-five years they had been held, prepared to throw off his authority.
In midsummer of this year, accordingly, the kingdom was invaded by the Duke
of Monmouth, a natural son of Charles II., and De Foe joined his standard.

After Monmouth's defeat, he had the good fortune to escape; but in after-

years he looked back upon his connection with this afi'air with satisfaction.

In 1686, he became an agent for the sale of hosiery, and had his establish-
ment in Freeman's Court, Cornhill, London; and judging it expedient to link
himself more closely with his fellow-citizens, he claimed his freedom by birth,
and was admitted a liveryman of London. In the chamberlain's book his name
is written Daniel Foe. . ,

In the latter part of this reign, the dissenters were oofirted by the king and
by the high-church party, who were about to proceed to open hostilities against
each other. In this aspect of affairs De Foe published two pamphlets, in
which he satirizes the altered tone of the churchmen, condemns the power

ml. "by .._
 

; dispensing with the laws, assumed by King James, and warns the dissenters
against being deceived by a pretended toleration, when his real object was to
force a religion prohibited by law upon his subjects.

He who had drawn his sword in the cause of Monmouth was not backward
in the cause of William. On receiving intelligence of his landing, he imme-
diately set out to meet him, and got as far as Henley (thirty-five miles west
of London), which "the Prince of Orange, with the second line of the army,
entered that very afternoon." Being introduced to the Prince, he formed an
nttaclnncnt to him which endured till the close of his life. At this period he
seems to have been in prosperous circumstances, having a country-house at
Tooting, in Surrey, at the same time that he carried on the hose-agency in
Cornhill. And when the citizens of London invited King William to a sump-
tuous banquet in Guildhall, and formed a procession to conduct him thither,
"among those troopers," says Oldmixon, "was Daniel Foe, at that time a
hosicr in Freeman's Yard, Cornhill."

Though not inattentive to the political movements of this period, he was
more particularly occupied in trade, and that in a very extensive way. In
prosecuting his business he visited Spain, Portugal, the Low Countries, and
France; but partly from his own imprudence, the circumstances of the times,
and the knavery of others, he became bankrupt in 1692, and, to avoid incar-
ceration, concealed himself till he could obtain a settlement with -his creditors.
For some time he seems to have lived in concealment at Bristol, but so high a
sense of his honour was entertained by his creditors, that they soon agreed
to a composition, and accepted his personal security for the amount. This
confidence he more than justified, and, in 1705, he tells us, "that with a
numerous family and no help but his own industry, he had forced his way with
undiseouraged diligence through a sea of misfortunes, and reduced his debts,
exclusive of composition, from seventeen thousand to less than five thousand
pounds." In harmony with his own example, in the third volume of his
Review he gives the following advice to others: "Never think yourselves dis-
charged in conscience, though you may be discharged in law. The obligation
of an honest mind can never die. No title of honour, no recorded merit, no
marl; of distinction can exceed the lasting appellation, 'an honest man.' He
that lies buried under such an epitaph has more said of him than volumes of
history can contain. The payment of debts, after fair discharges, is the clearest
title to such a character that I know ; and how any man can begin again, and
hope for a blessing from Heaven, or favour from man, without such a resolu-
tion, I know not." To the honour of De Foe, it ought also to be mentioned,
that the position in which he was placed forcibly directed his attention to the
law of debtor and creditor, and "in a day when he could be heard," he
directed the attentiod of the legislature to several very flagrant abuses, which
were at that time remedied, though many of his suggestions are only being
adopted at the present time. (Review, iii. 75.)

During the two years (1692--3) which were occupied in obtaining a settle-
meat of his afi'airs, while in retirement, he was engaged in writing his
"Essay upon Projects," the first of his works which has obtained a permanent
place in our literature. The projects are of a varied character, embracing the
subject of banks, road-making, bankruptcy, friendly societies, savings' banks,
asylums for the insane, education, profane swearing, military academies, sea-
mcn's register, education of females, &c. His projects are marked by good
sense, and much of the work is written in a very pleasing and forcible style.
Many of his proposals have since been tested by experience, and from a copy
of his works, which Dr. Franklin found in his father's library, he says, "I
might receive some impressions that have since influenced the principal events
of my life." It was not published till 1697.

"Misfortunes in business having unhinged me from matters of trade," says
Do Foe, "it was about the year 1694 when I was invited by some merchants,
with whom I had corresponded abroad, and some also at home, to settle at
Cadiz, in Spain; and that with the offers of very good commissions. But
Providence, which had other work for me to do, placed a secret aversion in my
mind to quitting England upon any account, and made me refuse the best
offers of that kind. . . . Sometime after this, I was, without the least appli-
cation of mine, and being then seventy miles from London, sent for to be
accountant to the commissioners of the gloss duty, in which service I continued
to the determination of the commission," 1699.

About this time he became secretary to the pantile works at Tilbury, in
Essex, which works, he says, in his Review for March, 1705, " before violence,
injury, and barbarous treatment demolished him and his undertaking, employed
a hundred poor people in making pantiles in England, a manufacture always
bought'in Holland: and thus he pursued this principle with his utmost zeal
for the good of England: and those gentlemen who so eagerly prosecuted him
for saying what all the world since owns to be true, and which he has since a
hundred times offered to prove, were particularly serviceable to the nation, in
turning that hundred of poor people and their families a-begging for work,
besides three thousand pounds damage to the author of this, which he has paid
for this little experience."

From 1697 to 1701 he entered warmly into the discussion of political mat
tcrs then agitated, and twelve pamphlets are extant written in this period, but
in 1701 he produced "The True-Born Englishman," in rhyme, a work which
added much to his celebrity. He thus accounts for the origin of the poem.
"During this time, there came out a vile abhorred pamphlet, in very ill verse,
written by one Mr. Tutchin, and called 'The Forcigners;' in which the author
fell personally upon the king himself, and then upon the Dutch nation; and after
having rcproacbcd his majesty with crimes that his worst enemies could not
think of without horror, he sums up all in the odious name of Foreiyner.
This filled me With a kind of rage against the book, anflgave birth to a trifle
which I never could hope should have met with so general an acceptation as it
did." As a specimen, a few lines upon the folly of indulging in the pride of
ancestry may be given:

 

I
1.
a
.
1
 

These are the heroes that despise the Dutch,

And rail at new-come foreigner: so much ;

Forgetting that themselves are all derived

From the most sconndrel race that ever lived;

A horrid crowd of rambling thieves and drones,

Who ransack'd kingdoms and dispeopled towns

The Piet and painted Briton, trench'rous Scot,

By hunger, theft, and rupinc hither brought;

Norwegian pirates, hueenncering Dunes,

Whose rcd-huir'd ofl'spring everywhere remains;

Who, join'd with Norman-French compound the breed,
_ From whence your TrueJBern Englishmen proceed.

And lost. by length of time, it he pretended

The climate may the modern men have mended,

Wise Providence, to keep us where we are,

Mixes us daily with exceeding care."

The first edition was comprised in sixty pages, quarto; and such was its
popularity, that in four years the author had printed nine editions, the copies
of which he sold at a shilling each, while he calculated that not less than eighty
thousand copies of pirated editions, sold at from Sixpence to a penny, were
disposed of in the streets of London. The loss he sustained by this conduct
must have been considerable. He tolls us, that "had he been allowed to enjoy
the profit of his own labour, he had gained above a thousand pounds." This
poem having met the eye of King William, inspired him with the desire to
become acquainted with the author; he was accordingly presented to him,
and was ever after cordially received by him and his consort, and employed in
various secret services.

In his "Appeal to Honour and Justice," iii-1715, he says, "How this poem
was the occasion of my being known to his majesty; how I was aft'erwards
received by him; how employed; and how, above my capacity of deserving,
rewarded, is no part of the present ._ "e, and it is only mentioned here, as I
take all occasions to do, for the exprc. .ing the honour I ever preserved for the
immortal and glorious memory of that greatest and best of princes, and whom
it was my honour and advantage to can master as well as sovereign; whose
goodness to me I never forgot, neither can forget ; and whose memory I
never patiently heard abused, nor ever can do so; and who, had he lived,
would never have suffered me to he treated as I have been in the world."

Between the publication of "The. True-Born Englishman" and the death ,0!
his patron, in March 1702, he published ten pamphlets, in one of which,
" Reasons against a War with F rance," notwithstanding his passionate attach-
ment to William, he ventured, on patriotic grounds, to oppose the views of the
court. .

 
    

The life and labours of De Foe are so interwoven with the political history of
his country, that the most satisfactory way of considering his life is by dividing
it. into periods, commensurate with the reigns in which he flourished. We
have now arrived at the accession of Queen Anne. She had been educated
by Compton bishop of London, and immediately threw all the influence of'the
 

court into the tory or high-church party. " The heat and fury of the clergy
went to that height (says De Foe) that even it became ludicrous, and attended
with all the little excesses which a person elevated beyond the government of
himself by some sudden joy is usually subject to. And, as aknown author
remarks, that upon the restoration of King Charles II., the excesses and trans
ports of the clergy and people ran out into revels, may-poles, and all manner
of extravagancies; so at this time, there were more may-poles set up in one
year in England than had been in twenty years before. Ballads for the church
was another expression of their zeal, wherein generally the chorus or burden
of the song was, 'Down with the Presbyteriaus.' And to such a height were
things brought, that the dissenters began to be insulted in every place; their
meeting-houses and assemblies assaulted by the mobs ; and even their ministers
and preachers were scarce admitted to pass the streets." Pamphlets inveigh-
ing against the dissenters were hawked about the streets, and the pulpits
especially resounded with the most violent tiradcs, and the lenity of the queen
in extending to them toleration was unscrupulously condemned. Familiar with
the sentiments and language of the high-church party, De Foe collected them
into a threc'sheet pamphlet, entitled "The Shortest Way with the Dissenters;
31', Proposals for the Establishment of the Church."

"When the book first appeared in the world," says he, "and before those
high-flown gentlemen knew its author; whilst the piece in its outward figure
looked so natural, and was so like a brat of their own begetting, that, like two
apples, they could not know them asunder, the author's true design in the
writing it had its immediate effect. The gentlemen of the high-church imme-
diately fell in with the project. Nothing could have been more grateful to
them than arguments to prove the necessity of ruining the dissenters, and
removing those obstructions to the church's glory out of the way. We have
innumerable testimonies of the pleasure with which the party embraced the
proposal of sending all the dissenting ministers to the gallows and the galleys;
of having all their meeting-houses demolished ; and being let loose upon the
people to plunder and destroy them. The soberer churchmen, whose princi-
ples were founded 011 charity, and who had their eye upon the laws and con-
stitution of their country, as that to which their own liberties were annexed,
though they still believed the book to be written by a high-churchmen, yet
openly exclaimed against the proposal, condemned the warmth that appeared
in the clergy against their brethren, and openly professed that such a man as
Sacheverell and his brethren would blow up the foundations of the church.
But either side had scarce time to discover their sentiments, when the book
appeared to have been written by a dissenter, that it was designed 1n derision
of the standard held up by Sacheverell and others, that it was a satire upon
the fury of the churchmen, and a plot to make the rest discover Wives.
Nothing was more strange than to see the effect uprn the whole nation Which
this little book, a contemptible pamphlet of but three sheets of paper, had,
and 1n so short a time too. The most forward, hot and furious, as well among
the clergy as others, blushed when they reflected how far they had applauded
 

the book ; raged that such an abuse should be put upon the church; and as
they were obliged to damn the book, so they were strangely hampered between
the doing so, and pursuing their rage at the dissenters. The greater part, the
better to qualify themselves to condemn the author, came earnestly in to con-
demn the principle; for it was impossible to do one without the other. They
laboured incessantly, both in print and in pulpit, to prove that this was a hor-
rible slander upon the church. But this still answered the author's end the
more; for they could never clear the church of the slander, without openly
condemning the practice 5 nor could they possibly condemn the practice, with-
out eeusuring those clergymcn who had gone such a length already as to say
the same thing in print. Nor could all their rage at the author of that book
contribute any thing to clear them, but still made the better side the worse.
It was plain they had owned the doctrine, had preached up the necessity of
expelling and rooting out the dissenters in their sermons and printed pamph-
lets; that it was evidcnt they had applauded the book itself, till they knew the
author; and there was no other way to prevent the odium falling on the whole
body of the Church of England, but by giving up the authors of these mad
principles, and openly professing moderate principles themselves.

"Some people have blamed the author of 'The Shortest \Vay,' for that he
did not quote either in the margin, or otherwise, the sermon of Saehcverell
aforesaid, or such other authors from whom his notions were drawn, which
would have justified him in what he had suggested. But these men do not
see the design of the book at all, or the direct it had on the people it pointed
at. It is true, this had prevented the fate of the man, but it had, at the same
time, taken off the edge of the book 3 and that which now cut. the throat of a
whole party, would not then have given the least wound. The case the book
pointed at, was to speak in the first person of the party, and then, thereby,
not only speak their language, but make them acknowledge it to be theirs 3
which they did so openly, that it confounded all their attempts afterwards to
deny it, and to call it a Scandal thrown upon them by another."

An attentive examination of the work might have excited the suspicion of
the arguments being ironieal, but the temper of parties was too much excited
to consider calmly. Even by his dissenting brethren it was believed to be a
production of the high-church party ; and the wit that practised the deception
had some diliiculty in being forgiven. But the anger of the high-church men,
when they discovered the author, was unbounded, and as the party was in power,
it was resolved to institute a state prosecution against him. To further this
prosecution, a formal complaint was made in the House of Commons against
the author, and upon some of the obnoxious passages being read, it was resolved,
"that the book, being full of false and scandalous reflections on this parlia-
ment, be burnt by the hands of the common hangman, to-morrow, in New
.Palace Yard." A proclamation offering a reward of 501. was at the same time
offered for the discovery of the author, and advertised in the London Gazette

for January 10, 1702-3. For the sake of the description of his person it is
here given
 

 

" Whereas, Daniel De Foe, alias De Fooe, is charged with writing a scanda-
lous and seditious pamphlet, intitled 'The Shortest Way with the Dissenters.'
He is a middle-sized, spare man, about forty years old. of a brown complexion,
and dark-brown coloured hair, but wears a wig; a hooked nose, a sharp chin,
gray eyes, and a large mole near his mouth: was born in London, and for
man y years was a hose-factor in Freeman's Yard, Cornhill; and now is owner
of the brick and pantile works near Tilbury Fort, in Essex: whoever shall dis-
cover the said Daniel De Fee to one of her majesty's justices of the peace, so
that he may be apprehended, shall have a reward of 50!. which her majesty has
ordered immediately to be paid upon such discovery."

The printer and bookseller being now taken into custody, to shield them
from prosecution, De Foe came forth from his retreat, and gave himself up to
the government. He was indicted at the Old Bailey sessions, Feb. 24, 1703, and
stood his trial in July following. Diflident of success, if he should have en-
tered upon his defence, his prosecutors tampered with his counsel, who held
out to him hopes of pardon, and advised him to plead guilty and throw himself
upon the mercy of the queen. Much to his regret afterwards, he complied
with the advice, and received a sentence infamous for its severity, while the
avenues to royal mercy for two years were vigilantly shut against him. He
was Sentenced to pay a fine of 200 marks to the queen; stand three times in
the pillory; be imprisoned during the queen's pleasure; and find sureties for
his good behaviour for seven years.

On the 29th of July he stood in the pillory before the Royal Exchange, in
Cornhill; on the 30th near the Conduit in Cheapsidc; and on the 31st at
Temple Bar. But to his conduct men could attribute no guilt, and this
mark of degradation and infamy was deprived of all its sting. He was con-
ducted to the pillory by thousands, as to a chair of state; the pillory itself was
hung with garlands; and he himself tells that "those who were expected to
treat him ill, on the contrary pitied him, and wished those who set him there to
he placed in his room, and expressed their affections by loud shouts and acclama--
tions, when he was taken down." All the disgrace of the punishment rebound-
ed upon his persecutors ; and while his enemies were preparing the instrument
for his disgrace, he was composing a hymn of triumph. On the very day on
which he. appeared there, he published his "Hymn to the Pillory," in which,
with the kcencst satire, he set their enmity at defiance.

"Thou art no shame to truth and honesty,
Nor is the character of such defaced by thee,
Who sufl'ers by oppressive injury.
Shame, like the exhalations of the sun,
Falls back where first the motion was begun:
And he who for no crime shall on thy brows appear,
Bears less reproach than they who placed him there."

And concludes by invoking the pillory to speak, and

"Tell them the men who placed him hero
Are scandals to the times,

Are at a loss to find his guilt,
And can't commit lu'a crimes."
Before his imprisonment De Foe kept his carriage, and lived in an easy,
comfortable style 5 but being no longer able to attend to the pantilc works, from
which he derived his support, they were given up, the capital invested in them
lost, and himSolf and a wife and six children thrown for their support upon
the products of his pen. Thus burdened, and made the companion of crimi-
nals, his fortitude did not- forsake him: conscious of his integrity, and of the
righteousness of the. cause for which he suffered, he cast himself upon the wis-
dom and goodness of that Providence which had hitherto sustained him, and
rising superior to disgrace felt and said,

" Stone walls do not a prison make,
Nor iron bars a cage;
Minds innocent and qniet take
That- for a l'.ermitage."----Hymn to (he Pt'llory.

There can be little doubt. that be associated occasionally with the prisoners,
and etnnmnnicated those moral and religious instructions which he was so well
titted to give. It is also prolmble that many of the desperate characters of his
novels \vere suggested by the companions he had here; and that the prison be~
came a school of discipline, in which his mind was tinniliarized to degradation
and distress. But hitherto his writings had been devoted to politics, or those
plans by which the external condition of society might be ameliorated, and he
did Hot allow his iml'n-isonment to divert him from his course. 'l'wenty-two
pamphlets were written by him while in prison; and a pirated edition of his
\vorlts having been published, he gave the world "A True Collection of the
Writings of the Author of 'The True-Born Englishman,' corrected by him-
self." lt contains twenty-two pieces, and in some copies there is the following
advertisemtmtz--

" Whereas there is a spurious collection of the writings of Mr. De Foe, author
of 'The True-Born linglishman,' which contain several things not writ by the
said author, and those that are full of errors, mistakes, and omissions, which
invert the sense and design of the author, This is to give notice that the gen-
uine collection, price six shillings, is corrected by himself, with additions
never before printed, bath the author's picture before it, curiously engraved
on copper by Mr. Yandergucht ; and contains more than double the number
of tracts inserted in the said spurious collection."

This portrait was from a painting by Tarerncr, and represents the author in
such a dress as we may suppose he were when he attended the levees of Wil~
liam and Mary. It is generally admitted to be the best likeness extant, and a
beautiful copy of it, engraved on wood by Clarkson, is prefixed to this edition.

The most important of the works which be projected in Newgate was "The
Review," the first number of which was issued on Saturday, February 19,
1704, and continued weekly till the ninth number, when it was published twice
a week, on the Tuesdays and Saturdays. It consisted at first of eight quarto
pages, and was sold at the low price of one penny, but with the fifth num-
ber it was reduced to half a sheet, "the publishers of this paper honestly
declaring that while they make it a whole sheet they get nothing by it ;
 

and though the author is free to give his labours for God's sake, they don't
find it for their convenience to give their paper and print away." The nine
quarto volumes of this work were solely written by himself, and continued till
May, 1713, when it was finally abandoned. It was begun when its author was
in Newgate, and terminated when he was imprisoned again, under a shameful
prosecution. It would be impossible in our limits to convey any idea of the
variety of the contents of this work. The general tendency and design of the
articles were to subdue the prejudices of his countrymen, and give them juster
ideas of foreigners and foreign nations than they generally entertained--to give
information concerning trade, politics, and the general occurrences of the week
--ta put down immoral practices, such as duelling and the slave-trade--with
the conversation of a "Scandal Club," upon matters of all kinds; and the
most thankless of all undertakings, to correct the blunders of the contempo-
rary press. At the close of the first year, he proposed to discontinue it 5 but
several who were interested in it, being desirous to have it continued, he con-
sented to oblige them if they would provide for the charges of the press,
" which he was sorry he was not in a condition to oblige them with also."

The Review was doubtless the most popular periodical of the time, and with
the fifth volume it began to be reprinted in Edinburgh; but the author seems
never to have received much pecuniary benefit from it, and the labour he be-
stowed upon it must be solely attributed to his zeal for the public welfare. In
the seventh volume, he says: "Though I have the misfortune to amass infinite
enemies, and not at all to oblige even the men I serve, yet I defy the world to
prove. I have directly or indirectly gained or received a single shilling, or the
value of it, by the sale of this paper for now almost four years ; and honest
)lr. Morphew is able to detect me, if I speak false."

The intemperate conduct of the Tory party, in 1704, brought on a period of
reaction. "The queen," says De Foe, " though willing to favour the high-
ehurch party, did not thereby design the ruin of those she did not employ, was -.
soon alarmed at their wild conduct, and turned them out, adhering to the
moderate counsels of those who better understood or more faithfully pursued
her majesty's and the country's interest." A new ministry was formed, in
which Lord Godolphin, the Duke of Marlborough, and Mr. Harley were lead-
ing members; the latter of whom, sensible of the influence so popular a writer
as Do Foe would exert, opened a negotiation with him, immediately upon
coming into ofiicc. In his "Appeal to Honour and Justice," it is thus
noticed :--

"While I lay friendlcss and distressed in the prison of Newgate, my family
ruined, and myself without hope of deliverance, a message was brought me _,
from a person of honour [Mn Harley], who, till that time, I had never had 4 A
the least acquaintance with, or knowledge of, other than by fame, or by sight, if;
as we know men of quality by seeing them on public Occasions. I gave no '34]
present answer to the person who brought it, having not duly weighed the '
import of the message. The message was by word of mouth thus z--'Pray,
ask that gentleman what I can do for him?' But in return to this kind andm

generous mcssage, I immediately took my pen and ink, and wrote the story
of the blind man in the Gospel, who followed our Saviour, and to whom our
blessed Lord put the question, 'What wilt thou that. I should do unto thee?'
Who, as if he had made it strange that such a question should be asked, or as
if he had said that I am blind, and yet ask me what thou shalt do for me?
My answer is plain in my misery, 'Lord, that I may receive my sight?'

" I needed not. to make the application. And from this time, although I
lay four months in prison after this, and heard no more of it, yet from this
time, as I learned afterwards, this noble person made it his business to have
my case represented to her majesty, and methods taken for my deliverance.
I mention this part, because I am no more to forget the obligation upon me to
the queen, than to my first benefactor.

"When her majesty came to have the truth of the ease laid before her, I
soon felt the effects of her royal goodness and compassion. And first, her
majesty declared, that she left all that matter to a certain person [the Earl of
Nottingham], and did not think he would have used me in such a manner.
Probably these words may seem imaginary to some, and the speaking them to
be of no value, and so they would have been, had they not been followed with
further and more convincing proofs of what. they imported, which were these,
that her majesty was pleased particularly to inquire into my circumstances and
family, and by my Lord-treasurer Godolphin to send a considerable supply to
my wife and family, and to send to me the prison-money to pay my fine and
the expenses of my dist-barge.

" Being delivered from the distress I was in, her majesty, who was not satis-
fied to do me good by a single act of her bounty, had the goodness to think
of taking me into her service, and I had the honour to be employed in several
honourable, though secret services, by the interposition of my first benefactor,
who then appeared as a member in the public administration."

Upon his release, in August, 1704, he retired to Bury St. Edmunds, "a town
famed for its pleasant situation and wholesome air, the Montpellier of Suffolk,
and perhaps of England 3 famous also for the number of gentry who reside in
the vicinity, and for the polite and agreeable conversation of the company
resorting there."

De Foe was no sooner at liberty than it. was rumoured that he had effected
an escape, and that warrants were issued for his apprehension; a mischievous
hoax was get up to annoy him; "his life threatened by bullying letters; his
creditors roused to a general prosecution of him for debts, though under former
tr. aties and agreements, as if he was more able to discharge thctn now, reduce'
by a known disaster, and ruined by a public storm, than before, when in pros-
perous circumstances, he was clearing himself of everybody, and all waited with
patience, being themselves satisfied; now his morals were assaulted by impo-
tent and groundless slandcrs 3 his principles cried down by envious friends as
well as malicious enemies. His endeavours for the public advantage prove
none to himself; his family and fortunes sink under his constant attempts for
the country's welfare--I have been told that 'tis no wonder all the threaten-' :'.'SS';'.'~t;',a'.:,, t"

 

MEMOIR OF THE AUTHOR. 23

___________--..-----------------

ings, sham actions, and malicious prosecutions I speak of, are practised upon
me, since I am pushing at a party daily in lampoons, ballads, and clandestine
scandals; and that I must expect no other till I lay down this paper and all

 

other scribbles'of such a nature. . . . . I have frequently answered this, as
to all the papers cried about in my name, assuring the world they have none
of them been wrote by me ..... As to laying down the pen, or discontinuing

the subject I am upon, though I claim a privilege to be judge when I ought
to go backward or forward, yet to answer the proposal as to a cessation of pen
and ink debates, I shall make them a fair offer, which he that gives himself
the trouble to move me in it may make use of to the other party. Whenever
he will demonstrate they are inclined to peace, whenever the high-church party
will cease tacking of bills, invading the toleration, raising ecclesiastical alarms
against the dissenters and low-church ; will cease preaching up division, perse-
cution, and ruin of their protestant brethren; when all the crowd of high-
church advocates, Rehearsers, Observers, Reflectors, W heppers, Drivers [names
of periodicals and signatures of writers of that period] will declare a truce ,--
when these conditions may be observed I fairly promise to be so far a contri-
butor to the public peace, as to lay this [the Review] down, and turn the paper
to the innocent discourses of trade and the matters of history, first proposed.
Indeed, I must do so of course; for the peace will be then made, the end
answered, and consequently the argument useless."

Such was De Fee's popularity at this time, that he had to warn the public

that printers, to make their pamphlets sell, allixed his name to things he "had
no concern in, crying them about the streets as mine; nay, and at last are come
to that height of injury as to print my name to every scandalous trifle. .
I entreat my friends once for all, that whenever they meet with a penny or half-
penny paper, sold or cried about in the streets, they would conclude them not
mine. I never write penny papers, this excepted [the Review], nor ever shall,
unless my name is publicly set to them."

In two years of comparative retirement, during a portion of which he
was compelled entirely to cease from labour on account of severe affliction,
upwards of thirty very considerable works proceeded from his pen, in addition
to the Review; now issued three times a week He also published the second
volume of his collected writings. It would be impossible to give even the
title-pages of these works here, but two of the opinions, in his "Giving Alms
no Charity," are so pointed that we cannot avoid quoting them.

On vagrancy he says :--"No man that has limbs and his senses need beg;
and those that have not ought to be put in a condition not to want it, so that
begging is a mere scandal in the general. In the able, 'tis a scandal upon their
industry 3 and in the impotent, 'tis a scandal upon the country."

His theory of population differs widely from the popular Malthusian theory
of the English political economists of the present day, and both in language
and sentiment corresponds with the principles so ably expounded by our fellow.
citizen, Henry 0. Carey. "I cannot but note that the glory, the strength, the
riches, the trade and all that is valuable in a nation as to its figure in the
 

 

 

world depends upon the number of its people, be they never so mean or poor.
The consumption of manufactures increases the manufacturers; the number
of nntnufiteturers incr'ases the consumption; provisions are consumed to feed
them, land improved, and more hands employed to furnish provisions. All the
wealth of the nation, and all the trade, is produced by numbers of people."

In this period also he gave the first specimen of those inventive powers which
be exercised so successfully at- a later period of life, in "A True Relation of
the .-\pparition of one Mrs. ~Veal, the next da ' after her death, to one )lrs.
Bargrave, at Canterbury, the Sth of September, 1705 : which .-\pparition
recommends the l'cru tl ot' Drelincourt's Book of Consolations against the
Fear of Death." Being in company with the publisher of Drelincuurt, who
complained of the dulncss of the sale-of the book. De Foe asked it' the. author
had blended alight ot' the supermttural in his \vorlt'.' The bookseller answered
in the negative. lle l-'oe replied, "Ifyou wish your book to sell, I will put you
in the way of it," and immediately set about composing the story of (he appa-
rition. The success was complete. It soon passed through forty editions; and
the. recomtneudation of tile gltost has been attended to by half the families in
England.

Sir Walter Scott, in illustrating the peculiar powers of De Foe in investing
of

this story, and concludes, "that De Foe has put in force within those few

  

fiction with all the tokens of reality, has entered into a particular anal}

pages, peculiar specimens of his art of recommending the most ituprobablc
narrative by his specious and serious mode of telling it. "'hotvcr will read
it as told by De. 1-'oc himself, will agree that could the thing have happened in
reality, so it would have been told. In short, the whole is so distinctly cir-
cumstantial, that were it not for the impossibility, or extreme itnprobability at.
least, of such an occurrence, the evidence could not but support. the story."

In 1705, De Foe "had the honour to be employed in several honourable
though secret services, in which he had run as much risk of his life as a gre
nadirr upon the counterscarp," the particulars of which have not transpired,
but there is sttllicient evidence that he executed them to the satistaction of
Mr. Harley; and he received "an appointment," probably a sinecurc one, for
his services. He was absent from England about. two months.

Front 1706 to 1711, the attention of De Foe was principally directed to the
affairs of Scotland. Exasperated by the massacre at Glencoe, and by the
sh government. had treated their colony on the

 

 

tnanner in which the Bug
Isthmus of Darien, the Scottish parliament threatened to dissent from England
in the matter of the succession, unless there should be a free trade between the
two countries, and their a airs more thoroughly secured from English influence.
The English ministers then saw that it would be nee v to incorporate that
country with England, to prevent the Pretender from gaining the Scottish
crown; aml exerted themselves so efl'ectually in the Scottish parliament, that
an act was passed enabling the queen to nominate commissioners for the arrange-
ment of a union. Thirty commisshners were accordingly nominated on each
side, and though, with 'ew exceptions, they were so friendly to the succession
 

 

of the Hanoverian family and to the measures of the court, that no opposition
was expected from them; yet such was the unpopularity of the act, that it
was thought unsafe to venture upon it without using some means tc soften the
national prejudices. The paltry trade that Scotland even at this time carried
0n was beheld by Englishmen with envy; they were annoyed at the wealth
of many of the Scotsmen who were settled among them, and felt it as so much
taken from themselves, instead of profiting by the example of industry, per-
severance, and economy they had set them 5 and they spurned at union with a
beggarly country which could only burden them with its support. In Scotland
the opposition to the union was almost universal: they beheld in it the extinc-
tion of their nation; and that peacefully if not treacherously accomplished
which England had for centuries vainly attempted to do by force. Especially
they feared for the safety of that church which they had so fondly cherished,
and which had tended so strongly to mould the national character. In these
circumstances Harley cast his eye upon De Foe, as one eminently qualified and
able to forward the measure. In England he was one of the most popular
writers: and being a Presbyterian and opposed to the prclatic party, he calcu-
lated that he would be favourably received in Scotland.

The idea was tinniliar to De Foe--he himself had suggested it to King
William, one whole Review was devoted to the inculcation of peace and unity,
probably before the minister had spoken to him on the subject. He imme-
diately prepared to set out for Scotland, and arrived at Edinburgh in the
beginning of October, 1700, a few days before the articles of union were sub-
mitted to the Scottish parliament. Though without any oliicial designation,
yet as the friend and adviser of the ministers, he was received by the commis-
sioners as one invested with plenipotentiary power. His business-habits enabled
him to render to them essential service, in making those calculations on which
the imposts in future should be levied; and in his "History of the Union"
he enters into many curious particulars of these matters, and of the dangers
to which he and the commissioners were exposed from the infuriated mob.
But finding that there was nothing to fear from "the treaters within doors, I
thought it my duty," says he, "to do my part without doors 5 and I knew no
part I could act in my sphere, so useful and proper, as to attempt to remove the
national prejudices, which both people, by the casualty of time and the errors _
of parties, had too eagerly taken up, and were adhered to with too great tenacity; '
To this purpose I wrote (u-o Essays against National Prejudices in England; 1" 3""
while the treaty was in agitation there; and four more in Scotland, while it
was debating in the parliament there."

With the same object, in December, 1706, he published, in Edinburgh,
"Caledonia, a peem in honour of Scotland and the Scots nation." In it he
also invites the Scotch to an increased attention to the improvement of the agri-
culture and commerce of the country. During the sixteen months in which he 3,; -.:
resided in Scotland, he made several excursions throughout the country, and' 5' '73.
his observations upon what he saw there evince great sagacity. At this time I. I
Scotland contained scarcely a million of inhabitants, and even these were
barely able to obtain a precarious existence. Tho beat of the land was thought
capable of producing oats and barley only; and so late were the seasons,
that the poor hushandman had often to gather his scanty harvest amid the
snow. Famines were frequent, when the poor were forced to live on noxious
roots, and thousands of them died of hunger. But De Foo foresaw its future
greatness, and held out prospects of plenty. "The poverty of Scotland, and
the fruitfulness of England, or rather the difference between them," said he,
"is owing not to more difference of climate, or the nature of the soil; but to
the errors of time and their different eonstitutions.-----Liberty and trade have
made the one rich, and tyranny the other poor."

The union between the two countries was completed in May I, 1707, but Do
Foo continued in Scotland till January, 1708. During his absence, the Review
appeared regularly, and he assures the reader that, "though it is none of the
easiest things in the world to write a paper to come out three times a week,
and perhaps liable to more censure and ill-usage than other papers ; and at the
some time, to reside for sixteen months together, at almost four hundred miles
distance from London, and sometimes more," yet all the articles "are written
by D. 1"." On his return to London, he endeavoured to obtain a settlement
with his creditors; and after waiting on Mr. Hurley and Lord Godolphin, im-
mediately returned to Scotland, as we find him at Edinburgh in April.

In the beginning of this year, the intrigues which Mr. llurloy had for some
time carried on through Mus. Mashaln against his colleagues, the Duke of
Marlborough and Lord (imlolphin, were discovered ; and they having insisted
upon the queen's removing him from ofliee, in li'cbrunry ho tendered his resig-
nation. On learning Mr. Harley's retirement, Dc Foo returned to London,
with the intention of tendering his resignation and uniting his fate with him
whom he always designated his benefactor.

"When, upon that fatal breach," says he, "the secretary of state [Harley]
was dismissed from the service, I looked upon myself as lost: it being a gene-
ral rule in such cases, when a great ollieer falls, that all who came in by his
interest fall with him 3 and resolving never to abandon the fortunes of the
man to whom I owed so mneh of my own, 1 quitted the usual applications
which I had made to my lord-treasurer.

"lint my generous benefactor, when he understood it, fnmkly told me that
I should by no means do so; 'For,' said he, in the most engaging terms,
'my lord-treasurer will employ you in nothing but what is for the public ser-
vice, and agreeably to your own sentiments of things ; and besides, it is the
queen you are serving, who has been very good to you. Pray, apply yourself
as you used to do ; I shall not take it ill from you in the least.'

"Upon this, 1 went to wait on my lord-treasurer [Godolphiu], who received
me with great freedom, and told me, smiling, he had not seen me a long while.
I told his lordship very frankly the (revulsion--that the unhappy breach that
had fallen out made me doubtful whether I should be acceptable to his lord-
ship. That I knew it was usual when great persons fall, that all who were In
their into-est fall with them. That his lordship knew the obligations I was
 

 

 

under, and that I could not but fear my interest in his lordship was lessened
on that account. 'Not at all, Mr. De Foe,' replied his lordship, 'I always
think a man honest till I find to the contrary.'

"Upon this, I attended his lordship as usual; and being resolved to remove
all possible. ground of suspicion that I kept any secret correspondence, I never
visited, or wrote to, or any way corresponded with my principal benefactor for
above three years; which he so well knew the reason of, and so well approved
that punctual behaviour in me, that he never took it ill from me at all.

" ln consequence of this ruseption, my Lord Godolphin had the goodness not
only to introduce me for the second time to her majesty, and to the honour of
kissing her hand, but obtained for me the continuance of an appointment which
her majesty had been pleased to make me, in consideration of a former special
service 1 had done, and in which 1 had run as much risk of my life as a gren-
adier upon the conntersearp; and which appointment, however, was first ob-
tained for me at. the intercession of my said first benefactor, and is all owing
to that intercession and her majesty's bounty. Upon this second introduction,
her majesty was pleased to tell me, with a goodness peculiar to herself, that
she had such satisfaction in my former services, that she had appointed me for
another affair, which was something nice, and that my lord-treasurer should tell
me the rest; and so I withdrew.

"The next day, his lordship having commanded me to attend, told me that
he must send me to Scotland, and gave me but three days to prepare myself.
Accordingly, I went to Scotland, where neither my business, nor the manner
of my discharging it, is material to this tract; nor will it be ever any part of
my character that I reveal what should be concealed. And yet, my errand was
such as was far from being unlit for a sovereign to direct, or an honest man to
pertbrm; and the service I did upon that occasion, as it is not unknown to the
greatest man now in the nation under the. king and the prince, so, I dare say,
his grace was never displeased with the part I had in it, and I hope will not
forget it."---Au Appeal to Ilnmmr aml .fitslz'ce, pp. 14--16, Oxford ed.

As Dc Foe has not revealed what this "something nice" was, it may be
fruitless to conjecture, but we find that immediately on his arrival in Edin~
burgh he visited Lord Bclhaven, who was at this time a prisoner in the castle
there; and from his conversation with that nobleman, and the assurances he
gave. him of a favourable reception by her majesty when he should arrive at
London, it. is plain that to comfort him under the wanton insult noWeommitted
upon his character and person was one of the objects of his mission.

As soon as the union was completed, De Foe intimated his intention of giving
an account of the transaction, but it was delayed till 1709, when it was printed
at. Edinburgh. This edition of "The History of the Union," exclusive of
preliminary matter, contains 686 pages folio, and its subscription price in
sheets, was 203. It is dedicated to the queen and the Duke of Queeasbury,
secretary of state for Scotland. Mr. Chalmers, in his "Life of De Foe," thus-
characterizes the work :--

" The minuteness with which 'ie describes what he saw and heard on the
 

turbulent stage, where he acted a conspicuous part, is extremely interesting to
us, who wish to know what actually passed, however this circumstantiality may
have disgusted contemporaneous readers. History is chiefly valuable as it
transmits a faithful copy of the manners and sentiments of every age. This
narrative of De Foe is a drama, in which he introduces the highest peers and
the lowest peasants, speaking and acting, according as they were each actuated
by their characteristic passions; and while the man of taste is amused by his
manner, the man of business may draw instruction from the documents, which
are appended to the end, and interspersed in every page. This publication
had alone preserved his name, had his Crusoe pleased us less."--I'. 51.

In 1710, De Foe resided at Stoke-Newington, and seems to have been in
comfortable. circumstances. In November he again made an excursion to Scot-
land; and upon the lst of February, the town-council of Edinburgh, grateful
for the services he had formerly rendered them, empowered him to publish the
Edinburgh Courant, and prohibited any other person to print news under the
name of that paper. He. relinquished the publication after printing forty-five
numbers, and in the. month of March returned to London.

"I come now historically," says Dc Fee, "to the point of time when my
Lord Godolpbin was dismissed from his employment, and the late unhappy di-
vision broke out. at court. I waited on my lord the day he was displaced, and
humbly asked his lordship's direction what course I should take? His lord-
ship's answer was, ' That. he had the same good-will to assist me, but not the
same power ; that I was the queen's servant, and that all he had done for me
Was by her majesty's special and particular direction; and that whoever should
succeed him, it was not material to me; he supposed I should be employed in
nothing relating to the present dilli-rences. My business was to wait till I saw
things settled, and then apply myself to the ministers of state, to receive her
majest-y's (mmmands from them.'

" it occurred to me innnediately, as a principle for my conduct, that it was
not material to me what. ministers her majesty was pleased to employ; my
duty was to go along with every ministry, so far as they did not break in upon
the constitution, and the laws and liberties of my country; my part being
only the duty of a subject, viz. to submit to all lawful commands, and to enter
into no service which was not justifiable by the laws ; to all which I have ex-
actly obliged myself.

"By this, I was providentially cast back upon my original benefactor, who,
according to his wonted goodness, was pleased to lay my case before her ma-
jesty 3 and thereby I preserved my interest in her majesty's favour, but with-
out any engagement of service."

It is impossible in this sketch to give any idea of the eighty political works
that prececded from his pen, from his first journey into Scotland till the
death of Queen Anne, which may be considered synchronous with the termina-
tion of his own political career. The reader is referred to Wilson's Life and
Times of De Foe, from which the. nurterials of this memoir arc chiefly selected,
for a synopsis of them. Those only that are necessary to complete the chaintrauma or ran AUTHOR. 33'

___--______---------------

of the narrative can be noticed. The members of the new cabinet, on coming
into power, immediately set about making a peace; and in this service they
had the hearty eo-operation of De Foe, who wrote several pamphlets and largely
in the Review in favour of "a good peace." But when it had been concluded
at Utrecht, and the terms became known, "I wrote a public paper at that time,
and there it remains upon record against me. I printed it openly, and that so
plainly that others durst not do it, that I did not like the peace." He was
now placed as a mark for both parties, and so many pamphlets were daily
coming out in his name, of which he had no knowledge, that he deemed it pru-
dent to retire for a time from the contest, "and for the greater part of a year
never put pen to paper, except in the public paper called the Review."

"After this I was long absent in the north of England; and .observing the
insolenee of the J aeobite party, and how they insinuated fine things into the
heads of the people; in order to detect the influence of their emissaries, the first
thing I wrote was a small tract, called ' A. Seasouable Caution ;' a book sincerely
written to open the eyes of the poor, ignorant country people, and to warn
them against the subtle insinuations of the emissaries of the Pretender; and
that it might be effectual to that purpose, I prevailed with several 'of my friends
to give them away among the poor people, all over England, especially in the
north; and several thousands were actually given away, the price being reduced
so low, that the bare expense of paper and press was only preserved.

"Next to this, and with the same sincere design, I wrote two pamphlets,
one entitled, 'What if the Pretender should come?' the other, 'Reasons against
the Succession of the House of Hanover.'

"Nothing can be more plain than that the titles of these books were amuse-
ments, in order to put the books into the hands of those people whom the
J acubites had deluded, and to bring them to be read by them. i

"Previous to what I shall further say of these books, I must observe that
all these books met with so general a reception and approbation among those-
who were most sincere for the Protestant succession, that they sent them all
over the kingdom, and recommended them to the people as excellent and'
useful pieces; insomuch that about seven editions of them were printed, and '
they were reprinted in other places. And I do protest, had his present majesty,
then elector of Hanover, given me a thousand pounds to have written for the .
interest of his succession, and to expose and render the interest of the. Pre- .
tender odious and ridiculous, I could have done nothing more efl'ectual to those
purposes than these books were.

"No man in this nation ever had a more riveted aversion to the Pretender,
and to all the family he pretended to come of, than I; a man that had been
in arms under the Duke of Monmouth, against the cruelty and arbitrary go-
vernment of his pretended father; that for twenty years had to my utmost
opposed him (King James) and his party after his abdication; ahd had served ,
King William to his satisfaction, and the friends of the Revolution after 15::
death, at all hazards and upon all occasions; that had sufi'ered and been ngned p
under the administration of high-fliers and Jaeobites, of whom some a'ithiqi"
day counterfeit Whigs. It could not be! The nature of the thing could by
no means allow it; it must be monstrous. For these books I was prosecuted,
taken into custody, and obliged to give 8001. hail.

"This matter making some noise, people began to inquire into it, and ask
what De Foe was prosecuted for, seeing the books were manifestly written
against the Pretender, and for the interest of the house of Hanover.--And my
friends cxpostulated freely with some of the men who appeared in it, who
answered with more truth than honesty, that they knew this book had not-hing
in it, and that it was meant another way; but that De Foe had disobliged them
in other things, and they were resolved to take the advantage they had, both
to punish and expose him. They were no inconsiderable people who said this;
and had the ease come to a trial, I had provided good evidence to prove the
words.

"Now, as this was the plot of a few men to see if they could brand me in
the world for a Jacobite, and persuade. rash and ignorant people that I was
turned about for the Pretender, I think they might as easily have proved me
to be a Mohammedan; therefore, I say, this obliges me to state the matter as it
really stands, that impartial men may judge whether those books were written
for or against the Pretender. And this cannot be better done than by the
account of what followed after the information, which, in a few words, was
this :--

"Upon the several days appointed, I appeared at the Queen's Bench bar to
discharge my bail; and at last had an indictment for high crimes and mis-
demeanors exhibited against me by her majesty's attorney-general, which, as I
was informed, contained two hundred sheets of paper.

"I was not ignorant that in such cases it. is easy to make any book a libel,
and that the jury must have found the matter of fact in the indictment, viz.
that I had written such books, and then what might have followed I know not.
Wherefore, I thought it was my only way to cast myself on the clemency of
her majesty, of whose goodness I had so much experience many ways; repre-
senting in my petition, that I was far from the least intention to favour the
interest of the Pretender, but that the books were all written with a sincere
design to promote the interest of the house of Hanover; and humbly laid
before her majesty, as I do now before the rest of the world, the books them-
selves to plead in my behalf; representing further, that I was maliciously
informed against by those who were willing to put a construction upon the
expressions different from my true meaning ; and therefore, flying to her
majesty's goodness and clemency, I entreatcd her gracious pardon.

" It was not only the native disposition of her majesty to acts of clemency
and goodness that obtained me this pardon; but, as I was informed, her majesty
was pleased to express it in the council, 'She saw nothing but private pique
in the first prosecution.' "

. The reader must be struck by the resemblance between this prosecution and
the former one, for the publication of the "Shortest Way with the Dissenters."
De Foe had been playing the same game and was caught in the same trap.
--___'_'__--------

At this time the friendship of Lord Oxford to a considerable degree saved 'him
from the malice of his enemies, by taking the prosecution out of the hands
of the individual who instituted it, and intrusting it to the solicitor of the
treasury, who accepted a bail, which by the original party was refused. One
of the consequences of this prosecution was the cessation of the Review, the
chief engine of his power; and feeling that his political life was drawing to a
close, he, shortly after, began his " Appeal to Honour and Justice," the reasons
for which are thus afi'cctingly stated : "I think I have long enough been made
Fabula Vulyi, and borne the weight of general slander, and I should be wanting
to truth, to my family, and to myself, if I did not give a fair and true state of
my conduct, for impartial men to judge of, when I am no more in being to
answer for myself. By the hints of mortality, and by the infirmities of a life
of sorrow and fatigue, I have reason to think I am not a. great way off from,
if not very near to the great ocean of eternity, and the time may not be long
ere I embark on the last voyage. Wherefore, I think I should even accounts
with this world before I go, that no actions (slanders) may lie against my
heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, to disturb them in the peaceable
possewion of their father's (character) inheritance." .

While engaged in this narrative he was struck with apoplexy, and the work
was published in an unfinished state. After languishing six months he gra-
dually rccovered, but was long very weak.

We will conclude this sketch of his political labours with a quotation from the
preface to the eighth volume of the Review, in which he thus sums up his
chequered life :---"I know too much of the world to expect good in it, and
have learnt to value it too little to be concerned at the efl. I have gone
through a life of wonders, and am the subject of a vast variety of providences;
I built: been fed more by miracle than Elijah, when the ravens were his pur-
veyors. I have sometime ago summed up the scenes of my life in this distich:

"No man has tested difl'cring fortunes more,
And thirteen times I have been rich and poor."

"In the school of afllietion I have learnt more philosophy than at the ace-
demy, and more divinity than from the pulpit; in prison I have learnt to know
that liberty does not consist in open doors, and the free egress and regress of
locomotion. I have seen the rough side of the world as well as the smooth ;
and have in less than half a year tasted the difference between the closet of a
king and the dungeon of Newgate. I have suffered deeply for cleaving to
principles, of which integrity 1 have lived to say, none but those I suffered for
ever reproaehed me with it. I look in, and upon the narrowest search I can
make of my own thoughts, desires, and designs, I find a clear untsinted prin-
ciple, and consequently on entire calm of conscience, founded upon the satisfying
sense, that I neither am touched with bribes, guided or influenced by; fear,
favour, hope, dependence, or reward from any person or party hnder heaven ;
and that I have written, and do write nothing but what is my native, flee,
undirected opinion and judgment, and which was so many yearn~ ago, : I_ look
up, and without examining into His ways, the sovereignty." whose providence

at t
 

Iadore, I submit with an entire resignation to whatever happens to me, as

being by the immediate direction of that goodness, and for such wise and

glorious ends, as, however I may not yet see through, will at last issue in good,

even to me ; fully depending, that I shall yet'be delivered from the pewer of

slander and reproach, and the sincerity of my conduct be yet cleared up to the
world: and if not, Te Deum lumiamus."

With the accession of the house of Hanover, De Foe beheld the triumph
of those'prineiples which it had been the object of his life to establish. The
author and his enemies were struck down together: but rising from his ashes
he was destined to begin a more glorious career. With renovated health, in
1715, he commenced writing that series of didactic and imaginative works
which has made his name immortal. The first of these, "The Family Instruc-
tor," is a dialogue, designed to impress upon parents the duty of instructing '
their children, and of children to listen to their instruction. To this work he
added a second volume in 1718, and another in 17:37. The dialogue is well
sustained, and being a general favourite with the young it has passed through
many editions. Passing over six works in the catalogue, in 1717 we come to
"Memoirs of the Church of Scotland," now very scarce and valuable 3 and in
1719, the innnortal narrative of "Robinson Crusoe." For the first part he
had difiiculty in finding a bookseller; but it was so favourably received that
he was encouraged to proceed, and after an interval of about three months the
second part appeared. It is too well known to require recommendation. The
success of this work encouraged him to persevere in the same line, and in the
same year he published "Dickory Cronkc, the Dumb Philosopher." In 1720,
"The Life and Adventures of Duncan Campbell," and "The Pyracies of Capt.
Singleton." In 1721 he published "Moll Flanders ;" and "Colonel Jacque,"
"The Religious Courtship," "Memoirs of a Cavalier," and "Journal of the
Plague Year," in 17:22.

Lord Chatham was in the habit of recommending the "Memoirs of a Cava-
lier" as the best account of the Civil War extant, and was not a little mortified
when told that it was a romance; and Dr. Meade and many others have sup-
posed that "The History of the Plague" was an authentic history. "Had he
not been the a'uthor of Robinson Crusoe," says Sir Walter Scott, "De Foe
would have deserved immortality for the genius which he has displayed in this
work."

De Foe never tells a story for mere amusement. As a painter of life he had to
take the world as he found it: as a moralist his aim was to leave it better. Our
space will not permit us to enter into an analysis of the fifty works which he
produced in this period, nor even to mention their names. In taking leave
of a man of genius, it is grateful that we need be the apologist of no vice.

Strictly pious, temperate, and virtuous, his name is left without reproach.
' The latter years of his life were spent chiefly at Stoke-Newington. To him
it was a comparatively tranquil period, but not one of idleness. Mr. Baker,
the author of the work on the " Microscope," who married his youngest daugh-
ter, left behind him a paper, in which he speaks of him as living "in a very
handsome house," and supposed "from his genteel way of living, that he must
be able to givohis daughter a decent portion."

He spent his time in the "pursuit of his studies" and in the "cultivation
of a large and pleasant garden." It would have been pleasing after such a
life of toil and vicissitude to have left him thus, surrounded by his family}
peacefully enjoying the fruits of his labour in his old age. But for several
years before his death he was much tormented by gout and stone, and in 1730
he was again for a short time an inmate of a prison. "But it is not the blow
I received from this wicked, perjured, and eontemptible enemy," says he, in a
private letter to his son-in-law, "that has broken in upon my spirit. But it has
been the injustice, unkindness, and inhuman dealing of mine own son, which
, has both mined my family and broken my heart ..... I would say (I hope)
" with comfort, that 'tis yet well. I am so near my journey's end, and am hast-
ening to the place where the weary are at rest, and where the wicked cease to
. trouble; be it that the passage is rough, and the day stormy, by what way
,' soever He please to bring me to the end of it, I desire to finish life with this
temper of soul in all cases: Te Deum laudamus."
, Having completed the allotted term of human existence, with a mind steadily
, - fixed upon the scenes beyond, he passed the boundaries of time into eternity,
f; on the twenty-fourth of April, 1731, in the same parish in which he was born

The origin of this edition is stated in the advertisement. The particulars
' * of the life of De Foe are so little known, that it was thought a memoir of him
" would be acceptable; and the life by Chalmers, though a go" work, being
. now proved, by the investigations of Mr. Wilson, in many things to be incorrect,
1 it was thought necessary to compile a new one from original sources. "'For

 

__ often compelled him to stand on his own defence, and the only task of the
editor has been to select judiciously. '

' The romance of Robinson Crusoe having been printed in so many forms, and
altered to suit the taste' and convenience of its several publishers, is seldom to
be found in a perfect state. In preparing the Oxford edition of " De Fee's
Miscellaneous Works," in 1839, the early editions printed in his lifetime were
collected and compared, and the work issued as it came from the hands of the
author: of that edition this is a reprint; but it has been also carefully com-
pared with a copyright edition printed at Edinburgh in 1846, and several.
slight errors corrected. With the exception of the omission of one vulgar
phrase, no way necessary to complete the sense, and which the author indicated

made; and it is believed that the edition here presented is the most perfect in
existence.

' this purpose the materials were ample: the slanders of his enemies having '

by dashes, thinking it improper to express it in words, no alteration has been I

._ 3'5,
_. .........r..,~_s .. <<mnefi'tfldl WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family,
though not of that country, my father being a foreigner of Bremen,
who settled first at Hull. He got a. good estate by merchandise, and,
leaving 01? his trade, lived afterwards at York, from whence he had
married my mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very
good family in that country, and from whom I was called Robinson
Krcutznaer; but, by the usual corruption of words in England, we
are now called--nay, we call ourselves, and write our name--Crusoe;
and so my companions always called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of which was a lieutenant-colonel to
an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly counnanded by the
famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards: what became of my second brother, I never
know, any more than my father or mother did know what was become
of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my

head began to he filled very early with rambling thoughts: my father,
3334'- THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

 

 

who was very ancient, had given me a competent share of learning, as
far as house education, and a country free school genegally goes, and
designed me for the lav; but 1 would be satisfied with nothing but
going to sea ; and my inclination to this led me so strongly against the
will--nay, the commands--of my father, and against all the entreaties
and persuasions of my mother and other friends, that there seemed to
be something fatal in that propensiou of nature, tending directly to
the life of misery which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one
morning into his chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and ex-
postulated very warmly with me upon this subject. He asked me what
reasons, more than a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving my
father's house and my native country, where I might be well intro-
duced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune by application and
industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was men of
desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring superior fortunes on the
other, who went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and
make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common
road; that these things were all either too far above me, or too far
below me; that mine was the middle state, or what might be called the
upper station of low life, which he had found, by long experience, was
the best state in the world; the most suited to human happiness, not
exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labour and sufferings of the
mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury,
ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind. He told me, I
might judge of the happiness of this state by this one thing, nameiy,
that this was the state of life which all other people envied; that kings
have frequently lamented the miserable consequences of being born to
great things, and wished they had been placed in the middle of the
two extremes, between the mean and the great; that the wise man
gave his testimony to this, as the just standard of true felicity, when
he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.

He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the calamities
of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind; but
that the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not exposed
to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind; nay,
they were not subjected to so many distempers and uneasiness, either
of body or mind, as those were, who, by vicious living, luxury, and
extravagances, on one hand, or by hard labour, want of necessaries,
and mean or insufficient diet, on the other hand, bring distempers upon
'xhemselves by the natural consequences of their way of living; that
 

the middle station of life was calculated for all kind of virtues,
and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and plenty were the hand-
maids of a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness,
health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures,
were the blessings attending the middle station of life; that this way,
men went silently and smoothly through the world, and comfortably
out of it; not embarrassed with the labours of the hands or of the
head; not sold to a life of slavery for daily bread, or harassed with
perplexed circumstances, which rob the soul of peace and the body of
rest; not enraged with the passion of envy, or the secret burning lust
of ambition for great things; but in easy circumstances, sliding gently
through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of living without
the bitter; feeling that they are happy, and learning, by every day's
experience, to know it more sensibly.

After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate
manner, not to play the young man, or to precipitate myself into
miseries, which nature, and the station of life I was born in, seemed
to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking
my bread; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recommending to
me; and that, if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it must
be my mere fate, or fault, that must hinder it; and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in warning
me against measures which he knew would be to my hurt: In a word,
that as he would do very kind things for me, if I would stay and settle
at home as he directed; so he would not have so much hand in my
misfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to go away: and, to
close all, he told me, I had my elder brother for an example, to whom
he had used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into
the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young desires prompt-
ing him to run into the army, where he was killed; and though he said
he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to say to me,
that if I did take this foolish step, God would not bless me; and I
would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counv
sel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery.

I observed, in this last part of his discourse, which was truly pro-
phetic, though I suppose my father did not know it to be so himself,--
I say, I observed the tears run down his face very plentifully, espe-
cially when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and that when he
spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so
moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told me, his heart was so
full he could say no more to me.
I was sincerely afflicted with this discourse, as indeed who could be
otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any more, but
to settle at home according to my father's desire. But, alas! a few
days wore it all off; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's far-
ther importunities, in a few weeks after, I resolved to run quite away
from him. However, I did not act so hastily neither, as the first heat
of my resolution prompted, but I took my mother at a time when I
thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her, that my
thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that 1 should
never settle to any thing with resolution enough to go through with it,
and my father had better give me his consent, than force me to go
without it; that I was now eighteen years old, which was too late to
go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure, if I
did, I should never serve out my time, but I should certainly run away
from my master before my time was out, and go to sea; and if she
would speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad, if I came
home again, and did not like it, I would go no more, and I would
' promise, by a double diligence, to recover the time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion: she told me, she knew it
would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such subject;
that he knew too well what was my interest, to give his consent to any
such thing so much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I could
think of any such thing, after the discourse I had had with my father,
and such kind and tender expressions, as she knew my father had used
to me; and that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there was no he];
for me; but'I might depend I should never have their consent to it
that, for her part, she would not have so much hand in my destruction;
and I should never have it to say, that my mother was willing when
my father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet I heard
afterwards, that she reported all the discourse to him; and that my
father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her, with a sigh,
" That boy might be happy, if he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born: I
can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a. year after this that I broke loose, though in
the mean time I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of settling
to business, and frequently expostulating with my father and mother
about their being so positively determined against what they knew my
inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, whither
I went casually, and without any purpose .of making an elopement that
time; but, I say, being there, and one of my companions being goingg4;

 

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 39

by sea to London, in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with
them, with the common allurement of a seafaring man, that it should
cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither father nor mother
any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but leaving them to
hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing, or my father's,
without any consideration of circumstances or consequences, and in an
ill hour, God knows, on the let of September, 1651, I went on board a
ship bound for London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I
believe, began sooner, or continued longer, than mine: the ship was
no sooner got out of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and the
sea to rise in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been at sea
before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in mind.
I began now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly
Iwas overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving
my father's house, and abandoning my duty; all the good counsel of
my parents, my father's tears and my mother's entreaties, came now
fresh into my mind; and my conscience, which was not yet come to
the pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproached me with-
the contempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God and my
father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor what
I saw a few days after: but it was enough to affect me then, who was
but a young sailor, and had never known anything of the matter. I
expected every wave would have swallowed us up, and that every time
the ship fell down, as I thought it did, in the trough, orxhollow of the
sea, we should never rise more. In this agony of mind, I made many V '
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to spare my life in
this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry land again, I
would go directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship again
while I lived; but I would take his advice, and never run myself finto }
such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of 3'???
his observations about the middle station of life, how easy, how com
fox-table he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed to tem-
pests at sea, or trouble on shore; and, in short, I resolved, that 1
would, like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm " \_
continued, and indeed some time after; but the next day the wind was
abated, and the sea calmer, and I began to be a little innred taint, V j
However, I was very grave for all that day, being also a little sea I" '
Still, but towards night the weather cleared up. the wind was quite ~
over, and a charming fine evening followed, the sun went down por-

"MW'.

4.2.1 A
fcctly clear, and rose so the next morning; and having little or no
wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I
thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but very
cheerful; looking with wonder upon the sea, that was so rough and
terrible the day before, and could be so calm and so pleasant in so lit'
tle a time after: and now, lest my good resolutions should continue.
my companion, who had indeed enticed me away, comes to me; " Well.
Bob," says he, clapping me upon the shoulder, "how do you do after
it? I warrant you were frightened, weren't you, last night, when it
blew but a eapful of wind ?"--" A capful d'ye call it i" said I, " 'twas a
terrible storm."--" A storm, you fool, you l" replies he, " do you call
that a storm '3 why it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship and
sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; but
you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob; come, let us make a bowl of
punch, and we'll forget all that; d'ye see what charming weather 'tis
now ?" To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of
all sailors; the punch was made, and I Was made half drunk with it,
and in that one night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all
my reflections upon my past conduct, all my resolutions for the future.
In a word, as the sea, was returned to its smoothness of surface, and
settled calmness, by the abatement of that storm, so, the hurry of my
thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed
up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of my former desires
returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that I made in my
distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflection; and the serious
thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes; but I
shook them oli', and roused myself from them, as it were from a dis-
temper; and, applying myself to drinking and company, soon mastered
the return of those fits (for so I called them); and I had, in five or six
days, got as complete a. victory over my conscience as any young fellow
that resolved not to be troubled with it could desire. But I was to
have another trial for it still; and Providence, as in such cases gene-
rally it does, resolved to leave me entirely without excuse: for if I
would not take this for a deliverance, the next was to be such an one
as the worst and most hardened wretch among us would confess both
the danger and the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into Yarmouth roads;
the wind having been contrary and the weather calm, we had made but
little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an anchor,
and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, namely, at south-west,
for seven or eight days; during which time, a great many ships fromCRIISOI-I ;\_\'1) mm ABOARD SHIP. v1]42 rm: 1.1m: AND Anvsx'rusas

 

Newcastle came into the same roads, as the common harbour where the
ships might wait for a wind for the river.

We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided it
up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and after we had lain
four or five days, blew very hard. However, the roads being reckoned
as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very
strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least apprehensive
of danger; but'spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of
the sea: but the eighth day in the morning, the wind increased, and
we had all hands at work to strike our top-masts, and make every thing
snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible. By noon,
the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rid forecastle iii, shipped
several seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor had come home;
upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor; so that we rode
with two anchors a--head, and the cables veered out to the better end.

By this time, it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now, I began to.
see terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves.
The master, though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet
as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him, softly to
himself, say, several times, " Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be all
lost--we shall be all undone !" and the like. During these first hur--
ries, I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the steerage,
and cannot describe my temper. I could ill resume the first penitence
which I had so apparently trampled upon, and hardened myself against :
I thought the bitterness of death had been past; and that this would
be nothing, too, like the first. But, when the master himself came by
me, as I said just now, and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully
frightened: I got up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a dis-
ma] sight I never saw: the sea went mountains high, and broke upon-
us every three or four minutes; when I could look about, I could see-
nothing but distress round us. Two ships that rid near us, we found,
had cut their masts by the board, being deep laden; and our men cried
out, that a ship, which rid about a mile a-head of us, was foundered-
Two more ships, being driven from their anchors, were run out of the.
roads to sea, at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing. The
light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in the sea; but
two or three of them drove, and came close by us, running away with
only their sprit-sail out, before the wind.

Towards the evening, the mate and boatswain begged the master of
our ship to let them cut away the foremast, which he was very unwill-
ing to do: but the boatswain protesting to. him, that if he did not the
ship would founder, he consented; and when they had cut away the
 

 

foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, a'nd shook the ship so much,
they were obliged to cut her away also, and make a clear deck.

Any one must judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who
was but a young sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at
but a little. But if I can express at this distance the thoughts I had
about me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon ac~
count of my former convictions, and the having returned from them to
the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itself;
and these, added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a condi~
tion, that I can by no words describe it. But the worst was not come
yet; the storm continued with such fury, that the seamen themselves
acknowledged they had never seen a worse. We had a good ship, but
she was deep laden, and wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every
now and then cried out she would founder. . It was my advantage in
one respect, that I did not know what they meant by founder, till I
inquired. However, the storm was so violent, that I saw, what is not
often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some others more sensible
than the rest. at their prayers, and expecting every moment when the
ship would go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under
all the rest of our distresses, one of the men that had been down on
purpose to see, cried out we had sprung a leak; another said, there
was four feet water in the hold. Then all hands were called to the
pump. At that very word, my heart, as I thought, died within me;
and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed where I sat, into the

'cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me, that I that was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another; at
which I stirred up, and went to the pump, and worked very heartily.
While this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who, not
able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to the
sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal'of dis-
tress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised, that
I thought the shiphad broke, or some dreadful thing happeded. In
a word. I was so surprised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this. was
a time when everybody had his own life to think of, nobody minded
me, or what was become of me; but another man stepped up to; the
pump, and, thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking Thad '
been dead; and it was a great while- before I came to myself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it was apparent
that the ship would founder; and though .the storm began'to abate a .
little, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we might run into _
a port, so the master continued firing guns for help; and a light ship,
who had rid It out just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to help us. .
S'I'OR

'1' H E
 

It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us; but it was
impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship
side, till at last the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives
to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to
it, and then veered it out a. great length, which they, after much labour
and hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close under our stern,
and got all into their boat. It was to no purpose for them or us, after
we were in the boat, to think of reaching to their own ship; so all
agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as much
as we could; and our master promised them, that if the boat was
staved upon shore, he would make it good to their master: so, partly
r0wing, and partly driving, our boat went away to the northward,
sloping towards the shore, almost as far as Winterton Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship,
but we saw her sink: and then I understood, for the first time, what
was meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had
hardly eyes to look up, when the seamen told me she was sinking; for,
from that moment they rather put me into the boat, than that I might
be said to go in; my heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly
with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was
yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the oar to
bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when our boat mounting

the waves we were able to see the shore) a great many people running .

along the shore to assist us, when we should come near; but we made
but slow way towards the shore, nor were we able to reach the shore,
till being past the light-house at Winterton, the shore falls off to the
westward towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the
violence of the wind. Here we got in, and, though not without much
difficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot to
Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great
humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned us
good quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of ships, and
had money given us sufficient to carry us either to London, or back to
Hull, as we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have gone
home, I had been happy, and my father, an emblem of our blessed
Saviour's parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing
the ship I went in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was agreat
while before he had any assurance that I was not drowned. ' '

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that nothing
could resist: and though I had several times loud calls from my reason

. . .a 7 "- 12'",
.43: u_.'-. 2 ~ Chounf'm'f .2
 

 

and my more composed judgment to go home, yet I had no power to do it.
I know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it is a secret, over-
ruling decree, that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own
destruction, even though it be before us, and that we push upon it with
our eyes open. Certainly, nothing but some such decreed unavoidable
misery attending, and which it was impossible for me to escape, could
have pushed me forward against the calm reasonings and persuasions
of my most retired thoughts, and against two such visible instructions
as I had met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was
the master's son, was now less forward than I. The first time he
spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or
three days,- for we were separated in the town to several quarters,
--I say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered; and
looking very melancholy, and shaking his head, asked me how I did:
and telling his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only
for a trial, in order to go farther abroad; his father turning to me
with a very grave and concerned tone, " Young man," says he, "you
ought never to go to sea any more; you ought to take this for a plain
and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring man."--"Why,
sir," said I, "will you go to sea no more?"---"That is another case,"
said he; "it is my calling, and therefore my duty; but as you made
this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you, of
what you are to eiipect, if you persist: perhaps all this has befallen
us on your account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," eon-
tinues he, " what are you? and on what account did you go to sea ?"
Upon that I told him some of my story ; at the end of which he burst
out with astrange kind of passion: "What had I done," says he,
"that such an unhappy wretch should come into my ship? I would not
set my foot in the same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds."
This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of the spirits, which were
yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther than he
could have authority to go. However, he afterwards talked very
gravely to me, exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin; told me, I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me; "And, young man," said he, "depend upon it,
if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with no-
thing but disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are
fulfilled upon you. ' i

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and I saw him
no more; which way he went, I know not. As for me, having some
money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as well0F ROBINSON 03.0802. 41

as on the road, had many struggles with myself, what course of life
'I should take, and whether I should go home or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that ofi'ered to
my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I should be
laughed at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not
my father and mother only, but even everybody else ; from whence I
have since often observed, how incongruous and irrational the common
temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought
to guide them in such cases, namely, that they are not ashamed to sin,
and yet are ashamed to repent; nor ashamed of the action for which
they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the return-
ing, which only can make them be esteemed wise men. In this state
of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain what measures to
take, and what course of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance con-
tinued to going home; and as I stayed a while, the remembrance of
the distress I had been in wore ofi' ; and, as that abated, the little mo-
tion I had in my desires to a return wore of with it, till at last I quite
laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.

That evil influence which carried me first away from my father's
house, that hurried me into the wild and indigested notion of raising
my fortune, and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, as
to make me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and even the
command of my father,--I say, the same influence, whatever it was,
presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view, and I
went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or, as our sailors
vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.

It was my great misfortune, that in all these adventures I did not
ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might indeed have worked
:a little harder than ordinary, yet, at the same time, I had learned the
duty and office of a foremastman, and in time might have qualified
myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was
always my fate to choose for the worse, so I did here; for, having
money in my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always
go on board in the habit of a gentleman, and so I neither had any
business in the ship, or learned to do any.
48 THE LIFE (AND " ADVENTURES

 

CHAPTER II.

Make a trading Voyage to Guinea very successfully--Death of my Captain--Sail another
Trip with his Mate--The Vengeance of Providence for Disobedience to Parents now
overtakes me--Taken by a Sallee Rover, and all sold as Slaves--My Master fre-
quently sends me n-fishing, which suggests an idea of escape--Make my escape in
an open Boat, with a Moresco Boy.

IT was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good company in Lon-
don, which does not always happen to such loose and unguided young
fellows as I then was, the devil generally not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early; but it was not so with me. I first fell
acquainted with a master of a ship who had been on the coast of
Guinea; and who, having had very good success there, was resolved
to go again; and who taking a fancy to my conversation, which was
not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to
see the world, told me, if I would go the voyage with him I should be
at no expense; I should be his messmate and his companion; and if I
could carry any thing with me, I should have all the advantage of it
that the trade would admit; and perhaps I might meet with some
encouragement. _

I embraced the offer; and entering into a. strict friendship with this
captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing man, I went the voyage
with him, and carried a small adventure with me, which, by the disin-
terested honesty of my friend, the captain, I increased very considera.
bly; for I carried about forty pounds in such toys and trifles as the
captain directed me to buy. This forty pounds I had mustered together
by the assistance of some of my relations, whom I corresponded with,
and who, I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to contribute
so much.as that to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in all my
adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend
the captain; under whom, also, I got a competent knowledge of the
.mathematics, and the rules of navigation; learned how to keep an
account of the ship's course, take an observation, and, in short, to
understand some things that were needful to be understood by a sailor;
for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn; and, in a
word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant: for I brought
home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure, which

"I; Anew.
 

    

 

 

ATTACK OF THE SALLEE ROVER.

Vieldcd me in London, at my return, almost three hundred pounds;
and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so
completed my ruin.

Yet. even in this voyage, I had my misfortunes too ; particularly that
I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture hy the
excessive heat of the climate; our principal trading being upon the
coast, from the latitude of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same voy-
age again; and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his
mate in the former voyage, and had now got the command of the ship.
This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for though I did
not carry quite PS100 of my new-gained wealth, so that I had PS200
left, and which I lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to
me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first
was this,---namely, our ship, making her course towards the Canary
Islands, or rather between those islands and the African shore, was
surprised, in the gray of the morning, by a Moorish rover of Sallee,
who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make. We crowded
also as much canvas as our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to
have got clear; but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would cer-
tainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight, our ship

having twelve guns and the rover eighteen. About three in the after-
4
('Itt'sou A SLAVE.

noon he came up with us, and bringinnr to, by mistake, just athwnrt
'our quarter, instead of athnaIt our steIn, as he. intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side and poured in a broadside upon
him, which made him show off again, aerI r'etulning our file, and
pmuing in also his small shot, llml) near me hundred3 men which he
had on board. However, we had not a man touched, all our men
keeping close. Ile prepared to attack us again, and we to defend our-
selves; but laying us on board the next time upon our other quarter,
he entered sixty men upon our decks, who immediately fell to cutting
and hacking the decks and rigging. We plied them with small shot,
half-pikcs, powder-chests, and such like. and cleared our deck of them
twice. However, to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our
ship being disabled, and three of our men killed, and eight wounded,
we were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a
port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I apprehended:
nor was I carried up' the country to the emperor's court, as the rest of
our men were, but was kept by the captain of the rover, as his proper
prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his busi-

{I
 

_--.__-- .--..--_

ness. At this surprising change of my circumstances, from a merchant
to a. miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked
back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, that I shoqu be
111iserable, and have none to relieve me; which I thought was now so
effectually brought to pass, that I could not be worse; that now the
hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone without redemp-
tion. But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was to go through,
as will appear in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron or master had taken me home to his house, so I
was in hopes that he would take me with him when he went to Sea
again, believing that it would be some time or other his fate to be taken
by a. Spanish or Portugal 11111.11-of-war; and that then I should be set
at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he
11 cut to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little garden, and do
the common d1udee1 y of sl 11cs about his house; and when lie came
home again from his c1111/.c, he o1de1ed me to lie 1n the cabin, to look
alte1 the ship.

111110 I 111editated nothing but my escape, and what method I might
take. to afiect it , but foundo no way that had the least pnobability 1n it.
Nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational; for I had
nobody to communicate it to that would embark with me,----no fellow-
slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman there, but myself; so
that for two years, though I often pleased myself with the imagination,
vet I 1101 or had the least encou1aging p1ospect of putting it in p1act1cc

After about two yea1s, an odd ci1cumstance p1 esented itself, which
put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in my
head: my patron lying at home longer than usual, without fitting out
his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money, he used constantly,
once or twice 11-week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to

take the ships spinnace, and go out into the road a-fishing , and as he
always took me and a young Melesco with him to row the boat, we.
made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catching fish;'\
insomuch, that sometimes he would send me with a Moor, one of his
kinsmen, and the youth, the Moresco, as they called him, to catch a "PS4,
ash of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a-fishing with him in a calm morn~
ing, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a league from the
shore, we lost sight of it; and, rowing we knew not whither, or which
way, we laboured all day, and all the next night; and, when the ~1nom-_
mg came, we found we had pulled ofi' to sea, instead of pulling' in for
the shore; and that we were at least two leagues from the land: how-
ever, we got well in again, though with a great deal of labour. and.
 

some danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning;
but, particularly, we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more care
of himself for the future; and having lying by him the long-boat of our
English ship which he had taken, he resolved he would not go a--fishing
any more without a compass and some provision; so he ordered the
carpenter of his ship, who also was an English slave, to build a little
state-room, or cabin, in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a
barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer, and haul home the main-
sheet; and room before for a hand or two to stand and work the sails.
She sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton sail; and the boom
jibbed over the top of the cabin, which lay very snug and low, and had
in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat on,
with some small lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he
thought fit to drink, particularly his bread, rice, and coffee.

We were frequently out with this boat a-fishing; and as I was most
dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me. It hap-
pened one day, that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either for
pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction, and
for whom he had provided extraordinary; and had therefore sent on
board the boat over night a larger store of provisions than usual ; and
had ordered me to get ready three fusils with powder and shot, which
were on board his ship; for that they designed some sport of fowling,
as well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed; and waited the next morn-
ing with the boat washed clean, her ancient and pendants out, and
every thing to accommodate his guests; when by and by my patron
came on board alone, and told me his guests had put off going, upon
some business that fell out; and ordered me, with the man and boy, as
usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that his
friends were to sup at his house; he commanded me, too, that as soon
as I got some fish, I should bring it home to his house: all which I
prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my
thoughts; for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my com-
mand; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not
for fishing business, but for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did
I so much as consider, whither I would steer; for anywhere to get
out of that place was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor,
'to get something for our subsistence on board; for I told him we must
not presume to ea' of our patron's bread: he said, that was true; so
 

he brought a large basket of rusk, or biscuit of their kind, and three

jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my patron's case

of bottles stood, which, it was evident by the make, were taken out of

some English prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the Moor

was on shore, as if they had been there before for our (master: I con-

veyed also a great lump of beeswax into the boat, which weighed above

half a hundred weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, 'a.'
saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use to us afterwards, espe-

cially the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which

he innocently came into also. His name was Ismael, whom they call

Muly, or Moley; so I called him: "Moley," said I, "our patron's

guns are on board the boat; can you not get a little powder and shot?

It may be we may kill some alcamies (a fowl like our curlews) for our-

selves, for I know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship."--" Yes,'_'

says he, " I'll bring some ;" and accordingly he brought a great leather.
pouch, which held about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more,

and another with shot, that had five or six pounds, with some bullets,

and put all into the boat; at the same time I had found some powder

of my master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of the large.
bottles in the case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it

into another; and thus furnished with every thing needful,_we sailed

out of the port to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the

port, knew who we were, and took no notice of us ; and we were not

above a mile out of the port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down

to fish. The wind blew from the north-north-east, which was contrary

to my desire; for bad it blown southerly, I had been sure to have made

the coast of Spain, and at least reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my

resolutions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from that

horrid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time, and oatched nothing--for when I
had fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see
them--I said to the Moor, " This will not do; our master will not be
thus served; we must stand farther of." He, thinking no harm,
agreed, and being in the head of the boat, set the sails; and as I had
the helm, I ran the boat out near a league farther, and then brought
her to as if I would fish; when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped
forward to w-he1e the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for some;0 _
thing behind him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his rigs
and tossed him clear overboard into the sea: he rose Immelfit'tel'j, foi
he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be takenym Wino
he \would go all over the world with m' ' fem" strong fifth% _
boat, that he would have reached me quickly, there banging. . " "
little wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of
the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him, I had done him
no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none: " But," said
I, " you swim well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is'calm;
make the best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but
if you come near the boat, I'll shoot you through the head, for I am
resolved to have my liberty :" so he turned himself about, and swam
For the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with_ease, for he
was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him. When
he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to
him, " any, if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a great man;
but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me (that is, swear
by Mohammed and his father's beard), I must throw you into the sea
too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently that I
could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful .to me, and go all
over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out
directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward, that they
might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth, as indeed any one
that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do; for who
would have supposed we were sailed on to the southward to the truly
Barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure to surround
us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never once go
on shore, but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more merci-
less savages of human kind?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little
toward the cast, that I might keep in with the shore; and having a
fair, fresh gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail;
that I believe by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
I first made the land, I could not be less than one hundred and fifty
miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Moroceo's domi-
uions, or, indeed, of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dreadful
apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would not stop,
or go on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, tall I
had sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to the
southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase of
me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to make to the
coast, and come to an anchor in the mouth of a. little river, I knew.and tigers; at least, we were equally apprehensivelof -

or aosmson 'cnuson. _ 55

 

not what or where; neither what latitude, what counth, what nation,
or what river: I neither saw, or desired to see, any peofi'l'e; the prin-
cipal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into this creek in the
evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and dis-
cover the country; but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such
dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures,
of we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with
fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury,"
said I, " then I won't; but, it may be, we may see men by day, who
will be as bad to us as those lions."--" Then we give them the shoot
gun," says Xury, laughing, "make them run wey.' Such English
Xury spoke by conversing among as slaves. However, I was glad to
see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a drum, out of our patron's
case of bottles, to cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good,
and I took it; we dropped our little anchor, and lay still all night; I
say still, for we slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast
great creatures (we knew not what to cail them) of many sorts, come
down to the sea-shore, and run into the water, wallowing and washing
themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such
hideous howlings and yellings that I never indeed heard the likes

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too; but we
were both more frighted when we heard one of these mighty creatures
come swimming towards our boat. We could not see him, but we
might hear him by his blowing, to be a monstrous, huge, and furious
beast: Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so for aught I know. 1'3
Poor Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor, and row away. "No," ' '
says I, " Xury, we can slip our cable with a buoy to it, and go to sea;
they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceiveds?
the creature (whatever it was) within two oars' length, which someth'gig,
surprised me; however, I immediately stepped to the cabin door, an
taking up my gun, fired at him; upon which he immediately turned
about, and swam to the shore again.

But it was not possible to describe the horrible noises, and,hideous
cries and howlings, that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore,
as higher within the country, upon the noise or report of a ggmi' ,
thing I have some reason to believe these creatures had never ' '
before. This convinced me, that there was no going by shore for? L
in the night upon that coast, and how to venture on sliore 1n the ddfi-l9
was another question too; for to have fallen into the winds, of- any of'
the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen intg'. 3" " '--.

~52 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

, other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat; when or where
to get it was the point. Xury said, if I would let him go on shore
with one of the jars, he would find if there was any water, and bring
some to me. I asked him why he would go? why I should not go, and
he stay in the boat? The boy answered with so much affection, that
made me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild mans come, they eat
me, you go wey."--" Well, Xury," said I, "we will both go, and if
the wild mans come, we will kill them; they shall eat neither of us."
So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of our
patron's case of bottles, which I mentioned before; and we hauled the
boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper, and waded on
shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming of
canoes with savages down the river: but the boy, seeing a low place
about a mile up the country, rambled to it; and by and by I saw him
come running towards me. I thought he was pursued by some savage,
or frighted with some wild beast, and I ran forward towards him to
help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging
over his shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like allure,
but different in colour, and longer legs; however, 'we were very glad
of it, and it was very good meat; but the great joy that poor Xury
came with, was to tell me he had found good water, and seen no wild
mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for water,
for a little higher up the creek where we were, we found the water
fresh when the tide was out, which flows but a little way up; so we
filled our jars, and feasted on the bare we had killed, and prepared to
go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human creature in that
part of the country.

As I had been one voyage to the coast before, I knew very well that
the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not
far off from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an obser-
vation to know what latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, or
at least not remember, what latitude they were in, and knew not where
to look for them, or when to stand 01? to sea towards them; otherwise
I might now easily have found some of these islands. But my hope
was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that part where the
English traded, I should find some of their vessels upon their usual
design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was, must be
that country, which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's domin-
ions and the Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except by wild- a "'-:"x""'.%:
or nonm'sox- causes.- - ' 57,

 

beasts; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther south for
fear of the Moors; and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabitmg,
by reason of its barrenness; and, indeed, both forsaking it because of
the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious
creatures which harbour there; so that the Moors use it for their hunt-
ing only, where they go like an army, two or three thousand men at a
time; and, indeed, for near a hundred miles together upon this coast,
we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited country by day, and heard
nothing but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.

Once or twice in the day time I thought I saw the Pico of Tenerifl'e,
being the high top of the mountain Teneriife in the Canaries; and had
a great mind to venture out in hopes of reaching thither; but having
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the sea also going
too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first design,
and keep along the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we had
left this place; and once in particular, being early in the morning, we
came to an anchor under a little point of land which was.pretty high;
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury,
whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were, calls softly
to me, and tells me, that we had best go farther of the shore; " For,"
says he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful monster, on the side of that
hillock, fast asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful"
monster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion that lay on the side of
the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung, as it were,
a little over .him. " Xury," says I, " you shall go on shore and kill
him." Xurylooked frighted, and said, " Me kill! he eat me at one
month :" one mouthful he meant: however, I said no more to the boy,
but bade him lie still, and I took our biggest gun, which was almost
musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with
two slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with two
bullets; and the third--for we had three pieces--I loaded with five
smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with the firSt piece to
have shot him into the head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little.
above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee and- broke the
bone. He started up, growling at first, but finding his leg broke, fell ~,,
down again, and then got up upon three legs, and gave the most '-
hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not
hit him on the head; however, I took up the second pieCe immediately,
and though he began to move oil, fired again, and shot him inte; 1,
head, and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but little new -
but lie struggling for life. Then Xury took. heart, and would have mg l
let him go on shore: " Well, go," said I; so the boy jumped into the
water, and, taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the
other hand, and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the
piece to his ear, and shot him into the head again, which despatched
him quite.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food; and I was very
sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a creature that
was good for nothing to us. However, Xury said he would have some
of him; so he comes on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet.--
f' For what, Xury ?" said I.--" Me out 03' his head," said he. How-
ever, Xury could not cut off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought
it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him might
one way or other he of some value to us; and I resolved to take off
his skin, if I could. So Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury
was much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it.
Indeed, it took us both up the whole day, but at last we got 03' the
hide of him, and, spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun effect-
ually dried it in two days' time, and it afterwards served me to lie
upon.

 

CHAPTER III.

Make for the Southward, in hopes of meeting with some European vessel--See Savages
along shore--Shoot a large Leopard--Am taken up by a Merchantman--Arrivo at
the Brazils, and buy a Settlement there--Cannot be quiet, but sail on a Voyage of
Adventure to Guinea--Ship strikes on a Sand-bank in unknown Land--All lost but
mysfilf, who am driven ashore, half-dead.

AFTER this stop, we made on to the southward continually for ten or
twelve days, living very sparing on our provisions, which began to abate
very much, and going no oftener into the shore than we were obliged
to for fresh water; my design in this was, to make the river Gambia
or Senegal, that is to say, anywhere about the Cape de Vcrd, where l
was in hopes to meet with some European ship; and if I did not, I
knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or
perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to
the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and, in a word, I
put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either that I must
meet with some ship, or must perish. -

_ :'r'f 'M'A ..
 

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have
said, I began to see that the land was inhabited; and in two or three
places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shoreto look at _
us: we could also perceive that they were quite black, and stark naked.
I was once inclined to go on shore to them; but Xury was my better
counsellor, and said to me, "No go, no go." However, I hauled in
nearer the shore that I might talk to them, and I found they ran along
the shore by me a good way: I observed they had no weapons in their
hands, except one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury said was
a lance, and that they would throw them a great way with good aim;
so I kept at a distance, but talked with them by signs as well as 1
could, and particularly made signs for something to eat; they beckoned
to me to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some meat. Upon
this I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and'two of them ran up
into the country, and in less than half an hour came back, and brought
with them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as is the produce
of their country; but we neither knew what the one nor the other was:
however, we were willing to accept it, but how to come at it was our
next dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore to them, and they
were as much afraid of us: but they took a safe way for us all, for
they brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went and stood a
great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came close to us
again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make them
amends; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige them
wonderfully; for while we were lying by the shore, came two mighty
creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury from
the mountains towards the sea: whether it was the trials pursuing the,
female, or whether they were in sport or in 'rage, we cafildmbtytell,
any more than we could tell whether it was usual or strange, but I
believe it was the latter; because, in the first place, thtise ravenous .'
creatures seldom appear but in the night; and, in the second place, we "(It
found the people terribly frighted, especially the women. The man
that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from them, but the rest did:
however, as the two creatures ran directly into the water, they did not
seem to ofi'er to fall upon any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves
into the sea, and swam about as if they had come fortheir diversion. Kt
last one of them began to come nearer our heat than at first I expected;
but I. lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with. all possible _.
expedition, and bade Xury load both the others, ' As soon,aSS':he,e{me
fairly within my reach I fired, and shot him directly intoftli'e 123$; .
immediately he sank down into tlfagwater, but rose instantly; and , A
 

 

plunged up and down as if he was struggling for life, and so indeed he
was: he immediately made to the shore; but between the wound, which
was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just before
he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures
at the noise and the fire of my gun; some of them were even ready to
'lie for fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror. But when
they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart, and came to the
shore, and began to search for the creature. I found him by his blood
staining the water; and by the help of a. rope, which I slung round him,
and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found
that it was a most curious leopard, spotted and fine to an admirable
degree, and the negroes held up their hands with admiration to think
what it was I had killed him with.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and the noise of
the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains from
whence they came, nor could I at that distance know what it was. I
found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature,
so I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me, which,
when I made signs to them that they might take him, they were very
thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him, and though
they had no knife, yet with a sharpened piece of wood they took off his
skin, as readily and much more readily than we could have done with
a knife. They offered me some of the flesh, which I declined, making
as if I would give it them, but made signs for the skin, which they
gave me very freely, and brought me a great deal more of their
provision, which, though I did not understand, yet I accepted; then
I made signs to them for some water, and held out one of my jars to
them, turning it bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that I
wanted to have it filled. They called immediately to some of their
friends, and there came two women, and brought a great vessel made
of earth, and burned, as I suppose, in the sun; this they set down for .
me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them
all three. The women were as stark naked as the men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and water;
and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward for about eleven days
more, without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run out
a great length into the sea, at about the distance of four or five leagues
Defore me; and the sea being very calm, I kept a large oiling to make
this point: at length, doubling the point at about two leagues from
the land, I saw plainly land on the other side to sea-ward; then I
 

concluded, as was most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd,
and those the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd IslandsQ
However, they were at a great distance, and I could not tell what I"
had best to do; for if I should be taken with a fresh of wind, I might
neither reach one nor the other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin-
and sat me down, Xury having the helm, when, on a sudden, the boy
cried out, "Master, master, a ship with a sail !" and the foolish boy
was frighted out of his wits, thinking it must needs be some of his
master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were gotten far
enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and imme-
diately saw, not only the ship, but what she was, namely, that it was a
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea
for Negroes. But when I observed the course she steered, I was soon
convinced that they were bound some other way, and did not'design to
come any nearer to the shore; upon which I stretched out to sea as
much as I could, resolving to speak with them, if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way, but that they would be gone by before I could
make any signal to them; but after I had crowded to the utmost, and
began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their perspec-
tive glasses, and that it was some European boat, which, as they
supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost; so they shortened
sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this; and as I had my
patron's ancient on board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal of
distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw, for they told me they
saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals
they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me, and, in about three
hours' time, I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and in
French; but I understood none of them: but, at last, a Scots sailor,
who was on board, called to me, and I answered him, and told him I
was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery from the
Moors at Sallee. They bade me come on board, and very kindly took
me in, and all my goods.

It was an inexpressible' Joy to me, as any one would believe, that I
was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and almost
hopeless condition as Iwas In, and immediately ofi'ered all I had to the
captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he generously

 

told me, he would take nothing from me, but that all I had should-Ire ' '

delivered safe to me when I came to the Brasils; " For," says he, "I

 

have saved your life on no other terms than I would be gladtohe I '
."--'

 

sayed myself; and it may one time or other be my lot to be taken up
u; thg same condition: besides," said he, "when I carry you to the
Brazils, so great a way from your own country, if I should take from
' you what you have, you will be starved there, and then I only take
away that life I have given. No, no, Seignor Inglese," says he, "Mr.
Englishman, I will carry you thither in charity, and those things will
help you to buy your subsistence there, and your passage home
amun."
OAS he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just in the perform-
ance to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen, that none should offer to
ouch any thing I had: then he took every thing into his own posses-
sion, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I might have
them: even so much as my earthen jars.

As to my beat, it was a very good one, and that he saw, and told me
he would buy it of me for the ship's use, and asked me what I would
have for it? I told him he had been so generous in every thing that I
could not offer to make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to
him; upon which he told me he would give me a note of his hand to
pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil; and when it came the1e,
if anv one oil'e1 ed to give more he would make it up: he ofi'ered me also
sixty pieces of eight mo1e for my boy Xury, which I was loath to take;
not that I' was not willing to let the captain have him, but I was very
loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had\ assisted me so faithfully
in procuring my own. However, when I let him know my reason, he
owned'it to be just, and offered me this medium, that he would give

- the boy an obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Chris-
tian. Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let
the captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the Bay
de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days after.
And new I was once more delivered from the most miserable of all
conditions of life; and what to do next with myself I was now to
consider. '

The generous treatment the captain gave me I can never enough
remember; he would take nothing of me for my passage--gave me
twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in my boat, and caused every thing I had in the ship to
he punctually delivered me; and what I was willing to sell he bought,
such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump
of beeswax, for I had made candles of the rest; in a. word, I made
about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo: and
with this stock I went on shore in>> the Brazils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended to the house of a
good honest man like himself, who had an inget'no, as they call it,--
that is, a plantation and a sugar-house,--I lived with him some time,
and acquainted myself by that means with the manner of their planting
and making of sugar; and seeing how well the planters lived, and Min
they grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get license to settle

there, I would turn planter among them; resolving, in the mean time,-

to find out some way to get my money, which I had left in London,
remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of a letter of natural-
ization, I purchased as much land that was uncured as my money would
reach, and formed a. plan for my plantation and settlement, and such
a one as might be suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to
receive from England.

I had a. neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English
parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as l
was. I call him neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine,
and we went on very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well
as his; and we rather planted for food than any thing else, for about
two years. However, we began to increase, and our land began to
come into order; so that the third year we planted some tobacco, and
made each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes in
the year to come; but we both wanted help; and now I found, more
than before, I had done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no great-

wonder: I had no remedy but to go on ; I was gotten into an employ-
ment quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the life 'I
delighted in, and for which I forsook my father's house, and broke
through all his good advice; nay, I was coming into the very middle
station, or upper degree of low life, which my father advised me to
before; and which, if I resolved to go on with, I might as well have
stayed at home, and never have fatigued myself in the world as I had
done; and I used often to say to myself, I could have done this as well
in England among my friends, as have gone five thousand. miles off to
do it among strangers and savages in a. wilderness, and at such a
distance, as never to hear from any part of the world that had the
least knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the utmost
regret I had nobody to converse with, but now and then this neigh-
bour; no work to be done but by the labour of my handsnand 13w

 

 

to say, I lived just like a man cast awayupon some desolate <<him: - - _

that had nobody there but himself. But how just has it'bepn, and,"
 

with others that are worse, -Heaven may oblige them to make the
exchange, and be convinced of their former felicity by their experience;
I say, how just has it been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on in
an island of mere desolation should be my lot, who had so often
unjustly compared it with the life which I then led, in which, had I
continued, I had, in all probability, been exceeding prosperous and
rich.

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship, that took
me up at sea, went back; for the ship remained there, in providing his
loading, and preparing for his voyage, near three months; when, tell-
ing him what little stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me
this friendly and sincere advice: "Seignor Inglese," says be. for so
he always called me, "if you will give me letters, and a procuration
here in form to me, with orders to the person who has your money in
London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct,
and in such goods as are proper for this country, I will bring you the
produce of them, God willing, at my return; but, since human affairs
are all subject to changes and disasters, I would have you give orders
but for one hundred pounds sterling, which, you say, is half your stock,
and let the hazard be run for the first; so that if it comes safe, you
may order the rest the same way; and if it miscarry, you may have
the other half to have recourse to for your supply."

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could
not but be convinced it was the best course I could take; so I accord-
ingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had left my
money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my adven-
tures, my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the Portugal cap-
tain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and what condition I was
now in, with all other necessary directions for my supply; and when
this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the
English merchants there, to send over, not the order only, but a full
account of my story, to a merchant at London, who represented it
efl'ectually to her; whereupon, she not only delivered the money, but,
out of her own pocket, sent the Portugal captain a very handsome pre-
sent for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds in English
goods, such as the captain had writ for, sent them directly to him at
Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me to the Brazils; among
which, without my direction (for I was too young in my business to
think 0" them), he had taken care to have all sort of tools. iron-work.

'2'>>; ahqivi.nar..-ksuim__._ . ._, . _

_..u_ . , . ,~ Auk: __<<r.

0? ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65

 

and utensils necessary for my plantation, and which were of great use
to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, for I was sur-
prised with joy of it; and my good steward, the captain, had laid out
the five pounds, which my friend had sent him for a present for him-
self, to purchase, and bring me over a servant under bond for six years'
service, and would not accept of any consideration, except a little
tobacco, which I would have him accept, being of my own produce.

Neither was this all; but my goods being all English manufactures,
such as cloth, stufi's, baize, and things particularly valuable and desira-
ble in the country, I found means to sell them to a very great advan-
tage; so that I may say, I had more than four times the value of my
first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean
in the advancement of my plantation; for the first thing I did, I
bought rue a Negro slave, and an European servant also; I mean
another besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the means of our
greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went on the next year with
great success in my plantation: I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on
my own ground, more than I had disposed of for necessaries among
my neighbours; and these fifty rolls, being each of above a hundred
weight, were well cured and laid by against the return of the fleet from
Lisbon. And now, increasing in business and in wealth, my head
begun to be full of projects and undertakings beyond my reach; such
as are, indeed, often the ruin of the best heads in business.

Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had room for all the

happy things to have yet befallen me, for which my father so earnestly '

recommended a quiet retired life, and of which he had so sensibly
described the middle station of life to be full ; but other things attended
me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries ',-e' and
particularly to increase my fault, and double the reflections upon my-
self, which in my future sorrows I should have leisure to make, all
these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering
to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad, and pursuing that in.
clination, in contradiction to the clearest views of doing myself good

in a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects and "those messagesof '
l'fe, which nature and Providence concurred to present me wi't'KTand -

to make my duty.
As I had done thus in my breaking away from my parents, so I

could not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy View! ..
had of being a rich and thriving man in my new plantati'izgonlfih'
<< - 11

pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising faster, _ g__
5 '33-'55

5.
s

\
r

 

..

      

. w "r '4 1
$3? - t

- _n_|
..' 66 ans urn AND minimums

of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down again into the
deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into, or perhaps could
be consistent with life and a state of health in the world.

To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars of this part of my
story: you may suppose, that, having now lived almost four years in
the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my
plantation, I had not only learned the language, but had contracted
acquaintance and friendship among my fellow planters, as well as
among the merchants at St. Salvadore, which was our port; and that
in my discourse among them, I had frequently given them an account
of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with
the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon the coast, for
trifles,---such as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like,--not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c.
but Negroes for the service of the Brazils in great numbers,

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but especially to that part which related to the buying Negroes,
which was a trade at that time not only not far entered into, but, as
far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos, or permission, of
the kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public, so that
few Negroes were bought, and those excessive dear.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters
of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three
of them came to me the next morning, and told me. they had been
musing very much upon what I had discoursed with them of the last
night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me; and, after en-
joining me secrecy, they told me, that they had a mind to fit out a
ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as I, and
were straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as it was a
trade could not be carried on, because they could not publicly sell the
Negroes when they came home, so they desired to make but one voy-
age, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide them among
their own plantations; and, in a word, the question was, whether I
would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading part upon
the coast of Guinea? :nd they ofi'ered me, that I should have my equal
share of the Negroes, without providing any part of the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had it been made to
any one that had not had a settlement and plantation of his own to
look after,~which was in a fair way of coming to be very considerable,
and with a good stock upon it. But for me, that was thus entered
and established, and had nothing to do but go on as I had begun, for
three or four years more, and to have sent for the other hlmdrod

....a..L
 

pounds from England, and who, in that time and with that little addi-
tion, could scarce have failed of being worth three or four thousand
pounds sterling. and that increasing too,-for me to think of such a
voyage, was the most preposterous thing that ever man in such cir-
cumstances could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist
the offer than I could restrain my first rambling designs, when my
father's good counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I
would go with all my heart, if they would undertake to look after my
' plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it to such as I should
direct if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and entered into
writings, or covenants, to do so; and I made a formal will, disposing
of my plantation and sheets, in case of my death, making the captain
of the ship, that had saved my life as before, my universal heir, but
obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in my will, one
half of the produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped to
England.

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects, and keep
up my plantation: had I used half as much prudence to have looked
into my own interest, and have made a judgment of what I ought to
have done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone away
from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the probable views of
a thriving circumstance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with
all its common hazards; to say nothing of the reasons I had to expect
particular misfortunes to myself.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fancy,
rather than my reason: and accordingly, the ship being fitted out, and
the cargo furnished, and all things done as by agreement by my part-
neis in the voyage, I went on boaid in an evil hour again, the lst of
September, 1659, being the same day eight years that Invent from
my father and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel to their auth-
rity, and the fool to my own interest.

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden, carried
six guns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself;
we had on board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were
fit for our trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells,
and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets,
and the like. , "9

The same day I went on board we set sail, standinglwa- - 16:11.;
northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch fir ' "' '
African coast, when they came about ten or twelve degrees ($25,.K
latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of their course lath

"[3,
We had very good weather, only excessive hot, all the way upon our
own coast, till we came to the height of Cape St. Augustino, from
whence keeping farther off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as
if we were bound for the isle Fernand de Noronha, holding our course
north~east by north, and leaving those isles on the east. In this
course we passed the line in about twelve days' time, and were, by
our last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern
latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of our
knowledge: it began from the south-east, came about to the north-west,
and then settled into the north-east; from whence it blew in such a
terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do nothing but
drive; and scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate
and the fury of the winds directed; and during those twelve days, I
need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up, nor, indeed,
did any in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of our
men died of the calenture, and one man and the boy washed overboard.
About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master made
an observation as well as he could, and found that he was in about
eleven degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees of
longitude difi'erence west from Cape St. Augustine; so that he found
he was gotten upon the coast of Guinea, or the north part of Brazil,
beyond the river Amazons, toward that of the river Oroonoque, com-
monly called the Great River, and began to consult with me what
course he should take; for the ship was leaky, and very much disabled,
and he was going directly back to the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that, and, looking over the charts of the
sea-coasts of America with him, we concluded, there was no inhabited
country for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Caribbee Islands; and therefore resolved to stand away for Bar-
hadoes, which, by keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or
gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen
days' sail; whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the
coast of Africa, without some assistance, both to our ship and ourselves.

With this design we changed our course, and steered away north-
west by west, in order to reach some of our English islands, where I
hoped for relief: but our voyage was otherwise determined; for, being
in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetnosity westward,
and drove us so out of the very way of all human commerce, that, had all
our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being
devoured by savages than ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men,
early in the morning, cried out, " Land !" and we had no sooner run
out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the
world we were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and, in a moment,
her motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner
that we expected we should all have perished immediately; and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from the
very foam and spray .of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the like condition,
to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances:
we knew nothing where we were, or upon what land it was we were
driven--whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or not
inhabited ; and as the rage of the wind was still great, though rather
less than at first, we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold
many minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind
of miracle, should turn immediately about. In a word, we sat looking
one upon another, and expecting death every moment, and every man
acting accordingly, as preparing for another world: for there was little
or nothing more for us to do in this: that which was our present com-
fort, and all the comfort we had, was, that, contrary to our expectation,
the ship did not break yet, and that the master said the wind began to
abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet the
ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for us to i
expect her getting of, we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had
nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could. We
had a boat at our stern just before the storm; but she was first staved
by dashing against the ship's rudder, and, in the next place, she broke
away, and either sunk or was driven oil to sea; so there was no hope
from her. We had another boat on board, but how to get her of into
the sea was a doubtful thing; however, there was no room to debate,
for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute, and some
told us she was actually broken already. _ '
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boat, and
with the help of the rest of the men they got her slung over the ship's
side, an 1, getting all into her, let go, and committed ourselves, being
eleven in number, to God's mercy and the wild sea, for though the} ~ .
st01m was abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon>>'},
the shore, and might well be called den wild see, as the Dutchoall the?" El
sea in a storm. '3
And now our case was very dismal indeed, for we yfleaw'. My, e???
tha' the sea went so high that the boat could not live,: and thatm "'3
 

should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none, nor,
if we had, could we have done any thing with it; so we worked at the
oar towards the land, though with heavy hearts, like men going to
execution ; for we all knew, that when the boat came nearer the shore,
she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea.
However, we committed our souls to God in the most earnest manner;
and the wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our destruction
with our own hands, pulling as well as we could towards land.

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal,
we knew not; the only hope that could rationally give us the least
shadow of expectation was, if we might happen into some bay or gulf,
or the mouth of some river, where, by great chance, we might have
run our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. But there was nothing of this appeared; but, as we
made nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than
the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half, as
we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling ustern of
us, and plainly bade us expect the coup-de-grace. In a word, it took
us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separating
us as well from the boat, as from one another, gave us not time hardly
to say 0 God l for we were all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt when I

- sank into the water; .for though I swam very well, yet I could not
deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave hav-
ing driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards the shore,
and, having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost
dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had so much presence
of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the mainland
than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on
towards the land as fast as I could, before another wave should return
and take me up again. But I soon found it was impossible to avoid it ;
for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as furious
as an enemy, which I had no means or strength to contend with. My
business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I
could; and so, by swimming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot my-
self towards the shore, if possible; my greatest' concern now being,
that the sea, as it would carry me a great way towards the shore
when it came on, might not carry me back again with it when it gave
back towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep in its owvr body ; and I could feel.myself carried with
 

a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a very great way; but.
I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my
might. I was ready to burst, with holding my breath, when, as I felt
myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and
hands shoot out above the surface of the water; and though it was
not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved
me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was covered again
with water a good while, but not so long but I held it out; and, finding
the water had spent itself, and began to return, I struck forward
against the return of the waves, and felt ground again with my feet.
I stood still a few moments to recover breath, and till the water went
from me, and then took to my heels, and ran with what strength I had
farther towards the shore. But neither would this deliver me from
the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again ; and twice
more I was lifted up by the waves, and carried forwards as before, the
shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well near been fatal to me; for the
sea, having hurried me along as before, landed me, or rather dashed
me, against a piece of a rock, and that with such force as it left me
senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow
taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it were quite out of my -
body; and, had it returned again immediately, I must have been
strangled in the water; but I recovered a little before the return of
the waves, and, seeing I should be covered again with the water, I
resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold my breath,
if possible, till the wave went back. Now, as the waves were not so
high as at first, being near land, I held my hold till the wave abated,
and then fetched another run, which brought me so near the shore;
that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow me
up as to carry me away; and the next run I took I got to the main-
land, where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the elifts of the
shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite\
out of the reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and
thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was, some
minutes before, scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to '
express to the life what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are, ..
when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the very grave; and I do not
wonder, now, at that custom, namely, that when a malefactor, who has
the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be turned 05, .
and has a reprieve brought to him,--I say, I do not wonder that they
bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood that very momefitl'theif'tellf ';
 

him of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the
heart, and overwhelm him:

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands and my whole
being, as I may say, wrapt up in the contemplation of my deliverance,
making a thousand gestures and motions which I cannot describe;
reflecting upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that there
should not be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never saw
them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of their hats, one
cap, and two shoes, that were not fellows. '

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the breach and froth of
the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so far off, and con-
sidered, Lord! how was it possible I could get on shore !

After I had solaced, my mind with the comfortable part of my con-
dition, I began to look round me, to see what kind of place I was in:
and what was next to be done; and I soon found my comforts abate,
and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance: for I was wet, had
no clothes to shift me, nor any thing either to eat or drink to comfort
me; neither did I see any prospect before me, but that of perishing
with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts; and that which was
particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon either to hunt
and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself against
any other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs: in a word,
I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a- little
tobacco in a box; this was all my provision, and this threw me into
terrible agonies of mind, that, for a while, I ran about like a madman.
Night coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what
would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country,
seeing at night they always come abroad for their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time was, to get
up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but thorny, which grew near me,
and where I resolved to sit all night, and consider the next day what
death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked
about a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water
to drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having drank, and put a
little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and
getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as that if I should
sleep I might not fall; and having cut me a short stick, like a
truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and, having been
excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as, I
believe, few could have done in my condition, and found myself the
west refreshed with it that I think I ever was on such an occasion. '
 

CHAPTER l'V.

Appearance of the Wreck and Country next day--Swim on board of the Ship. and, by
means of a contrivance, get a quantity of Stores on Shore--Shoot a Bird. but it
turns out perfect Carrion--Morslize upon my Situation--The Ship blown of Land,
and totally lost--Set out in search of a proper Place for a Habitation--See numbers
of Goats--Melancholy Reflections.

WHEN I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before: but that
which surprised me most, was, that the ship was lifted off in the night
from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was
driven up almost as far as the rock which I first mentioned, where I
had been so bruised by the dashing me against it; this being within
about a mile from the shore where I was. and the ship seeming to
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that, at least, I might
save some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked about
me again, and the first thing I found was the boat, which lay as the
wind and the sea had tossed her up upon the land, about two miles on
my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got
to her, but found a neck, or inlet of water, between me and the boat,
which was about half a mile broad; so I came back for the present,
being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find
something for my present subsistence.

A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed
so fur out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the,sbip;
and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief: for I saw evidently,
that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe,---that is to say, we
had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left
entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was. This
forced tears from my eyes again; but as there was little relief in that,
I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled of my clothes,
for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the water. But when
I came to the ship, my difliculty was still greater to know how to get
on board; for, as she lay aground and high out of thewater, there
was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam".round her '

twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of a (Ops, which I -. "3
wondersJ I did not see at first, hang down by the forechains, so low
 

as that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and, by the help of that
rope, got up into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the
ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold, but that
she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, and her
stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low almost to the
water: by this means all her quarter was free, and all that was in that
part was dry; for you may be sure my first work was to search and to
see what was spoiled, and what was free: and first I found that all
the ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the water; and being
very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-room and filled my
pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I had
no time to lose. I also found some rum in the great cabin, of which I
took a large dram, and which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me
for what was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish
myself with many things which I foresaw would be very necessary
to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had; and
this extremity roused my application. We had several spare yards,
and two or three large spars of wood, and a. spare topmast or two in
the ship; I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as many of
them overboard as I could manage of their weight, tying every one
with a rope, that they might not drive away. When this was done, I
went down to the ship's side, and, pulling them to me, I tied four of
them fast together at both ends as well as I could, in the form of a
raft, and laying two or thfee short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not able
to hear any great weight, the pieces being too light; so I went to work,
and, with the carpenter's saw, I cut a spare topmast into three lengths, '
and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labour and pains; but
hope of furnishing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go
beyond what I should have been able to have done upon another
occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight: my
next. care was what to load it with, and how to preserve what I laid
'npnn it from the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering this.
I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get, and
having considered well what I most wanted, I first got three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft. The first of these I filled with provisions,
namely, bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's
flesh, which we lived much upon, and a little remainder of European
corn, which had been laid by for some fowls which we brought to seaCRUSOE LOADING HIS RAFT.'16 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

 

with us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together, but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found
several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some
cordial waters, and in all above five or six gallons of rack: these I
stowed by themselves, there being no need to put them into the chest,
nor no room for them. While I was doing this, I found the tide
3 egan to flow, though very calm, and I had the mortificution to see my
coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore upon the sand,
swim away; as for my breeches, which were only linen, and open-
kneed, I swam' on board in them and my stockings: however, this put
me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, but took no
more than I wanted for present use, for I had other things which my
eye was more upon: as, first; tools to work with on shore ; and it was
after long searching that I found out the carpenter's chest, which was
indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a ship-
loading of gold would have been at that time. I got it down to my
raft, even whole as it was, without losing time to look into it, for I
knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two
very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols: these I
secured first, with some powder-horns, and a small bag of shot, and
two old rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of powder in
the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed them; but with
much search I found them, two of them dry and good, the third had
taken water; those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I
thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should
get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rudder, and the
least capful of wind would have overset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements: 1. A smooth, calm sea; 2. The tide
rising and setting in to the shore; 3. What little wind there was blew
me toward the land: and thus, having found two or three broken oars
belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest, I
found two saws, an axe, and a hammer; and with this cargo I put to
sea. For a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I
found it drive a little distant from the place where I had landed be-
fore; by which I perceived that there was some indraft of the water,
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or river there, which I
might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before me a little opening
of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set into it, so I
guided my raft as well as I could to keep in themiddle of the stream;or nosisson censor; '(7

but here I had like to have sulfered a second shipwreck, which, if 1
had, I think verily would have broke my heart; for, knowing nothing
of the coast, my raft run aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and, -
not being aground at the other end, it wanted but a little that all my
cargo had slipped ofi' towards that end that was afloat, and so fallen
into the water. I did my utmost, by setting my back against the
chests, to keep them in their places, but could not thrust ofi' the raft
with all my strength; neither durst I stir from the posture I was in,
but, holding up the chests with all my might, stood in that manner
near half an hour, in which time the rising of the water brought me a
little more upon a level; and, a little after, the water still rising, my
raft floated again, and I thrust her of with the oar I had into the
channel; and then, driving up higher, I at length found myself in the
mouth of a little river, with land>> on both sides, and a strong current.
or tide, running up. I looked on both sides for a proper place to get
to shore; for I was not willing to be driven too high up the river,
hoping, in time, to see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to
place myself as near the coast as I could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to
which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided my raft, and at last got
so near, as that, reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust her di- '
rcctly in; but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo in the sea
again; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there
was no place to land, but where one end of the float, if it run on shore,
would lie so high. and the other sink lower as before, that it would
endanger my cargo again: all that I could do, was to wait till the tide
was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor, to
hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which
I expected the water would flow over; and so it did. As soon as I
found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot of water, I thrust
her on upon that flat piece of ground, and there fastened, or moored
her, by sticking my two broken cars into the ground; one on one side,
near one end, and one on the other side, near the other end, and thus
I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe
on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place for
my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure them from what-
ever might happen. Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the:

 

 

continent or on an island--whether inhabited or not inhabrtedf--whe- ~'

ther in danger of wild beasts or not. There was a hill, meme it
mile from me, which rose up very steep and high, and windnseeyiod
to overtop some other hills which lay as in a ridge from it W
I took out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn
of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top of
that hill, where, after I had with great labour and difiiculty got to the
top, I saw my fate to my great affliction; namely, that I was in an
island, environed every way with the sea,--no land to be seen, except
some rocks which lay a. great way off, and two small islands less than
this. which lay about three leagues to the west.

I found also, that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw good
reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of which, how-
ever, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their
kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I tell what was fit for food,
and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird, which I
saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood: I believe it was
the first gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world.
I had no sooner fired, but, from all parts of the wood, there arose an
innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, making a confused scream-
ing, and crying every one according to his usual note; but not one of
them of any kind that I knew. As for the creature'I killed, I took
it to be a kind of a. hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but had
no talons, or claws, more than common; its flesh was carrion, and fit
for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and fell to
work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of that
day; and what to do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed
where to rest; for Iwas afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing
but some wild beast might devour me; though, as I afterwards found,
there was really no need for those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself round with the
chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a kind of a
but for that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way to
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three creatures like hares
run out of the wood where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great many things
out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and particularly some of
the rigging and sails, and such other things as might come to land, and
I resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible;
and as I knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily break
.her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart, till I got every
thing out of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council (that
.is to say, in my thoughts), whether I should take back the raft; but
this appeared impracticable; so I resolved to go as before, when the
tide was down. and I did so, only that I stripped before I went from
\

my but, having nothing on but a checked shirt and a pair of linen
trowsers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft; and
having had experience of the first, I neither made this so unwieldy,
nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things very use-
ful to me; as first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two or three bags
full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets,
and, above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone: all these I
secured, together with several things belonging to the gunner, particu-
larly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of musket-bullets, seven
muskets, and another fowling~piece, with some small quantity of powder
more; a large bag full of small shot, and a great roll of sheet lead;
but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it over the
ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I could find,
and a spare fore-top-sail, hammock, and some bedding; and with this
I loaded my second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my
very great comfort. _

I was under some apprehensions, during my absence from the land,
that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore; but, when I
came back, IAfound no sign of any visiter, only there sat a creature,
like a wild cat, upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards
it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still: she sat very com-
posed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a
mind to be acquainted with me. I presented my gun at her, but as
she did not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did
she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though,
by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store was not great:_
however, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled of it,
and ate it, and looked, as pleased, for more; but I thanked her, and
could spare no more; so she marched ofi'.

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain to open
the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels--for they were too
heavy, being large casks--I went to work to make me a little tent,
with the sail and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into
this tent I brought every thing that I knew would spoil, either with
rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from man
or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with some
boards within; and an empty chest set up on end without, and, spread-
ing one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols Mat7------------------------------ -
my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time,
and slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and heavy; as the
night before I had slept little, and had'laboured very hard all day, as
well to fetch all those things from the ship, as to get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up,
I believe, for one man; but I was not satisfied still; for, while the
ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get everything
out of her that I could; so every day, at low water, I went on board,
and brought away something or other; but particularly the third time
I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as also all
the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece of spare can-
vas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet
gunpowder: in a word, I brought away all the sails first and last, only
that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I
could; for they were no more useful to be sails, but as mere canvas
only.

But that which comforted me still more was, that last of all, after I
had made five or six such voyages as these, and thought I had nothing
more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling with,--I
say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, and three large
runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine
flour; this was surprising to me, because I had given over expecting
any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the water. I soon
emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up parcel by par-
ccl, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out: and, in a word, I got all
this safe on shore also.

The next day, I made another voyage; and now, having plundered
.the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began with the
cables; and cutting the great cable into pieces such as I could move,
I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could
get; and, having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the mizen yard, and
every thing I could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those
heavy goods, and came away: but my good luck began now to leave
me; for this raft was so unwieldly and overladen, that, after I had
entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of my goods, not
being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and
threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for myself, it was no
great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was,
great part of it, lost, especially the iron, which I expected would have
been of great use to me: however, when the tide was out, I got most
of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with infi-
nite labour; for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work which
 

fatigued me very much. After this, I went every day on board, and
brought away what I could get.

] had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times
on board the ship; in which time I had brought away all that one
pair of hands could well be supposed capable to bring, though I'believe
verily, had the calm held, I should have brought away the whole ship,
piece by piece: but, preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I
found the wind began to rise; however, at low water, I went on board,
and though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually, as that
nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers
in it, in one of which I found two or three razors, and one pair of
large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks; in
another I found about thirty-six pounds value in money, some Euro-
pean coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "0 drug !" said~I,-
aloud, "what art thou good for? thou art not worth tc :ne--no,.n0t
the taking of of the ground; one of those knives is worth all this heap;
I have no manner of use for thee; even remain where thou art, and
go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth saving."
However, upon second thoughts, I took it away, and. wrapping all this-

in a piece of canvas, I began to think of making another raft; but, .

while I was preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the..wiu'd2
began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from'
the shore. It presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pretend
to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that it was my business to
be gone before the tide of flood began, otherwise I might not be able-
to reach the shore at all: accordingly, I let myself down into the
water, and swam across the channel which lay between the shipgand,
the sands, and even that with difficulty enough, partly with the,weight-
of things I had about me, and partly the roughness of the water, for-
the wind rose very hastily, and, before it was quite high water, it blew a
st01m. -
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay with all my
wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all that night, and
in the morning, when I looked out, behold, no more ship was to be
seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself. with: this W'

 

tory reflection, namely, that I had lost no time, not" abated no Jilin =

gence, to get every thing out of her that could be useful to ine, and
that, indeed there was little left 1n her that I was able to bring away,
if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any )dthlg': out
of her. except what might drive on shore from her wreck, as, mind,
6

'efi
divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were of small
use to me. ,

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself
against either savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any
were in the island; and I had many thoughts of the method how to
do this, and what kind of dwelling to malie,--whether I should make
me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth: and, in short, I
resolved upon both, the manner and description of which it may not
be improper to give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement, particu-
larly because it was upon a low moorish ground near the sea, and I
believed would not be wholesome, and more particularly because there
was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to find a more healthy and
more convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation which I found would be
proper for me: 1st, Health and fresh water I just now mentioned.
2dly, Shelter from the heat of the sun. 8dly, Security from ravenous
creatures, whether man or beast. 4thly, A view of the sea, that, if
God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my
deliverance, of which I was not willing to banish all my expectation yet.

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain on the
side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain was steep as
a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the top:
on the side of this rock there was a hollow place worn a little way in,
like the entrance or door of a cave, but there was not really any
cave or way into the rock at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I resolved to
pitch my tent; this plain was not above a hundred yards broad, and
about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door, and at the
end of it descended irregularly every way down into the low grounds
by the sea-side. It was on the north-north-west side of the hill, so
that I was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a west-
and-by-south sun, or thereabouts, which in those countries is near the
setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter, from tho
rock, and twenty yards in its diameter from its beginning and ending.

In this half-circle, I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
=them into the ground till they stood very firm, like piles, the biggest
end being out of the ground about five foot and a half, and sharpened

on the top: the two rows did not stand above six inches from one
another.. . qr".
'J' '5

OP ROBINSON 0311803. 83'

 

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and '-
Iaid them in rows, one upon another, within the circle between these
two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside,
leaning against them, about two foot and a half high, like a spur to a
post; and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could
get into it, or over it: this cost me a great deal of time and labour,
especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and
drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door, but by a
short ladder, to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I lifted
over after me: and so I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I
thought, from all the world, and consequently slept secure in the
night, which, otherwise, I could not have done; though, as it appeared
afterward, there was no need of all this caution from the enemies that
I apprehended danger from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have
the account above; and I made me a large tent, which, to preserve me
from the rains, that, in one part of the year, are very violent there, I
made double, namely, one smaller tent within, and one larger tent
above it, and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I
had saved among the sails. '

And now I lay no more, for a while, in the bed which I had brought '
on shore, but in a hammock, which was, indeed, a very good one, and
belonged to the mate of the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every thing that
would spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my goods, I made
up the entrance, which, till now, I had left open, and so passed and
repussed, as I said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and, .
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down, out through my
tent, I laid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, that
so it raised the ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I made '
me a cave just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my '.
house. ' 1

It cost me much labour and many days before all these things were
bought to perfection; and, therefore, I must go back to competitor
things which took up some of my thoughts. At the same find, m>>
pened, after I had laid my scheme for the setting up any-5' I
making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thickflark '_ _. 1' ' ",_
a sudden flash of lightning happened, and afiger that a_ ' f ' " '
thunder, as is naturally the efl'ect of it. I was not so midi draw

a 3L.

1'.'84 THE LIFE AND Anvsnruans

 

with the lightning, as I was with a thought which darted into my mind.
as swift as the lightning itself: Oh, my powder! my very heart sank
Within me, when I thought that, at one blast, all my powder might be
destroyed, on which, not my defence only, but the providing me food,
as I thought, entirely depended: I was nothing near so anxious about
my own danger; though, had the powder took fire, I had never known
who had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that after the storm was
over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and applied
myself to make bags and boxes, to separate the powder, and to keep it
a little and a little in a parcel, in hope that, whatever might come, it
might not all take fire at once, and to keep it so apart, that it should
not be possible to make one part fire another. I finished this work in
about a fortnight; and I think my powder, which, in all, was about
two hundred and forty pounds weight, was divided in not less than a
hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I did not appre~
hend any danger from that, so I placed it in my new cave, which, in
my fancy, I called my kitchen; and the rest I hid up and down in
holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking very
carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out once at least
every day with my gun, as well to divert myself, as to see if I could
kill any thing fit for food, and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself
with what the island produced. The first time I went out, I presently
discovered that there were goats in the island, which was a great satis-
faction to me; but then, it was attended with this misfortune to me,
namely, that they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it
was the most difficult thing in the. world to come at them. But I was
not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now and then shoot
one, as it soon happened; for, after I had found their haunts a little,
I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed, if they saw me in the
valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they would run away as in
a terrible fright; but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence I concluded,
that, by the position of their optics, their eight was so directed down-
ward, that they did not readily see objects that were above them; so
afterwards I took this method: I always climbed the rocks first, to get
above them, and then had frequently a fair mark. The first shot 1
made among these creatures I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid
by her which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but when
the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her till I came and took
her up; and not only so, but,_when I carried the old one with me upon

. Hui/"M
 

my shoulders, the kid follcwed me quite to my enclosure ; upon whieh
I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms, and carried it over
my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame; but it would not eat, so I
was forced to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied me with
flesh a great while, for I ate sparingly, and saved my provisions (my
bread especially) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely necessary ts
provide a place to make a fire in. and fuel to burn; and what I did
for that, as also ho" I enlarged my care, and what conveniences I:
made, I shall gi\e a full account of in its place; but I must first give
some little account of myself, and of my thoughts about living, which,
it may well be supposed, were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for, as I was not cast
away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a violent
storm, quite out of the course of our intended voyage, and a great.
way, namely, some hundred of leagues out of the ordinary course of
the trade of mankind, I had great reason to consider it as a determin-
ation of Heaven, that, in this desolate place, and in this desolate man-
ner, I should end my life. The tears would run plentifully down my
face when I made these reflections; and sometimes I would expostulate
with myself, why Providence should thus completely ruin his creatures,
and render them so absolutely miserable, so without help abandoned,
so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be thankfiil
for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts,
and to reprove me; and, particularly, one day walking, with my gun
in my hand, by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon the subject of
my present condition, when reason,'as it were, expostulated with me
the other way, thus :---" Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is
true; but, pray, remember, where are the rest of you? Did not you
come eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten? Whywei'e
they not saved, and you lost? Why were you singled out? Is it'bett'en ' ,
to be here or there. 9" And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are
to be considered with the good that is in them, and with what woi'n
attended them. ~ ' {1'3
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my sub- '
sistence, and what would have been my case if it had not'happene'd, - w
which was an hundred thousand to one, that the ship floated from the
place where she first struck, and was driven so near the shori, that. Ihfld \- 3
time to get all these things out of her. What would have been'uy ; " '
if I had been to have lived 1n the condition in which I- at first'ohe " "'
Ashore, without necessaries of life, or memories" bufib and '

 
   
  

uni-144,
 

them? " Particularly," said I, load, though to myself, " what should
I have done without a gun, without ammunition, without any tools to
make any thing, or to work with; without clothes, bedding, a tent, or
any manner of covering '2" and that now I had all these to a sufiicient
qua atity, and was in a fair way to provide myself in such'a manner,
as to live without my gun when my ammunition was spent; so that I
had a tolerable view of subsisting without any want, as long as I lived;
for I considered, from the beginning, how I should provide for the
accidents that might happen, and for the time that was to come, even
not only after my ammunition should be spent, but even after my
health or strength should decay.

I confess I had not entertained any notion of my ammunnion being

. destroyed at one blast, I mean, my powder being blown up by light-
ning; and this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me when it
lightened and thundered, as I observed just now.

And now, being about to enter into a melancholy relation of 'a scene
of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before,
I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was,
by my account, the 30th of September, when, in the manner as above
'said, I first set foot upon this horrid island, when the sun being, to us,
in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head; for I reckoned
myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of nine degrees twenty-
two minutes north of the line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my.
thoughts, that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days from the
working days; but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large
post, in capital letters, and making it into a great cross, I set it up on
-the shore where I first landed, namely, I came on, shore here on the
30th of September, 1659. Upon the sides of this square post, I out
every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as long
again as the rest, and every first day of the month as long again as
that long one; and thus I kept my calendal, or 11 eekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place, we are to observe, that, among the many things
which 1 brought out of the ship in the several voyages, which, as above
mentioned, I made to it, I got several things of less value, but not at
all less useful to me, which I omitted setting down before; as, in par-
ticular, pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the captain's, mate's,
gunner's, and carpenter's keeping, three or four compasses, some
mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of
navigation, all which I huddled together, whether I might want them
or no. Also, I found three very good Bibles, which came to me in
my cargo from England, and which I had packed up among my things;
some Portuguese books also, and among them two or three Popish
prayer books, and several other books: 'all which I carefully secured.
And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of
whose eminent historyI may have occasion to say something in its
place; for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he
jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore to me the day
after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to
me many years: I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any
company that he could make up to me; I only wanted to have him
talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed before, I found
pen, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost; and I shall
show that, while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact; but after
that was gone I could not, for I could not make any ink by any means
' that I could devise.

And this puts me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstand-
ing all that I had amassed together; and of these, this of ink was
one, as also spade, pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth;
needles, pins, and thread. As for linen, I soon learned to want that
without much difliculty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily, and it we.
near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale', dr
surrounded habitation: the piles, or stakes, which were as heavy as I
could well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in the
woods, and more by far in bringing home; so that I spent sometimes
two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and a third
day in driving it into the ground; for which purpose I got a heavy
piece of wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron .
crows, which, however, though I found it, yet it made driving those
posts, or piles, very laborious and tedious work. s

But what need I have been concerned at the, tediousness of any
thing I had to do, seeing I had time enough to doit in? Nor had I
any other employment, if that had been over, at'fleast that I could
foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for] , which I did
more or less every day.'

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circum-
stances I was reduced to, and I drew up the state of my afl'aira' in.
writing, not so much to leave them to any that were to come afier' me
( for I was like to have but few heirs), as to deliver my figughts flaili-
daily poring upon them, and afiicting my mind; and 'as my reason
began now to master my despondenoy; I began to comfo mysilf'aar

ta 1'." ,r .- .' Zuufi'33 ms use an ADVENTURES

well as I could, and to set the good against the evil, that I might have
something to distinguish my case from worse, and I stated it very
impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed against

the miseries I sufi'ered, thus-- .--

EVIL.

I am cast upon a horrible deso-
late island, void of all hope of re-
covery.

I am singled out and separated,
as it were, from all the world, to
be miserable.

I am divided from mankind, a
solitaire, one banished from hu-
man society.

I have no clothes to cover me.

I am without any defence, or
means to resist any violence of
man or beast.

I have no soul to speak to, or
relieve me.

GOOD.
But I am alive, and not drown-
ed, as all my ship's company was.

But I am singled out, too, from
all the ship's crew to be spared
from death; and He that mira-
culously saved me from death, can
deliver me from this condition.

But I am not starved and per-
ishing on a barren place, afi'ording
no sustenance.

But I am ' in a hot climate,
where, if I had clothes, I could
hardly wear them.

But I am cast on an island,
where I see no wild beasts to hurt
me, as I saw on the coast of Afri-
ca: and what if I had been ship-
wrecked there?

But God wonderfully sent the
ship in near enough to the shore,
that I have gotten out so many
necessary. things as will either
supply my wants, or enable me to
supply myself even as long as I
live.

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there was

scarce any condition in the world so miserable, but there was some-
thing negative or something poziiive to be thankful for in it; and let
this stand as a direction from the experience of the most miserable of
all conditions in this world, that we may always find in it something
to comfort ourselves from, and to set in the description of good and
evil, on the credit side of the account.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition, and
given over looking out to sea, to see if I could spy a ship.--I say.es- aesmsos onusem - , ..:99

 

giving over these things, I began to apply myself to accommodate my
way of living, and to make things as easy to me as- -I could.

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent, under the
side of.a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts and cables; but
I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up against
it of turfs, about two foot thick on the outside ;"and after some time--
1 think it was a year and half--I raised rafters from it, leaning to the
rock, and thatched or covered it' with boughsIOf trees, and such things
as I could get to keep out the rain, which I found at some times of
the year very violent.

. I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale,
and into the cave which I had made behind me: but I must observe,
too, that at first this was a confused heap of goods, which, as they lay
in no order, so they took up all my place: I had no room to turn my-
self; so I set myself to enlarge my cave and works farther into the
earth ; for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to the
labour I bestowed on it: and so when I found I was pretty safe as to
beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the right hand into the rock; and
then, turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made me a
door to come out, on the outside of my pale, or fortification.

This gave me not 'only egress and regress, as it were a back way to
my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as
I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table; for without
these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world, --I
could not write or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure
without a table.

So I went to work; and here I must needs observe, that as reason
is the substance and original of the mathematics, so, by stating and
squaring every thing by reason, and by making the most rational
judgment of things, every man may be in time master of every
mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my life, and yet in time,
by labour, application, and contrivance, I found at last that-I wanted
nothing but I could have made it, especially if I had had tools ; how
ever, I made abundance of things even without tools, and some with no
more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were never
made that way before, and that with infinite labour: for example, if I
wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on
an edge before me, and hew it flat on either side with my axe, till I

had brought it to be as thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with ' ' 1' '

my adze. It is true, by this method, I could make but one beard out
 

than I had for the prodigious deal of time and labour which it took
me up to made a plank or board; but my time and labour were little
worth, and so they were as well employed one way as another.

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed above, in
the first place; and this I did out of the short pieces of boards that I
brought on my raft from the ship; but when I had wrought out some
boards, as above, I made large shelves of the breadth of a foot and a
half one over another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all my
tools, nails, and iron-work, and, in a word, to separate every thing at
large in their places, that I might come easily at them. I knocked
pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns, and all things that
would hang up.

So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general
magazine of all necessary things; and I had every thing so ready at
my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in
such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so great.

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day's em-
ployment; for indeed at first I was in too much a hurry; and not only
hurry as to labour, but in too much discomposure of mind, and my
journal would have been full of many dull things. For example, I
must have said thus: September the 30th, after I got to shore, and
had escaped drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my
deliverance, having first vomited with the great quantity of salt water
which was gotten into my stomach, and recovering myself a little, I
ran about the shore, wringing my hands, and beating my head and
face, exclaiming at my misery, and crying out, I was undone, undone!
till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground to repose,
but durst not sleep for fear of being devoured.

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship, and
got all that I could out of her, yet I could not forbear getting up to
the top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing
a ship; then fancy at a vast distance I spied a sail; please myself
with the hopes of it; and then, after looking steadily till I was almost
blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly.

But having gotten over these things in some measure, and having
settled my household stud' and habitation, made me a table and a
chair, and all as handsome about me as I could, I began to keep my
journal, of which I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be
tol'l all these particulars over again) as long as it lasted; for, having
no more ink, I was forced to leave it OK."""'f!"J?-'D'37'57'7'<r7'\'f1'f$ *' u ' <<In?

or aoamsox causes ' ' ~91

CHAPTER V.

l begin to keep a Journal--Christen my desert Island the Island of'Deepnlr--Fall upon
various Schemes to make Tools, Baskets, &e., and begin to build my House--At 5
great Loss of an Evening for Candle, but fell upon an expedient to supply the rent
--8trange discovery of Corn--A terrible Earthquake and Storm.

1' n E J o u a N A L. .
Sqltember so, 1659.
I, POOR miserable Robinson Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a

dreadful storm in the oiling, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate
island, which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest of the ship's
company being drowned, and myself almost dead.

All the rest of that day I spent in afilicting myself at the dismal
circumstances I was brought to, namely, I had neither food, house,
clothes, weapon, or place to fly to, and in despair of any relief, saw -
nothing but death before me, either that I should be devoured by wild
beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of food. At
the approach of night I slept 1n a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but
slept soundly, though it rained all night.

October 1. --In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the ship
had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore again, much
nearer the island; which, as it was some comfort on one hand, fer '
seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind
abated, I might get on board, and get some food and necessaries out
of her for my relief; so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief, at
the loss of my comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all stayed on board,
might have saved the ship, or at least that they would not have been
all drowned as they were ; and that had the men been saved, we might
perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have car
ried us to some other part of the world. Isspent great part of this day
in perplexing myself on these thing) Ml 't length, seeing the ship 3
almost dry, I went upon the send cancer as I could, and then swam,-
on board. This day also it continued taming, though with no wind at
all.

From the let 'y' October to the 24tIaL-o-An these days em spent 'l 1
1n many several voyages to get all I could out. of the ahipnylhlsh' ,1
brough' on shore, every tide of ilood,. upon rsfis. Much rain '
 

 

these days, though with some intervals of fair weather ; but it seems
this was the rainy season.

Oct. 20.--I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon it;
but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I reco-
vered many of them when the tide was out.

Oct. 25.--It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of wind;
during which time the ship broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little
harder than before, and was no more to be seen except the wreck of
her, and that only at low water. I spent this day in covering and
securing the goods which I had saved, that rain might not spoil
them.

Oct. 26.--I walked about the shore almost all day, to find out a
place to 'fix my habitation, greatly concerned to secure myself from any
attack in the night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards night I
fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked out a semicircle
for my encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall,
or fortification, made of double piles, lined within with cable, and with-
out with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard in carrying all my
'goods to my new habitation, though some part of the time it rained
exceeding hard.

The 3lst, in the morning, I went out into the island with my gun,
to seek for some food, and discover the country; when I killed a she-
goat, and her kid followed me home, which I afterwards killed also,
because it would not feed. '

November 1.--I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for the
first night, making it as large as I could, with stakes driven in to swing
my hammock upon.

Nov. 2--1 set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces of timber,
which made my rafts, and with them formed a fence round me, a little
within the place I had marked out for my fortification.

Nov. 3.--I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like ducks,
which were very good food. In the afternoon went to work to make
me a table. '

Nov. 4.--This morning I began to order my times of work; of going
out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion: namely, every
morning I walked out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did
not rain, then employed myself to work till about eleven o'clock, then
ate what I had to live on, and from twelve to two I lay down to sleep,
the weather being excessive hot, and then in the evening to work
again: the working part of this day and of the next-were wholly
employed in making my table; for I was yet but a very sorry work-- be", - ;-._.-. , ., -. J1. .3"? ",1... '- . . "2,.

or nosmson' :causea - as ;

 

man, though time and necessity made me a complete natural mechanic
soon after, as I believe it wquld do any one else.

Nov. 5.--This day went abroad with my gun and my dog, and killed
a wild-cat; her skin pretty soft, but her 'flesh good for nothing: every
creature I killed I took 05' the skins and preserved them. Coming
back by the sembore, I saw many sorts of seaefowls, which I did not
understand; but was surprised, and almost frighted with two or three
seals, which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing what they were,
got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.

Nov. 6.--After my morning walk, I went to work with my table _
again, and finished it, though not to my liking; nor was it long before
I learned to mend it. '

Nov. 7.----Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 8th,
9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday), I took
wholly up to make me a chair, and, with much ado, brought it to a
tolerable shape, but never to please me; and even in the making, I
pulled it in pieces several times. Note--I soon neglected my keeping
Sundays; for omitting my mark for them on my post, I fergot which
was which.

Nov. 13.--This day it rained, which refreshed me exceedingly, and
cooled the earth; but it was accompanied with terrible thunder and
lightning, which frighted me dreadfully for fear of my powder: as
soon as it was over, I resolved to separate my stock of powder into as
many little parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.

Nov. 14, 15, 16.--These three days I spent in making little square
chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or two pounds at
most, of powder; and so putting the powder in, I stowed it in places
as secure and remote from one another as possible. On one of these
three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not
what to call it.

Nov. 17.--This day I began to dig behind my tent into the rock, to
make room for my farther conveniency. Note--Three things I wanted
exceedingly for this work, namely, a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheel-
barrow or basket; so I desisted from my work, and began to consider
how to supply that want, and make me some tools: as for a pick-axe,
I made use of the iron-crows, which were proper enough, though heavy;
but the next thing was a shovel or spade; this was so absolutely neces-
sary, that indeed I could do nothing sfl'eotually without it; but what
kind of one to make I knew not.

 

Nov. 18. ----'.l'he next day, in searching the woods, I found a tree of ' i' "l

that wood, or like it, which in the Brazils they call' the iron- -tree;fm" .'
its exceeding hardness: of this, with great labour, and ahaestspdilihgh

' . .aLLMm? <<Juli94 ran mes 'AND anemones

 

my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home too with difliculty enough,
for it was exceeding heavy.

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no other way, made
me a long while upon this machine; for I worked it efi'ectually by little
and little into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped
like ours in England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long; however, it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to; but never
was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long a-making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheel-barrow; a
basket I could not make by any means, having no such things as twigs,
that would bend to make wicker-ware, at least not yet found out; and
as to a wheel-barrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel, but that
I had no notion of, neither did I know how to go about it; besides, I
had no possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle, or axis,
of the wheel, to run in, so I gave it over; and so, for carrying away
the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod,
which the labourers carry mortar in, when they serve the bricklayers.

This was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel; and yet
this, and the shovel, and the attempt which I made in vain to make a
wheelbarrow, took me up no less than four days, I mean always except-
ing my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom failed; and very
seldom failed also bringing home something to eat.

Nov. 23.--My other work having now stood still, because of my
making these tools, when they were finished I went on, and working
every day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods commodiously. \

Note--During all this time I worked to make this room, or cave,
spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse, or magazine, a
kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar: as for my lodging, I kept to the
tent, except that sometimes in the wet season of the year, it rained
so hard, that I could not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards
to cover all my place within my pale with long poles in the form of
rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them with flags and large
leaves of trees like a thatch.

December 10.--I began now to think my cave, or vault, finished,
when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great quantity
of earth fell down from the top and one side, so much, that. in short,
it frighted me, and not without reason too; for if I had been under it,
I had never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster I had a great.
deal of work to d~ over again; for I had the loose earth to carry out.ur nonmson mason. - - 95

 

 

and, which was .of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so
that I might be sure no more would come down.

Dec. 11.--This dayI went to work with it accordingly, and-got t'wo
shores, 'or pests, pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of boards
across over each post; this I finished the next day; and setting more
posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured; and
the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions to part of my
house. '

Dec. 17.--From this day to the twentieth I placed shelves, and
knocked up nails on the posts to hang every thing up that could be
hung up: and now I began to be in some order within doors.

Dec. 20.--Now I carried every thing into the cave, and began to
furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards like a dresser, to
order my victuals upon; but boards began to be very scarce with me:
also, I made me another table.

Dec. 24.--Much rain all night and all day; no stirring out.
Dec. 25.--Rain all day.

Dec. 26. --No rain, and the earth much cooler than before, and
pleasanter.

Dec. 27. --Killed a young goat, and lamed another, so that -I caught
it, and led it home in a string: when I had it home, I bound and
splintered up its leg, which was broke.---N. B. I took such care of it
that it lived, and the leg grew well and as strong as ever; but by
nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my
door, and would not go away. This was the first time that I enter-
tained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have
food when my powder and shot were all spent. _

Dec. 28, 29, 30.--Great heats, and no breeze; so that there was no
stirring abroad, except in the evening for food. This time I spent in
putting all my things in order within doors.

January L--Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late with
my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, going
further into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island, I
found there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy and hard to
come at; however, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to
hunt them down.

Jan. 2.--Accordingly, the next day I went out with my dog, and set
him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for they all faced about upon
the dog , and he knew his danger too well, for he would not come near
them.

Jan. 3 .--I began my fence, or wall, which, being still jedous of my
, being attacked by somebgiiy, I resolved to make very thick and strong.
CRUSOE WRITING HIS JOURNAL.

N. B. This wall being described before, I purposely omit what was said
in the journal; it is suflicient to observe, that I was no less time
than from the 3d of January to the 14th of April, working, finishing,
and perfecting this wall, though it was no more than about twenty-
four yards in length, being a half circle from one place in the rock to
another place about eight yards from it, the door of the cave being
in the centre behind it. '

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many days,
nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought I should never be
perfectly secure until this wall was finished; and it is scarcely credible
what inexpressible labour every thing was done with, especially the
bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them into the ground;
for I made them much bigger than I need to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double-fenced with a
turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if any people
were to come on shore there, they would not perceive any thing like a
habitation ; and it was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter,
upon a very remarkable occasion.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game, every
day, when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries, in'~( Ieyr'" -'

0F ROBINSON FRUSOE. 91

  

CRUSOE DISCOVEBS 'I'lll-l BARLEY.

these walks, of something or other to my advantage; particularly, I
found a kind of wild pigeons, who built, not as wood pigeons, in a tree,
but rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks ; and taking some
young ones, I endeavored to breed them up tame, aml did so; but
when they grew older they flew away, which, perhaps, was at first for
want of feeding them; for I had nothing to give them. However, I
fi'equcntly found their nests, and got their young ones, which were
very good meat.

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found myself
wanting in many things, which I thought at first it was impossible for
me to make, as indeed, as to some of them, it was ; for instance, I
could never make a cask to be hooped. I had a small runlet or two,
as I observed before, but I could never arrive to the capacity of making
one by them, though I spent many weeks about it ; I could neither put
in the heads, or joint the staves so true to one another, as to make
them hold water, so I gave that also over.

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle, so that as
soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by seven o'clock, I was
obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump of beeswax with which
I made candles in my African adventure, but I had none ofthat now.

The only remedv I had was, that when I had killed a goat I saved
., o7
 

the tallow, and, with a little dish made of clay, which I baked in the
sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and
this gave me a light, though not a clear steady light like a candle. In
the middle of all my labours, it happened that, rummaging my things,
I found a little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled with
corn- for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as I
suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon. What little remainder of
corn had been in the bag was all devoured with the rats, and I saw
nothing in the bag but husks and dust; and being willing to have the
bag for some other use--I think it was to put powder in--when I
divided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use, I shOok the husks
of corn out of it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains, just now mentioned, that I
threw this stuff away, taking no notice of any thing, and not so much
as remembering that I had thrown any thing there; when about a
month after, or thereabout, I saw some few stalks of something green
shooting out of the ground, which I fancied might be some plant I had
not seen; but I was surprised and perfectly astonished, when, after a
little longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which were
perfect green barley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as our
English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion of my
thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto acted upon no religious
foundation at all. Indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my
head, or had entertained any sense of any thing that had befallen me,
otherwise than as a chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God;
without so much as inquiring into the end of Providence in these
things, or his order in governing events in the world. But after I saw
barley grow there, in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn,
and especially, that I knew not how it came there, it startled me
strangely, and I began to suggesn that God had miraculously caused
this grain to grow, without any help of seed sown; and that it was so
directed, purely for my sustenance on that wild miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes,
and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature should hap-
pen upon my account; and this was the more strange to me, because I
saw near it still, all along by the side of the rock, some other straggling
stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I
had seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.

I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence for my
support, but, not doubting but that there was more in the place, I went
all over that part of the island where I had been before, peeping in
 

every corner, and under every rock, to see for more of it; but I could
not find any. At last, it occurred to my thought that I had shook a
bag of chicken's meat out in that place, and then the wonder began to
cease; and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's provi-
dence began to abate too, upon discovering that all this was nothing
but what was common, though I ought to have been as thankful for so
strange and unforeseen a providence as if 'it had been miraculous; for
it was really the work of Providence, as to me, that should order or
appoint ten or twelve grains of corn to remain unspoiled, when the rats
had destroyed all the rest,- as if it had been dropped from heaven: as
also, that I should throw it out in that particular place, where, it being
in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I
had thrown it anywhere else at that time, it had been burnt up and
destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be sure, in their season,
which was about the end of June, and, laying up every com, I resolved
to sow them all again, hoping in time to have some quantity suficient
to supply me with bread; but it was not till the fourth year that I could
allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but
sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I
sowed the first season, by not observing the proper time; for I sowed
it just before the dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least
not as it would have done: of which in its place.

Besides this barley, there Were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks of
rice, which I preserved with the same care, and whose use was of the
same kind, or to the same purpose, namely, to make me bread, or
rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without baking, though I.
did that also after some time. But to return to my journal.

I worked excessive hard these three or four months to get my wall
done; and the 14th of April I closed it up, contriving to go into it,
not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder, that there might be no
sign in the outside of my habitation.

April16.--I finished the ladder; so I went up with the ladder to
the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down on the inside.
This waS'a complete enclosure to me; for within I had room enough,
and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could first mount
my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had ahnost had all
my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed. The _deg"9.W3 thus:
is I was busy 1n the inside of it, behind my tent, just in the anti-apes
.nto my cave, I was terribly frighted with a most dreadful surpM' "
thing indeed; for on a sudden I found the earth come crumbling dow Li 5;
from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill, over my head,
and two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful
manner; I was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what was really
the cause, only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as
some of it had done before; and, for fear I should be buried in it, I
ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there neither,
I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill, which I expected
.night roll down upon me. I was no sooner stept down upon the firm
ground, but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the ground
I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes distance, with three
such shocks as would have overturned the strongest building that
could be supposed to have stood on the earth; and a great piece of
the top of a rock, which stood about half a mile from me, next the sea.
fell down with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life: I
perceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it; and I
believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the island.

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the like, or
(liscuuised with any one that had, that I was like one (lead or stupefied;
aml the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was
tossed at sea; but the noise of the falling of the rock awaked me, as
it were, and rousing me from my stupefied condition I was in, tilled me
with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon
my tent and all my household goods, and burying all at once; and
thus sunk my very soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I
began to take courage; and yet I had not heart enough to get over
my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat still upon the
ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while I had not the least serious religious thought, nothing but
the common " Lord, have mercy upon me i" and when it was over, that
went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as if it
would rain; soon after that, the wind rose by little and little, so that
in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane: the sea
was all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth, the shore was
covered with the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by the
roots, and a terrible storm it was; and this held about three hours, and
then began to abate, and in two hours more it was stark calm, and
began to rain very hard.

All this while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified and de-
jected, when on a sudden it came into my thoughts, that these winds
and rain being the consequence of -the earthquake, the earthquake

 

__,_ _, Ahh-<<(I

OP ROBINSON CRUSOB. . 101

 

Itself was spent and over, and I might venture into my cave again:
with this thought my spirits began to revive, and, the rain also helping
to persuade me, I went in and sat down in my tent; but the rain was
so violent that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it; and I
was forced to go into my. cave, though very much afraid and uneasy.
for fear it should fall on my head.

This violent rain forced me to a new work, namely, to cut a hole
through my new fortification like a sink, to let water go out, which
would else have drowned my cave. After I had been in my cave some
time, and found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began
to be more composed; and now, to support my spirits, which indeed
wanted it very much, I went to my little store, and took a small cup
of mm, which, however, I did then, and always, very sparingly, know~
ing I could have no more when that was gone.

It continued raining all that night, and great part of the next .day,
so that I could not stir abroad, but, my mind being more composed, I
began to think of what I had best do, concluding, that if the island
was subject to these earthquakes, there would be no living for me in a
cave, but I must consider of building me some little but in an open
place, which I might surround with a wall as I had done here, and so
make myself secure from wild beasts or men: but concluded, if I stayed
where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the place
where it stood, which was just under the hanging precipice of the hill,
and which, if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my
tent. And I spent the two next days, being the 19th and 20thof
April, in contriving where and how to remove my habitation.

The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I never slept in
quiet, and yet the apprehension of lying abroad without any fence,
was almost equal to it; but still, when I looked about, and saw how
every thing was put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, and how
safe from danger, it made me very loath to remove.

In the meantime, it occurred to me, that it would require a vast deal
of time for me to do this, and that I must be contented to run the
venture where I was, till I had formed a camp for myself, and had
secured it so as to remove to it. So, with this resolution, I composed
myself for a time, and resolved that I would go to work with all speed,
to build me a 'wall with piles and cables, &c. in a circle,se "More; and
set my tent up in it when it was finished, but that I wmfihge to
stay where I was till it was finished, and fit to remove '.ta. Tine-W :
the 21st. '

April 22. --'._l'he next morning I began to consider ofheans

'1
'w'n'

 
   
  

1
 

this resolve in execution, but I was at a great loss about my tools. I'
had three large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for we carried the
hatchets for traffic with the Indians); but with much chopping and
cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches and dull; and,
though I had a grindstone, I could not turn it, and grind my tools too;
this cost me as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon
a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and death of a man.
At length I contrived a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot,
that I might have both my hands at liberty.--Note, I had never seen
any such thing in England, or at least not to take notice how it was
done, though since I have observed it is very common there; besides
that, my grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine cost me
a full week's work to bring it to perfection.

April 28, 29.--These two whole days I took up in grinding my tools,
my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well.

April 30.--Having perceived my bread had been low a great while,
now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit~cake a
day, which made my heart very heavy.

CHAPTER VL

Observe the Ship driven farther aground by the late Storm--Proonre a vast quantity
of Necessaries from the Wreck--Catch a large Turtle--I fall ill of a Fever and Aguo
--Terrible Dream, and serious Reflections thereupon--~Find a Bible in one of the Sea--
men's Chests thrown ashore, the reading whereof gives me great comfort.

May 1.--In the morning, looking towards the sewide, the tide being
low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary; and it
looked like a cask. When I came to it, I found a small barrel, and
two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on
share by the late hurricane; and looking towards the wreck itself, I
thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do. I
examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found it was
a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and the powder was
caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on shore for the
present, and went on upon the sands as near as I could to the wreck
of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed: the
forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up at least six
foot; and the stern (which was broke to pieces, and parted from the
rest by the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging her), was.
 

tossed, as it were, up, and cast on oneside; and the sand was thrown
so high on that side next her stern, that whereas there was a great
piece of water before, so that I could not come within a quarter of a
mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now walk quite up to her
when the tide was out. I was surprised with this at first, but soon
concluded it must be done by the earthquake; and, as by this violence
the ship was more broken open than formerly, so many things came
daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and which the winds and
water rolled by degrees to the land.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my
habitation ; and I busied myself mightily, that day especially, in search-
ing whether I could make any way into the ship; but I found nothing
was to be expected of that kind, for that all the inside of the ship was
choked up with sand; however, as I had learned not to despair of any
thing, I resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could of the ship,
concluding, that every thing I could get from her would be of some
use or other to me.

May 3.--I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through,
which I thought held some of the upper part or quarter-deck together,
and when I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as I
could from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was.
obliged to give over for that time.

May 4.--I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat
of, till I was weary of my sport ; when just going to leave 01?, I caught
a young dolphin. I had made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but - 51'-
I had no hooks, yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I cared
to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.

Mag 5.--Worked on the wreck, out another beam asunder, and
brought three great fir planks off from the decks, which I tied together,-
and made swim on shore when the tide of flood came on.

May 6.--Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out of her, and
other pieces of iron-work; worked very hard, and came home very
much tired, and had thoughts of giving it over. .'

May 7.--Went to the wreck again, but with an intent not to work,
but found the weight of the wreck had brought itself down, the beams eff
being cut; that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the '
inside of the hold lay so open, that I could see into it, but almost fill
of water and sand. . i 'i--'u' id};

May 8. --Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrennhu'p, ;,
the deck, which lay now quite clear of water or sand; I '
open two planks, and brought them on shore also with the tide" . I lefi
the' iron crow in the wreck for next day. .

       
 
 

 

m "A"
 

 

May 9.--Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way into the
body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them with the
crow, but could not break them up: I felt also the roll of English lead,
and could stir it, but it was too heavy to remove.

May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14.--Went every day to the wreck, and got a
great many pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and two or three
hundred weight of iron.

May 15.--I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a. piece
of the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it
with the other; but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I
could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.

May 16.--It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck appeared
more broken by the force of the water; but Istayed so long in the
woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide prevented me going to the
wreck that day. '

May 17.--I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a great
distance, near two miles of me, but resolved to see what they were,
and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.

May 24.---Every day to this day I worked on the wreck, and, with
hard labour, I loosened some things so much with the crew, that the
first flowing tide several casks floated out and two of the seamen's
chests; but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land
that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which had some Brazil
pork in it, but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it.

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June, except the time
necessary to get food, which I always appointed, during this part of
my employment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be ready
when it was ebbed out ; and by this time I had gotten timber, and plank,
and iron work enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how ;
and also I got at several times, and in several pieces, near one hundred
weight of the sheet lead.

J1me 16.--Going down to the sea-side, I found a large tortoise, or
turtle; this was the first that I had seen, which, it seems, was only my
misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity ; for bad I happened
to be on the other side of the island, I might have had hundreds of
them every day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear
enough for them.

June 17. --I spent in cooking the turtle: I found in her threescore
eggs; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury and
pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but of goats
and fowls, since I landed' in this horrid place.

June 18. --Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought at this.,-__.

or noamson- causoa. - . 105

--____________--_--_----------------'--

time the rain felt cold and I was something chilly, which I knew was
not usual in that latitude.

J2me 19.--Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been cold.

June 20.--No rest all night, violent pains in my head, and feverish.

June 21.--Very ill, frighted almost to death with the apprehensions
of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help. Prayed to God, for the
first time since the storm of Hull; but scarce knew what I said, or
why, my thoughts being all confused. '

June 22.--A little better, but under dreadful apprehensions of
sickness.

June 23.--Very had again, cold and shivering, and then a violent
headache.

June 24.--Much better.

June 25.--An ague very violent ; the fit held me seven hours, cold
fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.

June 26.--Better ; and having no victuals to eat, took my gun, but
found myself. very weak; however, I killed a she-goat, and, with much
difficulty, got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate; I would fain
have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot. -

June 27.----The ague again so violent that I lay a-bed all day, and
neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for thirst, but so weak I
had not strength to stand up, or to get myself any water to drink.
Prayed to God again, but was light-headed: and when I was not, I
was so ignorant, that I knew not what to say, only I lay, and cried,
" Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me i"
I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours, till, the fit wearing
of, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night; when I waked,
I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty;
however, as I had no water in my whole habitation, I was forced to lie
till morning, and went to sleep again. ' In this second sleep I had this
terrible dream: '

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside of my wall,
where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw
a man descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and
light upon the ground. He was all over asgbright as a flame, sothat I
could but just hear to look towards him; his countenance was most
inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe; when he
stepped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled,

just as it had done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked to
my apprehension as if it had been filled with flashes of PS16.,.:;..~,. .

4'

He was no sooner landed upon the earth but he, movedfo'mfl

     
 
 
 

towards me, with a long spear, or weapon, in his hand. to kill mega .. ,.

r'e.' '
' . .\ ' {fif
.. \.

'1 'H T.Y=t'o_xx.i.
. .. me$ohilwq _ .

1" a

-' starts>>.
. r. . .'

"O
 

when he came to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or
I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible to express the terror of
it; all that I can say I understood was this,--" Seeing all these things
have not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die ;" at which
words, I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account, will expect that I should
be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision; I
mean, that even while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors;
nor is it any more possible to describe the impression that remained.
upon my mind, when I awaked and found it was but a dream.

I had, alas ! no divine knowledge. What I' had received by the good
instruction of my father was then worn out by an uninterrupted series,
for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant conversation
with nothing but such as were, like myself, wicked and profane to the
last degree. I do not remember that I had, in all that time, one thought
that so much as tended either to looking upwards toward God, or
inwards towards a reflection upon my own ways. But a certain.
stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or conscience of evil, had
entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all that the most hardened,
unthinking, wicked creature, among our common sailors, can be supposed
to be, not having the least sense, either of the fear of God in danger,
or of thankfulness to God in dcliverances.

In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the
more easily believed, when I shall add, that, through all the variety of
miseries that had to this day befallen me, I never had so much as one
thought of it being the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment
for my sin,--my rebellious behaviour against my father, or my present
sins, which were great,--or so much as a punishment for the general
course of my wicked life. When I was on the desperate expedition on
the desert shores of Africa, I never had so much as one thought of
what would become of me, or one wish to God to direct me whither I
should go, or keep me from the danger which apparently surrounded
me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel savages: but I was merely
thoughtless of a God, or at Providence, acted like a mere brute, from-
the principles of nature, and by the dictates of common sense only,
and indeed hardly that.

When I was delivered, and taken up at sea by the Portugal captain,
well used, and dealt justly and honourably with, as well as charitably,
I had not the least thankfulness in my thoughts. When again I was
shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning on this island, I was
as far from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment,--I only said to my-
self often that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be always miserable.v v..- 1 ..-C/

 

or nosmsos causos. ......I- '10?

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found all 'my ship I
crew drowned, and myself spared, I was surprised with a kind of
ecstasy, and some transports of soul, which, had the grace of God
assisted, might have come up to truethankfulness; but it ended where
it began, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say, being glad
I was alive, without the least reflection upon the distinguishing good-
ness of the hand which had preserved me, and had singled me out to
be preserved, when all the rest were destroyed; or an inquiry why
Providence had been thus merciful to me: even just the same common
sort of joy which seamen generally have, after they have got safe on
shore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the next bowl of
punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my
life was like it.

Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration, made sensible of
my condition, how I was cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach
of human kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemption, as
soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I should not starve and
perish for hunger, all the sense of my affliction wore 0E, and I began
to be very easy, applied myself to the works proper for my preserva-
tion and supply, and was far enough from being afllicted at my condi-
tion, as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God against me :
these were thoughts which very seldom entered into my head,

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my journal, had at first
some little influence upon me, and began to afi'ect me with seriousness,
as long as I thought it had something miraculous in it; but as soon as
ever that part of thought was removed, all the impression which was
raised from it wore 011' also, as I have noted already. a ,

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in its
nature, or more immediately directing to the invisible Power, which
alone directs such things; yet no sooner was the first fright over, but
the impression it had made went of also. I had no more sense of God
or his judgments, much less of the present aflliction of my circum-
stances heing from his hand, than if I had been in the most prosperous
condition oNife.

But-now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely view of the mise-
riesof death came to place itself before me; when my spirits began to
sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted
with the violence of the fever, conscience, that had slept so long, began
to awake, and I began to reproach myself with my past life, in which
I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, provoked the justice of

God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and to deal vn'th be In so
vindictive a manner. '
These reflections oppressed me from the second or third day of my
distemper; and in the violence, as well of the fever as of the dreadful
reproaches of my conscience, extorted some words from me, like pray-
ing to God, though I cannot say they were either a prayer attended
with desires or with hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright and
distress: my thoughts were confused, the convictions great upon my
mind, and the horror of dying in such a miserable condition raised
vapours into my head with the mere apprehensions; and, in these
hurries of my soul, I knew not what my tongue might express: but it
was rather exclamation, such as, " Lord! what a miserable creature
am I! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for want of help, and
what will become of me !" Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and
I could say no more for a good while.

In this interval, the good advice of my father came to my mind, and
presently his prediction, which I mentioned in the beginning of this
story, namely, that, if I did take this foolish step, God would not bless
me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery. "Now,"
said I, aloud, " my dear father's words are come to pass: God's jus-
tice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected
the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a posture, or
station of life, wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I would
neither see it myself, nor learn to know the blessing of it from my
parents. I left them to mourn over my folly, and now I am left to
mourn under the consequences of it. I refused their help and assist-
ance, who would have lifted me into the world, and would have made
every thing easy to me, and now I have dificulties to struggle with, too
great for even nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help, no
comfort, no advice." Then I cried out, "Lord, be my help; for I am
in great distress. '"

This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, that I had made for
many years. But I return to my journal.

June 28.--Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had
had, and the lit being entirely ofl', I got up; and though the fright and
terror of my dream was very great, yet I considered that the fit of the
ague would return again the next day, and now was my time to get
something to refresh and support myself, when I should be ill: and
the first thing I did, I filled a large square case-bottle with water, and
set it upon my table in reach of my bed; and to take of the chill or
aguish disposition of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum
into it, and mixed them together: then Igot me a piece of the goat's" '
flesh, and broiled it on the coals but canld eat very little. I walked a

l
l
 

about, but was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-heane--d,
under a sense of my miserable condition, dreading the return of my

 

distemper the next day. At night, I made my supper of three of the '

turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in
the shell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's
blessing to, even, as I could remember, in my whole life.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak that I
could hardly carry the gun, (for I never went out without that); so I
went but a little way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon
the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and smooth. As I
sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred to me :--

What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whence
is it produced? And what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and
tame, human and brutal: whence are we? 1

Sure we are all- made by some secret Power, who formed the- firth
and sea, the air and sky: and who is that?

Then it followed most naturally :--It is God that has made it all.

Well, but then--it came on strangely--if God has made all these .

things, he guides and governs them all, and all things that concern

them; for the Being that could make all things, must certainly hug? "

power to guide and direct them.

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his works, either
without his knowledge or appointment.

And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he knows that I am
here, and am in a dreadful condition; and "if nothing happens without
his appointment, he has appointed all this to befall me.

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any of these canola.

sions; and therefore it rested upon me with the greater force, that it
must needs be that God had appointed all this to befall me; that I
was brought to this miserable circumstance by his direction, he having

the sole power, not of me only, but of every thing that happened in,

the world. Immediately it followed.

Why has God done this to me? What have I done to be thus used?

My conscience presently checked me iii. zthat inquiry, as if I had
blasphemed; and methought it spoke to me like a voice. ' --"Wr'etclil
dost thou ask what thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful mis-
spent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not done? Ask why is it
that thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned
in Yarmouth Roads? killed in the fight, when the ship was taken

by the Sallee man-of- war? devoured by the wild beasts on the coast
of Africa? or drowned units, when all the crew perished but thyself 3

Dost thou ask, What have I done ?"_______________.-_______--.--.

l was struck with these reflections, as one astonished, and had not a
word to say,--no, not to answer to myself; but rose up pensive and
sad, walked back to my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had
been going to bed; but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had
no inclination to sleep, so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my
lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as the apprehensions of the
return of my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my
thought, that the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost
all distcinpers; and I had a piece of -a roll of tobacco in one of the
chests, which was quite cured, and some also that was green, and not
quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this chest I found a
cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, namely, the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay
there too, I took out one of the Bibles, which I mentioned before, and
which, to this time, I had not found leisure, or so much as inclination,
to look into,--I say, I took it out, and brought both that and the
tobacco with me to the table.

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper,
or whether it was good for it or no; but I tried several experiments
with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first
took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which indeed at first
almost stupified my brain, the tobacco being green and strong, and I
had not been much used to it; then I took some, and steeped it an
hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it, when I lay
down; and lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose
close over the smoke of it, as long as I could bear it, as well for the
heat, as the virtue of it, and I held almost to suffocation.

In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible, and began to
read; but my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear
reading, at least at that time; only, having opened the book casu-
ally, the first words that occurred to me were these: " Call on me in
the day of trouble, and I will deliver ; and thou shalt glorify me."

The words were very apt to my case, and made some impression
upon'my thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much as
they did afterwards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no
sound, as I may say, to me. The thing was so remote, so impossible,
in my apprehension of things, that I began to say, as the children of
Israel did, when they were promised flesh to eat, " Can God spread a
table in the wilderness?" So I began to say, "Can God himSelf de-
liver me from this place?" And as it was not for many years that
any hope appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts. But,
 

however, the words made a very great impression upon me, and I
mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and the tobacco had.
as I said, dozed my head so much that I inclined to sleep, so that I
left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want any thing in the
night, and went to bed. But before I lay down, I did what I never
had done in all my life,--I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil
the promise to me, that if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he
would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over,
I drank the rum, in which I had steeped the tobacco, which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it down.
Immediately upon this, I went to bed, and found presently it flew up
unto my head violently; but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no
more, till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the
afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour, I am partly of the opinion,
that I slept all the next day and night, and till almost three the day~
after; for, otherwise, I knownot how I should lose a day out of my
reckoning, in the days of the week, as it appeared, some years after,
I had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the line, I
should have lost more than a day; but in my account it was lost, and
I never knew which way.

Be that, however, one way or other; when I awaked, I found my-
self exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful. When
I got up, I was stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach
better; for Iwas hungry; and, in short,~ I had no fit the next day,
but continued much altered for the better; this was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day of course, and I went abroad with my
gun, but did not care to travel too far: I killed a sea-fowl or two,
something like a brand goose, and brought them home, but was not
very forward to eat them; so I ate some more of the turtle's eggs,
which were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine, which
I had supposed did me good the day before, namely, the tobacco steeped
in rum; only I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of
the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke ; however, I was not so well
the next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped I should have
been ;' for I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much.

July 2.--I renewed the medicine all the three ways, and dosed my-
self with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I drank.

July 3.---I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not recover
my full strength for some weeks after. While I was thus gathering
strength, my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this Scripture, "I will
deliver thee ;" and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon
my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it ; but as I was discouraging

|_ . e?

   

. .. i "N".
. um , M . ._w(r)k\)m.& L:m,

 

5

%/

 

/ ,,.
I ,

 

BIBLE.

NG THE

READ!

:

"I! [TRUE ILL

112
 

myself with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind, that I pored so
much upon my deliverance from the main affliction, that I disregarded
the deliverance I had received; and I was, as it were, made to ask
myself such questions as these: namely, Have I not been delivered,
and wonderfully too, from sickness? from the most distressing con-
dition that could be, and that was so frightful tome? and what notice
had I taken of it? had I done my part? God had delivered me, but I
had not glorified him,--that is to say, I had not owned and been
thankful for that as a. deliverance; and how could I expect greater
deliverance?

This touched my heart very much, and immediately I knccled down,
and gave God thanks aloud, for my recovery from my sickness.

July 4.--In the morning I took the Bible; and, beginning at the
New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed upon myself
to read a while every morning and every night, not tying myself to
the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should engage me.
It was not long after I set seriously to this work, but I found my heart
more deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my pastlifc.
The impression of my dream revived; and the words, "~41! these
things have not brought thee to repentance,"
thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to give- me repentance,
when it happened providentially that very day, that, 'refleng' the
Scripture, I came to these words: "He is exalted a Prince and a
Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission." I threw down
the book, and with my heart as well as my hand lifted up to heaven,
in a kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou Son of
David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance !"

This was the first time that I could say, in the true sense of the
words, that I prayed in all my life; for now I prayed with a. sense of
my condition, and with a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the
encouragement of the word of God; and from this time, I may say, I
began to have hope that God would hear me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, " Call on me,
and I will deliver thee," in a. different sense from what I had ever
done Before; for then I had nonotion of anything being called de-
liverance, but my heing delivered from the captivity I was in: for,
though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was certainly
a prison to me, and that in the worst sense of the word ;' But now I,
learned to take it in another sense. Now I looked back on myrpnst life
with such horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul
sought nothing of God but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore

down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing; I did
8

.._.>>....._._.._...._'_.._ , ,. . "in. v" r.

 

ran seriously in my >>'
not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of it; it was all
of no consideration in comparison of this; and I add this part hero, to
hint to whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a true sense
of things, they will find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing
than deliverance from afiliction.

But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my
way of living, yet much easier to my mind; and my thoughts being
directed, by a constant reading the Scripture and praying to God, to
things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of comfort within, which
till now, I knew nothing of : also, as my health and strength returned,
I bestirred myself to furnish myself with every thing that I wanted,
and make my way of living as regular as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in walking
about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man
that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness; for it is
hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what weakness I was re-
duced. The application which I made use of was perfectly new, and,
perhaps, what had never cured an ague before; neither can I recom-
mend it to any one to practise by this experiment; and though it did
carry off 'the fit, yet it rather contributed to weaken me; for I had
frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.

I learned from it also this, in particular, that being abroad in the
rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could be,
especially in those rains which came attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind; for, as the rain which came in a dry season was always
most accompanied with such storms, so I found this rain was much
more dangerous than the rain which fell in September and October.

I had been new in this unhappy island above ten months: all pos-
sibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely taken
from me; and I firmly believed, that no human shape had ever set
foot upon that place. Having now secured my habitation, as I thought,
fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery
of the island, and to see what other productions I might find, which
yet I knew nothing if.
 

CHAPTER VII. 1

( begin to take a survey of my Island--Discover plenty of Tobacco, Grapes, Lemons,
and Sugar Canes, wild, but no human inhabitants--Resolve to lay up a Store of these
Articles, to furnish me against the wet Season--My Cat. which I supposed lost, re-
turns with Kittens--I regulate my Diet, and shut myself up for the wet Season--

Sow my Grain which comes to nothing; but I discover and remedy my error--Take
account of the courso of the Weather.

II was the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular sur-
vey of the island itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I hinted,
I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about two miles
up, that the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no more than
a little brook of running water, very fresh and good: but this being
the dry season, there-was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least
not enough to run into any stream, so as it could be perceived.

0n the banks of this brook I found many pleasant sa'vannas 01
meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and, on the rising
parts of them, next to the higher grounds (where the water, as it might
be supposed, never overflowcd), I found a great deal of tobacco, green,
and growing to a great and very strong stalk; there were divers other
plants, which I had no notion of or understanding about, and might
perhaps have virtues of their own, which I could not find out.

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that climate
make their bread of, but I could find none. I saw large plants of
aloes, but did not then understand them; I saw several sugar-canes,
but wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself
with these discoveries for this time, and came back musing with myself
what course I might take to know the virtue and goodness of says?)
the fruits or plants which I should discover, but could bring it td' no
conclusion, for, in short, I had made so little observation while I was
in the' Brazils, that I know little of the plants of the field; at least,
very little that might serve me to any purpose now in_ my distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and, after
going something farther than I had done the day before; I found tin;
brook and the savanna began to cease, and the counts-y'beeame more
woody than before. In this part I found different fruits, and particu-

larly I found melons upon the ground in great abundan'gem'hd grapelxg
upon the trees; the vines had spread indeed over the trees, '
clusters of grapes were now just in their prime, very ripe and rich.

This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding glad of them;

but I was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them, remem-

bering that when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed

several of our Englishmen who were slaves there, by throwing thenr
into fluxes and fevers; but I found an excellent use for these grapes,

and that was to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried

grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they

were, as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be

had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my habitation;
which, by the way, was the first night, as I might say, I had lain from
home. In the night I took my first contrivance, and got up into a
tree, where I slept well, and the next morning proceeded upon my dis-
covery, travelling near four miles, as I might judge by the length of
the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south
and north side of me.

At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the country
seemed to descend to the west; and a little spring of fresh water,
which issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that
is, due east; .and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourish-
ing, every thing being in a constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that
it looked like a planted garden. \

I descended a little on the side of that delicious valley, surveying it
with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with other afflicting
thoughts), to think that this was all my own, that I was king and lord
of all this country indefensibly, and had a right of possession ; and, if
I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance, as completely as any
_ lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa trees,
orange, and lemon, and citron trees, but all wild, and few bearing any
fruit; at least, not then: however, the green limes that I gathered
were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome ; and I mixed their
juice afterwards with water, which made it very wholesome, and very
cool and refreshing.

I found new I' had business enough to gather and carry home; and
resolved to lay _up a store, as well of grapes as limes and lemons, to
furnish myself for the wet season, which I knew was approaching.

In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place,
and a lesser heap in another place, and a great pan-cl of limes and
lemons in another place; and taking a few of each with me, I travelled
homcward and resolved to come again and bring a bag or sack, or whal
I could make, to carry the rest home.- -< vaw'i'fl'T--'Tv'fl'

OF ROBINSON CBUSOE. 1"

Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I came home, '
(so 1 must now call my tent and my cave); but before I got thither,
the grapes were spoiled; the richness of the fruit and the weight of
the juice having broken them and bruised them, they were good for
little or nothing: as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring
but a few.

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made me two
small bags to bring home my harvest. But I was surprised, when,
coming to my heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine, when I
gathered them, I found them all spread abroad, trod to pieces, and
dragged about, some here, some there, and. abundance eaten and
devoured. By this I concluded there were some wild creatures there-
abouts, which had done this; but what they were I knew not.

However, as I found there was no laying them up on heaps, and no
carrying them away in a sack, but that one way they would be destroyed,
and the other way they would be crushed with their own weight, I
took another course; for I gathered a large quantity of the grapes,
and hung them upon the out-branches of the trees, that they might
cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes and lemons, I carried
as many back as I could well stand under.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated, with great
pleasure, on the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleasantness of the
situation, the security from storms on that-side of the water, and the
wood; and concluded, that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode,
which was by far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I
began to consider of removing my habitation, and to look out for a
place, equally safe as where I now was situated, if possible, in that
pleasant, fruitful part of the island.

This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding fond of )1: '
for some time, the .pleasantness of the place tempting me; but when I '
came to a nearer view of it, and to consider that I was now by the sea- .-'-
side, where it was at least possible that something might happen to
my advantage, and that the same ill fate that brought me hither, might '
bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place; anthough it
was scarce probable that any such thing should ever happen, yet, to 5' f
enclose myself among the hills and woods, in the centre of the island, ~ ' - '
was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an afi'air hot only
improbable, but impossible; and that, therefore, I ought. not by any.
means to remove.

However, I was so enamoured with this place, that I spent much of
my time there for the whole remaining part of the month of. July; and'5' IKCHVI H.

v
u

l.\'l

l'lH'S'H'i
--'____--__----------------

I built me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it, at a distance,
with a strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could reach.
well staked, and filled between with brushwood; and here I lay very
secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always going over it
with a ladder, as before; so that I fancied now I had my country
house, and my sea-coast house ; and this work took me up the begin-
ning of August. _

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my labour,
when the rains came on, and made me stick close to my first habita-
tion ; for, though I had made me a tent like the other, with a piece of
sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep
me from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains
were extraordinary. '

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my bower,
and began to enjoy myself. The 3d of August I found the grapes I
had hung up were perfectly dried, and, indeed, were excellent good
raisins of the sun; so I began to take them down from the trees, and
it was very happy that I did so, for the rains which followed would
have spoiled them, and I had lost the best part of my winter food; for
I had above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had I
taken them all down, and carried most of them home to my cave, but
it began to rain; and from thence, which was the 14th of August, it
rained more or less every day till the middle of October, and some-
times so violently that I could not stir out of my cave for several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my family:
I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who ran away
from me, or, as I thought, had been (lead; and I heard no more tale
or tidings of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home, about the
end of August, with three kittens. This was the more strange to me,
because, though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun,
yet I thought it was a quite different kind from our European ants;
yrt the young cats were the same kind of house breed like the 0111'
one; and both my cats being females, I thought it very strange: but"
from these three cats, I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats,
that lavas forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive
them from my house as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so that I could
not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In this con-
finement I began to be straitened for food; but venturing out twice, I

 

yards.

one day killed a goat; and the last day, which was the 26th, found a ~ '

very large tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my food was regu- .
'ated thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my hieakfast, a piece of the
.--__--._____--__--__----------

goat's flesh, or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for, to my great
misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any thing), and two or three
of the turtles eggs for supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I worked daily
two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and, by degrees, worked it
on towards one side, till I eame to tlte outside of the hill, and made a
door or way out, whit-h came beyond my fence, or wall; and so I came
in aml out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so open;
for, .51 had managed myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure,
whereas now I thought I lay exposed; and yet. I could not perceive
that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had
seen upon the island being a goat.

Sqdrmller flu: SOUL--I was now come to the unhappy anniversary
of my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had
been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as
a solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious exercise, prostratiug my-
self to the ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing myself
to God, acknowledging his righteous judgment upon me, aml praying
to him to have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ; and having not
tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the going down
of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch of grapes, and went
to bed, finishing the day as I began it.

I had all this time observed no Sabbath-day, for as at first I had no
sense of religion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to
distinguish the weeks, by making a. longer notch than ordinary for
the Sabbathvday, and so did not really know what any of the days
were; but now, having cast up the days as above, I found I had been
there a. year; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh
day for a Sabbath; though I found, at the end of my account, I had
lost a day or two of my reckoning.

A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I contented
myself to use it more sparingly, and to write down only the most
remarkable events of my life, without continuing a daily memorandum
of other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular
to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for them
accordingly. But I bought =le my experience before I had it; and
this I am going to relate, was one of the most discouraging experi-
ments that I made at all. I have mentioned, that I had saved the
few ears of barley and rice. which I had so surprisingly found spring
up. as I thought, of themselves, and believe there were about thirty
stalks of rice. and about twenty of ttrley; and now I thought it a.11
l

    

112::

l
t 1}} .v' ,

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. ' 121

 

 
 
   

CRUSOE'S CAT FAMILY.

proper time to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its southern
position going from me.

Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground, as well as I could, with
my wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts, I sowed my grain;
but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my thought, that I would
not sow it all at first, because I did not know when was the proper
time for it; so I sowed about two-thirds of the seeds, leaving about a
handful of each.

It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one
grain of that I sowed this time came to any thing; for the dry months
following, the earth having had no rain after the seed was sown, it, had
no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all, till the wet
season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been newly sown.

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily imagined was by
the drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground to make another
trial in; and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bower, and
sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little before the vernal
equinox; and this, having the rainy months of March and April to
water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop;
but having part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all that I

(had vet, I had but a small quantity at last, my whole crop notl2"): Tlll') LIFE .-\.\'D ADVENTURES

.1

 

envsot-z .\l.-\l\|.\t: nasal-11's.
amounting to above half a peek of each kind.

But by this experience I was made master of my business, and l\l:l'\\'
exactly when the proper season was to sow; and that I might. expect
two seed-times and two harvests every year.

While this corn was growing, [made a little discovery, which was
of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and the
weather began to settle, which was about the month of NM'elIIbt-r, I
made a. visit up the country to my bower, where, though I had not
been some months, yetI found all things just as 1 left them. The
circle or double hedge that I had made, was not only lirtn :tnd entire,
but the stakes which 1 had cut oil' of some trees that grew thereabouts,
were all shot out, and grown with long branches, as much as a willow
tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its head. I could not
tell what tree to call it that these stakes were ettt from. I was sur-
prised, and yet. very well pleased to see the young trees grow; and I
pruned then) and led them up to grow as much alike as 1 could; and
it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in three
years; so that though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-fire
yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them. soon
covered it; and it was a complete shade, sullieient to lodge under all
the drv season.
This made me resolve to out some more stakes, and make me a hedge
like this in a semicircle round my wall, I mean that of my first dwell
ing, which I did; and placing the trees, or stakes, in a double row, at
above eight yards distance from my first fence, they grew presently,
and were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards served
for a defence also, as I shall observe in its order.

I found new, that the seasons of the year might generally be
divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but into the rainy
seasons and the dry seasons, which were generally thus :--

 

Rainy, the sun being then on, or near, the

March, equinox.

Half April,
Half April,

Half February, }

May, Dry, the sun being then to the north of the
3"", line.
July,

Half August,
Ilalf August,

September, } Rain, the sun being then come back.
Half October,

Half October,
NdegVembel3 Dry, the sun being then to the south of the
December, line
January, .

Half February,

The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as the winds
happened to blow; but this was the general observation I made.
After I had found, by experience, the ill consequence of being abroad
in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provision beforehand,
that I might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within doors as much
as possible during the wet months.

In this time I found much employment (and very suitable also to
the time), for I found great occasion of many things which I had no
way to furnish myself with, but by hard labour and constant applica-

tion; particularly, I tried many ways to make myself a basket: but .
all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so brittle that they, i'

would do nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to me now, that
when I was a boy I used to take great delight in standing at a basket-

 

maker's in the town where my father lived, to see them make their-(.- I -'

wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are, very ofiicioas tofh'el'"
 

and a great observer of the manner how they worked those things,
and sometimes lent a hand, I had by this means so full knowledge of
the methods of it, that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it
came into my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my
stakes that grew, might possibly be as tough as the sallows, and
willows, and osiers, in England; and I resolved to try. '

Accordingly, the next day I went to my country-house, as I called
it; and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my pur-
pose as much as I could desire; whereupon I came the next time pre-
pared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for
there was a great plenty of them: these I set up to dry within my
circle, or hedges; and when they were fit for use, I carried them to
my cave; and here, during the next season, I employed myself in
making (as well as I could) a great many baskets, both to carry earth,
or to carry or lay up any thing, as I had occasion; and though I did
not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently service-
able for my purpose; and tlms afterwards I took care never to be
without them: and as my wicker-ware decayed I made more; especi-
ally I made strong deep baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks,
when I should come to have any quantity of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of time about
it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to supply two wants: I
had no vessels to hold any thing that was liquid, except two runlets,
which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles, some of the
common size, and others, which were case-bottles, square, for the
holding of waters, spirits, &e. I had not so much as a. pot to boil any
thing in, except a great kettle which I saved out of the ship, and
which was too big for such uses as I desired it for, namely, to make
broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing I would
fain have had, was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible for me to
make one; however, I found a contrivance for that too at last.

I employed myself in planting my second row of stakes of piles,
and in this wicker-work, all the summer, or dry season; when another
business took me up more time than it could be imagined I could spare.
 

CHAPTER VIII.

Make a second Tour through the Island--Catch a young Parrot, which I afterwards
teach to speak--My Mode of sleeping at Night--:Find the other side of the Island
much more pleasant than mine, and covered with Turtle and Sea-fowl--Cateh a

young Kid, which I tame--Return to my old Habitation--Great plague with my
Harvest.

I arsx'rroxsn before, that I had a great mind to see the whole island,
and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where I built my
bower, and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the other side
of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore
on that side. So, taking my gun and hatchet, and my dog, and a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit-cakes,
and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch, for my store, I began my
journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower stood, as
above, I came within view of the sea, to the west; and it being a very
clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or continent I
could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from the west to the
west-south-west, at a very great distance; by my guess it could not be
less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise than
that I knew it must be part of America; and, as I concluded by all
my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions, .and perhaps
was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have landed, I' had

been in a worse condition than I was now; and therefore I acquiesced '

in the dispositions of Providence, which I began now to own, and to
believe ordered every thing for the best,--I say, I quieted my mind

with this, and left afilicting myself with fruitless wishes of being there.
' Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered, that if this
land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or other, see
some vessels pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it was

the savage coast between the Spanish country and Brazil, which were. _.
...\ .;.-i11deed the worst of savages, for they are cannibals, or men-eaters:

. 'r'b
"#32
W.

and fail not to murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into
their hands. '

With these considerations I walked very leisurely forward. I found .

that side of the island where I now was much pleasanter thfii mine,--)_
the open, or savanna fields sweet, adorned with flowers (and ' '

, 5n,xr n--

126 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

 

full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain would
I have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught
it to speak to me. I did, after some pains-taking, catch a young par-
rot; for I knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it, I
brought it home, but it was some years before I could make him speak.
However, at last I taught him to call me by my name very familiarly;
but the accident that followed, though it be a trifle, will be very di-
verting in its place.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey: I found in the low
grounds, hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes, but they differed
greatly from all the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several: but I had no need to be
venturous; for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good too; especially those three sorts, namely, goats, pigeons, and
turtle, or tortoise, which, added to my grapes, Leadenhall Market
could not have furnished a better table than I, in proportion to the
company: and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great
cause for thankfulness, that I was not driven to any extremities for
food; but rather plenty, even to dainties.

I never travelled in this journey above two miles outright in a day,
or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and returns, to see what dis-
coveries I could make, that I came wearied enough to the place where
I resolved to sit down for all night ; and then either reposed myself in
a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set upright in the
ground, either from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could
come at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I had
taken up my lot on the worst side of the island; for here, indeed, the

- shore was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas, on the other side,

I had found but three in a- year and a half. Here was also an infinite
number of fowls of many kinds, some of which I had not seen before,
and many of them very good meat; but such as I knew not the names
of, except those called penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of my
powder and shot; and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I
could, which I could better feed on: and though there were many
goats here, more than on the other side of the island, yet it was with
much more difliculty that I could come near them ; the country being
flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than when I was on the
hills. .

I confess this side of the country was much pleasauter than mine,
but yet I had not the least inclination to remove; for as I was fixed
an my habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while
[was here, to be, as it were, upon a journey, and from heme: how-
ever, I travelled along the shore of the sea towards the cast, I suppose,
about twelve miles; and then setting up a. great pole upon the shore
for a mark, I concluded I would go home again: and the next journey
I took should be on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling,
and so round till I came to my post again, of which in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could
easily keep all the island so much in my view, that I could notamlsa
finding my fiist dwelling by viewing the country: but 1 found myself
mistaken; for, being come about two of three miles, I found myself
descended into a very large valley; but so surrounded with hills, and
those hills covered with woods, that I could not see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun; nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position of the sun at that time of the day.

It happened, to my farther misfortune, that the weather proved
hazy for three or four days, while I was in this valley; and not
being able to see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, and
at last was obliged to find out the sea-side, look for my post, and
come back the same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned
homeward, the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition,
hatchet, and other things, very heavy.

In this journey, my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it;
and I running in to take hold of it, caught it, and saved it alive from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home, if I could :' for I had
often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two,
and so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me when my
powder and shot should be spent.

I made a collar for this little creature, and with a string which _I _

made of some rope--yarn, which I always carried about me, I led him
along, though with some dificulty, till I came to my bower, and there
I enclosed him, and left him, for I was very impatient to be at home,
from whence I had been absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my
old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed: this little wandering
journey, without a settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to
me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settle-
ment to me, compared to that, and it rendered every thing about me
so comfortable, that I resolved I would never -..3deg 8 great way from
it again, while it should be my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale' .myself after my
 

weighty affair of making a cage for my Poll, who began now to be a
mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then I
began to think of the poor kid which I had pent in within my little
circle, and resolved to go and fetch it home, and give it some food;
accordingly I went, and found it where I left it; for, indeed, it could
not get out, but was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut
boughs of trees and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and threw
it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before to lead it away; but
it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it,
for it followed me like a dog ; and as I continually fed it, the creature
became so loving, so gentle, and so fond,' that it became from that

time one of my domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and I kept
the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as before, being
the anniversary of my landing on the island, having now been there-
two years, and no more prospect of being. delivered than the first day
I came there. I spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknow-
ledgments of the many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition.
was attended with, and without which it might. have been infinitely.
more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks, that God had
been pleased to discover to me even that it was possible I might be
more happy in this solitary condition than I should have been in a
liberty of society, and in all the pleasures of the world: that he could.
fully make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want
of human societv, by his presence and the communication of his grace
to my soul, suIvi'orting, comforting, and encouraging me to depend
upon his pro'fi ,I'Ice lime, and hope for his eternal presence hereafter.

It was now: hat I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the
life I now le'd was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the-
wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days:
and now, having changed both my sorrons and my joys, my ver
desiIcs altheI'i,'-my affections changed their gust, and my delights-

weIe perfectly neu from what they were at my first coming, 01 indeed
for the two yeaIs past.

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting or for viewing the
country, the anguish of my soul at my condition would break out upon
me on a. sudden, and my IeI y heaIt would die within me to think of the-
needs, the mountains, the deserts I was in, and how I was a piisoner,
locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an unin-
habited wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of the gIeatest
composures of my mind, this would break out upon me like a storm,.
and made me wring my hands, and weep like a. child. Sometimes itor iosmsos censor. 13'>>

would take me in the middle of my work, and I would immediately sit

down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour or two together,

and this was still worse to me; for if I could burst out into tears, or L
vent myself by words, it would go 011'; and the grief, having exhausted
itself, would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts; I daily read
the word 'of God, and applied all the comforts of it to my present state.
One morning, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words,
" I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee!" Immediately it occurred
that these words were to me; why else should they be directed in such
a manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over my condition,
as one forsaken of God and man? " Well then," said I, "if God does
not fo1 sake me, of what ill consequence can it be, or what matters it
though the world should all forsake me; seeing, on the other hand, if
I had all the world, and should lose the favour and blessing of God,
there would be no comparison in the loss. 9"

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was possi-
ble for me to be more happy in this forsaken, solitary condition, than
it was probable I should have ever been 1n any other particular state
in the world, and with this thought I was going to give thanks toe-0dr
for bringing me to this place. <<

I know not what it was, but something shocked my mind at that
thought, and I durst not speak the words." How canst thou be- such 1
a hypocrite," said I, even audibly, "to pretend to be thankful-Toma:
condition, which, however thou mayst endeavour to be contented with, ' 33
thou wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered from"" -So feteppod '
there: but though I could not say I 1'tha'nkod God f01 cing there, yet
I sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my e) ,,by whatever ~
afflicting providences, to see the former condition of my life, and>> -,
mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never opened the Bible, or
shut it, but my very soul within me blessed God for directing my friend
in England, without any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods,
and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of the'wreck of thship. . .

Thus, and in this disposition of 'mind, I began my third yon/stand
though I have not given the reader the trouble of so particular an
account of my works this year as at the first, yet-in genoral it-may be,
observed that I was very seldom idle, having regularly di 1' ' ' '
according to the several daily omployments'ihat. were Moi;
such as, first, my duty to God, and reading the Scfipthgfil ,_ :-
constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day; seconfiy-tho '
going abroad with my gun for food, which generallyxtook me Wm
hours every morning when it did not'rain; thirdlyytbe' "

9 - ..

 

,--
 

preserving and cooking what I had killed or catched for my supply;
these took up great part of the day: also it is to be considered, that in
the middle of the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of
the heat was too great to stir out; so that about four hours in the
evening was all the time I could be supposed to work in; with this
exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and working,
and went to work in the morning, and abroad with my gun in the after-
noon.

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added the
exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many hours which, for want
of tools, want of help, and want of skill, every thing that I did took
up out of my time: for example, I was full two-and-forty days making
me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave ; whereas, two
sawyers, with their tools and saw-pit, would have out six of them out
of the same tree in half a day.

My case was this: it was to be a large tree which was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one. The tree I was three days of
cutting down, and two more cutting. off the boughs, and reducing it to
a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I
reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough
to move; then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat, as
a board, from end to end; then, turning that side downward, cut the
other side till I brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and
smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the labour of my hands in
such a piece of work; but labour and patience carried me through that
and many other things: I only observe this in particular, to show the
reason why so much of my time went away with so little work, namely,
that what might be a little to be done with help and tools, was a vast
labour, and required a prodigious time, to do alone and by hand.

But notwithstanding this, with patience and labour, I went through
many things, and indeed every thing that my circumstances made
necessary for me to do, as will appear by what follows.

I was now in the months of November and December, expecting my
crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or dug up for
them was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not above
the quantity of half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by sowing
in the dry season; but now my crop promised very well, when on a
sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies
of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as first,
the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, which, tasting the
sweetness of the blade, layin it night and day, as soon as iticame up,
and ate it so close that it could get no time to shoot up into stalks.91751:: . '

.. 1'" v- -

i

' er iosmson csfisoa. ' m

 

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure'about it with
a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil; and the more, because
it required a great deal of speed, the creatures daily spoiling my corn}.
However, as my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it
totally well fenced in about three weeks time, and shooting some of the
creatures in the daytime, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying
him up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark all night
long; so in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn
grew very strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the-blade,
so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear; for,
going along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop
surrounded with {owls of I know not how many sorts, which stood as it '
were watching till I should be gone. I immediately let fly among
them, (for I always had my gun with me). I had no sooner shot, but
there arose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from
among the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly; for I foresaw that, in a few days, they
would devour all my hapes; that I should be starved, and never be able
to raise a crop at all; and what to do I could not tell; however, I
resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I should watch it night
and day. In the first place, I went among it to see what damage was
already done, and found they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that,
as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not so great, but the
remainder was like to be a good crop, if it could be saved.

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I could easily
see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if- they only
\\ aited till I was gone away, and the event proved it to be so; for,a's
walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their sight but they
dropped down one by one into the corn again. I was so provoked that
I could not have patience to stay till more came on, knowing that every
gluin that they ate now was, as it might be said, a peck leaf to me in
the consequence; but, coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed
three of them. This was what I wished for; so I took them up, and
ser \ed them as we serve notorious thieves 1n England, namely, hanged
them in chains for a terror to others. It is impossible to imagine
almost that this should have such an efi'ect as it had; for the fowk
would not only not come at the corn, but, in short, they forsook ag-that
pan of the island, and I could never see a bird nm the place 'iiieng
as my scarecrows hung there.

This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and about the
of December, which was our second harvest of the year, Ireap?d ,'
 

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a. sickle to cut it down, and all
I could do was to make one, as well as I could, out of one of the broad-
swords, or cutlasscs, which I saved among the arms out of the ship.
However, as my crop was but small, I had no great difliculty to cut
it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut nothing 01? but the
ears, and carried it away in a great basket which I had made, and so
rubbed it out with my hands; and, at the end of all my harvesting, I
found that out of my half peek of seed I had ncar two bushels of rice,
and above two bushels and a half of barley, that is 'to say, by my
guess. for I had no measure at that time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me; and I foresaw that
in time. it would please God to supply me with bread: and yet here I
was perplexed again, for I neither knew how to grind or make meal
of my corn, or, indeed, how to clean it and part it; nor, if made into
meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not
how to bake it. These things being added to my desire of having a
good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I resolved
not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the
next season, and, in the mean time, to employ all my study and hours
of working to accomplish this great. work of providing myself with corn
and bread.

It- might be truly said, that I now worked for my bread. It is a little
wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much upon, name-
ly, the strange multitude of little things necessary in the providing, pro-
ducing. curing, dressing, making, and finishing this one article of bread.

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to be my
daily diseouragement, and was made more and more sensible of it every
hour, even after I got the first handful of seed corn, which, as I have
said, came. up unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade or shovel to dig
it. Well, this I conquered by making a. wooden spade, as I observed
before: but this did my work but in a wooden manner; and though it
cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only
were out. the sooner, but made my work the harder, and made it be
performed much worse.

However, this I bore with too, and was content to work it out with
patience, and bear with the badness of the performance. When the
corn was sowed, I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself,
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth,
as it may be called, rather than rake or barrow it.

When it was growing, or grown, I have observed already how many
things I wanted, to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it
 

TEACHING THE PARROT TO TALK.

home, thresh, part it from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a
mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread,
and an oven to bake it in; and all these things I did without, as shall
be observed; and yet the corn was an inestimable comfort and advan-
tage to me, too. But all this, as I said, made every thing laborious
and tedious to me, but that there was no help for: neither was my
time so much loss to me, because, as I had divided it, a certain part
of it was every day appointed to these works ; and as I resolved to use
none of the corn for--bread till I had a greater quantity by me, I had
the next six months to apply myself wholly, by labour and invention,
to furnish myself with utensils proper for performing all the operations
necessary for making the corn, when I had it, fit for my use.

But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed enough to
sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's work
it least to make me a. spade, which, when it was done, was a very ,
sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to work
with it; however, I went through that, and sowed my seeds in two
large flat pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find them to
my mind, and fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all cut of that wood which I had set before. which I knew would
 

 

grow ; so that in one year's time I knew I should have a quick or livmg
hedge, that would want but little repair. This work was not so little
as to take me up less than three months ; because great part of that
time was in the wet season, when I could not go abroad.

Within doors, that is, when it rained and I could not go out, I found
employment on the following occasions; always observing, that all the
while I was at work, I diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and
teaching him to speak; and I quickly learned him to know his own
name, and at last to speak it out pretty loud, POLL, which was the first
word I ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my own.
This, therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work; for
now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as fol-
lows: namely, I had long studied, by some means or other, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew
not where to come at them: however, considering the heat of the (ill-
mate, I did not doubt but, if I could find out any suitable clay, I might
botch up some such pot as might, being dried by the sun, be hard
enough and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold any thing
that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was necessary in
preparing corn, meal, &c., which was the thing I was upon, I resolved
to make some as large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars to hold
what should be put into them.

 

CHAPTER IX.

lattempt to mould Earthen-ware, and succeed--Description of my mode of Baking--
Begin to make a Boat--After it is finished, am unable to get it down to the Water-w

Serious Reflections--My Ink and Biscuit exhausted. and ('lothes in a had state-
Contrive to make a Dress of Skins.

II would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell how
many awkward ways I took to raise this paste, what odd, misshappen,
ugly things I made; how many of them fell in, and how many fell out,
the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily;
and how many fell to pieces with only removing, as well before as after
they were dried; and in a. word, how, after having laboured hard to
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work it. I
could not make above two large earthen ugly things--I cannot call
them jars--in about two months' labour.

._a_.u.i "a"."gr--n.

~va ~

-_n.rmq',._....

or ROBINSON causes. 136

 

CRUSOE MAKING A eon.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted
them very gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker
baskets, which I had made on purpose for them, that they might not
break'; and, as between the pot and the basket there was a little room
to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley straw; and these two
pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry coi'n, and
perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised. .

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots; yet I
made several smaller things with better success: such as little round
pots, fiat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing my hand turned
to; and the heat of the sun baked them strangely hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen
pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which none of these
could do. It happened after some time, making a pretty large fire for
cooking my meat, when I went to put it out, after I had done with it,
I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised
to see it, and said to myself, that certainly they might be made to
burn whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn
me some pets. I had no notion of a kiln su:h as the potters burn in,
or of glazing them with lead, though I had some lead to do it with;
but I placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile, one
upon another, and placed my firewood all round it, with a great heap
of embers under them: I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the out
side, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in 'the inside red hot quite
through, and observed that they did not crack at all: when I saw them
clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six hours, till I
found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt, or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the heat,
and would have run into glass, if I had gone on; so I slacked my fire
gradually, till the pots began to abate of the red colour; and watching
them all night that I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morn-
ing I had three very good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, and two
other earthen pots, as hard burnt'as could be desired, and one of them
perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.

After this experiment I need not say that I wanted no sort of earthen-
ware for my use; but I must needs say, as to the shapes of them, they
were very indifi'erent, as any one may suppose, when I had no way of
making them, but as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman would
make pies that never learned to raise paste.

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, when
I found I had made an earthen pot that would hear the fire; and I '
had hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before I set one upon
the fire again with some water in it,.to boil me some meat. which it
did admirably well; and with a piece of kid, I made some very good
broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requi-
site to make it so good as I would have had it.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or beat
some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving to
that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To sppply this want, I
was at a great loss; for of all trades in the world I was as perfectly
unqualified for a stone-cutter, as for any whatever; neither had I any
tools to go about it with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone
big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could find
none at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way
to dig, or cut out; nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness
suficient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would neither
bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break the corn without
filling it with sand; so, after a great deal of time lost in searching for
a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a great block of hard
wood, which I found indeed much easier; and, getting one as big as I
had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on' the outside with
my axe and hatchet; and then, with the help of fire and infinite labour,
 

made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes.
After this, I made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called the

iron-wood, and this I prepared and laid by against I had my next crop '

of corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn,
or meal, to make my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve,' or scarce, to dress my meal,
and part it from the bran and the husk, without which I did not see it
possible I could have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, so much
as but to think on; for to be sure I had nothing like the necessary
things to make it with,--I mean fine thin canvas, or stuff, to searce
the meal through. And here I was at a full stop for many months;
nor did I really know what to do: linen I had none left but what was
mere rags; I had goat's hair, but neither knew I how to weave or spin
it; and had I known how, here were no tools to work it with. All the
remedy that I found for this was, that at last I did remember I had
among the seamen's clothes which were saved out of the ship, some
neckcloths of calico, or muslin; and with some pieces of these I made
three small sieves, but proper enough for the work; and thus I made
shift for some years: how I did afterwards, I shall show in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I
should make bread when I came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast:
as to that part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not concern
myself much about it. But for an even, I was indeed in great pain.
At length Ifound out an expedient for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep; that is to say,
about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I burnt
in the fire, as I had done the others, and laid them by; and when I
wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon the hearth, which I had paved
with some square tiles of my own making and burning also; but I
should not call them square.

When the firewood was burnt pretty much into embers, or live coals,
I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it all over; and
there I let them lie, till the hearth was very hot; than, sweeping away
all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and, whelming down the
earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all round the outside of the

pot, to keep in, and add to the heat: and thus, as well as in the best.

0\ en in the world, I baked my barley-loaves, and became in a little time

a good pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made myself several cakes '

 

0f the rice, and puddings: indeed I made no pies,_ neither had Io '_ '7' '1'>>:

thing to put into them, supposing I had, except the fleeing'w
)r goats.

  
 
 
 
 

kf- [F'fl' p':..';-:."" - 1* -- '34

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took mtupni'eat. p .
of the third year of my abode here; for it is to be observed, that in
the intervals of these things I had my new harvest and husbandry to
manage; for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home as
well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had
time to rub it out; for I had no floor to thresh it on, or instrument to
thresh it with.

And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to
build my barns bigger: I wanted a place to lay it up in; for the
increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley
about twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or more; insmnueh,
that I now resolved to begin to use it freely, for my bread had been
quite gone a great while ; also I resolved to see what quantity would
be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but once a-year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice
were much more than I could consume in a year: so I resolved to sow
just the same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes that
such a quantity would fully provide me with bread, &c.

All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my thoughts
ran many times upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the
other side of the island; and I was not without secret wishes that I
was on shore there, fancying that, seeing the mainland and an inhabited
country, I might find some way or'bther to convey myself farther, and
perhaps at last find some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such a
condition, and how I might fall into the hands of savages, and perhaps
such as I might have reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers
of Africa: that, if I once came into their power, I should run ahazard
more than a thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being
eaten; for I had heard that the people of the Caribbean coasts were
cannibals, or men-eaters; and I knew by the latitude that I could not
be far of? from that shore: that, suppose they were not cannibals, yet
they might kill me, as many Europeans who had fallen into their hands
had been served, even when they had been ten or twenty together;
much more I that was but one, and could make little or no defence.
All these things, I say, which I ought to have considered well of, and
I did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took none of my appre-
hensions at first; and my head ran mightily upon the thoughts of
getting over to that shore.

N ow I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the shoulder-
of-mu'tton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles on the coast
of Africa; but this was in vain. Then I thought I would go and look
on our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore'0! RUBINSON 03030]. - .139

 

a great way in the storm, when we were first cast away. She lay almost
where she did at first, but not quite; and was turned, by the force of
the waves and the winds, almost bottom upwards, against the high ridge
of a beachy rough sand, but no water about her as before.

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and have launched her into
the water, the heat would have done very well, and I might have gone
back into the Brazils with her easy enough ; but I might have easily
foreseen, that I could no more turn her, and set her upright upon her
bottom, than I could remove the island. However, I went to the wood,
and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolving to
try what I could do ; suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her
down, I might easily repair the damage she had received, and she would
be a very good boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent, I
think, three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible to
heave it up with my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand to
undermine it; and so to make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to
thrust and guide it right in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to get
under it, much less to move it forwards towards the water; so I was
forced to give it over: and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the
boat, my desire to venture over for the main increased, rather than
decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible. . '.

This at length set me upon thinking whether it was not possible
make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those climates
make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, namely,
of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but
easy; and pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of making it,
and with my having much more convenience for it than any of the
Negroes or Indians; but not at all considering the particular incen-
veniences which I lay under more than the Indians did, namely, want
of hands to move it into the water, when it was made,--a difficulty
much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of want of
tools could be to them: for what was it to me, that, when I had chosen
3. vast tree in the woods, I might with great trouble cut it down, if after
I might be able with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the
proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it hollow,
so as to make a boat of it,--if, after all this, I must leave it justthere
where I found it, and was not able to launch it into the waterll '

One would have thought, I could not have had the least reflection
upon my mind of my circumstances, while I was. making thisboat', bit
I. should have immediately thought how I should get itfint'o the '9}!

4%
 

but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it, that
I never once considered how I should get it of the land: and it was
really in its own nature more easy for me to guide it over forty-five
miles of sea, than about forty-five fathoms of land, where it lay, to set
it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did
who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the design,
without determining whether I was ever able to undertake it; not but
that the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my head; but
I put a stop to my own inquiries into it by this foolish answer which I
gave myself: Let me first make it, I'll warrant I'll find some way or
other to get it along when it is done.

This was a most preposterous method ; but the eagerness of my fancy
prevailed, and to work I went, and felled a cedar tree--I question
much whether Solomon ever had suchaone for the building the temple
at Jerusalem. It was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part
next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for a while, and then parted
into branches. It was not without infinite labour that I felled this
tree: I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the bottom; I
was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs and the vast
spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed through with
my axe and hatchet with inexpressible labour; after this it cost me a
month to shape it, and dub it to a proportion, and to something like the
bottom of a boat, that it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost
me near three months more to clear the inside, and work it out so as
to make an exact boat of it: this I did indeed without fire, by more
mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it
to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to have carried six-
and-twenty men, and consequently big enough to have carried me and
all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delighted with
it: the boat was really much bigger than I ever saw a. canoe or
periagua, that was made of one tree, in my life; many a weary stroke
it had cost, you may be sure, for there remained nothing but to get it
into the water; and had I gotten it into the water, I make no question
but I should have begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to
he performed, that ever was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me, though they
cost infinite labour too. It lay about one hundred yards from the
water, and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up hill
towards the creek. Well, to take away this discouragement, I resolved\'nfifl- - .. "Hrs-wwmm, .- i . ~-

 

or 'nosmsoiw onusos.
_____________;.'.._____----------
to dig into the surface of the earth, and in make a deelivity: this I
began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains; but who grudge
pains that have their deliverance in view? but when this was worked

through, and this difliculty managed, it was still much at one, for l i

could no more stir the canoe than I could the other boat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to out a dock,
or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing that I could not
bring the canoe down to the water; well, I began this work, and when
I began to enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug, how
broad, how the stud was to be thrown out, I found that, by the number
of hands I had, being none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve
years before I should have gone through with it; for the shore lay

high, so that at the upper end it must have been at least twenty feet deep: '

so at length, though with great reluctance, I gave this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the folly
of beginning a work before we count the cost, and before we judge
rightly of our own strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this place,
and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and with as much
comfort, as ever before ; for, by a constant study and serious applica-
tion of the word of God, and by the assistance of his grace, I gained a
different knowledge from what I had before; I entertained difl'erent
notions of things; I looked now upon the world as a thing remote,

which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and indeed no'
desires about : in a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was.
ever like to have: so I thought it looked as we may perhaps look upon '

it hereafter, namely, as a place I had lived in, but was come out oilit;
and well I might say, as father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and
thee there is a great gulf fixed."

In the first place, I was removed from. all the wickedness of the
world here. I had neither the. lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor
the pride of life. I had nothing to covet, for I had all I was now
capable of enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor, or, if I pleased,
I might call myself king or emperor over the whole country which I
had possession of: there were no rivals; I had no competitor, none
to dispute sovereignty or command with me; I might have raised ship-
loadings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I let as little grow as I
thought enough for my occasion; I had tortoises or turtles enough,
but now and then one was as much as I could put to any use; I had
timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; I had grapes enough to
have made wine, or to have cared into raisins, to have loaded'that fleet
when they had been built. '142 Tim urn AND anvnn'runns

 

But all I could make use of, was all that was valuable; I had
enough to eat, and to supply my wants, and what was all the rest to
me? If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or
the vermin ; if I sowed more com than I could eat, it musu be spoiled.
The trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground, I could
make no more use of them than for fuel; and that I had no occasion
for but to dress my food.

In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to me, upon
just reflection, that all the good things of this world are no farther
good to us, than as they are for our use ; and that, whatever we may
heap up to give to others, we only enjoy as much as we can use, and
no more. The most covetous griping miser in the world would have
been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had been in my case; for
I possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I had no
room for desire, except it was of things which I had not, and they were
but trifles, though indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted before,
a parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds ster-
ling: alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stufl' lay; I had no manner of
business for it; and I often thought with myself, that I would have
given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes or for a handmill to
grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all for six-pennyworth of
turnip and carrot seed out of England, or for a handful of pease and
beans and a bottle of ink: as it was, I had not the least advantage by
it, or benefit from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy
with the damp of the cave, in the wet season; and if I had had the drawer
full of diamonds, it had been the same case; and they had been of no
manner of value to me, because of no use.

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than
it was at first, and much easier to my mind as well as to my body. I
frequently sat down to my meat with thankfulness, and admired the
hand of God's providence, which had thus spread my table in the wil-
derness. I learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side; and to consider what I enjoyed, rather
than what. I wanted; and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts,
that I cannot express them; and which I take notice of here. to put
those discontented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably
what God hath given them, because they see and covet something that
he has not given them: all our discontents about what we want, ap<<
pearcd to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we have.

Another reflection was of great use to me, and, doubtless, would be
so to any one that should fall into such distress as mine was; and
this was, to compare my present condition with what I at first expected. .. 1:" 3er an? n; gs'tqmg$wl . . , , w .t~SS.?'wwfqrv_rzq'~11m,v'l
"I. , ' -' ' ' . 4 l

or nonntson cnusos. 148-

1t should be, nay, with what it would certainly have been, if the good
providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up
near to the shore, where I not only could come at her, but could bring
what I got out of her to the shore for my relief and comfort; without

which I had wanted tools to work, weapons for defence, or gunpowder.

and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to myself,
in the most lively colours, how I must have acted, if I had got nothing
out of the ship; how I could not have so much as got any food, except
fish and turtles; and that, as it was long before I found any of them, 1
must have perished first--that I should have lived, if I had not perished,
like a mere savage--that if I had killed a goat or a fowl by any con-
trivance, I had no way to flay or open them, or part the flesh from the
skin and the bowels, or to cut it up, but must gnaw it with my teeth,
and pull it with my claws, like a beast.

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Provi-
dence to me, and very thankful for my present condition, with all its
hardships and misfortunes; and this part also I' cannot but recommend
to the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, "Is any
affliction like mine ?" Let them consider how much worse the cases
of some people are, and what their case might have been, if Providence
had thought fit.

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort my mind
with hopes; and this was, comparing my present condition with what
I had deserved, and had therefore reason to expect, from the hand of
Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledge and fear of God : I had been well instructed by father and

mother: neither had they been wanting to me in their'early endeavours '
to infuse a religious awe of God into my mind, a sense of my duty, and- ..
of what the nature and end of my being required of me. But, alas, "' '

falling early into the seafaring life, which, of all lives, is the most
destitute of the fear of God, though his terrors are always before them,
--I say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into seafaring com-
pany, all that little sense of religion which I had entertained was

laughed out of me by my messmates--by a hardened despising of den-v

gm 3, and the views of death, which grew habitual to me--by my IOng

absence from all manner of opportunities to converse with any thing.
but what was like myself, or to hear any thing of what Was good, or-

tended towards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the least sense of
what I was. or was to be, that in the greatest deliverance I enjoyed,

such as my escape from Sallee, my being taken up by the Portngu ~55"

 
 
 
 

.._ "a
 

master of the ship, my being planted so well in Brazil, my receiving
the cargo from England, and the like, I never once had the-words,
" Thank God I" so much as on my mind, or in my mouth; nor, in the
greatest distress, had I so much thought as to pray to him, nor so much
as to say, "Lord, have mercy upon me !"--no, not to mention the name
of God, unless it was to swear by, and blaspheme it.

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months, as I have
already observed, on the account of my wicked and hardened life past;
and when I looked about me, and considered what particular provi-
dences had attended me, since my coming into this place, and how God
had dealt bountifully with me--had not only punished me less than my
iniquity deserved, but had so plentifully provided for me; this gave me
great hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that God had yet
mercies in store for me.

With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to resignation
to the will of God in the present disposition of my circumstances,
but even to a sincere thankfulness of my condition; and that I, who
was yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due
punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many mercies, which I had
no reason to have expected in that place ; that I ought never more to
rcpine at my condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for
that daily bread, which nothing but a cloud of wonders could have
brought; that I ought to consider I had been fed even by a miracle,
even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens--nay, bya long se-
ries of miracles; and that I could hardly have named a place in the
uninhabited part of the world, where I could have been cast more to
my advantage--a place where, as I had no society, which was my af-
fliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves
or tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous creatures or poisonous,
which I might have fed on to my hurt; no savages to murder and
,devour me.

In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life
of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort,
but to be able to make "my sense of God's goodness to me, and care
over me in this condition, be my daily consolation; and after I made
a just improvement of these things, I went away, and was no more
sad.

I had now been here so long, that many things which I brought on
shore for my help, were either quite gone or very much wasted, and
near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all but a very
little, which I eked out with water a little and a little, till it was sopale it scarce left any appearance of black upon the paper: as long as
it lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of the month on
which any remarkable thing happened to me; and first, by casting up
times past, I remember that there was a strange concurrence of days,
in the various providences which befell me, and which, if I had been
superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might
have had reason to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.

First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away from my
father and my friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to go to sea,
the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man-of-war, and
made a slave.

The same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of the
ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day of the year afterwards I made
my escape from Sallee in the boat.

The same day of the year I was born on, namely, the 20th of Sep-
tember, the same day I had my life so miraculously saved twenty-six
years after, when I was cast on shore in this island; so that my wicked
life, and solitary life, both began on a day.

The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that of my bread, I
mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship. This I had hus-
banded to the last degree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a
day, for above a year; and yet I was quite without bread for a year
before I got any corn of my own: and great reason I had to be thank-

ful that I had any at all, the getting it being, as it has been already .

observed, next to miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to linen, I had none
a good while, except some chequered shirts which I found in the chest:
of the other seamen, and which I carefully preserved, because many
times I could bear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very

great help to me that I had, among all the men's clothes of the ship, .,

almost three dozen of shirts. There were also several thick watch-
coats of the seamen, which were left behind, but they were too hot to
wear, and though it is true that the weather was so violent hot that
there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked: no,
though I had been inclined to it, which I was not; nor could I ahide:
the thought of it, though I was all alone.

One reason why I could not go quite naked was, I could not hear

the heat of the sun so well when quite naked, as with some clothee 9!;

--nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin; whereas,~ '
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and, whistling
Shirt, was twofold cooler than without it: no more could.I,
myself to logo out in the heat of the sun without a cap! in

' on nosmsou oausos. - 146 ', V
146 In LIFE AND ADVENTURES

heat of the sun beating with such violence as it does in that place,
would give me the headache presently, by darting so directly on my
head, without a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it ; whereas, if
I put on my hat, it would presently go away.

Upon these views I began to consider about putting the few rags I
had, which I called clothes, into some order; I had worn out all the
waistcoats I had, and my business was now to try if I could not make
jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such
other materials as I had; so I set to work a-tailoring, or rather, in-
deed, apbotching; for I made most piteous work of it. However, I
made shift to make two or three waistcoats, which I hoped would serve
me a great while; as for breeches or drawers, I made but very sorry
shift indeed till afterwards. '

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that I
killed--I mean four-footed ones--and I had hung them up stretched
out with sticks in the sun; by which means some of them were so dry
and hard, that they were fit for little; but others, it seems, were very
useful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for my head,
with the hair on the outside to shoot of the rain: and this I performed
so well, that after this I made a suit of clothes wholly of those skins;
that is to say, a waistcoat and breaches open at the knees, and both
loose; for they were rather wanted to keep me cool, than to keep me
warm. I must not omit to acknowledge, that they were wretchedly
made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor: however,
they were such as I made a very good shift with; and when I was
abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of the waistcoat and cap being
ontmost, I was kept very dry.

After this, I spent a deal of time and pains to make me an umbrella:
I was indeed in great want of one, and had a great mind to make one:
I had seen them made in the Brazils, where they are very useful in the
great heats which are there; and I felt the heats every jot as great
here, and greater too, being nearer the equinox; besides, as I was
obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well
for the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at it, and was a
great while before I could make any thing likely to hold; nay, after I
thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made one to
my mind; but at last I made one that answered indifl'erently well.
The main difficulty I found was to make it to let down :- I could make
it to spread; but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it would not
be portable for me any way, but just over my head, which would not
do. However, at last, as I said, I made one to answer: I covered it
with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-
 

house, and kept of the sun so effectually that I could walk out in the-
hottest of the weather, with greater advantage than I could before in
the coolest; and when I had no need of it, I could close it, and carry
it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely composed
by resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself wholly upon the
disposal of his providence: this made my life better than sociable; for,
when I began to regret the want of conversation, I would ask myself,
whether thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and, as I
hope I may say, with even my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions,
was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the
world ?

I cannot say, that, after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing
happened to me; but I lived on in the same course, in the same pos.
ture and place, just as before. The chief thing I was employed in,-
besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing
my raisins, of both which I always kept up just enough to have a suf-
ficient stock of the year's provisions beforehand,--I say, besides this
yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out with my gun, I had
one labour to make me a canoe, which at last I finished: so that by

digging a canal to it, six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it
into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, that was so vastly

big, as I made it without considering beforehand, as I ought to do, ,

how I should be able to launch it; so, never being able to bring it to-
the water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it.
was, as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed,
the next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in

a place where I could not get the water to it, at any less distance than,-
as I have said, of near half a mile; yet, as I saw it was practicable .

at last, I never gave it over; and though I was near two years about

it, yet I nevergrudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go of.
to sea at last. _

M'-
..(, i '_
' r '~"-".. . '_
BLAME-'3' 2
I ' ,. 4
\- ' ' V' ' "a"
.' L. .' '.
"' "w ms- tr
All "1:; J?
" _:'.'r..'.~1("
M" r" ' -' sasfifidflfafia "ah... " _- 2
CHAPTER X.

I succeed in getting a Canoe afloat. and set out on a Voyage in the sixth Year of my
Reign, or Captivity--Blown out to Sea--Beach the Shore with great difionlty--
Fall asleep, and am awakened by a Voice calling my Name--Devils various schemes
to tame Goats, and at last succeed.

HOWEVER, though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of it
was not at all answerable to the design which I had in view, when I
made the first,--I mean of venturing over to the term fima, where
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my boat
assisted to put an end to that design, and now I thought no more
of it. But as I had a boat, my next design was to make a tour
round the island ; for, as I had been on the other side, in one place,
crossing, as I have already described it, over the land, so the dis-
coveries I made in that journey made me very eager to see the other
parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but
sailing round the island. '

For this purpose, and that I might do every thing with discretion
and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to my boat, and made a sail
to it out of some of the pieces of the ship's sails, which lay in store,
and of which I had a great store by me.

Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found she
would sail very well. Then I made little lockers and boxes at each
end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, and ammunition, &c.
into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or the spray of the sea; and a
little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could
lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast, to stand
over my head, and keep the heat of the sun of me, like an awning;
and thus I every now and then took a little voyage upon the sea, but
never went far out, nor far from the little creek; but at last, being
' eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom, _I resolved upon
my tour, and accordingly I victualled my ship for the voyage; putting
in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley-
bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a great deal
of), a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot for killing
more, and two large watch-coats, of those which, as I mentioned before,
 

I had saved out of the seamen's chests: these I took, one to lie upon,
and the other to cover me in the night.
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my '
captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I found
it much longer than I expected; for though the island itself was not
very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a great
ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea, some above water,
some under it; and beyond this a shoal of sand, lying dry half a
league more; so that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double that point.
When I first discovered them, I was going to give over my enter-
prise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me
to go out to sea, and, above all, doubting how I should get back again:
so I came to an anchor, for I had made me a kind of an anchor with a
piece of broken grappling which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went on shore, climb-
ing up a hill, which seemed to overlook that point where I saw the-
full extent of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived a
strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to the east, even
came close to the point; and I took the more notice of it, because I
saw there might be some danger, that when I came into it, I might be
carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to make the
island again. And indeed, had I not gotten first upon this hill, I
believe it would have been so; for there was the' same current on the
other side of the island, only that it set off at a farther distance; and t
I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore: so I had nothingtov '
do but to get out of the first current, and I should presently be in an .
eddy. , '7
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind blowing pretty
fresh (at east-south-east, and that being just contrary to the said cur-
rent), made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so that it was .
not safe for me to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go 3
too far of because of the stream. 0 j
The third day in the morning, the wind having abated overnight, '- '
the sea was calm, and I ventured. but I am a warning-pieoe again to '
all rash and ignorant pilots, for no sooner was I come to the point,
when I was not my boat' s length from the shore, but I found myself an
a great depth of water, and a current like a sluice of a mill. It carried
my boat along with it with such a violence, that all I could do'oould>>
not keep her so much as on the- edge of it: but I found it hmd It
farther and farther out from the eddy, which was 0033' M M ._
 

--_.,. -

There was no wind stirring to help me, and all that I could do with
my paddles signified nothing; and now I began to give myself over for
lost; for, as the current was on both sides of the island, I knew in a.
few leagues' distance they must join again, and then I was irrecover--
ably gone: nor did I see any possibility of avoiding it; so that I had
no prospect before me but of perishing; not by the sea, for that was
calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had indeed found a tor-
toise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into
the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of
my earthen pots; but what was all this to being driven into the vast
ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no main land or island,
for a thousand leagues at least?

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God to make
the most miserable condition that mankind could be in worse. Now,
I looked back upon my desolate solitary island as the most pleasant
place in the world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for, was
to be there again: I stretched out my hands to it with eager wishes;
" Oh, happy desert!" said I, "I shall never see thee more! Oh,
miserable creature!" said I, "whither am I going ?"--Then I re-
proached myself with my unthankful temper, and how I had repined
at my solitary condition; and now, what would I give to be on shore
there again? Thus we never see the true state of our condition, till
it is illustrated to us by its contraries; nor know how to value what
we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the
consternation I was in, being driven from my beloved island (for so it
appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues,
.and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again: however, I
worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted; and kept
my boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the side of the
current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about noon,
as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind
in my face, springing up from the south-south-oast. This cheered my
heart a little, and especially when, in about half an hour more, it blew
a pretty small gentle gale. By this time I was gotten at a frightful
distance from the island; and, had the least cloud or hazy weather
intervened, I had been undone another way too; for I had no compass
on board, and should never have known how to have steered towards
the island, if I had but once lost sight of it; but the weather continu-
ing clear, I applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my
sail, standing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch. xv--y:

or nosmson c'ausoa. '15!

 

away, I saw, even by the clearness of the water, some alteration of the
current was near; for where the current was so strong, the water was.
foul: but perceiving the water clear, I found the current abate, and
presently I found, to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the
sea upon some rocks : these rocks I found caused the current to part
again; and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving
the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of the
rock, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the north-west
with E very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon
the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder them,
or who have been in such like extremities, may guess what my present
surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of
this eddy; and the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail
to it, running cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide or
eddy under foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again directly .

towards the island, but about two leagues more towards the northward
than the current lay, which carried me away at first; so that when I
came near the island, I found myself open to the northern shore of it,

that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which I
went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way, by 15.6%, '

of this heavy current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served me no
farther. However, I found, that being between the two great currenti','
namely, that on the south side which had hurried me away, and that on

the north, which lay about two leagues on the other side,--I say, ,

between these two, in the west of the island, I found the water at
least still, and running no way , and having still a breeze of wind fair
for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not making
such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within about a league
of the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this dis-
tance stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and,
casting 03' the current more southwardly, had, of course, madv~
another eddy to the north, and this I found very strong, but not
directly setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but almost
full north. However, having a fresh gale, I stretched across this
eddy, slanting north-west, and, in about an hour, came within about a
smile of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land. '

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks fgw
IN deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of any deliveran

----r-vs-..---=r---v---w--r---
 

by my boat; and refreshing myself with such things as I had, 1
brought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had espied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with
the labour and fatigue of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat; 1
had run so much hazard, and knew too much the cause, to think of
attempting it by the way I went out; and what might be at the other
side (I mean the west side), I knew not, nor had I any mind to run
any more ventures; so I only resolved in the morning to make my
way westward along the shore, and to see if there was no creek where
I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if I wanted
her. In about three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came
to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile over; which narrowed till it
came to a very little rirulet, or brook, where I found a convenient
harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if she had been in a little
dock made on purpose for her: here I put in, and having stowed my
boat very safe, I went on shore to look about me, and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had been
before when I travelled on foot. to that shore; so, taking nothing out
of my boat but my gun and my umbrella, for it. was exceeding hot, I
began my march. The way was comfortable enough after such a voy-
age as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower in the evening.
where I found every thing standing as I left it; for I always kept it
in good order, being, as I said before, my country house.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my
limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep; but judge if you can, you
that read my story, what a surprise I must be in, when I was awaked
out of my sleep by a voice calling me by my name several times,
" Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you,
Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you been ?"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or paddling,
as it is called, the first part of the day, and walking the latter part,
that I (lid not awake thoroughly; and dozing between sleeping and
waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me; but as the
voice continued to repeat, " Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe l" at last I
began to awake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frighted,
and started up in the utmost consternation: but no sooner were my
eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and
immediately knew that this was he that spoke to me; for just in such
bemoaning language Iliad used to talk to him, and teach him; and
he had learned it so perfectly, that he would sit upon my finger, and
lav his bill closr to my face, and cry. " Poor Robin Crusoe, where areCRI'MYII snn'uun l.\' III-:Anlso A \'OICH.
you? Where have you been? How came you here '3" and such things
as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed it
could be-nobody else, it was a good while before I could compose myself.
First, I was amazed how the creature got thither, and then how he
should just keep about the place, and nowhere else: but as I was well
satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it over; and, hold-
ing out my hand, and calling him by his name, "Poll !" the sociable
creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and
continued talking to me,--" Poor Robin Crusoe!" and, "How did I
come here ?" and "Where had I been ?" just as if he had been over-
joyed to see me again; and so I carried him home along with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had
enough to do for many days to sit still and reflect upon the danger I
had been in. I would have been very glad to have had my boat again
on my side of the island, but I knew not how it was practicable to get
it about: as to the east side of the island, which I had gone round, I
knew well enough there was no venturing that way: my very heart
would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to think of it: and as
to the other side of the island, I did not know how it might be there;
but supposing the current ran with the same force against the shore at
the east, as it passed by it on the other, I might run the same risk of
being driven down the stream, and carried by the island, as I had
been before of being carried away from it. So with these thoughts I
contented myself to be without any boat, though it had been the pro-
duct of so many months' labour to make it, and of so many more to
get it into the sea.

In this government of my temper I remained near a year,--lived a
very sedate retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts
being, very much composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted in
resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I lived
really very happily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which
my necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I believe could,
upon occasion, have made a very good carpenter, especially consider-
ing how few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which I
found infinitely easier and better; because I made things round and
shapeable, which before were filthy things indeed to look on. But I
think I never was more rain of my own performance. or more joyful 13
for any thing I found out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-~
 

Ipipe; and though it was a very ugly clumsy thing when it was done,
and only burnt red like other earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm,
and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it; for
I had been always used to smoke, and there were pipes in the ship, but
I forgot them at first, not knowing there was tobacco in the island;
and afterwards, when I searched the ship again, I could not come at
any pipes at all.

In my wicker-ware I also improved much, and made abundance of
necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed me, though not very
handsome, yet convenient for my laying things up in, or fetching
things home in. For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang
it up in a tree, flay it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it
home in a basket: and the like by a turtle; I could cut it up, take
-out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough forme,
and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also
large deep baskets were my receivers for :my corn, which I always
rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets
instead of a granary.

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably; and this
was a want which it was impossible for me to supply, and I began
seriously to consider what I must do when I should have no more
powder; that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats. 'I had, as I
observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a young kid, and
bred her tame; I was in hopes of getting a he-kid, but I could not by
any means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and I could
never find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last of mere age.

But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and, as I have
said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to
trap and snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of
'them alive; and particularly I wanted a she-goat great with young.

To this purpose I made snares to hamper them, and believe they
were more than once taken in them: but my tackle was not good, for
.I had no wire, and always found them broken, and my bait devoured.

At length I resolved to try a pitfall; so I dug several large pits in
'the earth, in places where I had observed the goats used to feed, and
over these pits I placed hurdles, of my own making too, with a great
weight upon them; and several times I put ears of buley,md dry .-
rice, without setting the trap; and I could easily perceiv first the-53'
goats had gone in, and eaten up the corn, for I could see the-i:
their feet. at length, I set three traps in one night, and gomg the

alnext morning, I found them all standing, and yet the but ' __
gone. This was very discouraging , however, I altered my trap," in
 

not to trouble you with particulars, going one morning to see my traps,
I found in one of them a large old lie-goat; and in one of the other,
three kids, a male and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so fierce,
I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to go about to bring
him away alive, which was what I wanted. I could have killed him,
but that was not my business, nor would it answer my end; so I even
let him out, and he ran away as if he had been frightened out of his-
wits; but I did not then know what I afterwards learned, that hunger
would tame a lion: if I had let him stay there three or four days with-
out food, and then have carried him some water to drink, and then a
little corn, he would have been as tame as one of the kids; for they
are mighty sagacious tractable creatures, where they are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that
time: then I went to the three kids; and, taking them one by one, I
tied them with strings together; and with some difiiculty brought them
all home. '

It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them some-
sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be tame: and now I
found that if I expected to supply myself with goat's flesh, when I had
no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way, when
perhaps I might have them about my house like a flock of sheep.

But then it presently occurred to me, that I must keep the tame
from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they grew up;
and the only way for this was to have some enclosed piece of ground,
well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually,
that those within might not break out, or those without break in.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet as I saw
there was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first piece of work was
to find out "a proper piece of ground; namely, where there was likely
to be herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to-
keep them from the sun.

Those who understand such enclosures, will think I had very little
contrivanee, when I pitched upon a place very proper for all these
(being a plain open piece of meadowland, or savanna, as our people
call it in the western colonies), which had two or three little drills of
fresh water in it; and at one end was very woody,----I' say they will
smile at my forecast, when I shall tell them I began by enclosing of
this piece of ground in such a manner, that my hedge or pale must.
have been at least two miles about: nor was the madness of it so great

as to the compass; for if it was ten miles about, I was like to have
' time en'ugh to do it in; but I did- not consider, that my goats wouldor aoamson ossson. 157 I

 

 

he as wild in so much compass, as if they had had the whole island:
and I should have so much room to chase them in, that I should never
catch them. 3
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fifty yards,
when this thought occurred to me; so I presently stopped short, and
for the first beginning I resolved to enclose a piece of about one _
hundred and fifty yards in length, and a hundred yards in breadth.
which, as it would maintain as many as I should have in any reasonable
time, so, as my flock increased, I could add more ground to my enclo-
sure.
This was acting with some prudence, 31nd I went to work with courage.
'[ was about three months hedging in the first piece; and, till I had
lone it, I tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used them
to feed as near me as possible, to make them familiar ;. and very often
I would go and carry them some ears of barley, or a handful of ' rice,
.and feed them out of my hand; so that after my enclosure was finished,
and I let them loose, they would follow me up and down, bloating
after me for a handful of corn. '
This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I had a flock
of about twelve goats, kids and all; and, in two years more, I had ~
three-and-forty, besides several that I took and killed for my food
:and after that I enclosed five several pieces of g1 ound (flood thorn
with little pens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted them,
gates out of- one piece of ground into another. - - ~
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat' s dosh to feed on
when I pleased, but milk too, a thing. which indeed rn my beginning
-did not so much as think of, and which when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeable surprise; for now I set up 'my dairy, slug!e had'
sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as nature; who giwe
supplies of food to every creature, dictates. even naturally hearts make

 
    
  
  

use of it, so I, that never milked a cow, much less .et goat, or saw '-

';. 4'

butter or cheese made, very readily and handily, though aftoi'. 'a great--
many essays and miscarriages, made me both. butter and cheese at last;
and never wanted it afterwards. . ..

How mercifully can onr great Creator treat his creatures, siren 'hi
those conditions in which they seem to be overwhelmed rn dosh-noting:
How can he sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us <<MW
praise him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was homesprea'd "
for me in a wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but to malls?
'hunger!"(V \.!\r

. . , vb>>
.\\N'wmSSC/_&

\ .

 

.\ u

CR USOE A'l' DINNER
 

oi the whole island; I had the lives of all my subjects at absolute '

command; I could hang, draw, give life and liberty, and take it away.
and no rebels among all my subjects.

Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone, attended by my
servants! Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the only person
permitted to talk to me; my dog, which was now grown very old and
crazy, and found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at
my right hand; and two cats, one on one side the table, and one on the

other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as amark of special

favour.

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at first:
for they were both of them dead, and had been interred near my habi-
tation by my own hands; but one of them having multiplied by I know
not what kind of creature, these were two which I preserved tame,
whereas the rest ran wild into the woods, and became indeed trouble
some to me at last; for they would often come into my house, and
plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a
great many: at length they left me. With this attendance, and in this
plentiful manner, I lived; neither could I be said to want 'any thing

but society, and of that, in some time after this, I was like to have too
much.

CHAPTER XI.

Description of my Figure--Also of my Dwelling and balance--Breadth! alarm on
seeing the Print of a Man's Foot on the Shore--Reflectiona--Take every'posdblo
measure of preaufion.

sts something impatient, as I had observed, to have the use of my
boat, though very loath to run any more hazard; and therefore some
times I sat contriving ways to get her about the island, and at other

times I sat myself down contented enough without her. But I had a '

strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the island,
where, as I have said in my last ramble, I went up the hill to see how
the shore lay, and how the current set, that I might see what I had to
. do. This inclination increased upon me every day, and at length I
resolved to travel thither by land, and following the edge of the shore,
I did so: but had any one in England been to meet such a man as I'_

was, it must either have frighted him, or raised a great deal of laughtef ' '

and as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I could not but smii

'13;

.\ M"

._.._..-_-A._.-sm.1;ut.'--n.an ' .r; :

160 THE LIFE AND anvssruass

at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage
and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure as
follows:--

I had a great high slmpeloss cup, made of goat's skin, with a flap
hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from me, as to shoot thc
rain oil" from running into my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these
climates as the rain upon the flesh under the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to about
.he middle of my thighs; and a pair of opened-kneed breeches of the
same: the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose
hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it
reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I had none;
but I had made me a pair of something, I scarce knew what to call
them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either side like
spatter-dashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the
rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together
' with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; and in a kind of a

frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little

saw and a hatchet; one on one side, one on the other; I had another

belt not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over

my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung two

pouches, both made of goat's skin too; in one of which hung my

powder, in the other my shot: at my back I carried my basket, on my

shoulder my gun, and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat's skin

umbrella; but which, after all, was the most necessary thing I had

about me, next to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really

not so mulatto-like as one might expect from aman not at all careful of

it, and living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My heard I

had once sufi'ered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;

but as I had both scissors and razors suflicient, I had cut it pretty

short, except ,what grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a

large pair of Mohammedan whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some

Turks whom I saw at Sallee; for the Moors did not wear such, though

the Turks did: of these mustachios, or whiskers, I will not say

they were long enough to hang my hat upon them; but they were of

length and shape monstrous enough. and such as in England would
have passed for frightful. - '

But all this is by the by ;~ for as to my figure, I had so few to observe

gig, me, that it was of no manner of consequence; so I say no more to that

r$3 part. ' In this kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out five

,3 deg or six days. I travelled first along the sea-shore directly to the place'5'; V , . , r ,.

 

 

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. , 161' 't

 

' where I first brought my boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks; and,
having no boat-- now to take care of, I went over the land a nearer way,
to the same height that I was upon before; when looking forward to
the point of the rock which lay out, and which I was to double with my
boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and
quiet; no rippling, no motion, no current, any more there than in other
places.

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved to spend
some time in the observing of it, to see if nothing from the sets of the
tide had occasioned it: but I was presently convinced how it was;
namely, that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining with
the current of waters from some great river on.the shore, must be the
Occasion of this current, and that according as the wind blew more
forcible from the west, or from the north, this current came near, or
went farther from the shore; for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I
went up to the rock again, and then, the tide of ebb being made, I
plainly saw the 'current again as before, only that it ran farther
ofi', being near half a league from the shore; whereas, in my case, it
set close upon the shore, and hurried me in my canoe along with it, -'.
which at another time. it would not have done. .

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but to :e
observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might very easily 5
bring my boat about the island again: but when I began to think of '
putting it into practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at the ;
n-nienibranee of the danger I had been in, that I could not think of it
again with any patience; but, on the contrary, I took up anothei"
resolution, which was more safe, though more laborious; and this was,
that I would build, or rather make me another periagau, or canoe; and
so have one for one side of the island, and one for the other.

You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two planta: I
tions in the island; one, my little fortification or tent, with the wall
about it under the rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time
I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one within another. .
()ne of these, which was the driest and largest, and had a door out _'
beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall
joined to the rock, was all filled up with large earthen pots, of which I
lune given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which
"ould hold five or six bushels each, u here I laid up my stores of pro- fl
vision, especially my corn, some in the ear out off short from the at!
and the other rubbed out with my hands. :3" ,

As for my wall, made as before with long stakes or piles, Wyilqlf

grow all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and":
11 " '

  
     
   
 
  

-<'.
E:

3,
:5?-'.' .- Y. w... . ..7 :w

132 me use AND anvsnruass

 

very much, that there was not the least appearance, to any one's view, I
of any habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land, and
upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn ground, which I kept
duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest in
its season: and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more
land adjoining, as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a tolerable
plantation there' also; for first, I had my little bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which circled
it in, constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing always
in the inside; I kept the trees, which at first were no more than stakes,
but were now grown very firm and tall,--I kept them always so cut,
that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and make the more
agreeable shade, which they did effectually to my mind. In the middle
of this I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail spread over
poles set up for that purpose, and which never wanted any repair or
renewing; and under this I had made me a squab, or couch, with the
skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft things, and a
blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had
saved, and a great watch-coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had
occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my country habi-
tation. .

Adjoining to this, I had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to say,
my goats: and as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence
and enclose this ground, I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest the
goats should break through, that I never left it ofi', till, with infinite
labour, I-had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, and
so near to one another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge,
and there was scarce room to put a hand through between them,
which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next
rainy season, made the enclosure strong, like a wall; indeed stronger
than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared no
pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable
support, for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures
thus at my hand, would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and
heese, for me, as long as I lived in the place, if it were to be forty
in tears and that keeping them in my reach depended entirely upon my
$SSfecting my enclosures to suck. a degree, that I might be sure
' eff-keeping them together; which by this method, indeed, I so

ofectually secured, that when these little- stakes began to grow, I

  
 

g
r,
i:- .
it; is... 1...." .._.
had planted them so very thick, I was forced to pull some of them up
again.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally
depended on for my winter store of raisins, and which I never failed to
preserve very carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my
whole diet; and indeed they were not agreeable only, but physical,
wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree.

As this was also about half way between my other habitation and
the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed and lay here
in my way thither; for I used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept
all things about or belonging to her in very good order. Sometimes -I
went out in her to divert myself ; but no more hazardous voyages
would I go, nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or two from the shore,
I was so apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by
the currents, or winds, or any other accidents But now I come to a
new scene of my life.

It happened one day about noon, going towards my boat, I was
exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the
shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand: I stood like one
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition; I listened, I looked
round me, I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to a
rising ground to look farther; I went up the shore and down the shore,
but it was all one, I could see no other impression but that one; I
went to it again to see if there were any more, and to observe if it
might not be my fancy; but there was no room for that, for there was
exactly the very print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot;
how came it thither I knew not, nor could in the least imagine. But
after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly confused,
and out of myself, I came home to my fortification, not feeling-m we
say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree, looking
behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree,
and fancying every stump at a distance to be a man; nor is it possible
to describe how many various shapes an afi'righted imagination repre-
sented things to me in; how many wild ideas were formed every mo-
ment in my fancy, and what strange unaccountable whimsies came into
my thoughts by the way.

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it ever after this,
I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went over by the ladder, at
first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a doe
I cannot remember ; for never frighted hare fled to cover, or fox/to '
with more terror of mind than I to this retreat. '

I had no sleep that night: the farther I was from th
._ __----._--___,__

my fright, the greater my apprehensions were; which is something
contrary to the nature of such things, and especially to the usual prac-
tice of all creatures in fear. But I was so embarrassed with my own
frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing but dismal imagina-

tions to myself, even though I was now a great way ofi' it. Sometimes '

I fancied it must be the devil; and reason joined in with me upon this
supposition. For how should any other thing in human shape come
into the place? Where was the vessel that brought them? What
marks were there of any other footsteps? And how was it possible a
man should come there? But then to think that Satan should take
human shape upon him in such a place, where there could be no man-
ner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind him,
and that even for no purpose too, (for he could not be sure I should
see it), this was an amazement the other way: I considered that the
devil might have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified
me. than this of the single print of a foot; that, as I lived quite on the
other side of the island, he would never have been so simple to leave a
mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether I should
ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea
upon a high wind would have defaced entirely. All this seemed

inconsistent with the thing itself, and with all notions we usually enter--

tain of the subtlety of the devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all
apprehensions of its being the devil. And I presently concluded that
it must be some more dangerous creature, namely, that it must be
some of the savages of the mainland over against me, who had wan-
dered out to the sea in their canoes, and, either driven by the currents,
or by contrary winds, had made the island, and had'beenion shore, but
were gone away again to sea, being as loath, perhaps, to have stayed
in this desolate island, as I would have been to have had them.

\\ hile these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very
thankful in my thought, that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts
'at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by which they would

have concluded, that some inhabitants had been in the place, and per- .

haps have sea1 ched farthei for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my
imagination, about their having found my boat, and that there were
people here, and that if so, I should certainly have them come again

in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen so that ,. .'
they should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure, destroy all

my corn, car1y away all my flock of tame goats, and I- should perish
at last for mere want. :5

  

 

4
g
'i
dence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience as I
had had of his goodness, now vanished; as if He that had fed me by
miracle hitherto, could not preserve by his power the pnovision which
he had made for me by his goodness. I reproached myself with my
laziness, that I would not sow any more corn one year than would just
serve me till the next season, as if no accident could intervene to pre-
vent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground. And this I
thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to have two or
three years' corn beforehand, so that, whatever might come, I might
not perish for want of bread.

How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the life of man! And
by w_hat secret difi'ering springs are the affections hurried about, as
differing circumstances present! Today we love, what to-morrow we
hate; to-day we seek, what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire, what
to-morrow we fear--nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of. This
was exemplified in me at this tiine in the most lively manner imagina-
ble; for I, whose only affliction was, that I seemed banished from
human society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean,
cut oil" from mankind, and condemned to what I called a silent life; that
I was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among
the living, or to appear among the rest of his creatures; that to have
seen one of my own species would have seemed to me a raising me
from death to life, and the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next
to the supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow; I say, that I should
now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was ready
to sink into the ground at but the shadow, or silent appearance, of a
man's having set his foot on the island.

Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afforded me a great
many curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little recovered my
first surprise : I considered that this was the station of life the infinitely.
wise and good providence of God had determined for me; that as I
could not foresee what the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this,
so I was not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as I was his creature, had.
an undoubted right by creation to govern and dispose of me absolutely
as he thought fit; and who, as I was a creature who had offended him,
had likewise a judicial right to condemn me to what punishment he
thought fit; and that it was my part to submit to bear his indignation,
because I had sinned against him.

' I then reflected, that God, who was not only righteous, but omnipotent,
'3. as he had thought fit thus to punish and afllict me, so he was able to
deliver me ; that if he did not think fit to do it, it was my unquestioned

:_ p ' {duty " resign myself absolutely and entirely to his will; and, on the

 

as: is,
other hand, it was my duty also to hope in him, pray to him, and
quietly to attend the dictates and directions of his daily providence.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days--nay, I may say, weeks
and months; and one pa1ticular efi'ect of my cogitations on this oc-
casion I cannot omit; namely, one morning early, lying in my bed,
and filled with thoughts about my danger from the appearance of
savages, I found it discomposed me very much ; upon which those words
of the Scripture came into my thoughts, "Call upon me in the day of
trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify rue."

Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was not only
comforted, but I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God it
for deliverance. When I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and "
opening it to read, the first words that presented to me were, "Wait
on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart:

Wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible to express the comfort
this gave me ; and in return,I thankfully laid down the book,and was
no more sad, at least not on that occasion.

In the midst of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections, it
came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a mere chimera
of my own, and that this foot might be the print of my own foot, when
I came on shore from my boat. This cheered me up a little too, and
I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing
else but my own foot; and why might not I come that way from the
boat, as well as I was going that way to the boat? Again, I considered
also, that I could by no means tell for certain where I had trod, and
where I had not; and that if at last this was only the print of my own
foot, I had played the part of those fools, who strive to make stories
of spectres and apparitions, and then are themselves frighted at them
more than anybody else.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I had
not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I began
to starve for provision; for I had little or nothing within doors, but
some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that my goats wanted to
be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion: and the poor
creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and
indeed it almost spoiled some of them, and almOst dried up their milk.

Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing .
but the print of one of my own feet (and so I might be truly said to g
start at my own shadow), I began to go abroad'again, and went _ "3
country house to milk my flock: but to see with what fear- I , -
forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was ready, ' . ' .
and then, to' .ay down my basket and run for my life; it '3? ' '1 ' 'PS3

168 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

 

~--

made any one have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or

that I had been lately most terribly frighted; and so indeed I had.

However, as I went down thus two or three days, and having seen
nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to think there was really
nothing in it but my own imagination ; but I could not persuade myself
fully of this, till I should go down to the shore again and see this prin'
of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitudi
or fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot. But when I
came to the place first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid
up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts.
Secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I found
my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled my head
with new imaginations, and gave me the vapours again to the highest-
degree ; so that I shook with cold like one in an ague, and I went home
again, filled with the belief that some man or men had been on shore
there; or, in short, that the island was inhabited, and I might be
surprised before I was aware ; and what course to take for my security
I knew not.

Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear!
It deprives them of the use of those means which reason ofi'ers for their
relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my
enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, that the
enemy might not find them, and then frequent the island in prospect
of the same, or the like booty; then to the simple thing of digging up
my two corn fields, that they might not find such a grain there, and
still be prompted to frequent the island; then to demolish my bower
and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of my habitation, and
be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the persons in-
habiting.

These were the subjects of the first night's cogitation, after I was
come home again, while the apprehensions which had so overrun my
mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full of vapours, as above.
Thus, fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger
itself when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of anxiety
greater by much than the evil which we are anxious about: but, which
was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble, from the
resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to have. I looked, I
thought, like Saul, who complained, not only that the Philistines were
upon him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did not now take due
ways to compose my mind, by crying to God in my distress, and resting
upon ' providence, as I had done before, for my defence and deliver-

ance}? 'oh, if I had done, I had at least been more cheerfully ,
supported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried through it with
more resolution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night; but in the
morning I fell asleep, and having, by the amusement of my mind, been,
as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and
awaked'much better composed than I had ever been before. And now
I began to think sedately; and, upon the utmost debate with myself,
I concluded that this island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful,
and no farther from the mainland than as I had seen, was not so
entirely abandoned as I might imagine: that although there were na
stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that there might sometimes
come boats oif from the shore, who, either with design, or perhaps
never but when they were driven by cross winds, might come to this
place : that I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with
the least shadow or figure of any people before; and that if at any
time they should be driven here, it was probable they went away again
as soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix
there upon any occasion, to this time: that the most I could suggest
any danger from, was from any such casual accidental landing of
straggling people from the main, who, as it was likely, if they were
driven hither, were here against their wills; so they made no stay here,
but went 03' again with all possible speed, seldom staying one night on
shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides and daylight
back again ; and that therefore I had nothing to do but to consider of
some safe retreat, in case I should see any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large, as
to bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond
where my fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering
this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, in the
manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where I 'had
planted a double row of trees about twelve years before, of which I
made mention : these trees having been planted so thick before, there
wanted but a few piles to be driven between them, that they should be
thicker and stronger, and my wall would be soon finished.

So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall was thickened
with pieces of timber, old cables, and every thing I could think of to
make it strong; having in it seven little holes, about as big as I might
put my arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened my wall to about _
ten feet thick, continually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying ,3:
it at the foot of the wall and walking upon it; and through the 39791.33>>?
holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took a; ' Lthgfllf
got seven on shore out of the ship: these, I say, I plan If
cannon, and fitted them into frames that held them like a carriage,
that so I could fire all the seven guns in two minutes' time. This wall
I was many a weary month in finishing, and yet never thought myself
safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for
a great way every way, as full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like
wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand; inso-
much, that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them,
leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter from the
young trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall.

Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove; and in five or six years'
time I had a wood before my dwelling, grown so monstrous thick and
strong, that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no man of what
kind soever would ever imagine that there was any thing beyond it,
much less a habitation. As for the way I proposed myself to go in
and out (for I left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders; one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and left room to
place another ladder upon that; so when the two ladders were taken
down, no man living could come down to me without mischiefing him-
self; and if they had come down, they were still on the outside of my
outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my
own preservation; and it will be seen at length, that they were not
altogether without just reason; though I foresaw nothing at that time
more than my mere fear suggested.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other
afi'airs, for I had a great concern upon me for my little herd of goats;
they were not only a present supply to me upon every occasion, and
began to'be sufficient for me without the expense of powder and shot,
but also abated the fatigue of my hunting after the wild ones; and I
was loath to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse
up over again.

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think but of two
ways to preserve them: one was to find another convenient place to
dig a cave under ground, and to drive them into it every night; and
the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land, remote from
one another, and as much concealed as I could, where I might keep
about half a dozen young goats in each place, so that if any disaster '
happened to the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again
with lit e trouble and time; and this, though it would require a great
den of fine and labour, I thought was the most rational design.
   

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired pam- Q
the island; and I pitched upon one which was as private indeed as my
heart could wish, for it was a little damp piece of ground in the mid~
die of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost
myself once before endeavouring to come back that way from the east;
ern part of the island. Here I found a 'clear piece of land, near three
acres, so surrounded with woods that it was almost an enclosure by
nature; at least, it did not want near so much labour to make it so as
the other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in less
than a month's time I had so fenced it round that my flock, or herd,
call it which you please, which were not so wild now as at first they
might be supposed to be, were well enough secured in it. So without
any further delay, I removed ten she-goats and two he-goats to this
piece; and when there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had
made it as secure as the other, which, however, I did at more leisure,
and it took me up more time by a great deal.

 

CHAPTER XII.

I observe a Canoe out at Sea--Find on the Shore the remnant of 3 Roast of Cannibals
--Horror of Mind thereon--Double arm myself--Terribly alarmed by s Goat--
Discover a singular Cave, or Grotto, of which I form my Magazine--My fem on
account of the Savages begin to subside.

ALL this labour I was at the expense of, purely from my apprehen-
sions on the account of the print of a man's foot which I had seen;
for as yet I never saw any human creature come near the island, and
I had now lived two years under these uneasinesses, which indeed made
my lifegmuch less comfortable than it was before, as may well be ima-
gined by any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the
fear of man: and this I must observe with grief too, that the discom-
posure of my mind had too great impressions also upon the religious
part of my thoughts; for the dread and terror of falling into the hands
of savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom found
myself in a due temper for application to my Maker; at least, not
with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul which I was wont to
do. I rather prayed to God as under great aflliction and pressurefofi.
mind, surrounded with danger, and in expectation every nigh't'vof being
 

murdered and devoured before the morning; and I must testify from
my experience, that a temper of peace, thankfulness, love, and affec-
tion, is much more the proper frame for prayer, than that of terror
and discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief impending,
a man is no more fit for a comforting performance of the duty of pray-
ing to God, than he is for repentance on a sick-bed; for these discom-
posures affect the mind as the others do the body; and the discom-
posure of the mind must necessarily be as great a disability as that of
the body, and much greater; praying to God being properly an act of
the mind, not of the body.

But to go on: After I had thus secured one part of my little living
stock, I went about the whole island searching for another private'
place to make such another deposit; when wandering more to the west
point of the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea,
I thought I saw a boat upon the sea at a great distance. I had found
a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests which I saved
out of our ship; but I had it not about me, and this was so remote,
that I could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it till my
eyes were not able to look any longer: whether it was a boat or not, I
did not know: but as I descended from the hill, I could see no more
of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more without a per-
spective glass in my pocket.

When I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where in-
deed I had never been before, I was presently convinced that the see-
ing the print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the island
as Iimagined; and, but that it was a special providence that I was
cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came, I should
easily have known, that nothing was more frequent than for the canoes
from the main, when they happened to be a little too far out at sea, to
shoot over to that side of the island for harbour; likewise, as they
often met, and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any
prisoners would bring them over to this shore, where, according to
their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and eat
them: of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, being
the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and
amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the horror of my mind,
at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of
human bodies; and, particularly, I observed a place where there had
been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, like a cock-pit, where
it is supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feast-

ings upta} the bodies of their fellow creatures.
C
------

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I entertained
no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while; all my
apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human nature;
which, though I had heard of often, yet I never had so near a view of
before: in short, I turned away my face from the horrid spectacle;
my stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, when
nature discharged the disorder from my stomach, and having vomited
with an uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear
to stay in the place a moment; so I got me up the hill again with all _
the speed I could, and walked on towards my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile as amazed; and then recovering myself, I looked up with the
utmost affection of my soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave
God thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world where I
was distinguished from such dreadfulcreatures as these; and that,
though I had esteemed my present condition very miserable, had yet
given me so many comforts in it, that I had still more to give thanks
for than to complain of; and this above all, that I had, even in this
miserable condition, been comforted with the knowledge of himself,
and the hope of his blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficiently
equivalent to all the misery which I had sufi'ered, or could suffer.

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my. castle, and began
to be much easier now, as to the safety of my circumstances, than ever
I was before; for I observed, that these wretches never came to this
island in search of what they could get; perhaps not seeking, not
wanting, or not expecting, any thing here, and having often, no doubt,
been up in the covered woody part of it, without finding any thing to
their purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen years,
and never saw the least footsteps of a human creature there before;
and might be here eighteen more as entirely concealed as I was now,
if I did not discover myself to them, which I had no manner of occa-
sion to do, it being my only business to keep myself entirely concealed
where I was, unless I found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to
make myself known to.

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that l
have been speaking of, and of the wretched inhuman custom of their
devouring and eating one another up, that I continued pensive and '
sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost two years after.
this: when I say my own circle, I mean by it my three plantation" r .
namely, my castle, my country seat, which I called my bowegj 1.111.114?- 7.
 

as an enclosure for my goats; for the aversion which nature gave me
to these hellish wretches was such, that I was as fearful of seeing them
as of seeing the devil himself; nor did I so much as go to look after
my boat in all this time, but began rather to think of making me an-
other; for I could not think of ever making any more attempts to
bring the other boat round the island to me, lest I should meet with
some of those creatures at sea, in which, if I had happened to have
fallen into their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger
of being discovered by these people, began to wear ofi' my uneasiness
about them; and I began to live just in the same composed manner
as before; only with this difi'erence, that I used more caution, and
kept my eyes more about me than I did before, lest I should happen
to be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cautious of
firing my gun, lest any of them on the island should happen to hear it;
and it was therefore a very good providence to me, that I had furnished
myself with a tame breed of goats, that I had no need to hunt any
more about the woods, or shoot at them; and if I did catch any more
of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had done before, so
that for two years after this, I believe I never fired my gun once ofi',
though I never went out without it: and which was more, as I had
saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out with me,
or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt: I likewise
furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and
made me a belt to put it in also: so that I was now a most formid-
able fellow to look at when I went abroad, if you add to the former
description of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great broad-
sword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a scabbard.

Things going on thus, as I have 'said, for some time, I seemed, ex-
cepting these cautions, to be reduced to my former calm sedate way
of living. All these things tended to show me more and more how far
my condition was from being miserable, compared to some others--
nay, to many other particulars of life, which it might have pleased
God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting, how little re-
pining there would be among mankind, at any condition of life, if
people would rather compare their condition with those that are worse,
in order to be thankful, than be always comparing them with those
which' are better, to assist their murmurings and complainings.

As in my present condition there were not really many things which
I wanted, so indeed I thought that the frights I had been in about
these'Esavage wretches, and the concern I had been in for my on pre-
servation. had taken of the edge of my invention for my on eon;

<<with a.
veniences, and I had dropped a good design, which I had once bent
my thoughts upon; and that was, to try if I could not make some of
my barley into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer. This
was really a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often for the
simplicity of it; for I presently saw there would be the want of several
things necessary to the making my beer, that would be impossible for
me to supply; as first, casks to preserve it in, which was a thing that,
as I have observed already, I could never compass; no, though I spent
not many days, but weeks--nay, months in attempting it, but to no
purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to make it keep, no yeast
to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil; and yet, had not
all these things intervened--I mean the frights and terrors I was in
about the savages--I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to

pass too; for I seldom gave any thing over without accomplishing it, '

when I once had it in my head enough to begin it.
But my invention now ran quite another way; for night and day I
could think of nothing, but how I might destroy some of these monsters

in their cruel bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim .

they should bring- hither to destroy. It would take up a larger volume
than this whole work is intended to be, to set down all the contrivances
I hatched or rather brooded upon in my thoughts, for the destroying
these creatures, or at least frightening them, so as to prevent their ,
coming hither any more: but all was abortive; nothing could be pos
sible to take efi'ect, unless I was to be there to do it myself; and what
could one man do among them, when perhaps there might be twenty
or thirty of them together, with their darts, or their bows and arrows,
with which they could shoot as true to a mark as I could with my
gun ?

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place where they
made their fire, and put in five or six pounds of gunpowder, which,
when they kindled their fire, would consequently take fire, and blow up
all that was near it; but- as, in the first place, I should be very loath
to waste so much powder upon them, my store now being within the
quantity of a barrel, so neither could I be sure of its going of at any
certain time, when it might surprise them; and, at best, that it would do
little more than just blow the fire about their ears, and fright them, but
not sufficient to make them forsake the place: so'I laid it, aside, and
then proposed, that I would place myself in ambush, in some conve-
nient place, with my three guns all double loaded, and in the middle

 

of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I should be can to . ' '

kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shot; and than {M
upon them with my three pistols and my sword, I .made no do 'f ' ff
 

that, if there were twenty, I should kill them all. This fancy; '
my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of it, that I" "'ften
dreamed of it , and sometimes, that I was just going to let fly at them
in my sleep.

I went so far with it in my indignation, that I employed myself
several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambnscade, as I
said, to watch for them; and I went frequently to the place itself,
which was now grown more familiar to me; and especially while my
mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody putting
twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it; but the hor-
ror I had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches
devouring one another, abated my malice.

Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill, where I was
satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of the boats coming, and
might then, even before they would be ready to come on shore, convey
myself unseen into thickets of trees, in one of which there was a Hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely, and where I might sit, and ob-
serve all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, as that it would be next to impos-
sible that I should miss my shot, or that I could fail wounding three
or four of them at the first shot.

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design; and accordingly I
prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two mus-
kets I loaded with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets,
about the size of pistol bullets, and the fowling-piece I loaded with near
a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size; I also loaded my pistols
with about four bullets each: and in this posture, well provided with
ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared myself for my
expedition. .

After I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and in my ima-
gination put it in practice, I continually made my tour every morning
up to the top of the hill, which was, from my castle, as I called it,
about three miles or more, to see if I could observe any boats upon
the sea, coming near the island, or standing over towards it; but I
' began to tire of this hard duty, after I had for two or three months
constantly kept my watch; but came always back without any discovery,
there having not in all that time been the least appearance, not only
on or near the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes
or glasses could reach every way.

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long
also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be
all the while in a suitable frame for so outrageous an execution as the

2:2. ".4 i .r; , , .gr-

,:4.

OF ROBINSON CEUSOE. ' I'I'l

 

killing twenty or thirty naked savages for an ofi'ence, which I had not
at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further than
my passions were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the am
natural custom of the people of that country, who, it seems, had been
suffered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to have no
other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated passions;
and consequently were left, and perhaps had been for some ages, to
act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful customs, as nothing
but nature, entirely abandoned of Heaven, and actuated by some
hellish degeneracy, could have run them into: but now, when, as I have
said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made
so long and so far every morning in vain ; so my opinion of the action
itself began to alter, and I began, with cooler and calmer thoughts, to
consider what it was I was going to engage in; what authority or call
I had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these men as
criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit for so many ages to sufi'er un-
punishcd to go on, and to be, as it were, the executioners of his judg-
ments upon one another; also, how far these people were offenders
against me, and what right I had to engage in the quarrel of that
blood,_which they shed promiscuously one upon another. I debated
this very often with myself thus: How do I know what God himself
judges in this particular case? It is certain these people do not com-
mit this as a crime; it is not against their own consciences reproving,
or their light reproaching them. They do not know it to be an offence,
and then commit it in defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all
the sins we commit. They think it no more to kill a captive taken in

war, than we do to kill an ox, nor to eat human flesh, than we do to '

eat mutton.

When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily, that]
was certainly in the wrong in it; that these people were not murderers
in the sense that I had before condemned them in my thoughts, any
more than those Christians were murderers, who often put to death
the prisoners taken in battle; or more frequently, upon many occa-
sions, put whole troops of men to the sword, without giving quarter,
though they threw down their arms and submitted.

In the next place, it occurred to me, that albeit the usage they gave
'one another was thus brutish and inhuman, yet it was really nothing
to me: these people had done me no injury: that if they attempted
me, 'or I saw it necessary for my immediate preservation ham upon

them, something might be said for it; but that I was yeflmfiqf theik ,.;.

  

power, and they had really no knowledge of me, and cow fit '

design 11' HQ; and therefore it could not be justTof'lfl 'to _ V _'F'

178 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

 

 

them: that thin would justify the conduct-of the Spaniards, in all their
barbarities practised in America, where they destroyed millions of
these people, who, however they were idolaters and barbarians, and
had several bloody and barbarous rites in their customs, such as sacrifi-
cing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very
innocent people; and that the rooting them out of the country is
spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation, even by the
Spaniards themselves, at this time; and by all other Christian nations
of Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty,
unjustifiable either to God or man, and such, as for which the very
name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all
people of humanity, or of Christian compassion: as if the kingdom of
Spain were particularly eminent for the product of a race of men, who
were without principles of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to
the miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of a generous temper in
the mind.

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind of a
full stop; and I began by little and little to be of of my design, and
to-conclude I had taken a wrong measure in my resolutions to attack
the savages; that it was not my business to meddle with them, unless
they first attacked me, and this it was my business, if possible, to
prevent; but that, if I were discovered and attacked, then I knew my
duty.

On the other hand, I argued with myself, that this really was not
the way to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for
unless I was sure to kill every one that not only should be on shore at
that time, but that should e\ er come on shore afterwards, if but one
of them escaped to tell their country- people what had happened, they
would come over again by thousands to revenge the death of their
fellows; and I should only bring upon myself a certain destruction,
which at present I had no manner of occasion for.

Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in principles nor in
policy, I ought one way or other to concern myself in this affair: that
my business was, by all possible means, to conceal myself from them,
and not to leave the least signal to them to guess by, that there were
any living creatures upon the island, I mean of human shape.

'Religion joined in with this prudential resolution, and I was con-
vinced now many ways that I was perfectly out of my duty, when I
was laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent creep
tures,--I mean innocent as to me: as to the crimes they were guilty
of towards one another, I had nothing to do with them; they were
national punishments to make a just retribution for national ofi'ences;
OP ROBINSON CEUSOB. 179

 

and to bring public judgments upon those who ofi'ended in a public
manner, by such ways as best please God.

This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a greater satis-
faction to me, than that I had not been suffered to do a thing which I
now saw so much reason to believe would have been no less a sin than
that of wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most humble
thanks on my knees to God, that had thus delivered me from blood- \-
guiltinessg beseeching him to grant me the protection of his providence,
that I might not fall into the hands of barbarians; or that I might not
lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more clear call from Heaven
to do it, in defence of my own life.

In this disposition I_ continued for near a year after this: and so far
was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches, that
in all that time I never once went up the hill to see whether there
were any of them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been
on shore there, or not; that I might not be tempted to renew any of
my contrivances against them, or be provoked, by any advantage which
might present itself, to fall upon them; only this I did, I went and
removed my boat, which I had on the other side of the island, and
carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it into
a little cove which I found under some high rocks, and where I knew,
by reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would not,
come with their boats upon any account whatsoever.

With my boat I carried away every thing that I had left there be-
longing to her, though not necessary for the bare going thither,
namely, a mast and sail, which I had made for her, and a thing like
an anchor, but indeed, which could not be called either anchor or
grappling: however, it was the best I could make of its kind. All
these I removed, that there might not he the least shadow of any dis-
covery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any habitation upon the
island.

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than ever, and I
seldom went from my cell, other than upon my constant employment,
namely, to milk my she-goats and manage my little flock in the wood.
which, as it was quite on the other part of the island, was quite out of
danger; for certain it is, that these savage people, who sometimes
haunted this island, never came with any thoughts of finding any
thing here, and consequently never wandered 03' from the coast; and
I doubt not but they might have been several times on shore," 1
my apprehensions of them had made me cautious, aural] asbefofe" '
and indeed I looked back with some horror upon the It'liiiughteofl M
my condition would have been, if I had chopped upon them)",

. '..fi'a.
 

discovered before that, when naked and unarmed, except with one gun,
and that loaded often only with small shot. I walked everywhere,
peeping and peering about the island, to see what I could get: what a
surprise should I have_been in, if, when I discovered the print of a
man's foot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty savages, and
found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of their running, no
possibility of my escaping them. '

The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within. me, and
distressed my mind so much that I could not soon recover it; to think
what I should have done, and how I not only should not have been
able to resist them, but even should not have had presence of mind
enough to do what I might have done, much less what now, after so
much consideration and preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed,
after serious thinking of these things, I would be very melancholy,
and sometimes it would last a great while; but I resolved it at last all
into thankfulness to that Providence, which had delivered me from so
many unseen dangers, and had kept me from those mischiefs which I
could no way have been the agent in delivering myself from; because
I had not the least notion of any such thing depending, or the least
supposition of its being possible.

This renewed a contemplation, which often had come to my thoughts
in former time, when first I began to see the merciful dispositions of
Heaven, in the dangers we run through in this life, how wonderfully
we are delivered when we know nothing of it--how, when we are in a
quandary (as we call it), a doubt or hesitation whether to go this way
or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this way, when we intend to
go another way--nay, when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps
business, has called to go the other way, yet a strange impression upon
the mind, from we know not what springs, and by we know not what
power, shall overrule us to go this way: and it shall afterwards
appear, that had we gone that way which we would have gone, and
even to our imagination ought to have gone, we should have been
ruined and. lost. Upon these, and many like reflections, I afterwards
made it a certain rule with me, that whenever I found those secret
hints, or pressings of my mind, to doing or not doing any thing that
presented, or to going this way or that way, I never failed to obey the
secret dictate; though I knew no other reason for it, than that such a
pressure or such a hint hung upon my mind. I could give many
examples of the success of this conduct in the course of my life, but
more especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy
island; besides many occasions which it is very likely I might have
taken notice of. if I had seen with the same eves then that I saw with
now. But it is never too late to be wise; and I cannot but advise all
considering men, whose lives are attended with such extraordinary in.
cidents as mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such
secret intimations of Providence, let them come from what invisible in-
telligence they will : that I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot
account for; but certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits,
and the secret communication between those embodied and those un-
cmbodied; and such a 'proof as can never be withstood: of which I
shall have occasion to give some very remarkable instances, in the re-
mninder of my solitary residence in this dismal place.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange, if I confess
that these anxieties; these constant dangers I lived in,'.and the concern
that was now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to all the con-
trivances that I had laid for my future accommodations and conveni-
ences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands than
that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood
now, for fear the noise I should make should be heard; much less
would I fire a gun, for the same reason; and, above all, I was very
uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great
distance in the day, should betray me ; and, for this reason, I removed
that part of my business which required fire, such as burning of pots
and pipes, &c. into my new apartment in the wood; where, after I
had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation, a mere
natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare
say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as
to venture in, nor indeed would any man else, but one who, like me,
wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, where,
by mere accident, (I would say, if I did not see an abundant reason to
ascribe all such things now to Providence), I was cutting down some
thick branches of trees to make charcoal; and before I go on, I must
observe'the reason of my making this charcoal, which was thus:

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said
before; and yet I could not live there without baking my bread, cook-
ing my meat, Ste. ; so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I had
seen done in England, under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal;
and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and
perform the other services which fire was wanting for at home, without
danger or smoke.

But this by the by: While I was cutting down some wood here, sig-
I perceived that, behind a. very thick branch of- lbw brushwood _ '-

nnderwood, there was a kind of hollow place, I was ourio,
_--__----._.__------

into it, 'and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was
pretty large, that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and
perhaps another with me; but I must confess to you I made more haste
out than I did in: when looking farther into the place, which was per.
fectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether
devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like two stars, the dim light
from the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making the reflection.

However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and began to call
myself a thousand fools, and tell myself, that he that was afraid to see
the devil, was not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone, and
that I durst to believe there was nothing in this cave that was more
frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up
a large firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my
hand: I had not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much fright-
ened as I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man
in some pain; and it was followed by a broken noise, as if of words
half expressed, and then a deep sigh again: I stepped back, and was
indeed struck with such a surprise that it put me into a cold sweat;
and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer for it that my
hair might not have lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits as
well as I could, and encouraging myself a little with considering that
the power and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to pro-
tect me: upon this I stepped forward again, and by the light of the
firebrand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw lying on the
ground a most monstrous frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as
we say, gasping for life, and dying indeed of mere old age.

I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed to
get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I thought with myself,
he might even lie there; for if he had frightened me so, he would cer-
tainly fright any of the savages, if 'any of them should be so hardy as
to come in there, while he had any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round me,
when I found the cave was but very small; that is to say, it might be
about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, either round or
square, no hands having ever been employed in making it but those of
mere nature: I observed also, that there was a place at the farther
side of it that went in farther, but so low, that it required me to creep
upon my hands and knees to get into it, and whither it went, I knew
not: so having no candle, I gave it over for some time, but resolved
to come again the next day, provided with candles and a tinder-box,
which I had made of the lock of one of the muskets, with some wildfire
in the pan. '
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with six large candles
of my own making, for I made very good candles now of- goats' tallow ;'
and going into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as
I have said, almost ten yards, which, by the way, I thought was a ven-
ture bold enough, considering that I knew not how far it might go, or
what was beyond it. When I was got through the strait, I found the 9'
roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never was such a '
gloiious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to look round
the sides and roof of this vault or cave. The walls reflected a hun-
dred thousand lights to me from my two candles; what it was in the
rock, whether diamonds or any other precious stones, or gold, which I
rather supposed it to be, I knew not.

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or grotto, of its

kind, as could be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry
and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel upon it; so that there
was no nauseous creature to be seen; neither was there any damp or
wet on the sides of the roof : the only diiliculty in it was the entrance,
which, however, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience ; so that I was really rejoiced
at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of
those things which I was most anxious about to this place; particularly,
I resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder, and all my spare
arms, viz. two fowling-pieces (for I had three in all), and three muskets
(for of them I had eight in all); so I kept at my castle only five, which
stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmost fence, and
were ready also to take out upon any expedition.

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I was obliged to
open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the sea, and which
had been wet, and I found, that the water had penetrated about three '
or four inches into the powder on every side, which, caking and grow-
ing hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in a shell; so that I
had near sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of the cask}
and this was an agreeable discovery to me at that time: so I carried all
away thither, never keeping above two or three pounds of powder with.
me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind; I also carried '
thither all the lead I had left for bullets.

I fancied myself nowrlike one of the ancient giants, which were said SS
to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come at them:
for I persuaded myself while I was here, if five hundred savages wove ,
to hunt me, they could never find me out; or if they did, they would 4'
not venture to attack me. here. '

The old goat, which I found expiring, died' in the mouth ef' ' 'm- run ers m anvsnruaas

 

the next day after I made this discovery: and I found it much easier
to dig a great hole there, and throw him in, and cover him with earth,

than to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent offence to
my nose.

CHAPTER XIII.

Description of my Situation in the twenty-third Year of my Residence--Discover nine
naked Savages round a Fire on my side of the Island--My horror on behelding the
dismal Work they are about--I determine on the Destruction of the next Party, at
all risks--A ship lost of the Island--Go on board the Wreck, which I discern to he
Spanish--Procure a great variety of Articles from the Vessel.

I WAS now in my twenty-third year of residence in this island, and
was so naturalized to the place and to the manner of living, that could
I have but enjoyed the certainty that no savages would c'ome to the
place to disturb me, I could have been content to have capitulated for
spending the rest of my time there, even to the last moment, till I had
laid me down and died, like the old goat, in the cave: I had also
arrived to some little diversions and amusements, which made the time
pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than it did before: as, first,
I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak; and he did it so
familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, that it was very plea-

. Assent to me; and he lived with me no less than six-and-twenty years:
' how long he might live afterwards I knew not; though I know they
have a notion in the Brazils, that they live a hundred years; perhaps
some of my Polls may be alive there still, calling after Poor Robin
Crusoe to this day: I wish no Englishman the ill luck to come there
and hear them; but if he did, he would certainly believe it was the
devil. My dog was a very pleasant and loving companion to me for

no less than sixteen years of my time, and thendied of mere old age.
As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree,
that I was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from
devouring me and all I had; but at length, when the two old ones I
brought with me were gone, after some time continually driving them
from me, and letting them have no provision with me, they all ran wild
into the woods, except two or three favourites, which I kept tame, and
whose young, when they had any, I always drowned, and these were
part of my family: besides these I always kept two or three household
kids about me, which I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had also
more parrots, which talked pretty well, and would all call Robin Cru-
 

see, but none like my first; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any
of tnem that I had done with him: I had also several tame sea-fowls,
whose names I know not, which I caught upon the shore, and out their
wings; and the little stakes which I had planted before my castle
wall being now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived
among these low trees, and bred there, which was very agreeable to
me; so that, as I said above, I began to be very well contented with
the life I led, if it might but have been secured from the dread of
savages. '

But it was otherwise directed; and it might not be'amiss for all
people, who shall meet with my story, to make this just observation
from it, namely, How frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil
which in itself we seek most to shun,land which, when we are fallen
into, is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door
of our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised again from the
afiiction we are fallen into. I could give many examples of this in
the course of my unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more par-
ticularly remarkable, than in the circumstances of my last years of
solitary residence in this island. ,

It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
third year; and this being the southern solstice--for winter I cannot

call it--was the particular time of my harvest, and required my being.

pretty much abroad in the fields; when going out pretty early in the
morning, even before it was thorough day-light, I was surprised with
seeing a light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of
about two miles, towards the end of the island. where I had observed
some savages had been, as before; but not on the other side, but, to
my great afiliction, it was on my side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short within
my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised; and yet I
had no more peace within, from the apprehensions I had, that if these
savages, in rambling over the island, should find my corn standing, or

cut, or any of my works and improvements, they would immediately-
conclude that there were people in the place,'and would then never "
give over till they found (me out. In this extremity I went back

directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after me, having made all
things without look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of

2;

was

defence. I loaded all my cannon, as I called them,: that is to say, my "'35..
muskets, which were mounted upon my fortification, and all my pistolslw
God to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians; and in this
posture I continued about two hours, but began to be mighty impatient
for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.

_ After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should do in this
case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance longer; so setting up
my ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I
observed before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set it up

again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and pulling out my perspec-.

tive glass, which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my
belly on the ground, and began to look for the place. I presently
found there were no less than nine naked savages sitting round a small
fire they had made; not to warm them--for they had no need of that
--the weather being extreme hot; but, as I supposed, to dress some
of their barbarous diet of human flesh which they had brought with
them, whether alive or dead I could not know.

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon
the shore : and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to wait
the return of the flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine
what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on

my side the island, and so near me too; but when I observed their .'

coming must be always with the current of the ebb, I began after-
wards to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of tide of flood, if they were not on
shore before; and having maderthis observation, I went abroad about
my harvest work with the more composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as 'we call it)

all away: I should have observed, that for an hour and more before they '

went ofl', they went to dancing, and I could easily discern their postures
and gestures by my glasses: I could only perceive, by my nicest ob-
servation, that they were stark naked, and had not the least covering
upon them; but whether they were men or women, that I could not
distinguish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon my, I
shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my great sword by my.

side, without a scabbard; and with all the speed I was able to make,T
I went away to the hill, where I had discovered the first appearance of
all. As soon as I got thither, which was not less than two hours (for
I could not go apace, being so loaded with arms as I was), I' perceived

there had been three canoes more of savages on that place; and look:
ing out farther, I saw they were all at sea together, making over for, .-

the main.

5.23'138 rm: ms AND anvaN'runa-s

 

 

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, going to the shore,
I could see the marks of horror which the dismal work they had been
about had left behind it, namely, the blood, the bones, and part of the
flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those wretches with mer-
riment and sport. I was so filled with indignation at the sight, that I
began now to premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw there,
let them be who or how many soever.

It seemed evident to me, that the visits which they thus made to
this island were not very frequent; for it was above fifteen months
before any more of them came on shore there again; that is to say, I
never saw them, or any footsteps or signals of them, in all that time;
for as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at
least not so far; yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of
the constant apprehensions I was in of their coming upon me by sur-
prise; from whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more bitter
than the suffering, especially if there is no room to shake off that ex-
pectation, or those apprehensions.

During all this time, I was in the murdering humour; and took up
most of my hours, which should have been better employed, in con-
triving how to circumvent and fall upon them the very next time I
should see them, especially if they should be divided, as they were the
last time, into two parties; nor; did I consider at all, that if I killed
one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was still, the next day, or week,
or month, to kill another, and so another, even ad infinitum, till I should
be at length no less a. murderer than they were in being men-eaters,
and perhaps much more so.

I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind, ex-

.pecting that I should' one day or other fall into the hands of those
merciless creatures; if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not
'without looking round me with the greatest care and caution imagin-
able; and now I found, to my great comfort, how happy it was that I
had provided a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst not, upon any
account, fire my gun, especially near that side of the island where they
usually came, lest I should alarm the savages; and if they had fled
from me now, I was sure to have them come back again, with perhaps
two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days, and then I knew
what to expect.

However, I wore out a year and three months more before I ever
saw any more of the savages, and then I found them again, as I shall
soon observe. It is true, they might have been there once or twice,
but either they made no stay, or, at least, I did not hear them; but in
the month of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my four-and-
 

 

 

twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter with them, of which in
its place.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen months'
interval, was very great; I slept unquiet, dreamed always frightful
dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night: in the day
great troubles overwhelmed my mind; in the night I dreamed often'of
killing the savages, and the reasons why I might justify the doing of
it. But to wave all this for a while, it was in the middle of May, on
the sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would
reckon, for I marked all upon the post still,----I say, it was on the six-
teenth of May that it blew a great storm of wind all day,'with a great
deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night was after it: I
know not what was the particular occasion of it; but as I was reading
in the Bible, and taken -up with serious thoughts about my present
condition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired
at sea.

This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different nature from an.
I had met with before; for the notions this put into my thoughts were
quite of another kind. I started up in the greatest haste imaginable;
and, in a trice, clapped up my ladder to the middle place of the rock,
and pulled it after me, and mounting it the second time, got to the :-
top of the hill; that very moment a flash of fire bade me listen for a
second gun, which, accordingly, in about half a minute I heard, and,
by the sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was
driven out with the current in my boat.

I immediately considered that this must be some ship in distress,
and that they had some comrade, or some other ship in company, and
fired these guns for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had this
presence of mind that minute as to thin'k, that though I could not help
them, it might be they might help me; so I brought together all the
dry wood I could get at hand, and making a good handsome pile, I set
it on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely, and
though the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out, so that I was
certain, if there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it,
and no doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up, I heard
another gun, and after that several others, all from the same quarter.
I plied my fire all night long an day broke; and when it was broad
day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great'distance at
sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a hull I couldr t distin-
guish. no. not with my glasses, the, distance was so ., ' 'd the
weather still something hazy also: at least it was so out at

that mid

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
 

not move, so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor; and
being eager, you inay be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my
hand. and ran towards the south-east side of the island, to the rocks,
where I had been formerly carried away with the current; and getting
up there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly
see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away in the night
upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was out in my boat;
and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream, and made
a kind of counter stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering
then from the most desperate hopeless condition that ever I had been
in all my life.

Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's destruction; for it
seems these men, whoever they were, being out of their knowledge, and
the rocks being wholly under water, had been driven upon them in the
night, the wind blowing hard at east and east-northeast. Had they
seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not, they must,

I thought, have endeavoured to have saved themselves on shore by

e help of their boat: but the firing of their guns for help, especially
when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts:
first, I imagined that, upon seeing my light, they might have put them-
selves into their boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore, but
that the sea going very high, they might have been cast away: other
times I imagined, that they might have lost their boat before, as might
be the case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea
upon their ship, which many times obliges men to stave or take in
pieces their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with their own
hand: other times I imagined they had some other ship or ships in
company, who, upon the signals of distress they had made, had taken
them up and ,carried them ofi': other whiles I fancied they were all gone
oil" to sea in their boat, and, being hurried away by the current that I
had been formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean, where there
was nothing but misery and perishing; and that perhaps they might,
by this time, be starving, and in a condition to eat one another.

All these were but conjectures at best; so, in the condition I was in,
I could do no more than look upon the misery of the poor men, and pity
them; which had still this good effect on my side, that it gave me more
and more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily and comfort-
ably provided for me in my desolate condition, and that, of two ships'
companies, who were now cast away upon this part of the world, not
one lifq ahould be spared but mine. I learned here again to observe,
that it iuiery rare that the providence of God casts us into any con
dition of 1ife so low, or any misery so great, but we may see something
 

or other to be thankful for, and may see others in w? circumstances
than our own. '

Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could not so
much as see room to suppose any of them were saved; nothing could
make it rational so much as to wish or expect that they did not all
perish there, except the possibility only of their being taken up by
another ship in company: and this was but more possibility indeed;
for I saw not the least signal or appearance of any such thing.

I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words, what a strange
longing, or hankering of desire, I felt in my soul upon this sight;
breaking out sometimes thus: "Oh, that there had been but one or
two, nay, but one soul saved out of the ship, to have escaped to me,
that I might but have had one companion, one fellow-creature to have
spoken to me, and to have conversed with!" In all the time of my
solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the society
of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it.

There are some secret moving springs in the afi'ections, which, wh
they are set a-going by some object in view, or be it some object, thong
not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by the power of imagina-
tion, that motion carries out the soul by its impetuosityto such violent

' eager embracings of the object, that the absence of it is insupportable.

Such were these earnest wishings that but one man had been saved!
Oh, that it had been but one! I believe I repeated the words, " Oh,
that it had been but one!" a thousand times; and my desires were so
moved by it, that when I spoke the words, my hands would clench
together, and my fingers press the palms of my hands, that if I had
had any soft thing in my hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily;
and my teeth in my head'would strike together, and set against one
another so strong, that for some time Lcould not part them again.

Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason and manner
of them; all I can say of them is, to describe the fact, which was ever
surprising to me when I found it, though I knew not from what it
should proceed: it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of
strong ideas formed in my mind, realizing the comfort which the
conversation of -one of my fellow Christians would have been to me.

But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or both, forbade it;
for 'till the last year of my being on this island, I never know whether
any were saved out of that ship 'or no; and had only the aflliction,
some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, a;
the end of the island which was next the shipwreck: he hi3- on,no
clothes but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of opened-kneed linen'drawers
and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as to guess
what nation he was of. He. had nothing in his pocket but two pieces
of eight, and a tobacco pipe: the last was to me of ten times more
value than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my boat
to this wreek, not doubting but I might find something on board that
might be useful to me; but that did not altogether press me so much,
as the possibility that there might. be yet some living creature on board,
whose life I might not only save, but might, by saving that life, comfort-
my own to the last degree: aml this thought clung so to my heart, that
I could not. he quiet night nor day, but I must venture out in my boat
on hoard this wreck; and conunitting the rest to God's providence, I
thought the impression was so strong upon my mind, that it could not
be resisted, that it must come from some invisible direction, and that I
should be wanting to myself if I did not go.

Under: the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle.
prepared every thing for my voyage, took a. quantity of bread, a great-
Qot for fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum, (for I had
still a. great deal of that left), a basket full of raisins; and thus load-
ing myself with every thing necessary, I went down to my boat, got the
water out of her, and got her alloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and
then went home again for more: my second cargo was a great bagful
of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for shade, another large pot
full of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves, or barley-
cakcs, more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese; all
which, with great labour and sweat, I brought to my boat; and praying
to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling the
canoe along the shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the island,
on that side, namely, north-east. And now I was to launch out into
the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture: I looked on the
rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island, at a
distance, and which were very terrible to me, from the remembrance of
the hazard I had been in before, and my heart began to fail me; for I
foresaw, that if I was driven into either of those currents, I should be
carried a 'ast way out to sea, aml perhaps out of my reach or sight of
the island again; and that then, as my boat was but small, if any little
gale of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind that I began to give over my
enterprise; and having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore,
I stepped out, and sat me down upon a little spot of rising ground,
very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage;
when, as I was musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned,
and the flood came on, upon which my going was for so many hoursSLEEPING IS ms BOAT.

(3H [SUI-2

l3
 

impracticable; upon this it presently occurred to me that I should go
up to the highest piece of ground I could find, and observe, if I could,
how the sets of the tide or currents lay, when the flood came in, that I
might judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I might not expect
to be driven another way home, with the same rapidness of the currents.
This thought was no sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a little
hill which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I
had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and which way I
was to guide myself in my return; here I found, that as the current
of the ebb set out close by the south point of the island, so the current
of the flood set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had
nothing to do but to keep to the north of the island in my return, and
I should do well enough.

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next morning to set
out with the first of the tide; and reposing myself for that night in the
canoe, under the great watch-coat Imentioned, I launched out. I made
first a little out to sea full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the
current, which set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate, and
yet did not so hurry me as the southern side current had done before,
and so as to take from me all government of the boat; but having a
strong steer-age with my paddle, I went, I say, at a great rate, directly
for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it.

It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which by its building was
Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks; all the stern and
quarter of her was beaten to pieces with the sea: and as her forecastle,
which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her mainmast
and foremast were brought by the board, that is to say, broken short
off; but her boltsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared firm.
When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, which, seeing me
coming, yelped and cried, and as soon as I called him, jumped into the
sea to come to me, and I took him into the boat, but found him almost.
dead for hunger and thirst: I gave him a cake of my bread, and he
ate it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the
snow: I then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if
I would have let him, he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board. The first sight I met with was two men
drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms
fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that when
the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, and so con-
tinually over her, that the men were not able to'bear it, and were
strangledpje'o'th the constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they
had beeifider water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the

r.
ship that had life, nor any goods that I could see, but what were
spoiled by the water: there were some casks of liquor, whether wine
or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the
water being ebbed out, I could see; but they were too big to meddle
with: I saw several chests, which I believed belonged to some of the
seamen, and I got two of them into the boat without examining what
was in them.

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore part broken ofi',
I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage; for by what I
found in these two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great
deal of wealth on board; and if I may guess by the course she steered,
she must have been bound from Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata,
in the south part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havanna, in
the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain: she had, no doubt, a
great treasure in her, but of no use at that time to anybody; and
what became of the rest of her people I then knew not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about
twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much difliculty. There
were several muskets in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it: as for the muskets, I had no occasion for
them, so I left them, but took the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel
and tongs, which I wanted extremely, as also two little brass kettles,
a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this cargo,
and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make home again;
and the same evening, about whom within night, I reached the island
again, wearied and fatigued to the last degree.

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I resolved to
harbour what I had gotten in my new cave, not to carry it home to my
castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and
began to examine the particulars: the cask of liquor I found to be a
kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils; and, in a word,
not at all good; but when I came to open the chests, I found several
things which I wanted: for example, I found in one a fine caseof bot-
tles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine, and
very good; the bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with silver. I found two" pots of very good succades, or sweatmeats,
30 fastened also on the top, that the salt water had not hurt them;
and two more of the same, which the water had spoiled: I found some
very good shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about a' dgl'en 'f
and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths; the"
former were also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe-mag:
face ir a hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the oh '

,2

 
   
    
   

a

A":
_________--------'--

I found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about
eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapt up in a paper,
six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold; I sup-
pose they might all weigh near a pound.

The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but of little value;
but by the circumstances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate,
as there was no powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed powder
in the three flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their fowling--pieces
on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that
was of much use to me; for, as to the money, I had no manner of
occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under my feet; and I would
have given it all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings,
which were things I greatly wanted, but had not had on my feet now
for many years; I had, indeed, got two pair of shoes now, which I
took off the feet of the two drowned men whom I saw in the wreck;
. and I found two pair more in one of the chests, which were very wel-
come to me; but they were not like our English shoes, either for ease
or service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I found in
the seaman's chest about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but no gold: I
suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other, which seemed
to belong to some ofiicer.

Well, however, I lugged the money home to my cave, and laid it up,
as I had done that before which I brought from our own ship; but it
was great pity, as I said, that the other part of the ship had not come
to my share, for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe several
times over with money which, if I had ever escaped to England, would
have lain here safe enough till I might have come again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them, I
went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore to
her old harbour, where 1 laid her up, and made the best of my way to
my old habitation, where I found every thing safe and quiet; so I
began to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of my
family affairs; and for a while I lived easy enough, only that I was
more vigilant than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go
abroad so much; and if at any time I did stir with any freedom, it
was always to the east part of the island, where I was pretty well
satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go without so

many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition as I always
carried with me, if I went the other way.
CHAPTER XIV.

Reflections--An extraordinary Dream--Discover live Canoes of Savages on Shore--
Observe from my station two miserable Wretehes dragged out of their Boats to be
devoured--One of them makes his escape, and runs directly towards me, pursued
by two others--I take Measures so as to destroy his Pursuers and save his Life----

Christen him by the name of Friday, and he becomes a faithful and excellent Ser--
vant.

I LIVED in this condition near two years more; but my unlucky
head, that was always to let me know it was born to make my body
miserable, was all these two years filled with projects and designs how,
if it were possible, I might get away from this island: for sometimes
I was for making another voyage to the wreck, though my reason told
me that there was nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another; and I believe
verily, if I had had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I should have
ventured to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither.

I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento to those who are
touched with that general plague of mankind, whence, for 'aught I
know, one half of their miseries flow,--I mean, that of not being
satisfied with the station wherein God and nature hath placed them:
for, not to look back upon my primitive condition, and the excellent
advice of my father, the opposition to which was, as I may emit, my ' >> at
original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the same kind have been the 5;
means of my coming into this miserable condition; for had that Pro- "
vidence, which so happily had seated me at the Brazils as a planter, , .
blessed me with confined desires, and could I have been contented to ,
have gone on gradually, I might have been by this time--I mean in l
the time of my being on this island--one of the most considerable
planters in the Brazils; nay, I am persuaded, that by the imp
ments I had_mede in that little time I lived there, and the interest
should probably have made if I had stayed, I might have been i
a hundred thousand moidores: and what business had I to pleaye asst>>
tled fortune, well-stocked plantation, improving and nutmegva
supercargo to Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when patience "and tin: would
have so increased our stock at home, that we could hale wright;
at our own doors from those whose business g was:toisfish_
And though it had cost us someging more, yet the difference of that
price was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard.

But as this is ordinarily} the fate of young heads, so reflection upon
the folly of it is as ordinarily the exercise of more years, or of the
dear bought experience of time ; and so it was with me now; and yet,
so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper, that I could not
satisfy myself in my station, but was continually poring upon the
means and possibility of my escape from this place; and that I may,
with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remaining part
of my story, it may not be improper to give some account of my first
conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape; and
how, and upon what foundation, I acted.

I am new to be supposed to be retired into my castle after my late
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up, and secured under water as
usual, and my condition restored to what it was before: I had more
wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer; for I
had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had before the
Spaniards came thither.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four-and-
twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitariness; I
was lying in my bed, or hammock, awake, and very well in health,--had
no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor any uneasiness of
mind more than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is,
so as to sleep ; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as follows :

It is as impossible as needless to set down the innumerable crowd of
thoughts that whirled through that great thoroughfare of the brain, the
memory, in this night's time: I ran over the whole history of my life
in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to my coming to this
island; and also of that part of my life since I came to this island.
In my reflections upon the state of my case, since I came on shore on
this island, I was comparing the happy posture of my affairs, in the
first years of my habitation here, to that course of anxiety, fear, and
care, which I had lived in ever since I had seen the print of a foot in
the sand; not that I did not believe the savages had frequented the
island even all the while, and might have been several hundreds of
them at times on the shore there, butas I had never known it, and was
incapable of any apprehensions about it, my satisfaction was perfect,
though my danger was the same; and I was as happy in not knowing
my danger, as if I had never really been exposed to it. This furnished
my thoughts with many very profitable reflections, and particularly
this one: " How infinitely good that Providence is, which has settled
in its government of mankind such narrow bounds to his sight and
knowledge of things; and though he walks in the midst of so mam
thousand dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, would
distract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by
having the events of things hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of
the dangers which surround him !"

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I came to
reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been in for so many years
in this very island; and how I had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquillity, even, perhaps, when nothing
but a brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of night, had
been between me and the worst kind of destruction, namely, that of
falling into the hands of cannibals and savages, who would have seized
on me with the same view as I did on a goat or a turtle, and have
thought it no more a crime to kill and devour me, than I did of a
pigeon or a curlew. I should unjustly slander myself, if I should say
I was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose singular
protection I acknowledged, with great humility, that all these unknown
deliverances were due, and without which I should inevitably have fallen
into their merciless hands.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken
up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures, I mean the
savages; and how it came to pass in the world, that the wise Governor
of all things should give up any of his creatures to such inhumanity--
nay, to something so much below even brutality itself--as to devour its
own kind: but as this ended in some (at that time fruitless) specula-
tions, it occurred to me to inquire what part of the world these wretches
lived in ; how far oif the coast was from whence they came; what they
ventured so far from home for; what kind of boats they had ; and why
I might not order myself, and my business, so that I might be as able
to go over thither, as they were to come to me.

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do
with myself when I came thither; what should become of me if I fell
into the hands of the savages, or how I should escape from them if
they attempted to take me; no, nor so much as homit was possible for
me to reach the coast, and not be attacked by some or other of them,

\\ 1thout any possibility of delivering myself, and, if I shoiild not fall ' i

into their hands, what I should do for provision, or whither I should

bend my course , none of these thoughts, I say, so much as came at" V '4
my way , but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing '. '

over in my boat to the mainland. I looked back upon my present-
condition as the most miserable that could possibly be; that I wasvnot

 

able to throw myself into any thing but death that could be <<Hull-"sag

 

C3
 

worse ; that if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet
with relief; or I might coast along, as I did on the shore of Africa,
till I came to some inhabited country, and when. I might find some
relief; and after all, perhaps, I might fall in with some Christian ship
that might take me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I could
but die, which would put an end to all these miseries at once. Pray,
note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind--an impatient temper,
.made, as it were, desperate by the long continuance of my troubles,
and the disappointments I had met in the wreck I had been on board
of, and where I had been so near the obtaining of what I so earnestly
longed for, namely, somebody to speak to, and to learn some knowledge
from, of the place where I was, and of the probable means of my
deliverance,--I say, I was agitated wholly by these thoughts. All my
calm of mind in my resignation to Providence, and waiting the issue
of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had, as
it were, no power to turn my thoughts to any thing but the project of
a voyage to the main, which came upon me with such force, and such
an impctuosity of desire, that it was not to be resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with
such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and my pulse
beat as high as if I had been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary
fervour of my mind about it, nature, as if I had been fatigued and
exhausted with the very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep:
one would have thought I should have dreamed of it; but I did not,
nor of any thing relating to it; but I dreamed, that as I was going
out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore two
canoes and eleven savages coming to land, and that they brought with
them another savage, whom they were going to kill, in order to eat
him, when on a sudden the savage that they were going to kill jumped
away, and ran for his life; then I thought in my sleep, that he came
running into my little thick grove, before my fortification, to hide
himself; and that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the
others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and, smiling upon
him, encouraged him; that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray
me to assist him; upon which I showed my ladder, made him go up it,
and carried him into my cave, and he became my servant; and that
as soon as I got this man, I said to myself, "Now I may certainly
venture to the mainland ;_ for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and
will tell me what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and whither
not to go for fear of being devoured; what places to venture into, and
what to escape." I waked with this thought, and was under such
mexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my
 

 

 

dream, that the disappointments which I felt upon coming to myself,
and finding that it was no more than a dream, were equally extrava-
gant the other way, and threw me into a very great dejection of
spirit.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my only way to go
about an attempt for an escape was, if possible, to get a savage in my
possession; and, if possible, it should he one of their prisoners whom
they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill: but
these thoughts still were attended with this difficulty, that it was
impossible to effect this, without attacking a whole caravan of them,
and killing them all; and this was not only a very desperate- attempt,
and might miscarry, but, on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the
lawfulness of it to myself, and my heart trembled at the thought of
shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliverance. I need
not repeat the arguments which occurred to me against this, they being
the same mentioned before: but though I had other reasons to offer
now, namely, that those men were enemies to my life, and would
devour me, if they could; that it was selflpreservation, in the highest
degree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and was acting in
my own defence, as much as if they were actually assaulting me, and
the like; I say, though these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of
shedding human blood for my deliverance were very terrible to me.
and such as I could by no means reconcile myself to a great while.

However, at last, after many secret disputes with myself, and after
great perplexities about it, (for all these arguments, one way and
another, struggled in my head a long time), the eager prevailing desire
of deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I resolved, if
possible, to get one of these savages into my hands, cost what it would.
The next thing, then, was to contrive how to do it; and this indeed
was very difficult to resolve on ; but as I could pitch upon no probable
means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch to see them
when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such
measures as the opportunity should present, let it be what it would.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scout '
as often as possible, and indeed so often, till I was heartily tired of it;
for it was above a year and a half that I waited, and for a great part
of that time went out to the west end and to the south-west corner
of the island, almost every day, to see for canoes, but none appeared. .
This was very discouraging, and began to trouble me much; though ] "
cannot say that it did in this case, as it had done some time betore '
'hat, namely, wear ofi' the edge of my desire to the thing;
longe' it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for it: in
 

 

I was not at first more careful to shun the sight of these savages, and
avoid being seen by them, than I was now eager to be upon them.

Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or three
savages, if I had them, so as to make them entirely slaves to me, to do
whatever I should direct them, and to prevent their being able, at any
time, to do me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself
with this afi'air, but nothing still presented; all my fancies and
schemes came to nothing, for no savages came near me for a great while.

About a year and a half after I had entertained these notions, and
by long musing had, as it were, resolved them all into nothing, for
want of an occasion to put them in execution, I was surprised one
morning early with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together,
on my side the island, and the people who belonged to them all landed,
and out of my sight: the number of them broke all my measures; for
seeing so many, and knowing that they always came four, or six, or
sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or how
to take any measures to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed;
so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted; however, I put
myself into all the same postures for an attack that I had formerly
provided, and was just ready for action if any thing had presented.
Having waited a good while, listening to hear if they made any noise,
at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my lad-
der, and clambered up to the top of the hill by my two stages, as usual,
standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so
that they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed,
by the help of my perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty
in number; that they had a fire kindled, and that they had had meat
dressed: how they cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was; but
they were all dancing in I know not how many barbarous gestures and
figures, their own way, round the fire.

When I was thus looking on them, I perceived by my perspective,
two miserable wretches dragged fromthe boats, where, it seems, they
were laid by, and were now brought out for the slaughter: I perceived
one of them immediately fall, being knocked down, I suppose, with a
club, or wooden sword, for that was their way; and two or three others
were at work immediately, cutting him open for their cookery, while
the other victim was left standing by himself, till they should be ready
for him. At that very moment, this poor wretch, seeing himself a
little at liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started
away from them, and ran with incredible s'wiftiiess along the sands,
directly towards me,--I mean towards that part of the coast where my
habitation was.\ -- r : - a -: pry-v . """"'T'.'F"'fvjr'jz

, aka:

0! ROBINSON 080308>> 203

 

I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge), when I per-
ceived him to run my way: and especially when, as I thought, I saw
him pursued by the whole body; and now I expected that part of my
dream was coming to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter in
my grove; but I could not depend, by any means, upon my dream for -

"the rest of it, namely, that the other savages would not pursue him
thither, and find him there. However, I kept my station, and my
spirits began to recover, when I found that there were not above three
men that followed him, and still more was I encouraged when I found
that he outstripped them exceedingly 1n running, and gained ground '
of them: so that if he could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily
he would fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I mentioned
often at the first part of my story, when I landed my cargoes out of
the ship; and this I knew he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be taken there: but when the savage escaping came
thither. he made nothing of it, though the tide was then up; but
plunging in, swam through in 'about thirty strokes, or thereabouts,'
landed, and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness. When the
three pursuers came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim,
but the third could not, and that he, standing on the other side, looked
at the other, but went no farther , and soon after went softly back
again, which, as it happened, was very well for him 1n the main. _

I observed, that the two who swam were yet more than twice as longswl-'g
swimming over the creek as the fellow w that fled from them. "It "
came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that"
now was my time to get a servant, and perhaps a companion, or assists
ant, and that I was called plainly by Providence to save this poor- p
creature's life. I immediately got down the ladders with all possible
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the foot of the
ladder, as I observed above; and getting up again with the same haste
to the top of the hill, I crossed towards the sea; and having a very
short cut, and all down hill, clapped myself in the way between the
pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, 'l'ook- . _ .
ing back, was at first perhaps as much frighted at me as at them;.:'
but I beckoned with my hand to him to come back; and in the mean
time I slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then rushing '
at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with the stock of my E
piece; I was loath to fire, because I wouldrnot have the rest hear,
though at that distance it would not have been easily heard; and being

 
 
 
 

 

   
 
 

so make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, Mother what)"
.' an): ., A i. .n ,, .'lal'a. ' ' 21%.2M HHDA Y HUMBLE.
 

sued him stopped, as if he had been frighted, and I advanced space ,
towards him; but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a
bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me: so I was then neces-
sitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at the first
shot. The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he saw both
his enemies fallen, and killed (as he thought), yet was so frighted
with the fire and noise of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither
came forward nor went backward, though he seemed. rather inclined to.
fly still, than to come on. I hallooed again to him, and made signs to
come forward, which he easily understood, and came a little way, then
stopped again, and then a little farther, and stopped again; and 'I
could then perceive, that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken ,
prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies were. I
beckoned him again to come to me, and gave him all the signs of
encouragement that I could think of; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment
for saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and
beckoned him to come still nearer. At length he came close to me,
and then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, ag laid his head
upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his
head. This, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave for ever._
I took him up, and made much of him, and'encouraged him all I coifld.
But there was more work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom;
I knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began-2
to come to himself: 'so I pointed to him, and showed him the savage,
that he was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me; and .
though I could not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant, ' '?
to hear, for they were the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard,
my own excepted, for above five-and-twenty years. But there was no
time for such reflections now: the savage, who was knocked down,
recovered himself so 'far as to sit up upon the ground; and I perceived
that my savage began to be afraid; but when I saw that, I presented
my other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him: upon this my
savage, for so I called him now, made a motion to me to lend him my
sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side; so I did: he no sooner
had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at one blow cuts ofi' his head so ..
cleverly, no executioner in Germany, could have done it sooner or '33
better, which I thought very strange for on'e'who, I had reason to '
believe, never saw a sword in his life beforg-except their own-wooden _ 3

I

swords: however, it seems, as I learned afie'r's'rards, they make their:
 

too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me in sign of tri-
umph, and brought me the sword again, and, with abundance of ges-
tures, which I did not understand, laid it down, with the head of the
savage that he had killed, just before me.

But that which astonished him most was, to know how I had killed
the other Indian so far off; so pointing to him, he made signs to me
to let him go to him; so I bade him go, as Well as I could. When he
came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him; turned him
first on one side, then on the other; looked at the wound the bullet
had made, which, it seems, was just in his breast, where it had made a
hole: and no great quantity of blood had followed; but he had bled
inwardly, for he was quite dead. Then he took up his bow and arrows,
and came back: so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow
me, making signs to him that more might come after them.

Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them with sand, that
they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and so I made
signs again to him to do so. He fell to work, and in an instant he
had sc1apcd a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough to bury the
first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered him, and did so
also by the other , I believe he had buried them both in a quarter of
an hour: then calling him away, I carried him not to my castle, but
quite away to my cave, on the farther part of the island; so I did not
let my dream come to pass in that part; namely, that he came into
my grove for shelter.

Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught
of water, which I found he was indeed in great distress for, by his run-
ning; and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie down
and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice-
straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself some-
times; so the poor creature lay down, and went to sleep.

He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with straight
long limbs, not too large, tall, and well shaped, and, as I reckon,
about twenty-six years of age. He had a very good countenance, not
a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very manly in
his face, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an European
in his countenance too, especially when he smiled: his hair was long
and black, not curled like wool; his forehead very high and large, and
a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of
his skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly
yellow nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and Virginians, and other
natives of America, are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colour,
that had 1n it something very agreeable, though not very easy to de-('RUS'H'I AX ll FRIDAY.
scribe. His face was round and plump, his nose small, not flat like
the negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and his teeth fine, well set,
and white as ivory. After he had slumbcred, rather than slept, above
half an hour, he wakcd again, and comes out of the cave to me, for I
had been milking my goats, which I had in the enclosure just by:
when he espied me, he came running to me, laying himself down again
upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an humble thankful
disposition, making many antic gestures to show it. At last he lays
his head flat upon the. ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot
upon his head, as he had done before; and, after this, made all the
signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let
me know how much he would serve me as long as he lived. I under-
stood him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased
with him. In a little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to
speak to me; and first, I made him know his name should be Friday,
which was the day I saved his life, and I called hiln so for the memory
of the time: I likewise taught him to say Master, and then let him
know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him to say Yes and
No, and to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my bread
in it; and I gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly
complied with, and made signs that it was very good for him.

I kept there with him all that night: but as soon as it was day, I
beckoned him-to come with me, and let him know I would give him
some clothes, at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked.
As we went by the place where he had buried the two men, he pointed
exactly to the spot, and showed me the marks that he had made to find
them again, making signs to me that we should dig them up again and
eat them: at this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of
it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned with
my hand to him to" come away, which he did immediately, with great
submission. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see if his ene-
mies were gone, and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly
the place where they had been, but no appearance of them or'of their
canoes; so that it was plain that they were gone, and had left their
two comrades behind them, without any search after them.

. But I was not content with this discovery: but having now more
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Friday with
me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use very dexterously, making him carry
one gun for megand I two for myself, and away we marched to the
place where these creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get
some fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place, my very
blood ran chill 1n my veins, and my heart sank within me at the horror
of the spectacle: indeed it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to
me, though Friday made nothing of it: the place was covered with
human bones, the ground dyed with the blood, great pieces of flesh
left here and there, half eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short,
all the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making there,

alter a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands, and

the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts

of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me understand, that

they brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of them

were eaten up, and that be, pointing to himself, was the fourth; that

there had been a great battle between them and their next king,

whose subjects, it seems, he had been one of; and that they had taken

a great number of prisoners, all which were carried to several places

by those that had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon

them, as was done here by these wretches upon those they brought

hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever
remained, and lay them together on a heap, and make a great fire
upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a
hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal 1n
his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrenee at the vet? thoughts
of it, and at the least appearance 'of it, that he durst'fl'ot discover. it;
for I had, by some means, let him know that I wouldthili' him if- he
offered it.

When we had done this, we came back to our castle, and there I
fell to work for my man Friday; and first of all, I gave him a pair of
linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned,
and which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little alteration,
fitted him very well ; then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well
as my skill would allow, and I was now grown a tolerable good tailor;
and I gave him a cap, which I had made of a here's skin, very con-
venient, and fashionable enough: and thus he was dressed, for the
present, tolerably well, and mighty well was be pleased to see himselg
almost as well clothed as his master. It is true, he went awkward},
in these things at first; wearing the drawers was very awkward to
him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders and the m~
side of his arms; but a little easing them where he complained they
hurt him, and using himself to them, at length he took to them very
well. '~

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I beg!!!
14
 

consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well for him,
and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the
vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of the last,
and in the outside of the first: and as there was a door or entrance
there into my cave, I made a formal'framed door-case, and a door to
it of boards, and set it up in the passage, 9. little within the entrance;
and causing the door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the
night, taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way come
at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without making so much
noise in getting over, that it must needs awaken me; for my first wall
had now a complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my tent,
and leaning up to the side of the hill, which was again laid cross with
small sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness
with the rice straw, which was strong like reeds; and at the hole or
place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind
of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would.
not have opened at all, but would have fallen down, and made a
great noise; and as to weapons, I took them all into my side every
night.

But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a
more faithful, loving, sincere servant, than Friday was to me; without
passions, sullenness, or designs; perfectly obliging and engaging; his-
very affections were tied to me like those of a child to a father; and
I dare say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine, upon
any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this
put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me, that I needed to use no
precautions as to my safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder,
that, however it had pleased God in his providence, and in the govern-
ment of the works of his hands, to take from so great a part of the-
world of his creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the
powers of their souls are adapted; yet that he has bestowed upon
them the same powers, the same reason, the same affections, the same
sentiments of kindness and obligation, the same passions and resent-
ments of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and
all the capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that he has given
to us; and that, when he pleases to offer them occasions of exerting-
these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the right
uses for which they were bestowed, than we are. And this made me
very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions pre-
sented, how mean a use we make of all these, even though we have
these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit.
 

 

of God, and by the knowledge of his w01d, added to our understand.-
ing; and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge
from so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this poor
savage, would make a much better use of it than we did.

From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade the sovereignty
of Providence, and as it were arraign the justice of so arbitrary a
disposition of things, that should hide that light from some, and reveal
it to others, and yet expect alike duty from both; but I shut it up,
and checked my thoughts with this c0nclusion,---first, that we do not
know by what light and law these should be condemned; but that as
God was necessarily, and by the nature of his being, infinitely holy and
just, so it could not be but that, if these creatures were all sentenced
to absence from himself, it was on account of sinning against that light,
which, as the Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by such rules
as their consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the founda-
tion was not discovered to us: and, secondly, that still, as we are all
clay in the hand of the potter, no vessel could say to him, " Why hast
thou formed me thus ?"

But to return to my new companion: I was greatly delighted with
him, and made it my business to teach him every thing that was proper
to make himself useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make him
speak, and understand me when I spake: and he was the aptest scholar
that ever was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent,
and so pleased when he could but understand me, or make me under-
stand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. And now
my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, that could

I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was never to
remove from the place where I lived.

CHAPTER XV.

! am at great pains to instruct Friday respecting my abhorrent>> of the cannibllgr.'

practices of the Savages--He' 1e amazed at the efl'ects of the Gun, and 001181qu .g"
an intelligent Being--Begins to talk English tolerably--A Dialogue--I instnet bbl
in the knowledge of Religion, and find him very apt--He describes to me some IbiW
Men who had come to his country, and still lived there. a

'0 "-3' v, "1:3; . ;

AFTER I had been two or three days returned to my castle; I thong);
that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way oPS11feeding,r
from the relish of a oannibal's stomach. I ought tolet him' taste

. - f, 1.7.th
 

flesh; so I took him outwith me one morning to the woods: I went,
indeed, intending to kill a. kid out of my own iloek, and bring it home
and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the
shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday:
" Hold." said I, "stand still ;" and made signs to him not to stir.
Immediater I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids
The poor creature, who had at. a distance indeed seen me kill the
savage his enemy, but did not know, or could imagine how it was done,
was sensibly surprised, trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed, that
I thought he would have sunk down: he did not see the kid I had shot
at, or perceired I had killed it. but ripped up his waistcoat to feel if
he was not wounded; and, as I found, presently thought I was resolved
to kill him; for he came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my
knees, said a great many things I did not understand; but I could
easily see that his meaning was to pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm;
and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing to the kid
which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did;
and while he was wondering and looking to see how the creature was
killed, I loaded my gun again, and by and by I saw a. great fowl, like a
hawk, sit upon a tree within shot; so to let Friday understand a little
what I would do,I called him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which
was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk,--I say,
pointing .to the parrot. and to my gun, and to the ground under the
parrot, to let him see I would make him fall, I made him understand
that I would shoot. and kill that bird; accordingly I fired, and bid him
look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall: He stood like one
frighted again, notwithstainling all that I had said to him; and I found
he was the more amazed, because he did not see me put any thing into
the gun; but thought there must be some wonderful fund of death and
destruction in that thing. able to kill man, beast, bird, or any thing,
near or far ed; for the astonishment this created in him was such as
could not wear off for a long time; and I believe, if I would have
let him, he would have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun
itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days after; but
would speak to it and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he
was by himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it
not to kill him.

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to him
to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some
time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered a. good way
at? from the place where she fell; however, he found her, took her up,gr214 rm: ms AND Isn'vnnrnnss

and brought her to me; and, as I had perceived his ignorance about
the gun before, I took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not
let him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark that
might present; but nothing more ofi'ered at that time: so I brought
home the kid ; and the same evening I took the skin 05', and cut it out
as well as I could, and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had begun
to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and
liked it very well; but that which was strangest to him was, to see me
eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt was not good to
eat; and putting a little into his own month, he seemed to nauseate it,
and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water
after it. On the other hand, I took some meat in my mouth without
salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he
had done at the salt; but it would not do, he would never care for salt
with meat, or in his broth; at least not a great while, and then but a
very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to
feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did by-
hanging it before the fire in a string, as I had seen many people do in
England, setting two poles up, one on each side of a fire, and one cross
on the top, and tying the string to the cross stick, letting the meat run
continually: this Friday admired very much; but when he came to
taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it,
that I could not but understand him; and at last he told me he would
never eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and sifting
it in the manner I used to do. as I observed before; and he soon
understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen what
the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of; for after that
I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too; and in a little time
Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as I could do it
myself.

I began now to consider, that, having two months to feed instead of
one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plants. larger
quantity of corn than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of
land, and began the fence in the same manner as before, in which
Friday not only worked very willingly and very hard, but did it very
cheerfully; and I told him what it was for, that it was for corn to
make more bread, because he was now with "me, and that I might have
enough for him and myself too: he appeared very sensible of that part,
and let- me know that he thought I had much more. labour upon'me on
 

his account than I had for myself, and that he would work the harder
for me, if I would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasan'test year of all the life I led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of almost
every thing I had occasion to call for, and of every place I had- to send
him to, and talk a great deal to me; so that, in short, I began now to
have some use for my tongue again, which indeed I had very little
occasion for before; that is to say, about speech. Besides the plea-
sure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow
himself: his simple unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and more
every day, and I began really' to love the creature; and on his side, I
believe, he loved me more than it was possible for him ever to love any
thing before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination to his
own country again; and having learned him English so well that he
could answer me almost any questions, I asked him, whether the nation
that he belonged to never conquered in battle? At which he smiled,
and said, "Yes, yes, we always fight the better;" that is, he meant,
always get the better in fight; and so we began the following discourse:
"You always fight the better !" said I: " How came you to be taken
prisoner, then, Friday ?"

Friday. My nation beat much for all that.

Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how came you to be
taken?

Friday. They more than my nation in the place where me 'was;
they take one, two, three, and me: my nation overbeaSS4hem 1n the
yonder place, where me no was, there my nation take one, two great
thousand.

Master. But why did not your nation recover you from the hands of
your enemies then?

 

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in the ' '

canoe; my nation have no canoe that'time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the men
they take? Do they carry them away, and eat them as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither, come other else place.
Master Have you been here with them?

Friday. Yes, I have been here [points to the northwest side Of this
island. which. it seems, was their side.] -
 

By this I understood, that my man Friday had formerly been among
the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the
island, on the said man-eating occasions that he was now brought for;
and some time after, when I took the courage to carry him to that
side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the
place, and told me, he was there once, when they ate up twenty men,
two women, and one child: he could not tell twenty in English, but he
numbered them by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing to.
me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows; that
after 'I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was
from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often
lost: he told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that
after a little way out to sea, there was a current and a wind always
one way in the morning, the other in the afternoon.

This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going
out, or coming in: but I afterwards understood it was occasioned by
the great draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque, in the
mouth of which river, as I thought afterwards, our island lay; and
that this land which I perceived to the west and north-west, was the
great island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river.
I asked Friday a thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants,
the sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he
knew with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names
of the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no other
name than Caribs; from whence I easily understood, that these were
the Caribbees, which our maps place on that part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoque to Guinea, and onwards
to St. Martha. He told me, that up a great way beyond the moon--
that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be west from
their country--there dwelt white-bearded men, like me, and pointed
to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and that they had
killed much mans, that was his word: by which I understood he
meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had been spread over
whole countries, and were remembered by all the nations from father
to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this island,
and get among those white men; he told me, " Yes, yes, I might go
in two canoe." I could not understand what he meant by two canoe;
till at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant, that it must be in
a large great boat as big as two canoes.

This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very well:
and from this time I entertained some hopes, that one time or other I
might find an opportunity to make my escape from this place, and that.
this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that
he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to lay
a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked
him one time, Who made him? The poor creature did not understand
me at all, but thought I had asked who was his father: but I took it
by another handle, and asked him, Who made the sea, the ground he
walked on, and the hills and woods? He told me it was one old Bena-
muekee, that lived beyond all: he could describe nothing of this great
person, but that he was very old; much older, he said, than the sea
or the land, than the moon or the stars. - I asked him then, if this old
person had made all things, why did not all things worship him? He
looked very grave, and, with a perfect look of innocence, said, All
things said O l to him. I asked him if the people who die in his
country went away anywhere? He said, Yes, they all went to Bena--
muckee. Then I asked him, whether those they eat up went thither
too? He said, Yes.

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the-
true God. I told him, that the great Maker of all things lived there,
pointing up towards heaven; that he governs the world by the same
power and providence by which he made it; that he was omnipotent,
could do every thing for us, give every thing to us, take every thing
from us: and thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with-
great attention, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making our prayers to
God, and his being able to hear us, even in heaven : he told me one
day, that if our God could hear us up beyond the sun, he must needs be-
a greater God than their Benamuekee, who lived but a little way of,
and yet could not hear, till they went up to the great mountains, where
he dwelt, to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak
to him? He said, No, they never went that were young men; none
went thither but the old men, whom he called their Oowookakee; that
is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy; and that
they went to say 0! (so he called saying prayers), and then came
back, and told them what Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that
there is priesteraft even among the most blinded ignorant Pagans in
the world; and the policy of making a secret of religion, in order to-
. preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only to be
found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religions in the W0!ld,.'-: '
even among the most brutish and barbarous savages. '
I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and told
him, that the pretence of their old men going up to the mountains to
say 0! to their god Benamuckee, was a cheat; and their bringing
word from thence what he said, was much more so; that if they met
with any answer, or spoke with any one there, it must be with an evil
spirit: and then I entered into a long discourse with him about the
devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man,
the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world
to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many stratagems
he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret
access to our passions and to our affections, to adapt his snares so to
our inclinations, as to cause us even to be our own tempters, and to
run upon our own destruction by our own choice.

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about
the devil, as it was about the being of a God : nature assisted all my
arguments to evidence to him even the necessity of a great First
Cause, and overruling governing Power, a secret directing Providence,
and of the equity and justice of paying homage to Him that made us,
and the like: but there appeared nothing of all this in the notion of
an evil spirit, of his original, his being, his nature, and, above all, of
his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too: and the poor
creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a question merely
natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him.

I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of God, his
omnipotence, his dreadful aversion to sin, his being a consuming fire
to the workers of iniquity; how, as he had made us all, he could
destroy us, and all the world, in a moment; and he listened with great
seriousness to me all the while. After this, I had been telling him
now the devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his
malice and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin
the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like. " Well," says Fri-
day, " but you say God is so strong, so great, is he not much strong,
much might as the devil ?"--" Yes, yes," said I, "Friday, God is
stronger than the devil; God is above the devil; and therefore we pray
to God to tread him under our feet, and enable us to resist his temp-
tations, and quench his fiery darts."--" But," says he again, "if God
much strong, much might, as the devil, why God not kill the devil,
so make him no more wicked ?"

I was strangely surprised at his question; and, after all, though I
was now an old man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill enough
qualified for a casuist, or a solver of difficulties: and, at first, I could
not tell what tt say; so I pretended not to hear him. and asked himor sosmsou 'CBUSOB 819

 

 

what he said? But he was too earnest for an answer to forget his
question, so that he repeated it in the very same broken words'as above.
By this time I had recovered myself a little, and I said, " God will at
last punish him severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and is to be .
cast into the bottomless pit to dwell with everlasting fire." This did
not satisfy Friday; but he. returns upon me, repeating my words
" Reserve at last! me no understand: but why not kill the devil now,
not kill great ago ?"--" You may as well ask me," said I, "why God
does not kill you and me, when we do wicked things here that ofl'end
him: we are preserved to repent and be pardoned." He muses a
while at this. " Well, well," says he, mighty afl'ectionately, " that
well; so you, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon
all." Here I was run down again by him to the last degree, and it
was a testimony to me, how the mere notions of nature, though they
will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a
worship or homage due to the supreme being of God, as the consequence
of our nature; yet nothing but divine revelation can form the know--
ledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us; of a
Mediator; of a new covenant; and of an Intercessor at the footstool
of God's throne,-----I say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven can
form these in the soul; and that therefore the gospel of our Lord and
Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the word of God, and the Spirit of God,
promised for the guide and sanctifier of his people, are the absolutely
necessary instructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of
God, and the means of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man,
rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going out; then
sending him for something a great way off, I seriously prayed to God
. that he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage, assisting,
by his Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the
light of the knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling him to himself,
and would guide me to speak so to him from the word of God, as his
conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved.
When he came again to me, I entered into a long discourse with him
upon the subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of the world,
and of the doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven, namely, of
repentance towards God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus: I then
explained to him, as well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took
not on him the nature of angels but the seed of Abraham, and how,
for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption; that
he came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.-

 

 

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in 111 the meme '- -: l' V

x220 was am: AND summons-s

I. took for this poor creature's instruction; and must acknowledge,
what I believe all that act upon the same principle will find, that in
laying things open to him, I really informed and instructed myself in
many things that either I did not know, or had not fully considered
before, but which occurred naturally to my mind upon niy searching
into them for the information of this poor savage: and I had more
affection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I felt
before; so that, whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me '
or no, I had great reason to be thankful that ever he came to me. My
grief sat lighter upon me, my habitation grew comfortable to me be-
yond measure; and when I reflected that in this solitary life, which I
had been confined to, I had not only been moved myself to look up to
Heaven, and to seek to the hand that brought me thither, but was now
to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for
aught I knew, the soul, of a poor savage, and bring him to the true
knowledge of religion and of the Christian doctrine, that he might
know Christ Jesus, to know whom is life eternal,--I say, when I re-
flected upon all these things, a secret joy ran through every part of
my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this
,place, which I had often thought the most dreadful of all afflictions
that could possibly have befallen me.

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my time;
and the conversation'which employed the hours between Friday and
me was such as made the three years which we lived there together
perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing as complete happi-
ness can be found in a sublunary state. The savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason to hope, and
bless God for it, that we were equally penitent, and comforted, restored
penitents. We had here the word of God to read, and no further 011'
from his Spirit to instruct than if we had been in England.

I always applied myself to reading the Scripture, and to let him
know as well as I could the meaning of what I read; and he again,
by his serious inquiries and questions, made me, as I said before, a
much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than I should ever
have been by my own private reading. Another thing I cannot res
frain from observing here also from experience, in this retired part of
my life; namely, how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is, that
the knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ
Jesus, is "so plainly laid down in the word of God, so easy to be re-
ceived and understood, that as the bare reading the Scripture'made
me capable of understanding enough of 'my duty to carry me directly
on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying
hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation of
practice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this without any
teacher or instructor (I mean human); so the plain instruction suffi-
ciently served to the enlightening this savage creature, and bringing
him to be such a Christian, as I have known few equal to him in my
life.

As to the disputes, wranglings, strife, and contention, which has
- happened in the world about religion, whether niceties' in doctrines, or
schemes of church government, they were all perfectly useless to us,
as, for aught I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in the world.
We had the sure guide to heaven, namely, the word of God; and we
had, blessed be God! comfortable views of the Spirit of God, teaching
and instructing us by his word, leading us into all truth, and making
us both willing and obedient to the instruction of his word; and I
cannot see the least use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed
points in religion, which have made such confusions in the world, would
have been to us, if we could have obtained it.--But I must go on with
the historical part of things, and take every part in its order.

After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him, and speak fluently, though
in broken English, to me, I acquainted him with my own story, or at
least so much of it as related to my coming into the place, how I had
lived there, and how long: I let him into the mystery (for such it was to
him) of gunpowder and bullets, and taught him how to shoot: I gave
him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with; and I made
him a belt with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear
hangers in: and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet,
which was not only as good a weapon in some cases, but much 'more
useful upon many occasions.

I described to him the countries of Europe, and particularly Eng-
land, which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how
we behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts.
of the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been
on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she
lay; but she was all beaten in pieces long before, and quite gone.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped,
and which I could not stir with my whole strength then, but was now
fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing .
a great while, and said nothing; I asked him what it was he studied.-- '
upon? At last, says he, " Me see such boat like come to place at my
nation." -

I did not understand him a good while; but at lass-when I had exw'
amined farther into it, I understood by him that a boat, such as that
had been, came on shore upon the country where he lived; that is, as
he explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been cast away upon
their coast, and the boat might get loose, and drive ashore ; but was so
dull, that I never once thought of men making escape from a wreck
thither, much less whence they might come; so I only inquired after
a description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough ; but brought me better
to understand him, when he added, with some warmth, " We save the
white mans from drown."----Then I presently asked him, if there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat? " Yes," he said,
"the boat full of white mans."--I asked him, how many? he told upon
his fingers " Seventeen."--I asked him then, what became of them?
he told me, " They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head again ; for I presently imagined,
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast away
in sight of my island, as I now called it; and who, after the ship was
struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved them-
selves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild shore among the
savages.

Upon this I inquired of him more critically, what was become,of
them? He assured me they lived still there, that they had been there
about few. years, that the savages let them alone, and gave them vic-
tuals to live. I asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them,
and eat them? He said. "No, they make brother with them ;" that
is, as I understood him, a truce: and then he added, "They eat no
mans but when make the war fight ;" that is to say, " they never eat
any men, but such as come to fight with them, and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that being on the top of
the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I have said, I
had in a clear (lay discovered the main or continent of America; Fri-
day, the weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the
mainland, and in a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping and dancing, and
calls out to me, for I was at some distance from him: I asked him
what was the matter? " Oh, joy l" says he, " 0h, glad! there see
my country, there my nation."

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face,
and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange eager-
ness, as if he had a mind to be in his own country again; and this
observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me; which made
me a' first not so ~asy about my new man Friday as I was before; andC" [73014 1'. N1) F

IHDAY ON THE HILL
'I made no doubt but that if Friday could get back to his own nation,
he would not only forget all his religion, but all his obligations to me;
and would be forward enough to give his countrymen an account of
me, and come back, perhaps, with a hundred or two of them, and make
-a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry as he used to be with
those of his enemies, when they were taken in war.

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for which I was
very sorry afterwards; however, as my jealousy increased, and held
me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar
and kind to him as before; in which I was certainly in the wrong too,
the honest grateful creature having no thought about it, but what con-
sisted of the best principles, both as a religious Christian and as a grate
ful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction.

Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every day
pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts
which I suspected were in him; but I found every thing he said was
so honest and so innocent, that I could find nothing to nourish my
suspicion; and in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last en-
tirely his own again; nor did he 1n the least perceive that I was uneasy ,
and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy at
sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to him, and said,
"Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own country, your own
nation ?"--"Yes," he said, " I be much-O glad to be at my own nation."
--" What would you do there ?" said I; " would you turn wild again,
eat men's flesh again, and be a savage as you were before ?"--He
looked full of concern, and, shaking his head, said, " N o, 110! Friday
tell them to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn
bread, cattle flesh, milk, no eat man again."--" Why, then," said I to
him, " they will kill you ?"--He looked grave at that, and then said,
"No, they no kill me; they willing love learn !" he meant by this
they would be willing to learn. He added, they learned much of the
bearded mans that came in the boat. Then I asked him if he would
go back to them? He smiled at that, and told me he could not swim
so far. I told him I would make a canoe for him. He told me he
would go, if I would go with him--"I go ?" said I, "why, they will
eat me if I come there ?"--"No, no l" says be, "me make them no
eat you, me make them much love you :" he meant he would tell them
how I had killed his enemies and saved his life, and so he would make
them love me. Then he told me, as well as he could, how kind they
were to seventeen white men, or bearded men as he called them, who
came on shore in distress.
 

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and see if
I could possibly join with these bearded men, who, I made no doubt,
were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting but, if I could, we might
find some method to escape from thence, being upon the continent, and
a good company together, better than I could from an island forty
miles off the shore, and alone without help. So, after some days, I
took Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and told him I would
give him a boat to go back to his own nation; and accordingly I car-
ried him to my frigate, which lay on the other side of the island; and
having cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk in the water), I
brought it out, showed it him, and we both went into it.

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it, Would make
it go almost as swift and fast again as I could; so when he was in, I
said to him, " Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation ?"--He
looked very dull at my saying so, which it seems was because he thought
the boat too small to go so far. I told him then I had a bigger; so
the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay which I had
made, but which I could not get into the water: he said that was big
enough; but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two
or three-and-twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, that it
was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such a boat would do very
well, and would carry "much enough vittle, drink, bread :" that was
his way of talking.

CHAPTER XVI.

I determine to go over to the ContinentF-Friday and I construct a Boat equal to carry
twenty Men--His dexterity in managing her--Friday brings intelligence of three
Canoes of Savages an Shore--Resolve to go down upon them--Friday and I fire upon
the Wretches, and save the Life of a poor Spaniard--List of the killed and wounded

--Discover a poor Indian bound in one of the Canoes, who turns out to be Friday's
Father.

'Urox the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of going
over with him to the Continent, that I told him we would go and make

one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He answered not

one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was fie
matter with him ?--He asked me again thus, " Why you angry mm"
with Friday? what me done 7"--I asked him, what he meant-3 -

him I was not angry with him at ~.---a11--"No_\ngryl no In . .3}:
l5 '

  
 
 
 

a".
 

he, repeating the words several times; why send Friday home away to
my nation ?"--" Why," said I, "Friday, did you not say you wished
you were there ?"--"Yes, yes," says he, " wish he hath there; no wish
Friday there, no master there." In a word, he would not think of
going there without me.--" I go there, Friday!" said; " what should
I do there ?"--He turned very quick upon me at this; " You do great
deal much good," says he, " you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame
mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new life."--"Alas,
Friday," said I, "thou knowesg not what thou sayest; I am but an
ignorant man myself."--" Yes, yes," says he, "you teeehee me good,
you teechee them good."--"No, no, Friday," said I, "you shall go
without me; leave me here to live by myself, as I did before." He
looked confused again at that word, and running to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me.
" What must I do with this ?" said I to him.--" You take kill Friday,"
says he.--" What must I kill you for ?" said I again.--He returns
very quick, " What you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no
send Friday away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears
stand in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost
afl'ection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I told him
then, and often after, that I would not send him away from me, if he
was willing to stay with me.

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled afi'ection to
me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all the
foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his ardent
affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good,---a thing
which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought, or
intention, or desire of undertaking it. But still I found a strong
inclination to my attempting an escape, as above, founded on the sup-
position gathered from the former discourse: namely, that there were
seventeen bearded men there; and therefore, without delay, I went to
work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a.
large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There were trees
enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas and
canoes only, but even of good large vessels: but the main thing I
~ looked at, was to get one so near the water that we might launch it
when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first.

At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much better
than I what kind of wood was fittest for it ; nor can I tell to this day,
what wood to call the tree we cut down, except that it was very like
the tree we call fustic. or between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it
was much of the same colour and smell. Friday was for burning tho
hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it into a boat: but I showed
how rather to cut it out with tools, which, after I showed him how to

use, he did very handily; and in about a month's hard labour, we fin-

ished it, and made it very handsome, especially when, with our axes, '

which I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into
the true shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fort-
night's time to get her along. as it were inch by inch, upon great rol-
lers, into the water; but when she was in, she would have carried
twenty men with great ease.

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it amazed
me to see with what dexterity, and how swift, my man Friday could
manage her, turn her, and paddle her along; so I asked him if he
would, and if we might, venture over in her ?--"Yes," he said, "he
venture over in her very well, though great blow wind." However, I
had a farther design which he knew nothing of, and that was to make
a must and sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. As to a
must, that was easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young
cedar tree, which I found near the place, and which there was a great
plenty of in the island ; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and
gave him directions how to shape and order it: but as to the sail, that
was my particular care; I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old
sails enough; but as I had had them now twenty-six years by me, and
had not been very careful to preserve them, not imagining that I
should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but that
they were all rotten, and indeed most of them were so; however, I
found two pieces which appeared pretty good, and with these I went
to work, and with a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious stitching
(you may be sure) for_want of needles, I at length made a three-cor-
nered ugly thing, like what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton
sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such
as usually our ships' long boats sail with, and such as I beat knew how
to manage ; because it was such a one as I used in the boat in which
I made my escape from Barbary,,as related in the first part of my
story.

I was near two months performing this last work, namely, rigging
and fitting my masts and sails; for I finished them very complete,

making a small stay, and a sail or foresail to it, to assist if we should" "

turn to windward; and which was more than all, I fixed a rudder to..
the stern of her, to steer with, and though I was but a bungling ship-

wright, yet as I knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a" V

thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at- list 1'
r__._..

 

 

 

had for it that failed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as
making the boat. ~ -'

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what

- belonged to the nmigation of my boat, ' for though he knew very "ell?
how to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and SS
a rudder, and was the more amazed when he saw me work the boat to
and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail gibed and filled
this way or that way, as the course we sailed changed; I say, when
he saw this, he stood like one astonished and amazed: however, with
a little use, I made all these things familiar to him and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the compass I could make him under-
stand very little of that : on the other hand, as there was very little
cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there
was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be
seen by night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons: and
then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.

. I was now Patered on the seven-alid-twentieth year of my captivity
in this place; though the three last years that I had this creature
with me. ought rather to be left out of the account. my habitation being
quite of another kind than in all the rest of my time. I kept the an-
niversary of my landing here with the same thankfulncss to God for
his mercies as at first; and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at
first, I had much more so now, having such additional testimonies of
the care of Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of being
efl'ectaally and speedily delivered; for I had an invincible impression
upon my thoughts, that my deliverance was at hand, and that I should
not. be another year in this place. However, I went on with my bus-
bandry, digging, planting, and fencing-as usual ; _I gathered and cured
my grapes, and did every necessary thing, as before.

The rainy season was in the meantime upon me, when I kept more
within doors than at other times; so I had stowed our new vessel as
secure as we could, bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and hauling her up
to the shore, at high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig a little
dock, just big enough for her to float in; and then, when the tide was
out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water out;
and so she lay dry, as to the tide, from the sea ; and to keep the rain
01?, we laid a great many boughs of trees so thick, that she was as well
thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the months of November
and December, in which I designed to make my adventure.

When the settled season began to come" in, as the thought of my
design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for the
voyage; and the first thing I did was to lay up a certain quantity of
provisions, being the store for the voyage, and intended in a week or
a fortnight's time to open the dock and launch out our boat. I was
busy one morning upon something of this kind, when I called to Fri-
day, and bid him go to the sea-shore and see if he could find a turtle,
or tortoise, a thing which we generally get once a-week, for the sake
of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone
when he came running back, and flew over my outward wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground or the steps he set his feet on; and
before I had time to speak to him, he cried out to me, " 0h, master!
0h, master! 011, sorrow! Oh, bad !"--" What's the matter, Friday?"
said 1--" Oh, yonder there," says he, "one, two, three canoe! one,
two, three !" By this way of speaking, I concluded there were six;
but, on inquiry, I found there were but three. " Well, Friday," said
I, "do not be frighted;" so I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared ; for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come to look for him, and would
cut him in pieces and eat him. The poor fellow trembled so that I
scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I could,
and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they would eat
me as well as him. "But," said I, " Friday, we must resolve to fight
them: can you fight, Friday ?"--"Me shoot," says he, " but there
come many great number."--"No matter for that," said I again;
"our guns will fright them that we do not kill." So I asked him,
whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me, and stand
by me, and do just as I bade him ?--He said, "Me die, when you
bid die, master. " So I went and fetched a good drum of rum and
gave him, for I had been so good a husband of my rum that I had a
great deal left. When he had drank it, I made him take the two
fowling-pieces which we always carried, and load them with large swan-
shot as big as small pistol-bullets; then I took four muskets,' and
loaded them with two slugs and five small bullets each; and my two
pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each; I hang my great sword,
as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective glass, and
went up to the side of the hill to see what I could discover; and I
found quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty savages,:
three prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole business
seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies,.
--a barbarous feast, indeed, but nothing more than, as I had observed,
was usual with them.

I observed also that they were landed, not where they. had dons
______--___.------------------

when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the
shore was low, and where a thick' wood came close almost down to the
sea: this, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretchcs
came about, so filled me with indignation that I came down again to
Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to them and kill them
all, and asked him if he would stand by me. He Was now gotten over
his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram I had
given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die
when I bid die.

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms, which I had
charged, as before, between us: I gave Friday one pistol to stick in
his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder, and I took one pistol
and the other three myself; and in this posture we marched out. I
took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag
with more powder and bullets; and as to orders, I charged him to
keep close behind me, and not to stir, shoot, or do any thing till I bid
him; and, in the meantime, not to speak a word. In this posture I
fetched a compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get
over the creek as to get into the wood; so that I might come within
shot of them before I could be discovered, which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.

While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning, I
began to abate my resolution : I do not mean that I entertained any
fear of their number; for as they were naked unarmed wretches, it is
certain I was superior to them--nay, though I had been alone: but it
occurred to my thoughts, what call, what occasion, much less what
necessity I was in to go and dip my hands in blood--to attack people
who had neither done or intended me any wrong, who, as to me, were
innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own disaster, being
in them a token indeed of God's having left them, with the other
nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity and to such inhuman
courses; but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge of their
actions. much less an executioner of his justice; that whenever he
thought fit, he would take the cause into his own hands, and by
national vengeance punish them for national crimes; but that, in the ~
mean time, it was none of my business: that it was true, Friday.
might justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a state of
war with those very particular people, and it was lawful for him to
attack them; but I could not say the same with respect to me. These
things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as ]
went, that I resolved I would only go place myself near them, that I
might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would set then as GodVa - ' "~37",

 

OF ROBINSON 0311803. 38?

 

 

should direct; but that, unless something ofl'ered that was more a call
to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.

With this resolution I entered the wood, and, with all possible wari-
ness and silence (Friday following close at my heels), I marched till 1
came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which was next to them;
only that one corner of the wood lay between me and them: here I
called softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just at
'the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word
if he could see there plainly what they were .doing: he did so, and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might be plainly
viewed there; that they were all about the fire, eating the flesh of one
of their prisoners; and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little
from them, whom he said they would kill next, and which fired the
very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but
one of the bearded men whom he had told me of, who came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming the
white bearded man, and, going to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass,
a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and
his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes; and that's-was a'Eux-o--
pean, and had clothes on. ' . -' ".: ~_~ :- _

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about 52?;
yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which, by going a
little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I
should be within half shot of them ,' so I withheld my passion, though
I was indeed enraged to the highest degree, and going back about
twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I
came to the other tree, and then I came to a little rising ground, which
gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about eighty yards. .

I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the dreadfi}
wretches sat upon the ground all close huddled together, and had just
sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, per-
haps, limb by limb to their fire ; and they were stooped down to nntie
the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday: "Now Friday," said I,
" do as I bid thee." Friday said he would. " Then F riday," said I,

" do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I set down one

of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday the

like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim at the savages,

bidding him do the like. Then.asking him if he was ready, he said,

" Yes."--". Then fire at them," said I; and the same moment I fired:
also. _ - -

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that he -
shot he killed two of them, and-wt nnded three more; and on my side;

a

1
I killed one and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in a
dreadful consternation ; and all of them who we're not hurt, jumped up
upon their feet immediately, but did not know which way to run. or
which way to look; for they knew not from whence. their destruction
came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he
might observe what I did: so as soon as the first shot was made, I
threw down the piece and took up the fowlingspiece, and Friday did
the like; he sees me cock and present, he did the same again. " Are'
you ready, Friday ?" said I.--"Yes," says he.--" Let fly, then," said
I, "in the name of God ;" and with that I fired again among the
amazed wretchcs, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now
loaden with what I called swan shot, or small pistol bullets, we found
only two drop; but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and miserably wounded
most of them; whereof three more fell quickly after, though not quite
dead.
"Now, Friday," said I, laying down the discharged pieces, and
taking up the musket, which was yet loaden, "follow me," said I;
. which he did with a deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the
w 30d, and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot: as soon as I
p :rceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday
(I r so too; and running as fast as I could, which by the way was not
v.2ry fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards
the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore,
between the place' where they sat and the sea; the two butchers who
were just going to work with him, had left him at the surprise of our
first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had jumped
into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same'ifity: I turned
to Friday, and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; he under-
stood me immediately, and running about forty yards to be near them,
h: shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all ; for I saw them
all fall on a heap into the boat; though I saw two of them up again
quickly: however, he killed two of them, and wounded the third, so
that he lay down in the bottom of the boat, as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife, and out
the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his hands and feet,
I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was?
he answered in Latin, Christiana: ; but was so weak and faint, that
he could scarce stand or speak : I took my bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which he did; and
I gave him a piece of bread, which he ate; then I asked him what
countryman he was? and he said, "Espagnole;" and, being a little
recovered, let me know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how
much he was in my debt for his deliverance. " Seignior," said I, with
as much Spanish as I could make up, " we will talk afterwards, but we
must fight now: if you have any strength left, take this pistol and
sword, and lay about you :" he took them very thankfully, and no
sooner had he the arms in his hands, but as if they had put new vigour
into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had out two of
'them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was a sur-
prise to them, so the poor creatures were so much frighted with the
noise of our pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement and fear;
and had no more power to attempt their own escape, than their flesh
had to resist our shot; and that was the case of those five that Friday
shot in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they received,
so the other two fell with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing, being willing to
keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol
and sword ; so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree
from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there, that
had been discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then,
giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again,
and bade them come to me when they wanted. While I was loading
these pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Spa-
niard and one of the savages, who made at him with one of their
great wooden swords, the same weapon that was to have killed him
before, if I had not-prevented it: the Spaniard, who was as-bolda'nd
8.1 brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian a
{pod while, and had cut him two great wounds on his head; but the
savage, being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown _
h'm down (being faint) and was wringing my sword out of his hand,'
u hen the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting his sword,
d:ew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help,
could come near him.

Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the flying wretches
with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and with that he des-
patehed those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first, and
fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling--pieces, with
which he pursued two of the savages and wounded them both; but as
he was not able to run, they both got- from him into the wood, where
Fnday pursued them, and killed one of them; but the other was too
nimble for him; and though he was wounded. yet he plunged into the

/
sea, and swam with all his might off to those who were left in the
canoe; which three in the canoe, with one wounded, who we knew not
whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of one-and-
twenty. The account of the rest is as follows :--

8 Killed at our shot from the tree.
2 Killed at the next shot.
2 Killed by Friday in the boat.
_ 2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.
1 Killed by ditto in the wood.
3 Killed by the Spaniard.
4 Killed, being found dropped here and there of their wounds or
killed by Friday in his chase of them.
4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded if not dead.

21 in all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot;
and though Friday made two or three shot at them, I did not find
that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one of
their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was very anxious about
their escape; lest, carrying the news home to their people, they
should come back, perhaps, with two or three hundred of their canoes,
and devour us by mere multitudes; so I consented to pursue them by
sea; and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in and bade Fri-
day follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find
another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not know-
ing what the matter was; for he had not been able to look up over
the side of the boat: he was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had
been tied so long, that he had really little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which they had bound
him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not stand or
speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, still that he
was only unbound in order to be killed.

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell him
of his deliverance; and pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor
wretch a dram, which, with the news of his being delivered, revived
him, and he sat up in the boat; but when Friday came to hear him
speak, and looked in his face, it would have moved any one to tears,
to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, '
laughed, halloed, jumped about, danced, sung, then cried again, wrung

\
 

' is hands, beat his own face and head, and then sung and jumped
about again like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I
could make him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but
when he came a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It was not easy for me to express how it moved me, to see what
ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage, at the sight
of his father, and of his being delivered from death; nor indeed can
I describe half the extravaganoes of his afi'ectioii after this; for he
went into the boat and out of the boat a great many times: when he
went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold
his father's head close to his bosom, half an hour together, tonourish
it: then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and stifi'
with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; and I,
perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to
rub them with, which did them a great deal of good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now gotten almost out of sight, and it was happy
for us that we did not; foi' it blew so hard within two hours after, and
before they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was
against them, that I could not suppose their boat could live, or that
they ever reached to their own coast. .

But to return to Friday: he was so busy about his father, that I
could not find in my heart to take him of for some time; but afier I
thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came
jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme. Then I
asked him if he had given his father any bread? He shook his head,
and said, "None: ugly dog eat all up self." So I gave him a cake
of bread out of .a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a
dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to his father:
I had in my pocket, also, two or three bunches of my raisins, so I gave
him a handful of them for his father. He had no sooner given .his

father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat, and run away v

as if he had been bewitched. He ran at such a rate--for-he was- the"
swiftest fellow of his feet that ever I saw--I say, he ran at such a me
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I calledg;
and hallooed too, after him, it was all one; away he went, and in a"?
quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast as

he went; and as he came nearer, I found his pace was slacker, because
he had something in his hand.

When he came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an
earthen iug, or pot, to bring his father some fresh water; and that B

Am ' "usage

3"
_----*--_--

had got two more cakes, or leaves of bread. The bread he gave me,
but the water he carried to his father: however, as I was very thirsty
too, I took a little sup of it. This water revived his father more than
all the rum or spirits I had given him; for he was just fainting with
thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called him, to know if there was any
water left? He said "Yes;" and I bade him give it to the poor
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent one
of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who was indeed
very weak, and was reposing himself upon a green place, under the
shade of a tree, and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much
swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw
that upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he sat up and drank,
and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to him, and gave him a
handful of raisins; he looked up in my face with all the tokens of
gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in any countenance; but
was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the fight,
that he could not stand upon his feet; he tried to do it two or three
times, but was really not able, his ankles were so swelled and so pain-
ful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles,
and bathe them with rum, as he had done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes, or per-
haps less, all the while helwas here, turned his head about, to see if
his father was in the same place and posture as he left him sitting;
and at last he found he was not to be seen; at which he started up,
and, without speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to him, that one
could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went; but
when he came, he only found he had laid himself down to ease his
limbs: so Friday came back to me presently, and I then spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could, and lead him to the
boat, and then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I would
take care of him; but Friday, a lusty young fellow, took the Spaniard
quite up upon his back, and carried him away to the boat, and set him
down softly upon the side, or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the
inside of it, and then lifted them quite in, and set him close to his
father, and presently stepping out again, launched the boat oh", and
paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind
blew pretty hard too: so he brought them safe into our creek; and
leaving them in the boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he
passed me. I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went? He told
me, " Go fetch more boat:" so away he went, like the wind: for sure
never man nor horse ran like him, and he had the other canoe in the
 

creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and
then went to help.our new guests out of the boat, which he did; but
they were neither of them able to walk; so that poor Friday knew not
what to do.

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to
Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me, I soon
made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried
them up both together upon it between us: but when we got them to
the outside of our wall or fortification, we were at a worse loss than
before; for it was impossible to get them over, and I was resolved not
to break it down; so I set to work again; and Friday and I, in about
two hours' time, made a very handsome tent, covered with old sails,
and above that with boughs of trees, being in the space without our
outward fence, and between that and the grove of young wood which
I had planted: and here we made two beds of such things as I had,
namely, of good rice-straw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and
another to cover them on each bed.

My island was new peopled, and I thought myself very rich in
subjects; and it was a merry reflection which I frequently made, how
like a king I looked: first of all, the whole country was my own mere
property; so that I had an undoubted right of dominion: secondly, my
people were perfectly subjected; I was absolute lord and lawgiver;
they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives,
if there had been occasion for it, for me: it was remarkable too, I had
but three subjects, and they were of three difi'erent religions. My
man Friday was a Protestant, his father a Pagan and a cannibal, and
the Spaniard was a Papist: however, I allowed liberty of conscience
throughout my dominions; but this by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think
of making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I
ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out
of my particular flock, to be killed: then I cut ofi' the hind quarter,
and choping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and
stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and.

broth, having put some barley and rice also into the broth, and as!._ '

cooked it without doors (for I made no fire within my inner wall), aw"
I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a table there "+235,
them, I sat down and ate my dinner also with them: and, as well as 1
could, cheered them and encouraged them, Friday being my inter-
preter, especially to his father, and indeed to the Spaniard too; for,
the Seaniardppoke the language .of the savages pretty well.

;..mlam;-iSS1
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one
or the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other firearms,
which, for want of time, we had left upon the place of battle; and the
next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages,
which lay open to the sun, and would presently be ofi'ensive; and I
also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, '
which I knew were pretty much, and which I could not think of doing
myself; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went that way: all
which he punctually performed, and defaced the very appearance of
the savages being there; so that when I went again, I could scarce
know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing
to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father, what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe? and whether we
might expect a return of them with a power too great for us to resist?
His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat never could live out
the storm which blew that night they went off, but must of necessity
be drowned or driven south to those other shores, where they were as
sure to be devoured, as they were to be drowned if they were cast
away; but as to what they would do if they came safe on shore, he
said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that they were so dreadfully
frighted with the manner of being attacked, the noise and the fire,
that he believed they would tell their people they were all killed by
thunder and lightning, and not by the hand of man; and that the two
which appeared (namely, Friday and I) were two heavenly spirits or
furies come down to destroy them, and not men with weapons. This.
he said, he knew, because he heard them all cry out so in their
language to one another; for it was impossible for them to conceive
that a man should dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance.
without lifting up the hand, as was' done now. And this old savage
was-in the right: for, as I understood since, by other bands, the
savages of that part never attempted to go over to the island after-
wards. They were so terrified with the accounts given by these four
men (for it seems they did escape the sea), that they believed, whoever

_ 1.". went to that enchanted island, would be destroyed with fire from

.7" '1' $10 gods.

' 3}. This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under continual ap-
prehensions for a good while, and kept always upon my guard, I and
_all my army , for, as there were now four of us, I would have ventured
upon a hundred of them fairly in the open field at any time. 1

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing-the fear of----.----_--_--|----_

their coming wore ofi'; and I began to take my former thoughts .of a'
voyage to the main into consideration, being likewise assured by Fri-
day's father, that I might depend upon good usage from their nation
on his account, if I' would go.

 

CHAPTER XVII.

1 learn from the Spaniard that there were sixteen more of his Countrymen among the
Savages--The Spaniard and Friday's Father, well armed, sail on a Mission to the
Continent--I discover an English Ship lying at anchor 03' the Island--Her Boat
comes on Shore with three Prisoners--The Crew streggle into the Woods, their Boat
being aground--Discover myself to the Prisoners, who prove to be the Captain and
Nate of the Vessel, and a Passenger--Secure the Mutineers. -

BU'i' my thoughts were a little suspended, when I had a serious dis-
course with the Spaniard, and when I understood, that there were
sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who having been cast
away, and made their escape to that side, lived there at peace indeed
with the savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and in-
deed for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage; and
found they were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata to the
Havanna, being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly
hides and silver, and to bring back what European goods they could
meet with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, r :
whom they took out of another wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned when first the ship was lost; and that these escaped through
infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived almost starved on the canni-
bal coast, where they expected to have been devoured every moment.

He told me they had some arms with them, but they were perfectly
useless: for that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of the
sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little which they used at their '
first landing to provide themselves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and if
they had formed no design of making any escape? He said they had
many consultations about it; but that, having neither vessel nor ' '
to build one, or provisions of any kind, their counsc.a always en , ' "
tears and despair. ' .- .e ', "'

I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from his? ~. '
which might tend towards an escape, and whether, if they were all .
here, it might not be done? I told him with freedom,I feared mostly "
their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their. hands; ' PS2
 

 

for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man; riot-
did men always square their dealings by the obligations they had re-
ceived, so much as they did by the advantages they expected. I told
him, it would be very hard, that I should be the instrument of their
deliverance, and that they should afterwards make me their prisoner
in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to be made a sacrifice,
what necessity, or what accident soever, brought him thither ; and that
I had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be devoured alive,
than fall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be carried into
the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded, if they were
all here, we might, with so many hands, build a bark large enough to
carry us all~away, either to the Brazils southward, or to the islands or
Spanish coast northward: but that if in requital they should, when I
had put weapons into their hands, carry me by force among their own
people, I might be ill used for my kindness to them, and make my
case worse than it was before.

He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuity, that their
condition was so miserable, and that they were so sensible of it, that
he believed they would abhor'the thought of using any man unkindly
that should contribute to their deliverance; and that if I pleased, he
would go to them with the old man, and discourse with them about it,
and return again, and bring me their answer: that he would make con-
ditions with them upon their solemn oath, that they would be absolutely
under my leading, as their commander and captain; and that they
should swear upon the holy Sacraments and Gospel, to be true to me,
and go to such Christian country as I should agree to, and no other;
and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders, till they were
landed safely in such country as I intended; and that he would bring
a contract from them under their hands for that purpose.

Then he told me, he would first swear to me himself, that he would
never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave him order; and that
he would take my side to the last drop of blood, if there should happen
the least breach of faith among his countrymen.

He told me, they were all of them very civil, honest men, and they
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons
hpr clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the

ifipbges; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own country, and
X that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief, they would live and
did by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them if pos-
sible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to themvt:
treat ; but when he had gotten all things in readiness to south

' a
 

 

Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much prudence in
it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I could
not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put 03' the
deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. The case was
this :--

He had been with us now about a month; during which time I had
let him see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance of
Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn
and rice I had laid up; which, as it was more than sufficient for myself,
so it was not sufficient, at least without good husbandry, for my family,
now it was increased to number four: but much less would it be
sullicicnt if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen still alive,
should come over; and least of all would it be sufficient to victnal our
vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage to any one of the Christian
colonies of America. So he told me, he thought it would be more
advisable, to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some more
l.1n(l, as much as I could spare seed to sow; and that we should wait
another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn for his country-
men when they should come; for want might be a temptation to them
to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of
one difliculty into another. " You know," says he, "the children of
Israel, though they rejoiced at first at their being delivered out of
Egypt, yet rebelled even against God himself, that delivered them,
when they came to want bread in the wilderness."

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I could
not but he very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied
with his fidelity. So we fell to digging, all four of us, as well as the
wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and, in about a
month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had gotten as
much land cured and trimmed up as "e sowed twenty-two bushels of
barley on, and sixteen jars of 1ice, which was, in short, all the seed
we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barley sufficient for
our own food for the six months that we had to expect our crop, that is
to say, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sowing ; ' for

it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that countryi'l

Having new society enough, and our number being suficierit to put"
us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their number ind;

been very great, we went freely all over the island, wherever we fo'uiid.'

occasion , and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon orir'
thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the means of' it out
of mine. To this purpose, I marked out several trees, which I then"

[it for our work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting them down;
16

  
 
 
  
 
 

 

a
v::4: '

242 m: m ' AND ADVENTURES

 

and then I caused the Spaniardf'to whom I imparted my thoughts on
that affair, to oversee and direct their work: I showed them with
what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks,
and I caused them to do the like, till they had made about a dozen
large planks of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long,
and from two inches to four inches thick: what prodigious labour it
took up, any one may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame
goats as much as I could: and to this purpose I made Friday and the
Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday the next day, for we
took our turns; and by this means we got about twenty young kids to
breed up with the rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the
kids, and added them to our flock: but above all, the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung
up in the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins
of the sun are cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and
these, with our bread, were a great part of our food, and very good
living too, I assure you; for it is an exceeding nourishing food.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the most
plentiful increase I had seen in the island; but, however, it was enough
to answer our end, for from twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought
in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the
like in proportion of the rice, which was store enough for our food to
the next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore
with me; or, if we had been ready for a voyage, it would very plenti-
fully have victualled our ship, to have carried us to any part of the
world, that is to say, of America. When we had thus housed and
secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker-
work; namely, great baskets, in which we kept it; and the Spaniard
was very handy and dexterous at this part, and often blamed me, that
I did not make some things for defence of this kind of work; but I saw
no need of it. And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests
expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see
what he could do with those he left behind him there: I gave him a
strict charge in writing not to bring any man with him, who would not
first swear, in the presence of himself and of the old savage, that he

would no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he should find in
if the island, who was so kind to send for them, in order to their delive-
rance; but that they would stand by and defend him against all such
attempts; and wherever they went, would be entirely under, and sub-
jected to his command; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed with their hand: : how we were to have this done, when I knew.". ._ ',
\- ,.

' 0F ROBINSON CBUSOE. 243

they had neither pen nor ink, that indeed was a question which we
never asked. '

Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage (the father
of Friday), went away in one of the canoes, which they might be said to
come in, or rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be
devoured by the savages.

I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on it, and above eight
charges of powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands
of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me in view
of my deliverance for now twenty-seven years and some days. I gave
them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, suflicient for themselves
for many days, and sufficient for their countrymen for about eight days'
time; and wishing them a good voyage, I let them go, agreeing with
them about a signal they should hang out at their return, by which I
should know them again, when they came back, at a distance, before
they came on shore.

They went away with a fair gale on the day that the moon was at
the full--by my account in the month of October--but as for the exact
reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover it
again; nor had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to
be sure that I was right, though, as it proved when I afterwards
examined my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.

It was no less than eight days I waited for them, when a strange
and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not, perhaps,
been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning,
when my man Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, " Mas-
ter, master, they are come, they are come i"

I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I
could get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way,
was by this time grown to be a very thick wood,--I say, regardless of

.danger, I went without my arms, which was not my custom to do; but
I was surprised, when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a
boat at about a league and a half 's distance, standing in}:- the shore,
with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing
pretty fair to bring them in. Also I observed presently,'that they did
not come from that side which the shore lay on, but from the: southerh' . .
most end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in,.and bid-him lie
close, for these were not the people we looked for, and Mara PS11},pr
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. . , 7. 'AJ -'

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspectivefgigss; W," '
what I could make of them; and having taken the ladder silt," I'-
 

--'------_".--------'

climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was appre-
hensive of any thing, and to take my view the plainer without being
discovered.

I had scarce set my foot on the bill, when my eye plainly discovered
a ship lying at an anchor, at about two leagues and a half 's distance
from me, south-south-east, but not above a league and a half from the
shore. By my observation it appeared plainly to be an English ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy of seeing a
ship, and one which I had reason to believe was manned by my own
countrymen, and consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe ,
but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from
whence they came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first
place, it occurred to me to consider what business an English ship
could have in that part of the world; since it was not the way to or
from any part of the world where the English had any traflic, and I
knew there had been no storms to drive them in there, as in distress;
and that if they were English really, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design; and that I had better continue as I
was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger which
sometimes are given him when he may think there is no possibility of
its being real. That such hints and notices are given us, I believe few
that have made any observation of things can deny; that they are cer-
tain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits, we
cannot doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be to warn us of
danger, why should we not suppose they are from some friendly agent,
(whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the question),
and that they are given for our good?

The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of
this reasoning; for bad I not been made cautious by this secret
admonition, come from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably,
and in a far worse condition than before, as you will see presently.

I had not kept self long in this posture, but I saw the boat draw
near the shore, as "1'? they looked for a creek to thrust in at for the
convenience of landing; however, as they did not come quite far
enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed my
rafts, but ran their boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile
from me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise they would
have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and would have soon

bepten me out of my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of all
I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were English-
men, at least most of them; one or two I thought were Dutch, but it
did not prove so. There were in all eleven men, whereof three of
them I found were unarmed, and (as I thought) bound; and when the
first four or five of them were jumped on shore, they took those three
out of the boat as prisoners. One of the three I could perceive using
the most passionate gestures of entreaty, afl'liction, and despair, even
to a kind of extravagance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted up
their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned indeed, but not to such
a degree as the first. 1

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the
meaning of it should be; Friday called out to me in English, as well
as he could, " Oh, master! you see English mans eat prisoners as well
as savage mans."--" Why," said I, "Friday, do you think they are
going to eat them then ?"--" Yes," said Friday, "they will eat
them."--" No, no," said I, "Friday; I am afraid they will murder
them indeed; but you may be sure they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but
stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every moment
when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the
villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass (as the seamen call it) or
sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall
every moment, at which all the blood in my body seemed to run.chill
in my veins.

I wished heartily now for our Spaniard, and the savage that was
gone with him; or that I had any way to have come undiscovered
within shot of them, that I might have rescued the three men; for I
'saw no fire-arms they had among them; but it fell out to my mind
another way.

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by the
insolent seamen, I observed the fellows ran scattering about the land,
as if they wanted to see the country. I observed also, that the
three other men had liberty to go where they pleased; but they sat
down all three upon the ground very pensive, and ,looked like men in
despair.

This put me in mind of the first time when I came on shore, and
began to look about me; how I gave myself over for lost, how wildly
I looked round me, what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how I'
lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts,

As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to receive by the:
providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the atomi- and
tides, by which I have since been so long nourished and supported; to 't
these three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance
and 'supply they were, how near it was to them, and how effectually
and really they were in a condition of safety, at the same time they
thought themselves lost, and their case desperate.

So little do we see before us in the world, and so much reason have
we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that he
does not leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but that in the
worst circumstances they have always something to be thankful for,
and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they imagine: nay,
are even brought to their deliverance by the means by which they
seem to be brought to their destruction.

It was just at the top of high water when these people came on
shore, and while partly they stood parleying with the prisoners they
brought, and partly while they rambled about to see what kind of
place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent,
and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat
aground.

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found afterwards,
having drank a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of
them waking sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest who were struggling
about, upon which they all soon came to the boat; but it was past all
their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the shore
on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.

In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps, the least of
all mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away they
strolled about the country again; and I heard one of them say aloud
to another (calling them ofi' from the boat), "Why, let her alone,
Jack, can't ye? she'll float next tide." By which I was fully confirmed
in the main inquiry, of what countrymen they were.

All this while I kept myself close, not once daring to stir out of my

- castle, any farther than to my place of observation, near the top of the

hill; and very glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I knew
it was no less than.ten hours before the boat could be on float again,
and by that time it would be dark, and I might be more at liberty to
see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had any.

In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before, though
with more caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy
than I had at first: I ordered Friday also, whom I had made an
excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms: I took
myself two fowling--pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My figure,
indeed, was very fierce: I had my formidable goat-skin coat on, with
 

the great cap I mentioned, a naked sword, two pistols in my belt, and
a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt
till it was dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I
found that in short they were all gone straggling into the woods, and,
as I thought, were all laid down to sleep. Tobe three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however,
set down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter or a
mile from me, and as I thought out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of their condition. Immediately I marched in the 'figure above,
my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable for his
arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like figure as
I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before any
of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, "What are ye,
gentlemen ?"
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more confounded
when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made; they made no
answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just going to fly from
me, when I spoke to them in English: " Gentlemen," said I, " do not
be surprised at me; perhaps you may have a friend near you, when
you did not expect it."----"lIe must be sent directly from heaven,
then," said one of them very gravely to me, pulling ofi' his hat at the
same time, " for our condition is past the help of man."--"All help is
from heaven, sir," said I: "but can you put a stranger in the way how
to help you? for you seem to me to be in great distress: I saw you
when you landed; and when. you seemed to make application to the
brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to
kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling,
looking like one astonished, returned, " Am I talking to God or man?
Is it a real man or an angel ?"---" Be in no fear about that, sir," said
I: "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come
better clothed, and armed after another manner than you see me in.
Pray, lay aside your fears: I am a man--an Englishman, and disposed
to assist you: you see I have one servant only; we have arms and _;
ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your case?')':' '
" Our case," said he, " sir,- is too long to tell you while ,our
murderers are so near; but, in short, sir, I was commander of' that.
ship; my men having mutinied against me, they have been "
prevailed on not to murder me, and at last have set me on shore in

    

"A saggy;243 was LII-'1') "in anvssruncs

desolate place, with these two men with me, one my mate, the other
it passenger, where. we expected to perish, believing the place to be
uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it."

"Where are those brutes, your enemies," said I: "do you know
where they are gone'.'"-----" There they are, sir," said he, pointing to a
thicket of trees; " my heart tremblcs for fear they have seen us, and
heard you speak ; if they have, they will certainly murder us all."

" Ilave they any firearms '! said L--lle answered, " They had only
two.pieees, and one which they left in the boat."--" Well, then," said
I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are asleep; it is an easy thing to
kill them all; but shall we rather take them prisoners '.'"--lle told me
there were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe
to show any mercy to; but it' they were secured. he believed all the rest
would return to their duty. I asked him, which they were ?--llc told
me, he could not at that distance describe them; but he would obey my
orders in any thing 1 would direct.--" Well," said I, "let us retreat
out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve
further;" so they willingly went back with me, till the woods covered
us from them.

"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance, are
you willing to make two conditions with me?" Ile anticipated my
proposals, by telling me, that hoth he and the ship, if recovered, should
be wholly directed and commanded by me in every thing; and if the
ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me in what part of
the world soever I would send him; and the two other men said the
same.

" Well," said I, " my conditions are but two: First, That while you
stay on this island with me, you will not pretend to any authority here;
and if I put arms into your hands, you will upon all occasions give
them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this island,
and in the meantime to be governed by my orders. Second, That it' the
ship is or may be recovered, you will carry me and my man to England, -
passage free.n

He gave me all the assurance that the invention or faith of a man
could devise, that he would comply with these most reasonable demands;
and besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all
occasions as long as he lived.

" Well, then," said I, " here are three muskets for you, with powder
and ball; tell me next what you think is proper to be done." He
showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he was able, but
offered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard
venturing any thing, but the best method I could think of was, to fire
upon them at once as they lay; and if any were not killed at the first
volley, and ofl'ered to submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly
upon God's providence to direct the shot.

He said, very modestly, that he was loth to kill them if he could
help it; but that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been the
authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and, if they escaped, we should
be undone still; for they would go on board, and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all. " Well, then," said I, " necessity legiti-
mates my advice; for it is the only way to save our lives." However,
seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should go
themselves, and manage as they found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and
soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him if either of
them were the men who he had said were the heads of the mutiny?
He said, No. " Well, then," said I, "you may let them escape, and
Providence seems to have wakened them on purpose to save them-
selves." "Now," said I, "if the rest escape you it is your fault."

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in his hand,
and pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each man a
piece in his hand: the two men who were with him going first, made
some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake, turned about,
and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then,
for the moment he cried out they fired, I mean the two men, the cap-
tain wisely reserving his own piece: they had so well aimed their shot
at the men they knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and the
other very much wounded; but not being dead, he started up on his
feet and called eagerly for help to the other; but the captain stepping
tohim, told him it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon
God to forgive his villainy; and with that word knocked him down
with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more: there were
three more in the company, and one of them was also slightly wounded.
By this time I was come; and when they saw their danger, and that it
was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them
he would spare their lives, if they would give him any assurance of
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in
carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired, and
he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not
against; only I obliged him to keep them bound, hand and foot, while
they were upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to the
0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 251

 

boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the cars and sail,
which they did; and by and by, three straggling men, that were (hap-
pily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns
fired; and seeing their captain, who before was their prisoner, now
their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and so our victory
was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
another's circumstances: I began first, and told him my whole his-
tory, which he heard with an attention even to amazement, and parti-
cularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with provisions
and ammunition; and, indeed, as my whole story is a collection of
wonders, it affected him deeply: but when he reflected from thence
upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved there on pur-
pose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he could not
speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end, I carried him and his two
men into my apartments, leading them in just where I came out,
namely, at the top of the house; where I refreshed them with such
provisions as I had, and showed them all the contrivances I had made
during my long, long inhabiting that place.

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; but,
above all, the captain admired my fortification; and how perfectly I
had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having now
been planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was
impassable in any part of it, but at that one side where I had reserved
my little winding passage into it; this I told him was my castle?- and
my residence; but that I had a seat in the country, as most' princes
have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him
that, too, another time; but at pr'esent our business was to consider
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told me
he was perfectly at a loss what measure to take: for that there were
still six-and-twenty hands on board, who having entered into a cursed
conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law,
would be hardened in it now by desperation; and would carry it on,
knowing that, if they were reduced, they should be brought to the
gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them with
so small a number as we were. '

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a
very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, something was to be
resolved on very speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some
 

 

mare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us. and de-
stroying us. Upon this, it presently occurred to me, that in a little
while, the ship's crew, wondering what was become of their comrades,
and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their other boat to
seek for them; and that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and
be too strong for us: this he allowed was rational.

Upon this, I told him, the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her off;
and, taking every thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to
be fit to swim: accordingly, we went on board, took the arms which
were left on board out of her, and whatever else we found there,--
whieh was a bottle of brandy and another of rum, a few biscuit cakes,
a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas;
the sugar was five or six pounds; all which was very welcome to me,
especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had had none left for
many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast, sail,
and rudder of the boat were carried before, as above), we knocked a
great hole in her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to
master us, yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not
much in my thoughts, that we could be capable to recover the ship;
but my view was, that if they went away without the boat, I did not
much question to make her fit again to carry us away to the Leeward
Islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had
them still in my thoughts.

CHAPTER XVIII.

The Ship makes Signals for her Boat--On receiving no answer. she sends another Boss
on Shore--Methods by which we secure this Bout'e Crew, and recover the Ship

WHILE we were thus preparing our designs, and had first by main
strength heaved the beat up upon the beach, so high that the tide
would not float her off at high-water mark, and, besides, had broken a
hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were sat down
musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her
make a wait with her ancient, as a signal for the boat to come on
board; but no boat stirred; and they fired several times, making other
signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruitless, and they
found the boat did not stir, we saw them (by the help of our glasses),
hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and we found, as
they approached, that there were no less than ten men in her, and that
they had firearms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full
view of them as they came, and a plain sight of the men, even of their
faces; because the tide having set them a little to the east of the other
hoat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place where the
other had landed, and where the boat lay.

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the captain knew
the persons and characters of all the men in the boat: of whom he said
that there were three very honest fellows, who he was sure were led
into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frighted;
but that for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief oflicer among
them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's
crew; and were, no doubt, made desperate in their new enterprise;
and terribly apprehensive he was, that they would be too powerful for
us.

I smiled at him, and told him, that men in our circumstances were past
the operations of fear: that seeing almost every condition that could be
was better than that we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that
the consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a delive~
rance: I asked him, what he thought of the circumstances of my life,
and whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for. 9 " And
where, sir,' 'said I, " 18 your belief of my being preserved here on pur-
pose to save your life, which elevated you a little whilh ago. ? For my
part,' 'said I," there seems to be only one thing amiss in all the pros-
pect of it."--" What's that ?" says he.---" Why," said I, " 'tis that as
you say, there are three or four honest fellows among them, which
should be spared; had they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I

should have thought God's providence had singled them out to deliver .,
them into your hands: for, depend upon it, every man of them thatvg.

comes ashore are our own, and shall die or live as they behave to up."

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found I,

it greatly encouraged him; so we set vigorously to our business. We
had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from the ship,
considered of separating our prisoners, and had indeed securea.,tl;le1n
effectually. '
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, I
sent with Friday, and one of the three (delivered men) to my cave,
where they were remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or
 

discovered, or of finding their way out of the woods, if they could have
delivered-themselves: here they left them bound, but gave them pro-
visions, and promised them, if they continued there quietly, to give
them their liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted their
escape, they should be put to death without mercy. They promised
faithfully to bear their confinement with patience. and were very thank-
ful that they had such good usage as to have provisions and a light left
them; for Friday gave them candles (such as we made ourselves), for
their comfort; and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over
them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were kept
pinioned indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them; but
the other two were taken into my service upon their captain's recom-
mendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us;
so, with them and the three honest men, we were seven men well
armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough
with the ten that were a-coming, considering that the captain had said,
there were three or four honest men amongst them also.

As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, they
ran their boat into the beach, and came all on shore, hauling the boat
up after them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid they would
rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her; and so we should not be able to
seize the boat.

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to the other
heat; and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find
her stripped as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her
bottom.

After they had mused a while upon this, they set up two or three
great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if they could make
their companions hear; but all was to no purpose: then they came all
close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which indeed
we heard, and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was all one:
those in the cave, we were sure, could not hear; and those in our
keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer
to them.

They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as they told"
us ages-wards, they resolved to go all on board again to their ship, and
let them know there, that the men were all murdered, and the long
boat staved; accordingly, they immediately hunched the boat again,
and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at this, be
 

lieving they would go on board the ship again and set sail, giving their
comrades up for lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was
in hopes we should have recovered; but he was quickly as much
frighted the other way.

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived them
all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their conduct,
which it seems they consulted together upon; namely, to leave three
men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the coun-
try to look for their fellows.

This was a great disappointment to us; for now we were at a less
what to do; for our seizing those seven men on shore would be no ad-
vantage to us if we let the boat escape, because they would then row
away to the ship; and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh,
and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be lost.

However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of

things might present. The seven men came on shore, and the three
who remained in the boat put her of to a good distance from the shore,
and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for
us to come at them in the boat.
' Those that came on shore kept close together, marching towards the
top of the little hill, under which my habitation lay; and we could see
them plainly, though they could not perceive us: we could have been
very glad they would have come nearer to us, so that we might have
fired at them ; or that they would have gone farther off, that we might
have come abroad.

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they could
see a great way in the valley and woods, which lay towards the north-
east part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed
till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from
the shore, not far from one another, they sat down together under a
tree to consider of it. Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep
there, as the other party of them had done, they had done the job for
us; but they were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go
to sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was they had to
fear neither.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation
of theirs; namely, that perhaps they would all fire a volley again to
endeavour to make their fellows hear, and that we should all' gall-
them just at the juncture when their pieces were all disch
they would certainly yield, and we should have them without blooifihed.
I liked the proposal, provided it was done while we were near enough
to come up to them before they could load their pieces again.256 THE urn Ann invnxrnnss

--_ __--_--_--------------___

. But this'event did not happen, and we lay still along time very
irresolute what course to take; at length I told them there would be
nothing to be done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the boat
to get them on shore.

We waited a great while, though very impatient for their removing,
and were very uneasy; when, after long consultations, we saw them
start all up and march down toward the sea: it seems they had such
dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the place, that they
resolved to go on board the ship again, give their companions over for
lost, and so go on with their intended voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it to
be, as it really was, that they had given over their search, and were
for going back again; and the captain, as soon as I had told him my
thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I presently
thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and which answered
iny end to a tittle.

I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little creek
westward, towards the place where the savages came on shore when
Friday was rescued; and as soon as they came to a little rising ground,
at about half a mile's distance, I bade them halloo as loud as they
could, and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as soon
as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they should return it
again, and then keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering
when the others hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and
among the woods, as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by
such ways as I directed.

They were just going into the boat, when Friday and the mate
hallooed, and they presently heard them, and answering, ran along the
shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when they were pre-
sently stopped by the creek, where the water being up, they could not
get over, and called for the boat to come up and set them over, as in-
deed I expected. '

When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat being
gone up a good way into'the creek, and as it were in a harbour within
the land, they took one of the three men out of her to go along with
them, and'left only two in the boat, having fastened her to the stump
ofyvlittleitree on the shore.

Thietwas what I wished for, and immediately leaving Friday and
the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and,
croehing the creek out of their eight, we surprised the two men before
 

 

 

they were aware, one of them lying on shore, and the other being in
the boat; the fellow on shore wastbetween sleeping and waking, and,
going to start up, the captain, who was foxemost 1am in upon him and
knocked him down, and then called out to. him 11. the boat to yield, 01
he "as a dead man.

There needed ve1y few arguments to persuade a single man to
yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked
down ; besides, this was, it seems, one of the three who were not so
hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily
persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely
with us.

In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed
their business with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and
answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till
they not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were very

sure they could not reach back to the boat before'it was dark; and,~

indeed, they were heartily tired themselves also by the time they came
back to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark, and
to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them.

It was several hours after Friday came back to me before they
came back to their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them,
long before they came quite up, calling to those behind to come along;
and could also hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired
they were, and not being able to come any faster, which was very
welcome news to us.

At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to express
their confusion, when they found the boat fast aground in the creek,
the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone: we could hear them call
to one another in a most lamentable manner, telling one another they
were gotten into an enchanted island; that either there were inhabi-
tants in it, and they should all be murdered; or else there were
devils or spirits in it, and they should be all carried away and de-
voured. _

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their names
a great many times, but no answer; after some time, we could see
them, by the little light there was, run about wringing their hands,
like men in despair, and that sometimes they would go said- Qt down
in the boat to rest themselves, then come ashore, and walk" a NW
and so the same thing over again. ' -

My men would fain have had me give them leave to fall uponitfie'nm

     
   

at once in the dark; but I was willing to take them at some advantage. I

17

J

 

I
 

so to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could; and especially I
was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our men, knowing the other
men were very well armed: I resolved to wait to see if they did not
separate; and therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade
nearer; and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their hands
and feet as close to the ground as they could, that they might not be
discovered, and get as near them as they could possibly, before they
ofl'ered to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, till the boatswain, who was
the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown himself the
most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards
them with two more of the crew; the captain was so eager, at having
the principal rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him; for they only
heard his tongue before : but when they came nearer, the captain and
,Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them.

The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot in
the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour or
two after; and the third ran for it.

At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole

' army, which was now eight men; namely, myself, generalissimo; Fri-
day, my lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men, and the
three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms.

We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they could not see
our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was
now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a
parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell out just
as we desired; for indeed it was easy to think, as their condition then
was, they would be very willing to capitulate; so he calls out, as loud
as he could, to one of them, " Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith
answered immediately, "Who's that? Robinson?" For it seems he
knew his voice. The other answered, " Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom
Smith, throw down your arms, and' yield, or you are all dead men this
moment."

" Who must we yield to? where are they '9" says Smith again.
" Here they are," says he; " here is our captain and fifty men with
him, have been hunting you this two hours; the boatswain is killed,
Will Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield,
you are all lost."

" Will they give us quarter, then 2" says Tom Smith, " and we will
yield."--" I'll go and ask, if you promise to yiel ," says Robinson.
So he asked the captain, and the captain himself then calls out, "You,
 

Smith, you know my voice; if you lay down your arms immediately
and submit, you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain, give me
quarter! what have I done? they have all been as bad as I ;" (which,
by the way, \\ as not t1 uc either; for it seems this Will Atkins was the
fit; t man that laid hold of the captain when they first mutinied, and
used him barbaiously, in tying his hands and giving him injurious lan-
guage); however, the captain told him he must lay down his arms at
discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy, by which he meant me;
for they all called me governor.

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their lives:
and I sent the man that had parleyed with them, and two more, who
bound them all; and then my great army of fifty men, which, parti-
cularly with those three, were in all but eight, came up and seized upon
them all, and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one more
out of sight, for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think of seizing the
ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them,
he expostulated with them upon the \'illainy of their practices with
him, and at length upon the farther wickedness of their design; and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the end,
and perhaps to the gallows.

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their lives:
as for that, he told them they were none of his prisoners, but the com-
mander's of the island; that they thought they had set him on shore
in a barren uninhabited island; but it had pleased God so to direct
them, that the island was inhabited, and that the governor was an
Englishman; that he might hang them all there, if he pleased; but
as he had given them all quarter, he supposed he would send them to
England, to be dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins,
whom he was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for
death; {'01 that he \\ ould be hanged 1n the morning. ' , _

Though this "as all a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired efi'ect'e;
Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the captain to intercede with the "
gov 01 nor for his life; and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake,
that they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance was come,
and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in to be '
hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I retired in'the dark from
them, that they might not see what kind of a governor they had, and
called the captain to me: when I callel, as at a good distance, one of
the men was :rdered to speak again, and say to the captain. " Cap-
 

 

tain, the commander calls for you ;" and presently the captain replied,
" Tell his excelleney I am just a-coming." This more perfectly amused
them; and they all believed that the commander was just by with his
fifty men.

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for seizing
the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in
execution the next morning.

But in order to execute it with more art, and to be secure of success,
I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he should go and
take Atkins, and two more of the worst of them, and send them
pinioned to the cave where the others lay: this Was committed to Fri-
day, and the two men who came on shore with the captain.

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison; and it was, indeed,
a dismal place, especially to men in their condition.

The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have
given a full description; and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned,
the place was secure enough, considering they were upon their beha-
now.

To these, in the morning, I sent the captain, who was to enter into
a parley with them: in a word, to try them, and tell me, whether he
thought they might be trusted or no, to go on board and-surprise the
ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition
they were brought to; and that though the governor had given them
quarter for their lives, as to the present action. yet that if they were
sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains, to be sure; but
that if they would join in such an attempt as to recover the ship, he
would have the governor's engagement for their pardon. .

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted
by men in their condition: they fell down on their knees to the cap-
tain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations, that they would be
faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should owe their lives
to him, and would go with him all over the world; that they would
own him for a father to them as long as they lived.

"Well," says the captain, "I'must go and tell the governor what
you say, and see what I can do to bring him to consent to it." So he
brought me an account of the temper he found them in; and that he
verily believed they would be faithful.

However, that we might be very secure, I told him he should go
back again, and choose out five of them, and tell them, that they
should see that they did not want men; but he would take out those
five to be his assistants, and that the governor would keep the other
two, and the th' "e that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), asor nonmsox cntzson. 261

p_____.------------------------

hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that, if they proved unfaith-
ful in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged in chainstalive
upon the shore.

This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor was in
earnest; however, they had no way left but to accept it; and it was
now the business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to per-
suade the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition :--1. The
' captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the two prisoners of the
first gang, to whom, having their characters from the captain, I had
given their liberty, and trusted them with arms. 3. The other two
whom I kept till now in my bower pinioncd; but, upon the captain's
motion, had now been released. 4. These five released at last; so
that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cave
for hostages. '

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands
on board the ship: for, as for me and my man Friday, I did not think
it was proper for us to stir, having seven men left behind; and it was
employment enough for us to keep them asunder, and supply them
with victuals. '

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast; but Friday
went twice a day to them, to supply them with necessaries; and 1
made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where F ri-
day was to take it. .

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the captain,
who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to look after
them, and that it was the governor's pleasure that they should not
stir anywhere but by my direction; that if they did, they should be
fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons; so that as we never suf-
fered them to see me as governor, so I now appeared as another per-
son, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like,
upon all occasions.

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his two
boats, stop the breach of one, and man them: he made his passenger
captain of one, with four other men; and himself and his mate, and
five more, went in the other; and they contrived their business very
well, for they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they
came within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell
them he had brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a long
time before they had found them, and the like, holding them in a chat
till they came to the ship's side; when the captain- and~the mate,.
entering firs' with. their arms, immediately knocked down the second
mate and carpenter with the butt end of their muskets. Being very
faithfully seconded by their men, they secured all the rest that were
upon the main and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches to
keep them down who were below; when the other boat, and their men,
entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the
skuttle which went down into the cook-room, making three men they
found there prisoners.

When this was done, and all safe upon the deck, the captain ordered
the mate, with three men, to break into the round-house, where the '
new rebel captain lay, and, having taken the alarm, -was gotten up,
and, with two men and a boy, had gotten firearms in their hands;
and when the mate with a crow split open the door, the new captain
and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a
musket-ball, which broke his arm and wounded two more of the men,
but killed nobody.

The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-house,
wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain through
the head, the bullets entering at his mouth, and came out again behind
one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word; upon which the rest
yielded, and the ship was taken effectually without any more lives
being lost. '

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me, to give
me notice of his success; which, you may be sure, I was very glad to
hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two of the
clock in the morning.

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having
been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was some<<
thing surprised with the noise of a gun; and presently starting up, I
heard a man call me by the name of "Governor, governor!" and
presently I knew the captain's voice; when climbing up to the top of
the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in
his arms: "My dear friend and delivererl" says he, "there's your
ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that belong to her."
I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode within a little more
than half a mile of the shore: for they had weighed her anchor as soon
as they were masters of her; and the weather being fair, had brought
her to an anchor just against the mouth of a little creek; and the tide
being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the, place where
I first landed my rafts, and so landed just at my door.

. I was, at first, ready to down with the surprise. for I saw my
deliverance indeed visibly t into my hands, all things easy, and a.
large ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to go. At
first, for some time, I was not able to answer one word; but as he had
taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to
the ground.

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled _a bottle out of
his pocket, and gave me a drain of cordial, which he had brought on
purpose for me: after I drank it, I sat down upon the ground, and
though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before I could
speak a word to him.

All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only
not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a thousand kind tender
things to me, to compose and bring me to myself; but such was the
flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits into confusion: at
last it broke into tears, and in a little while after I recovered my
speech.

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer; and we
rejoiced together: I told him I looked upon him as a man sent from
Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a
chain of wonders; that such things as these were the testimonies we
had of a secret hand of Providence governing the world, and an
evidence that the eyes of an infinite power could search into the
rcmotest corner of the world, and send help to the miserable whenever
he pleased.

, I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven; and what
heart could forbear to bless him, who had not only in a miraculous
manner provided for one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate
condition, but from whom every deliverance must always be acknow-
ledged to proceed?

When we had talked a while, the captain told me, he had brought
me some little refreshments, such as the ship afi'orded, and such as the
wretches who had been so long his masters had not plundered him of. '
Upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bids his men bring the
things ashore that were for the governor; and indeed it was a present
as if I had been one, not that I was to be carried along with them, but
as if I had been to dwell upon the island still, and they were to go
without me. >> '

First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordiaf
waters; six large bottles of Madeira wine, the bottles held two quarts
a-piece; two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of
the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of pease, and about
a hundred weight of biscuit. g " '

He brought me also a box of sugar,

ox of flour, a bag fin'o'fi 3-

1,114

a:
 

lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance of other things:
but besides these, and what was a thousand times more useful to me,
he brought me six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair
of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, and a
very good suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn but very
little. In a word, he clothed me from head to foot.

It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may imagine,
to one in my circumstances; but never was any thing in the world of
that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me to wear
such clothes at their first putting on.

After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good things were
brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what was to he
done with the prisoners we had; for it was worth considering whether
we might venture to take them_ away with us or no, especially two of
them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last
degree; and the captain said, he knew they were such rogues, that
there was no obliging them; and if he did carry them away, it must
be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to justice at the first
English colony he could come at; and I found that the captain him-
self was very anxious about it.

Upon this, I told him, that, if he desired it, I durst undertake to
bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he
should leave them upon the island: "I should be very glad of that,"
says the captain, " with all my heart."

" Well," said I, " I will send for them, and talk with them for you:"
so I caused Friday and the two hostages,--for they were now dis-
charged, their comrades having performed their promise,--I say, I
caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the five men, pinioned as
they were, to the bower, and keep them there .till I came.

After some time, I came thither dressed in my new habit, and now
I was called governor again. Being all met, and the captain with me,
I caused the men to be brought before me, and I told them, I had had
a full account of their villainous behaviour to the captain, and how
they had run away with the ship, and were preparing to commit farther
robberies; but that Providence had ensnared them in their own ways,
and that they were fallen into the pit which they had digged for
others.

I let them know, that by my direction the ship had been seized, that
she lay now in the road, and they might see by and by, that their new
captain had received the reward of his villainy; for that they might .
see him hanging at the yawn: that as to them, Lwanted to know _
what they had '0 say, why ould not sxecute'them as pirates taken

I!
 

in the fact, as by my commission they could not doubt I had authority
to do. ' -

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had nook,
thing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain pro- i_
mised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy: but I
told them I knew not what mercy to show them; for, as for myself, I
had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage
with the captain to go for England: and as for the captain, he could
not carry them to England, other than as prisoners in irons to be tried
for mutiny, and running away with the ship; the consequence of which,
they must needs know, would be the gallows; so that I could not tell
what was the best for them, unless they had a mind to take their fate
in the island: if they desired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to
leave it: I had some inclination to give them their lives, if they thought
they could shift on shore. They seemed very thankful for it; said
they would much rather venture to stay there, than to be carried to
England to be hanged: so I'left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if he
durst not leave them there; upon this I seemed to be a little angry
with the captain, and told him, that they were my prisoners, not his;
and that, seeing I had offered them so much favour, I would be as good
as my word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I would
set them at liberty as I found them; and if he did not like that, he
might take them again if he could catch them.

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them
at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods, to the place whence
they came, and I would leave them some firearms, some ammunition,
and some directions how they should live very well, if they thought fit.

Upon this, I prepared to go on board the ship ; but told the captain
that I would stay that night to prepare my things; and desired him
to go on board in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and
send the boat on shore the next day for me; ordering him in the mean
time to cause the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-
arm, that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my
apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them of their cir-
cumstances: I told them, I thought they had made a right choice;
that if the captain carried them away, they would certainly be hanged;
I showed them their captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and
told them they had nothing less to expect. ._

When they had all declared their 'nguess to stay, I then told .
them I would 'let them into the story 0 y living there, and put them
 

into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly I gave them the
whole history of the place, and of my coming to it; showed them my
fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make them easy. I
told them the story of the sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected;
for whom I left a letter, and made them promise to treat them in com-
mon with themselves.

I left them my firearms, namely, five muskets, three fowling-pieces,
and three swords: I had about a barrel of powder left; for after the
first year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk
and fatten them, to make both butter and cheese.

In a word, I gave them every part of my own story; and I told
them I would prevail with the captain to leave them two barrels of
gunpowder more, and some garden seed, which I told them I would have
been very glad of ; also I gave them the bag of peas which the captain
had brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and increase
them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day and went on board
the ship; we prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that
night: the next morning early, two of the five men came swimming to
the ship's side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the other
three, begged to be taken into the ship for God's sake, for they should
be murdered; and begged the captain to take them on board, though
he hanged them immediately.

Upon this the captain pretended to have no power without me ; but
after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of amendment,
they were taken on board, and were some time after soundly whipped
and pickled; after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore, the tide being
up, with the things promised to the men, to which the captain, at my
intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be added, which they
took, and were very thankful for: I also encouraged them, by telling
them, that if .it lay in my way to send a vessel to take them in, I
would not forget them.
 

CHAPTER XIX.

I take leave of the Island, and, after a long Voyage, arrive in England--Go down
into Yorkshire, and and the greater part of my Family dead--Resolve to go to Lis'
hon for information respecting my Plantation at the Brazils--Meet an old Friend
there, by whose means I become rich--Set out for England overland--Much
annoyed by Wolves on the road. I

WHEN I took leave of this island, I carried on board for relics the
great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots;
also, I forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned, which had
lain by me so long useless that it was grown rusty, or tarnished, and
could hardly pass for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and
handled; and also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish
ship.

And thus I left the island the nineteenth day of December, as I
found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon
it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being
delivered from the second captivity the same day of the month that I
first made my escape in the barcolongo from among the Moors of
Salec.

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England the
eleventh of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-and-five years
absent.

When I came to England, I was a perfect stranger to all the world,
as if I had never been known there: my benefactor, and faithful
steward, whom I had left in trust with my money, was alive, but had
had great misfortunes in the world, was become a widow the second
time, and very low in the world. I made her easy as to what she
owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble; but, on the con-
trary, in gratitude to her former care and faithfulness to me, I
relieved her as my little stock would afi'ord, which at that time would
indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her I would
never forget her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her when I
had suflicient'to help her, as shall be observed in its place.

I went down afterwards into Yorkshire, but my father was dead,
and my mother and all the family extinct; except that I found two,
sisters, and'two of the children of onle my brothers; and as I had
been long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made
 

for me; so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me,
and that little money I had would not do much for me as to settling
in the world.

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect;
and this was, that the master of the ship whom I had so happily de-
livered, and by the same means saved the ship 'and cargo, having given
a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how I had saved
the lives of the men, and the ship, they invited me to meet them and
some other merchants concerned, and all together made me a very
handsome compliment upon that subject, and a present of almost two
hundred pounds sterling.

But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my
life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in the world,
I resolved to'go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some infor-
mation of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and what was be-
come of my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years
now given me over for dead. '

With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in
April following, my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in
all these ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all occa-
sions.

When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particu-
lar satisfaction, my old friend the captain of the ship who first took
me up at sea of the shore of Africa: he was now grown old, and had
left off the sea, having put his son, who was far from a young man,
into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man did
not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew him; but I soon brought
myself to his remembrance when I told him who I was.

After some passionate expressions of our old acquaintance, I in-
quired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner. The
old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years;
but that he could assure me that, when he came away, my partner was
living, but the trustees, whom I had joined with him to take cognisance
of my part, were both dead; that, however, he believed that I would
have a very good account of the improvement of the plantation, for
that, upon the general belief of my being cast away and drowned, my
trustees had given in the account of the produce of my part of the
plantation to the procurator-flscal, who had appropriated it, in case I
never came to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-thirds to the
monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of the
poor, and for the conversion 05, the Indians to the Catholic faith; but
that if I appeared, or any one'for me, to claim the inheritance, it wouldraw)"; -- -- ,_ _ 7 ' .. w.

'u

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 269

 

be restored, only that the improvement, or annual production, being
distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored; but he assured
me that the steward of the king's revenue (from lands), and the prove-
dore, or steward of the monastery, had taken great care all along that
the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful
account of the produce, of which they received duly my moiety;

I asked him, if he knew to what height of improvement he had
brought the plantation; and whether he thought it might be worth
looking after; or whether, on my going thither, I should' meet with
no obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety.

He told me, he could not tell exactly to what degree the plantation
was improved; but this he knew, that my partner was growing exceed-
ing rich upon the enjoying but one half of it; and that, to the best
of his remembrance, he had heard that the king's third of my part,
which was, it seems, granted away to some other monastery, or reli~
gious house, amounted to above two hundred moidores a-year; that, as
to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no question
to be made of that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and
my name being also enrolled in the register of the country. Also he
told me, that the survivors of my trustees were very fair, honest peo-
ple, and very wealthy; and he believed I would not only have their
assistance for putting me in possession, but would find a very considg
erable sum of money in their hands for my account, being the produce
of the farm while their fathers held the trust, and before it was given
up, as- above, which, as he remembered, was about twelve years.

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old captain how it came to pass, that the trustees
should thus dispose of my efiects, when he knew that I had made my
will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, &c. '

He told me that was true; but that, as there was no proof of my
being dead, he could not act as executor until some certain account
should come of my death; and 'that, besides, he was not willing to
intermeddle with a thing so remote: that it was true he had registered
my will, and put in his claim; and could he have given any account , -
of my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and . ~
taken possession of the inget'no (so they called the sugar-house),_$
had given his son, who was now at the Brazils, order to do it. "'

"But," says the old man, " I have one piece of news to tell you
which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you as-the rest, and that
is, that believing you were lost, and all the world believing. so; also,
your partner and trustees did ofi'er to account to me, in your name, [or
six or eight of the first years of profit, which I receivedsgbut there
 

being at that time," says he, " great disbursements for increasing the
works, building an ingcino, and buying slaves, it did not amount to
near so much as afterwards it produced: however," says the old man,
" I shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, and
how I have disposed of it."

After a few days' further conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the six first years' income of my plantation,
signed by my partner and the merchants-trustees, being always delivered
in goods, namely, tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, mo-
lasses, &c. which is the consequence of a sugar-work; and I found by
this account, that every year the income considerably increased: but, as
above, the disbursement being large, the sum at first was small: how-
~ ever, the old man let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred
and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen
double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship, he having been
shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after my
leaving the place.

The good man then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how

e had been obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses,
and buy him a share in a new ship; " however, my old friend," says
he, " you shall not want a supply in your necessity, and as soon as my
son returns, you shall be fully satisfied."

Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me two hundred
Portugal moidores in gold; and giving me the writings of his title to
the ship which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which he was a

quarter part-owner, and his son another, he puts them both in my
hands for security of the rest. . "v.9

I was too much moved with the honvty- and kindness of the poor
man, to be able to bear this , and remembering what he had done for
me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously. he had used
mo on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he was now
to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to me; there-
fore, first I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so
much money at that time, and if it would not straiten him? He told
me, he could not say but it might straiten him a little, ' but, however,
it was my money, and I might want it more than he.

Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke. In short, I took one hun
dred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt
for them; then I returned him the rest, and told him, if ever I had
possession of the plantation, I would return the other to him also,as
indeed I afterwards did, and that, as to the bill of sale of his part in
 

his son's ship, I would not take it by any means; but that if I wanted
the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did not,
but came to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would never
have a penny more from him.

When this was past, the old man began to ask me, if he should put
me in a method to make my claim to my plantation. I told him, I
thought to go over to it myself. He said, I might do so if I pleased;
but that if I did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately to appropriate the profits to my use; and as there were
'hips in the river of Lisbon, just ready to go away to Brazil, he made
me enter my name in a public register, with his afidavit, aflirming
upon oath that I was alive, and that I was the same person who took
up the land for the planting the said plantation at first.

This being regularly attested by a notary, and a procnration aflixed,
he directed me to send it with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of
his acquaintance at the place; and then proposed my staying with him
till an account came of the return.

Never any thing was more honourable than the proceedings upon
this procuration; for in less than seven months I received a large
packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants on whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.

First, There was the account-current of the produce of my farm, or
plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with my old
Portugal captain, being for six years; the balance appeared to be one
thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my favour. '

Secondly, There was the account of four years more while they kept
the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the adminis~
tration, as being the efi'ects of a person not to be found, which they call
civil death; and the balance of this, the value of the pla'ntatibn increas-
ing, amounted to twenty-nine thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dru-
sadoes, which made three thousand two hundred and forty-one moidores.

Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augustines' account, who had
received the profits for above fourteen years; but not being able to
account for what was disposed to the hospital, very honestly declared

he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed, which - ' I

he acknowledged to 'my account. As to the king's part, that refunded
nothing.
There was also a letter of my partner's, congratulating me very

 

 

 

 

 

afl'ectionately upon my being alive; giving me an awount how the -'

estate was improved, and what it produced a-year, with a particular of _

the number of squares, or acres, that it contained}: how plantedehiv

many slaves there were upon it; and making two-and-twenty crosses
for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave Marius to thank the
Blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately to come
over and take possession of my own, and in the meantime to give him
orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not come myself;
concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and that of his
family; and he sent me as a present, seven fine leopard skins, which
he had, it seems, received from Africa. by some other ship which he had
sent thither; and who, it seems, had made a better voyage than I. He
sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces
of gold uncoincd, not quite so large as moidores.

By the same fleet my merchant-trustees shipped me twelve hundred
chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the
whole account in gold. 7

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was better
than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutterings of my
very heart, when I looked over these letters, and especially when I
found all my wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships came all in fleets,

the same ships which brought my letters brought my goods: and the

efi'ects were safe in the Tagus before the letter came to my hand. In
a word, I turned pale, and grew sick; and had not the old man run
and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had
ov ersct nature, and I had died upon the spot.

Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till a
physician being sent for, and something of the real cause of my illness
being known, he ordered me to be let blood, after which I had relief,
and grew w;ell but I verily belie\ e, if it had not been eased'by the
vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should have died..

I was new master, all on a sudden, of above fifty thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I m1ght well call it, in the
Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a-year, as sure as an estate of
lands in England, and, in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce
knew how to understand, or how to compose myself for the enjoy-
ment of.

The first thing I did was to recompense my original benefactor, my
good old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my distress,
kind to me in the beginning, and honest to me at the end. I showed
him all that was sent to me; I told him that, next to, the providence
of Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing to him; and that
it now lay on me to reward him, which I would do an hundred fold.
So I first returned to him the hundred moidores I had received of
him; then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up a generalPages
273 -274
Missing

From
Original
 

upon one to whom I durst commit the gross . f my stock, that I might
go away to the Brazils, and leave things , fe behind me; and this
greatly perplexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled
myself there, for I was, as it were, naturalized to the place; but I had
some little scruple in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew
me back, of which I shall say more presently. However, it was not
religion that kept me from going thither for the present ; and as I had
made no scruple of being openly of the religion of the country, all the
while I was among them, so neither did I yet, only. jhat now and
then, having of late thought more of it than formerly, .when I began
to think of living and dying among them, I began to regretmy ha1ing
professed myself a Papist, and thought it might not he the best reli-
gion to die in.

But, as I ha1e said, this was not the main thing that kept me from
going to the Brazils, but that reallyI did not know with whom to
leave my effects behin'd'me; so I resolved at last to go to England ~
with them, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some
acquaintance, or find some relations, that would be faithful to me;
and accordingly I prepared to go for England with all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first (the Brazil
fleet being just going away) resolved to give answers suitable to the
just and faithful account of things I had from thence; and first to the
prior of St. Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just deal-
ings, and the offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidoresifil
which 11 me undisposed of, 11 h1cl1 I desired might be given, five hands
to the monastery, and thee hundred and se1enty-t11o to the poor,
the p11or should direct, desi1ing the good padre' s p1 ayers for me, and
the like. -.

I 111ote hext a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the
acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty called for: as for.
sending them any present, they were far above having any occasion
of it. .

Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the
improving the plantation, and his integrity in increasing the stock of
the works: giving him instructions for his futu1e government of my
part according to the powers I had left with my old patron, to whom
I desired him to send whatever became due to me, till he should, hear;
from me more particularly; assuring him, that it was my intestacy-1,3.
not only to come -to- him, but to settle myself there for the remarridm
of my life. To this I added a very handsome present of <<neglecting
silks for his wife and two daughters, for such the captam son ub _

z 1276 rm: m AND mmruass

 

formed me he had; with two pieces of fine English broadcloth, the

best I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black baize, and some
Flanders lace of a good value.

Having thus settled my afi'airs, sold my cargo, and turned all my
efi'ects into good bills of exchange, my next difiiculty was, which way
to go to England. I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and! yet
I had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time: and
though I could give no reason for it, yet the difliculty increased upon
me so much, that though I had once shipped my baggage in order to
go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might be

one of the reasons. But let no man slight the strong impulses of his
own thoughts in cases of such moment. Two of the ships which I had
singled out to go in,--I mean more particularly singled out than any
other, that is to say, so as in one of them to put my things on board,
and in the other to have agreed with the captain,--I say, two of these
ships miscarried, namely, one was taken by the Algerines, and the
other was cast away on the Start, near 'l'orbay, and all the people
drowned except three; so that, in either of those vessels, I had been
made miserable, and in which most, it was hard to say.
r; Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom I
communicated every thing, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea; but
either to go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay
to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land
to Paris and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so
all the way by land through France.

In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all,
except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by
land; which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was
by much the pleasanter way; and to make it more so, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who
was willing to travel with me; after which, we picked up two who
were English, and merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentle-
men, the last going to Paris only: so that we were in all six of us, and
five servants, the two merchants and the two Portuguese contenting
themselves with one servant between two, to save the charge; and as
for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides
my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of supply-
ing the place of a servant upon the road.

In this manner I set ~out from Lisbon: and our company being all
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they
did me the honour to call me captain, as Well because'I was the oldest,1"

or aoamsos onuson.' ' 277

 

 

man, as because I had two servants, and indeed was the original of the
whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so shall I
trouble you with none of my land journals. But some adventures that
happened to us in this tedious and diflicult journey I must not omit.

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and to see
what was worth observing; but it being the latter part of the summer,
we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of
October. But when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed
at several towns on the way, with an account that so much snow was
fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several travellers were
obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an
extreme hazard, to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed, and to
me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and indeed to coun-
tries where we would scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufl'er-
able; nor, indeed, was it more painful than it was surprising; to come
but ten days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was not only
warm, but very hot, and immediatelyto feel a wind from the Pyreneau
mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to
endanger benumbing and perishing of our fingers and toes, was very
strange. '

Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the mountains all
covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never seen or
felt before in his life.

To, mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna, it continued
snowing with so much violence, and so long, that the people said,
winter was come before its time; and the roads, which were difiieult
before, were now quite impassable: in a word, the snow lay in some
places too thick for us to travel; and being not hard frozen, as is the
case in northern countries, there was no going without being in danger
of being buried alive every step. We stayed no less than twenty days
at Pampeluna: when (seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood
of its being better, for it was the severest winter all over Europe. that
had been known in many years) I proposed that we should all go away
' to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very-'2-
iittle voyage

But while we were considering this, there came in four hencb

gentlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of the passes, :5
as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who, travasmg the278 ms m m wmrnass

 

 

mountains by such ways that they were not much incommoded with
the snow; and where they met with snow in any quantity, they said it
was frozen hard enough to hear them and their horses.

We sent for this guide, who told us, he would undertake to carry us
the same way, with no hazard from the snow, provided we were armed
sufficiently to protect us from wild beasts: for, he said, upon these
great snows, it was frequent for some wolves to show themselves at the
foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of food, the
ground being covered with snow. We told him we were well enough
prepared for such creatures'as they were, if he would ensure us from a
kind of two legged wolves, which we were told we were in most danger
from, especially on the French side of the mountains.

He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in the way that we
were to go: so we readily agreed to follow him; as did also twelve
other gentlemen, with their servants, some French, some Spanish, who,
as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back again.

Accordingly, we all set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on
the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead
of going forward, he came directly back with us, on the same road
that we came f101n Mad1id, above twenty miles , when having passed
two rivers, and come into the plain country, .11e found ourselves in a
wa1m climate again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow to
be seen; but 011 a. sudden, tu1ni11g to the left, he approached the
mountains another way; and though, it is true, the hills and the pre-
cipices looked dreadfully, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us by such winding ways, we insensibly passed the height of
the mountains, withouLbeing much encumbered with the snow; and
all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant, fruitful provinces of Lan-
guedoc and Gascoigne, all green and flourishing; though, indeed,
they were at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass
yet.

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a night, so fast that we could not travel; but be bid us
be easy, we should soon be past it all. We found, indeed, that we
began to descend every day, and to come more north than before;
and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.

It was about two hours before night, when our guide being some-
thing before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous
wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to a
thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he'been
half a mile before us, he had been devoured indeed, before we could
have helped him: one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other
a.

 

 

attacked the man with that violence, that he had not time, or not pre-

sence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out
to us most lustily. My man Friday being next to me, I bid him ride
up, and see what was the matter. As soon asiFriday came in sight
of the man, he hallooed as_ loud as the other, "0 master! 0 master!"
But, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the man, and with his pis-
tol shot the wolf that attacked him 1n the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday: for he,
having been used to that kind of creature in his country, had no fear
upon him, but went close up to him, and shot him as above, whereas,
any of us would have fired at a farther distance, and have, perhaps,
either missed the wolf, or endangered shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I, and indeed
it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise of Friday's pistol,
we heard on both sides the dismalest howlings of wolves, and the noise
redoubled by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there
had been a prodigious multitude of them, and, perhaps, indeed there
was not such a few, as that we had no cause of apprehensions.

However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other, that had fas-
tened upon the horse, left him immediately, and fled, having happily

I

fastened upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in 4

his teeth, so that he had not done him much hurt: the man, indeed,
was most hurt; for the raging creature had hit him twice, once on the
arm, and the other time a little above his knee, and he was just as it
we1e tumbling down by the disorder of the horse, when Friday came
up and shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday' 3 pistol we all
mended our pace, and 1ode up as fast as the way (which was very diffi-
cult) would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon as we
came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw plainly what
had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor guide,
though we did not presently discern what kind of a creature It was he
had killed.
--_--___--__--------_--

CHAPTER XX.

Strange Battle betwixt Friday and a Bear--Terrible engagement with a mule Army
of Wolves--Arrive in England safely, and settle my Alfairs there--I marry, and
have a Family.

BUT never was a fight managed so hardly, and in such a surprising
manner, as that which followed between Friday and the bear, which
gave us all (though at first we were surprised and afraid for him) the
greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy crea-
ture, and does not gallop as the wolf does, which is swift and light;
so he has two particular qualities, which generally are the rule of his
actions: first, as to men, who are not his proper prey,----I say not his
proper prey, because though I can't say what excessive hunger might
do, which was now their case, the ground being all covered with snow,
yet as to men, he does not usually attempt them, unless they first
attack him; on the contrary, if you meet him in the woods, if you
don' t meddle with him, he won 't meddle with you: yet then you must
take care to be very civil to him, and give him the road; for he is a
very nice gentleman; he won 't go a step out of the way for a. prince--
nay, if you are really afraid, your best way is to look another way,
and keep going on; for sometimes, if you stop, and stand still, and
look steadfastly at him, he takes it for an afiront, and if you throw or
toss any thing at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick
as big as your finger, he takes it for an afiront, and sets all other busi-
ness aside to pursue his revenge; for he will have satisfaction 1n point
of honour, and this is his first quality , the next is, that if he be once
afi'ronted, he will never leave you, night nor day, till he has his revenge,
but follow at a good round rate till he overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to
him, he was helping him of from his horse, for the man was both hu1t
and f1ighted, and indeed the last more than the first; when on a sud-
den, we espied the bear come out of the wood, and a very monstrous
one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were all a little
surprised when we saw him ; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to
see joy and courage in the fellow's countenance; " Oh! 0h ! 0h !"
says Friday, three times, pointing to him, " 0 master! you give me to
leave, me shakes to hand with him, me makee you good laugh. "

I was syprised to see the fellow so pleased. ' " You fool you,' 'said
 

I, " he will eat you up. ---" Eatee me up. 'eatee me up. l" says Friday
twice over again . " me eatee him up , me make you good laugh; you
all stay here, me show you good laugh." So down he sits, and gets
his boots of? in a moment, and put on a pair of pumps (as we call the
flat shoes they wear), and which he had in his pocket, and gives my
other servant his horse, and with his gun away he flew, swift like the
wind.

The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with nobody,
till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear could
understand him: " Hark ye, hark ye l" says Friday, " me speakee
wit you."--We followed at a distance; for now being come down to
the Gascoigne side of the mountains, we were entered a vast great
forest, where the country was plain, and pretty open, though many
trees in it scattered here and there.

Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with
him quickly, and takes up a great stone, and throws at him, and hit
him just on the head; but did him no more harm than if he had thrown _ . f
it against a wall; but it answered Friday's end; for the rogue was so
void of fear, that he did it purely to make the bear follow him, and
show us some laugh, as he called it.

As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he turns about, and
comes after him, taking devilish long strides, and shuflling along at a
strange rate, so as he would put a horse to a middling gallop. Away
runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran, towards us for help; so
we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my man;
though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the hear back upon .
us, when he was going about his business another way; and especially; _
I was angry that he hadturned the bear upon us, and then run away?"
and I called out, " You dog," said I, "is this your making us laugh;
Come away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the creature}.
He hears me, and cries out, " No shoot, no shoot, stand still, you get ..
much laugh ;" and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the beast's
one, he turned on a sudden, on one side of us, and seeing a great oak
tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned us to follow, and doubling his.
pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, 4 .
at about five or six yards from the bottom of the tree. wt

The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a distance. '
The first thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelled to it, but let it- ,
lie, and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, thou '
monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, on, p, ,
man, and could not for my life see any thing to laugh at yet, till ssern' . -
the bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer to him
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small of
a large limb of the tree, and the bear got about half way to him. As
soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker, " Ila," says he to us, " now you see me teachee the bear
dance ;" so he falls a-jumping, and shaking the bough, at which the
bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to look behind him, to
see how he should get back: then indeed we did laugh heartily. But
Friday had not done with him by a great deal: when he sees him
stand still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the bear
could speak English, "What, you come no farther? Pray you com
farther." So he left jumping and shaking the bougll: and the bear,
just as if he understood what he said, did come a little farther; then
he fell a-jumping again, and the bear stopped again.

We thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and
called to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear; but he
cried out earnestly, " Oh, pray l Oh, pray ! no shoot, me shoot by and
then ;" he would have said by and by. llowever, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had
laughing enough indeed, but still could not imagine what the fellow
would do: for first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear ofl';
and we found the bear was too cunning for that too; for he would not
get out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his great
broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine what would be the
end of it, and where the jest would be at last.

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for seeing the bear cling
fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come any
farther, " Well, well," said Friday, " you no come farther, me go, me
go; you no come to me, me come to you; and upon this he goes out
to the smallest end of the buugh, where it would bend with his weight,
and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough till he came
near enough to jump down on his feet; and away he ran to his gun,
takes it up, and stands still.

"Well," said I to him, "Friday, what will you do now? Why
d'm't you shoot him ?"----" No shoot," says Friday, "no yet; me shoot
now me no kill ; me stay, give you one more laugh." And indeed so
he did, as you will see presently; for when the bear saw his enemy
gone, he comes back from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty
leisurely, looking behind him every step, and coming backward till he
got into the body of the tree; then with the same hinder end foremost,
he came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot
at a time, very leisurely. At this juncture, .and just before he could
put his hind feet upon the ground, Friday stepped close to him,FRIDAY AND THE BEAR. 1!"a
 

clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him as dead as a
stone.

Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh; and when
he saw we were pleased by our looks, he falls 1. laughing himself very
loud; " So we kill bear in my country," says Friday.--" So you kill
them ?" said I ; " why, you have no guns."--" N 0," says he, " no guns,
but shoot great much long arrow."

This was indeed a good diversion to us; but we were. still in a wild
place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew:
the howling of wolves ran much in my head; and indeed, except the
noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I have said some-
thing already, I never heard any thing that filled me with so much
horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called us ofi', or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin of
this monstrous creature off, which was worth saving; but we had three
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; so we left him, and went
forward on our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and
dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as we
heard afterwards, were come down into the forest and plain country,
pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal of mis-
chief in the villages, where they surprised the country people, killed a
great many of their sheep and horses, and some people too.

We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our guide told us, if
there were any more wolves in the country, we should find them there;
and this was a small plairi, surrounded with woods on every side, and
a long narrow defile or lane, which we were to pass to get through the
wood, and then we should come to the village where we were to lodge.

It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the first wood,
and a little after sunset, when we came into the plain. We met with
nothing in the first wood, except that in a little plain within the wood,
which was not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves cross
the road, full speed one after another, as if they had been in chase of
some prey, and had it in view: they took no notice of us, and were
gone and out of sight in a few moments.

Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a wretched faint-hearted

'fellow, bade us keep in a ready posture; for he believed there were
more wolves a--coming.

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw no
more wolves till we came through that wood, which was near half a
league, and entered the plain: as soon as we came into the plain, we
 

had occasion enough to look about us. The first object we met with.
was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse which the wolves had
killed, and at least a dozen of them at work; we could not say, eating
of him, but picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten up all the
flesh before.

We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast, neither did they
take much notice of us; Friday would have let fly at them, but I would
not suffer him by any means; for I found we were like to have more
business upon 'our hands than we were aware of. We were not half
gone over the plain, but we began to hear the wolves howl in the
woods, on our left, in a frightful manner; and presently after we saw
about a hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and
most of them in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by experi-
enced oficers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive them; but
found to draw ourselves in a close line was the only way; so we formed
in a moment ; but that we might not have too much interval, I ordered,
that only every other man should fire; and that the others, who had
not fired, should stand ready to give them a second volley immediately,
if they continued to advance upon us; and that then those who had
fired at first, should not pretend to load their fusils again, but stand
ready, with every one a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusil and
a pair of pistols each man; so we were, by this method, able to fire six
volleys, half of us at a time; however, at present we had no necessity,
for upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being ter-
rified, as well with the noise as with the fire: four of them being shot
in the head, dropped; several others were wounded, and went bleed-
ing 01?, as we could see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did
not immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering that I had been
told, that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I
caused all our company to halloo as loud as we could, and I found the
notion not altogether mistaken; for upon our shout, they began to
retire and turn about; then I ordered a second volley to be fired in
their rear, which put them to the gallop, and away they went to the
woods. L '

This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and that we might
lose no time, we kept going; but we had but little more than loaded
our fusils, and put ourselves into a readiness, when we heard a terrible
noise in the same wood on our left; only that it was farther onward
the same way we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the night began to be dusky, w'liioh
made it the worse on our side, but the noise increasing, we could <<in;
perceive that it was the bowling and yellirig of those hellish We__--_----'_____
'nnd on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves on our
left, one behind us, and one on our front, so that we seemed to be sur-
rounded with them; however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our
way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go, which, the way
being very rough, was only a good large trot; and in this manner we
only came in view of the entrance of the wood through which we were
to pass, at the farther side of the plain ; but we were greatly surprised,
when, coming near the lane, or pass, we saw a confused number of
wolves standing just at the entrance.

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the noise of
a gun; and, looking that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and a
bridle on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves
after him full speed: indeed the horse had the heels of them: but as
we supposed that he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not
but they would get up with him at last; and no question but they did.

Here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up to the entrance
where the horse came out, we found the carcass of another horse, and
of two men, devoured by these ravenous creatures. One of them was
no doubt the same whom we heard fire a gun, for there lay a gun just
by him fired ofi'; but as to the man, his head, and the upper part of
his body, were eaten up.

This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course to take; but
the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in
hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were three hundred of them.
It happened very much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, but a little way from it, then lay some large timber trees, which
had b~degn cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for
carriage I drew my little troop in among these trees, and placing
ourselves n. a line behind one long tree, I advised them all to slight,
and, keeping that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle,
or three fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre.

We did so, and it was well we did; for never was a more furious
charge than the creatures made upon us in this place: they came on
us with a grewling kind of a noise, and mounted the piece of timber
(which, as I said, was our breastwork), as if they were only rushing
upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally
occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us, which was the prey
they aimed at. I ordered our men to fire as before, every man; and
they took their aim so sure, that indeed they killed several of the
wolves at the first volley; but there was a necessity to keep a continual

firing, for they came on like devils, those behind pushing on thos
before.287 -288
Missing

From
Original
 

 

And now I began to think of leaving my efi'ects with this womaii'
and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazils. But now another ":7-
scruple came in the way, and that was religion; for as I had enter.-
tained some doubts about the Roman religion, even while I was abroad,
especially in my state of solitude, so I knew there was no going to the
Brazils for me, much less going to settle there, unless I resolved to
embrace the Roman Catholic religion, without any reserve; except, on
the other hand, I resolved to be a sacrifice to my principles, be a
martyr for religion, and die in the Inquisition: so I resolved to stay
at home, and, if I could find means for it, to dispose of my planta-
tion.

To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who in return
gave me notice, that he could easily dispose of it there; but that if I
thought fit to give him leave to offer it in my name to the two mer-
chants, the survivors of my trustees, who livedin the Brazils, who
must fully understand :the value of it, who lived just upon 'the' spot,
and whom I knew to be very rich, so that he believed they would be
fond of buying it; he did not doubt but I should make four or five
thousand pieces of eight the more of it.

Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to them, and W93
did so, and in about eight months more, the ship being then retarded, t
he sent me an account, that they had accepted the ofi'er, and had re<< .
mitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of thaws/333.5
at Lisbon to pay for it. In return, I signed the instrument of sale I)":
the form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my oldiinan, who
sent me the bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand eight hundred
and eighty pieces of eight for the estate; reserving- thet'payment of-
one hundred moidores a-year to him (the old man) during his life, and
fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I had promised
them, and which the plantation was to make good as a rent-charge. '

And thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune and adven4.
ture, a life of Providence's chequer-work, and of 'a variety which the
world will seldom be able to show the like of : beginning foolishly, but
closing much more happily than any part of it ever gave me leave so
much as to hope for. mt". t

Any one would think, that in this state of complicated good fortune",-

l was past running any more hazards, and so indeed I had been, if.
other circumstances had concurred: but I was inured' to a wandering
life, had no family, nor many relations; nor, however rich, had' {seen-s i
tracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold my qtate. iii)"
ils, yet I could not keep that country out of my. he and p ' go

'egtmindto be uponthe wing again; .especiallyI
.:-. ~19 ,

 
 

  
 
   
 

.1. ' 7.1..290 ms LIFE AX>> Anvnxnrnss

#--

the strong inclination I had to see my island, and to know if the poor
Spaniards were in being there; and how the rogues I left there had
used them.

My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far
prevailed with me, that almost for seven years she prevented my run-
ning abroad; during which time I took my two nephews, the children
of one of my brothers, into my care: the eldest having something of
his own, I bred up as a. gentleman, and gave him a settlement of some
addition to his estate, after my decease; the other I put out to a cap-
tain of a ship: and after five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enter-
prising young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea;
and this young fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I was, tc
farther adventures myself.

In the meantime, I in part settled myself here: for, first of all, I
married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction; and
had three children, two sons and one daughter; but my wife dying,
and my nephew coming home with good success from a voyage to Spain,
my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed and en-
gaged me to go in his ship, as a private trader to the East Indies: this
was in the year 1694.

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island, saw my suc-
cessors the Spaniards, had the whole story of their lives, and of the
villains I left there; how at first they insulted the poor Spaniards;
how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united, separated; how at last
the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with them, how they were
subjected to the Spaniards, how honestly the Spaniards used them; a
history, if it were entered into, as full of variety and wonderful acci-
dents, as my own part, particularly also as to their battles with the
Caribbeans, who landed several times upon the island; and as to the
improvement they made upon the island itself, and how five of them
made an attempt upon the mainland, and brought away eleven men
and five Women prisoners, by which, at my coming, I found about
twenty young children on the island.

Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of all necessary
things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two
workmen, which I brought from England with me, viz., a carpenter
and a smith.

Besides this, I shared the island into parts with them, reserved to
myself the property of the whole, but gave them such parts respect-
ively as they agreed on; and having settled all things with them, and
engaged them not to leave the place, I left them there.

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a. bark,
which I bought there, with more people to the island, and in it, beside
 

Cxusos Manxtmn.
other supplies, I sent seven women, being such'as I found proper for
service, or for Wives to such as would take them: as to the jinglishmen,
I promised them to send them some women from England, with a good
cargo of necessaries, if they would apply themselves to planting:
which I afterwards performed. And the fellows proved very honest
and diligent after they were mastered, and had their properties set
apart for them. I sent them also from the Brazils five cows, three of
them beingr big with calf, some sheep, and some hogs, which, when' I
came again, were considerably increased.
., But all these things, with an account how three hundred Caribbees
i came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and how they
fought with that whole number twice, and were at first defeated, and
three of them killed; but at last a. storm destroying their enemies'
canoes, they famished or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed
and recovered the possession of their plantation, and still lived upon
the island. , ->>
All these things, with some very surprising incidents in some new
adventures of my own, for ten years more, I may, perhaps, gi"e a
further account of hereafter.
 

PART 11.

CHAPTER I.

Reflections--Unsettlcd state of Mind, and Conversation with my Wife thereon--Pur-
chase a Farm in the County of Bedford--Lose my Wife--I determine to revisit my
Island, and for that purpose settle all my AEairs in England--Description of the
Cargo I carried out with nae--Save the Crew of a Vessel burnt at Sea.

THAT homely proverb used on so many occasions in England, namely,
" That what is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh," was never
more verified than in the story of my life. Any one would think, that
after thirty-five years of aflliction, and a variety of unhappy circum-
stances, which few men, if any, ever went through before, and after
near seven years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness of all things--:
grown old--and when, if ever, it might be allowed me to have had ex-
perience of every state of middle life, and to know which was most
adapted to make a man completely happy,--I say, after all this, any
one would have thought that the native propensity to rambling, which
I gave an account of in my first setting out into the world to have
been so predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile
part be fully evacuated, or at least condensed, and I might at sixty-one
years of age have been a little inclined to stay at home, and have done
venturing life and fortune any more.

Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adventurers was taken
away in me; for I had no fortune to make, I had nothing to seek : if
I had gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer; for I had
already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to, and that I
had was visibly increasing; for having no great family, I could not
spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for an expensive
way of living, such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and
the like, which were things I had no notion of, or inclination to; so
that I had nothing indeed to do, but to sit still, and fully enjoy whatI
had got, and see it increase daily upon my hands.

Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not enough to
resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again, which hung about
me like a chronical distemper; particularly the desire of seeing my
new plantation in the island, and the colony I left. there, run in mye 5; :3 .

I" .

'Ol' ROBINSON CRUSOE. 293

 

head continually. I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination ran
upon it all day; it was uppermost in all my thoughts, and my fancy
worked so steadily and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep:
in short, nothing could remove it out of my mind; it even broke so
violently into all my discourses, that it made my conversation tiresome;
for I could talk of nothing else, all my discourse ran into it, even to
impertinence, and I saw it myself.

I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the stir
people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is owing to the
strength of imagination, and the powerful Operation of fancy in their
minds; that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a ghost
walking, and the like; that people's poring affectionately upon the
past conversation of their deceased friends so realizes it to them, that
they are capable of fancying, upon some extraordinary circumstances,
that they see them, talk to them, and are answered by them, when, in
truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour in the thing; and they
really know nothing of the matter.

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any such
things as real apparitions, spectres, or walking 01' people after they are
dead, or whether there is any thing in the stories they tell us of that
kind, more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and wandering
fancies. But this I know, that my imagination worked up to such a
height, and brought me into such excess of vapours, or what else I may
call it, that I actually supposed myself oftentimes upon the spot, at my
old castle behind the trees, saw my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and
the reprobate sailors whom I left upon the island; nay, I fancied I
talked with them, and looked at them so steadily, though I was broad
awake, as at persons just before me ; and this I did till I often frightened
myself with the images my fancy represented to me. One time in my
sleep I had the villainy of the three pirate sailors so lively relatetkpo
me, by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was surprisiyg:
'they told me how they barbarously attempted to murder all the
Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions they had laid up, on
purpose to distress and starve them--things thatI had never' heard of,
and that were yet all of them true in fact; but it was so warm in my.
imagination, and so realised to me, that to the hour I saw them, I could!
not be persuaded but that it was or would be true; also how Iresented
it when the Spaniard complained to me, and how I brought them to
justice, tried them before me, and ordered them all three to .be hanged, ' deg
What there was really in this, shall be seen in its place; .for finger;
I came to form such things in my dream, and what secret converse?" "lid
spirits injected it, yet there was, I say, very much of it in PM? '-
 

that this dream had nothing literally and specifically true; but the
general part was so true. the base and villainous behaviour of these
three hardened rogues was such, and had been so much worse than all
I can describe, that the dream had too much similitudc of the fact; and
as I would afterwards have punished them severely, so if I had hanged
them all, I had been much in the right, and should have been justifiable
both by the laws of God and man. _

But to return to my story :--In this kind of temper I had lived some
years; I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable
diversion but what had something or other of this in it; so that my
wife, who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously
one night, that she believed there was some secret powerful impulse of
Providence upon me, which had determined me'to go thither again;
and that she found nothing hindered my going, but my being engaged
to a wife and children. She told me, that it was true she could not
think of parting with me; but as she was assured, that if she was dead
it would he the. first thingI would do; so, as it seemed to her that the
thing was determined above, she would not he the only obstruction; for
if I thought fit, and resolved to go Here she found me very intent
upon her words, and that I looked very earnestly at her; so that it a
little disordered her, and she stopped. I asked her why she did not
go on, and say out what she was going to say? but I perceived her heart
was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes: "Speak out, my dear,"
said I; "are. you willing I should go ?"--" No," says she, very affec-
tionately, "I am far from willing: but if you are resolved to go,"
says she, "and rather than I will be the only hindrance, I will go with
you ; for though I think it a preposterous thing for one of your years,
and'in your condition, yet if it must be," said she again, weeping, "I
won't leave you; for if it be of Heaven, you must do it, there is no
resisting it; and if Heaven makes it your duty to go, he will also
make it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I may
not obstruct it."

This afi'eetionate behaviour of my wife brought me a little out of the
vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing; I corrected my
wandering fancy, and began to argue with myself sedately, what busi-
ness I had, after threescore years, and after such a life of tedious
sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a manner,--
I say, what business had I to rush into new hazards, and put myself
upon adventures, fit only for youth and poverty to run into? .

With those thoughts, I considered my new engagementi that I had
a wife, one child born, and my wife then great with child of another;
that I had all the world could give me, and had no need to seek

 

___4.
 

hazards for gain; that I was declining in years, and ought to think
rather of leaving what I had gained, than of seeking to increase it;
that as to what my wife had said, of its being an iu'ipulse from Heaven,
and that it should be my duty to go, I had no notion of that: so after
many of these cogitations, I struggled with the power of my imagina-
tion, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people may always do in
like cases, if they will; and, in a word, I conquered it; composed my-
self with such arguments as occurred to my thoughts, and which my
present condition furnished me plentifully with; and particularly, as
the most effectual method, I resolved to divert myself with other
things, and to engage in some business that might efi'eetually tie me
up from any more excursions of this kind; for I found the thing return
upon me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or any thing of
moment immediately before me.

To this purpose I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, and
resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little convenient house
upon it, and the land about it I found was capable of great improve-
ment, and that it was many ways suited to my inclination, which do.
lighted in cultivating, managing. planting, and improving of land; and
particularly, being an inland country, I was removed from conversing
among ships, sailors, and things relating to the remote part of the
world.

In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought me
ploughs, barrows, a cart, wagon, horses, cows, sheep; and setting
seriously to work, became in one half year a mere country gentleman.
My thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my servants, culti-
vating the ground, enclosing, planting, Ste. ; and I lived, as I thought,
the most agreeable life that nature was capable of directing, or that a
man always bred to misfortunes was capable of being retreated to.

I farmed upon my own land--I had no rent to pay--was limited by
no articles--I could pull up or cut down as I pleased--what I planted
was for myself, and what I improved was for my family; and having
thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not the least discomfort
in any part of my life, as to this world. Now I thought, indeed, that
I enjoyed the middle state of life, which my father so earnestly recom-
mended to me--a kind of heavenly life, something like what is."
scribed by the poet upon the subject of a country life: .

Free from vices, free from'care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare.

But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unforeseen W ,e ,
vidence unhinged me at once, and not only made a breach npoli mg .'. _
inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its conseqhenee,-upon'-'"e'-. .1- ,

Va! ,

 
 

"'v
we:
 

 

deep relapse into the wandering disposition; which, as I may say,
being born in my very blood, soon recovered its hold of me, and, like
the returns of a violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force
upon me; so that nothing could make any more impression upon me.
This blow was the loss of my wife.

It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, to giro
a character of her particular virtues, and make my court to the sex by
the flattery of a- funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay
of all my afl'airs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine that, by
her prudence, reduced me to that happy compass I was in, from the
most extravagant and ruinous project that fluttered in my head as
above; and did more to guide my 1ambling genius, than a mother' s
tears, a father' s instructions, a friend's counsel, or "lg/{gown reason-
ing powers could do. I was happy in listening to he'r' tears, and in
being moved by her entreatios, and, to the last degree,desolate and
dislocated' 1n the world by the loss of her.

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me; I was as
much a stranger in it in my thoughts as I was in the Brazils when I
'went first on shore there, and as much alone, except as to the assistance
of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither what to do or what
"not to do; I saw the world busy round me, one part labouring for bread,
and the other part squandering in vile excesses, or empty pleasures
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still fled from them;
for the men of pleasure every day Surfeited of their vice, and heaped
up wmk for sorrow and repentance, and the men of labour spent their
strength in daily strugglings for bread to maintain the vital strength
they laboured with; so living' 1n a daily circulation of sorrow--living but -
to w,ork and working but to live, as if daily bread were the only end of
a wearisome life, and a wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom the island,
where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I did not want it, and
bred no more goats, because I had no more use for them--where the
money lay in the drawer till it grew mildewed, and had scarce the
favour to be looked upon in twenty years.

All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have done, and
as reason and religion had dictated to me, would have taught me to
search further than human enjoyments for a full felicity, and that there
was something which certainly was the reason and end of l1fe,snper10r
to all these things,a and which was either to he possessed, or at least
hoped for, on this side the grave. "and" '

But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without a pilot,
thSS could only run before the wind, my thoughts ran all away again
___--_--_----------------------

into the old affair, my head was quite turned with the whimsies of
foreign adventures; and all the pleasing innocent amusements of my
farm and my garden, my cattle and my family, which before entirely.
possessed me, were nothing to me, had no relish, and were like music to
one that has no ear, or food to one that has no taste: in a word, I
resolved to leave of housekeeping, let my farm, and return to London;
and in a few months after I did so.

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as before: I had no
relish to the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but to saunter
about like an idle person, of whom it may be said, he is perfectly
useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing matter to the rest
of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was the thing which,
of all circumstances of life, was the most my aversion, who had been all
my days used to an active life; and I would often say to myself, " A
state of idleness is the very dregs of life :" and indeed I thought I was
much more suitably employed, when I was twenty-six days making me
a deal board.

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, whom, as
I observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and had made him cou'i-'
mandcr of a ship, was come home from a short voyage to Bilboa, being
the first he had made. He came to me, and told me, that some mer-
chants of his acquaintance had been proposing to him to go a voyage
for them to the East Indies and to China, as private traders: " And
now, uncle," says he, "if you will go to sea with me, I'll engage to
land you upon your old habitation in the island, for we are to touch at
the Brazils."

Nothing can he a greater demonstration of a" future state, and of the
existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of second causes
with the ideas of things which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved
and not communicated to any in the world.

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was

. returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his thoughts
to say, when that very morning, before he came to me, I had, in a great
deal of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of my circum-
stances in my mind, come to this resolution, namely, that I would go
to Lisbon and consult with my old sea'oaptain; and so, if it was rational
and practicable, I would go and see the island again, and see what was
become of my people there. I had pleased myself also with the
thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying inhabitants from hues,
getting a patent for the possession, and I know not what; when,vih the >>
middle of all this,in comes my nephew, is I have said,-with his project

of carrying me thither, in his way to-ths .East Indies.
 

 

I paused a while at his words, and, looking steadily at him, " What
devil," said I, "sent you of this unlucky errand?" My nephew stared,
,as if he had been frighted, at first; but perceiving I was not much
displeased with the proposal, he recovered himself. " I hope it may
not be an unlucky proposal, sir," says he; " I dare say you would be

pleased to see your new colony there, where you once reigned with
more felicity than most of our brother monarchs in the world."

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say,
with the prepossession I was under, and of which I have said so much,
that I told him in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I
would go with him; but I told him I would not promise to go any far-
ther than my own island. " Why, sir," says he, "you don't want to
he left there again, I hope ?"--" Why," said I, " can you not take me
up again in your return ?"--He told me, it could not be possible that
the merchants would allow him to come that way with a loaden ship
of such value, it being a month's sail out of his way, and might be
three or four: " besides, sir, if I should miscarry," said he, " and not
return at all, then you would be justreduced to the condition you were
in before."

This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for it,
which was to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which, being
taken in pieces and shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of
some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up again in
the island and finished, fit to go to sea in a few days.

I was not long resolving , for indeed the importunities of my
nephew joined in so efi'ectually with my inclination, that nothing
could oppose me: on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had no-
body c'oncerned themselves so much for me as to persuade me one way
or other, except my ancient good friend the widow, who earnestly
struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circumstances, and
the needless hazard of a long. voyage, and, above all, my young chil-
dren: but it was all to no purpose; I had an irresistible desire to the .
voyage, and I told her, I thought there was something so uncommon
in the impressions I had upon my mind for the voyage, that it would
be a kind of resisting Providence if I should attempt to stay at home;
after which she ceased her expostulations, and joined with me, not
only in making provision for my voyage, but also in settling my family
affairs in my absence, and providing for the education of my children.

In order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in
such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands that I was
perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them what-
ever might befall me; and for their education, I left it wholly to my. V': . '.

or nosmsou causes. ~ ' 299

 

widow, with a suflicient maintenance to herself for her care; all which
she richly deserved, for no mother could have taken more care in their
education, or understood it better; and as she lived till Icame home,
I also lived to thank her for it. x v

My nephew was ready to sail. about the beginning>> of January,
1694--5, and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the powns the
eighth, haiing, besides that sloop which I mentioned abovfiiivery
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my
which, if I did not find 1n good condition, I resolved to leave so \

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to place
there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon my own _
account while I stayed, and either to leave them there, or carry them , '
forward, as they should appear willing; particularly, I carried two
carpenters, a smith, and a very handy, ingenious. fellow, who was
a cooper by trade, but was also a general mechanic; for he was dex-
terous at making wheels and hand-mills to grind corn, was a good
turner, and a good pot-maker; he also made any thing that was pro-
per to make of earth or of wood: in a word, we called him our Jack
of all trades.

With these, I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go passen-
ger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards consented to
stay on our new plantation, and proved a most necessary handy fel-
low as could be desired, in many other businesses besides that of his
trade, for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employ-
ments.

My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept an account
of the particulars, consisted of a suflicient quantity of linen, and
some thin English stufl's for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to
find there, and enough of them as, by my calculation, might comfort-
ably supply them for seven years. If I remember right, the mate-
rials which I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, 5M": stock-
ings, and all such things as they could want for wearing,'Emounted
to above two hundred pounds, including some beds, 19th " .
household stuff, particularly kitchen utensils, with pets, kettles,"EURpewE -
tcr, brass, &c., besides near a hundred pounds more in ironwork, nails,
tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing ;' '
I could think of. w .

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and' fusees, besides
some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three br four
. tons of lead, and two pieces of brass cannon, and because I knew not
what time and what extremities I was providing for, I carried a bum,
dred barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and flu) iron part of.

' 7
_____----_------------------------

some pikcs and halberts; so that, in short, we had a large magazine
of all sorts of stores; and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-
deck guns more than he wanted for his ship, to leave behind if there
was occasion; that when they came there we might build a fort, and '
man it against all sorts of enemies: and indeed I at first thought there-
would be need enough of it all, and much more, if we hoped to main-
tain our possession of the island, as shall be seen in the course of the
story.

I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to meet
with : and therefore shall have the less occasion to interrupt the reader,
who perhaps may be impatient to hear how matters went with my
colony; yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather, hap.
pened on this first setting out, which made the voyage longer than I
expected it at first; and I, who had never made but one voyage, namely,
my first voyage to Guinea, in which I might be said to come back
again as the voyage was at first designed, began to think the same ill
fate still attended me; that I was born never to be contented with
being on shore, and yet to be always unfortunate at sea.

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were obliged
to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound two-and-
thirty days: but we had this satisfaction with the disaster, that provi-
sions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty; so that
while we lay here we never touched the ship's stores, but rather added
to them. Here also I took several hogs, and two cows with their calves,
which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore in my island,
but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.

We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days; as I remember, it might be about the
20th of February, in the evening late, when the mate having the watch,
came into the round house, and told us he saw a flash of fire; and
heard a gun fired; and while he was telling us of it, a boy came in,
and told us the boatswain heard another. This made us all run out
upon the quarter-deck, where for a. while we heard nothing, but in a
few minutes we saw a very great light, and found that there was some
very terrible fire at a distance. Immediately we had recourse to our
reckonings, in which we all agreed that there could be no land that
.way in which the fire showed itselfeno, not for five hundred leagues,
for it appeared at west-north-west. Upon this we concluded it must
be some ship on fire at sea; and, as by our hearing the noise of guns
just before we concluded it could not be far of, we stood directly to-
wards it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it, because
the farther we sailed the greater the light appeared, though the web
__--___--__----------_

ther being hazy we could not perceive any thing but the light for a
while. In about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair for us,
though not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little, we could
plainly discern it was a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it; I presently recollected my
former circumstances, in what condition I was in when taken up by
the Portugal captain ; and how much more deplorable the circumstances
of the poor creatures belonging to this ship must be if they had no
other ship in company with them: upon this I immediately ordered
that five guns should be fired, one soon after another, that, if possible,
we might give notice to them that there was help for them at hand,
and that they might endeavour to save themselves in their boat; for
though we could see the flame in the ship, yet they, it being night,
could see nothing of us.

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship
drove, waiting for daylight; when on a sudden, to our great terror,
though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air, and
immediately sunk. This was terrible, and indeed an afilicting sight,
for the sake of the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their boats in the
middle of the ocean, which, at present, by reason it was dark, I could
not see: however, to direct them as well as I could, I caused lights to
be hung out in all the parts of the ship where we could, and which we
had lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the night long; letting them
know by this, that there was a. ship not far off. '

About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boats,
by the help of our perspective glasses; and found there were two of
them, both thronged with people, and deep in the water; we perceived
they rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw our ship, and
did the utmost to make us see them.

We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw them;
and hung a wait out, as a signal for them to come on board; and then
made more sail, standing directly to them. In a little more than
half an hour we came up with them, and in a word took them all in,
being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for there
were a great many passengers.

Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant ship of three
hundred tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us a long mount of the distress of his ship, how the

"Wu-- ref"

A" (153%.); \ 4

fire began in the steerage by the negligence of the steersman; but,'onj'. g
his crying out for. help, was, as everybody thought, entirely got out", '
 

but they soon found that some sparks of the first fire had gotten into
some part of the ship, so difiicult to come at, that they could not
effectually quench it; and afterwards getting in between the timbers,
and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and
mastered all the skill and all the application they were able to exert.

They had no more to do then but to get into their boats, which, to
their great comfort, were pretty large; being their long-boat, and a
great sliallop, besides a small skifi', which was of no great service to
them, other than to get some fresh water and provisions into her, after
they had secured themselves from the fire. They had indeed small
hope of their lives by getting into these boats at that distance from
any land; only, as they said well, that they were escaped from the
fire, and had a. possibility that some ship might happen to be at sea,
and might take them in. They had sails, ears, and a compass; and
were preparing to make the best of their way to Newfoundland, the
wind blowing pretty fair; for it blew an easy gale at soutli-east~by-
east. They had as much provisions and water, as, with sparing it so
as to be next door to starving, might support them about twelve days;
in which, if they had no bad weather, and no contrary winds, the cap-
tain said, he hoped he might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and
might perhaps take some fish to sustain them till they might go on
shore. But there were so many chances against them in all these
cases ; such as storms to orerset and founder them; rains and cold to
benumb and perish their limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and
starve them; that it must have been next to miraculous if they had
escaped.

In the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless, and
ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told me, they
were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire, and
after that four more; these were the five guns which I caused to be
fired at first seeing the light: this revived their hearts, and gave them
the notice which, as above, I designed it should, namely, that there
was a ship at hand for their help.

It was upon the hearing these guns, that they took down their masts
and sails; and the sound coming from windward, they resolved to lie
by till morning. Some time after this, hearing no more guns, they
fired three muskets, one a considerable while after another; but these,
the wind being contrary, we never heard.

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably surprised
with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns, which, as I have said, I
caused to be fired all the rest of the night: this set them to work with
their ours to keep their boats ahead, at least that we might the soonermay. v. u-nlrr.

 

or aoamson causes. 808.

 

come up with them; and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they found
we saw them.

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange
ecstasies, the variety of postures, which these poor delivered people
ran into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliver-
ance. ' Grief and fear are easily described,--sighs, tears, groans, and
a very few motions of head and hands, make up the sum of its variety;
but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand extravagances
in it; there were some in tears, some raging and tearing themselves,
as if they had been in the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark
raving and downright lunatic; some ran about the ship stamping with
their feet, others wringing their hands; some were dancing, several
singing, some laughing, more crying; many quite dumb, not able to
speak a word; others sick and vomiting, several swooning, and ready
to faint; and a few were crossing themselves and giving God thanks._

I would not wrong them neither,--there might be many that were
thankful afterward; but the passion was too strong for them at first,
and they were not able to master it: they were thrown into ecstasies
and a kind of frenzy, and so there were but a very few who were com-
posed and serious in their joy.

Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it, from the par
ticular circumstance of the nation they belonged to,--I mean the
French, whose temper is allowed to he more volatile, more passionate,
and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than of other nations.
I am not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but nothing I had
ever seen before came up to it; the 'ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty
savage, was in, when he found his father in the boat, came the nearest
to it; and the surprise of the master and his two companions, whom
I delivered from the villains that set them on shore on the island,
came a little way towards it; but nothing was to compare to this,
either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere else in my life.

It is further observable, that these extravagances did not show them-
selves in that difi'erent manner I have mentioned, in different persons
only; but all the variety would appear in a short succession of
moments, in one and the same person. A man that we saw this minute
dumb, and as it were stupid and confounded, should the next minute
be dancing and hallooing like an antic; and the next moment a-tearing
his hair, or pulling his clothes to pieces, and stampingrt'hem under'his
feet like a madman; a few minutes after that, we should? havle him all
in tears, then sick, then swooning; and had not immediatsfhelp been ,
had, would in a few moments more have been dead; and thus it wag:
not with one or two,- or ten or twenty, but with the greatest parts;
 

 

them; and, if I remember right, our surgeon was obliged to let above
thirty of them blood.

There were two priests among them, one an old man, and the other
a young man; and that which was strangest was, that the oldest man
was the worst.

As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself safe,
he dropped down'stone dead, to all appearance ; not the least sign of
life could be perceived in him. Our surgeon immediately applied
proper remedies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship that
believed he was not dead; and at length he opened a vein in his arm,
having first chafed and rubbed the part, so as to warm it as much as
possible; upon this, the blood, which only dropped at first, flowed
something freely; in three minutes after, the man opened his eyes;
and about a quarter of an hour after that, he spoke, grew better, and,
in a little time, quite well. After the blood was stopped, he walked
about, told us he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial which the
surgeon gave him, and was, what we called, come to himself. About
a quarter of an hour after this they came running into the cabin to the
surgeon, who was bleeding a Frenchwoman that had fainted, and told
him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve
the change of his circumstances in his mind, and this put him into an
ecstasy of joy; his spirits whirled about faster than the vessels could
convey them; the blood grew hot and feverish, and the man was as fit
for bedlam as any creature that ever was in it: the surgeon would not
bleed him again in that condition, but gave him something to doze and
put him to sleep, which, after some time, operated upon him, and he
waked next morning perfectly composed and well.

The younger priest behaved himself with great command of his
passion, and was really an example of a serious, well-governed mind.
At his first coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his face,
prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance; in which 1
unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really thinking he had been
in a swoon: but he spoke calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving
God thanks for his deliverance, begged me to leave him a few moments,
and that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks also.

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him, but
kept others from interrupting him also: he continued in that posture
about three minutes, or a little more, after I left him, then came to me,
as he had said he would, and with a great deal of seriousness and afi'ec-
tion, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me that he had, under God,
given him and so many miserable creatures their lives. I told him I
had no room to move him to thank God for it rather than me; for I
had seen that he had done that already: but I added, that it was
nothing but what reason and humanity dictated to all men, and that we
had as much reason as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so
far as to make us the instruments of his mercy to many of his crea-
tures.

After this the young priest applied himself to his country folks;
laboured to compose them; persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with
them, and did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of their
reason; and with some he had success, though others were, for a time,
out of all government of themselves.

I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps it may be use-
ful to those into whose hands it may fall, in the guiding themselves in
all the extravagances of their passions; for if an excess of joy can
carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason, what
will not the cxtravagances of anger, rage, and a provoked mind carry
us to? And, indeed, here I saw reason for keeping an exceeding watch
over our passions of every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction,
as those of sorrow and anger.

We were something disordered by these extravagances among our
new guests for the first day; but when they had been retired, lodgings
provided for them all as well as our ship would allow, and they had
slept heartily, as most of them did, being fatigued and frightened, they.
were quite another sort of people the next day. '

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kindness
shown them, was wanting; the French, it is known, are naturally apt
enough to exceed that way. The captain and one of the priests came
to me the next day, and, desiring to speak with me and my nephew,
the commander began to consult with us what should be done with them ;
and, first,.they told us, that as we had saved their lives, so all they had
was little enough for a return to us for the kindness received. The
captain said, they had saved some money, and some things of value in
their boats, catched hastily out of the flames; and if we would accept
it, they were ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only desired
to be set on shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they might.
get a passage to France.

My nephew was for accepting their money at first word, andto con-

 

sider what to do with them afterwards: but I overruled him in that .. 1 '_

part; for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange 'eoiin'tryi
and if the Portugal captain that took me up at sea had served-nie- so;
and took all I had for my deliverance, I must have started, '95-'13 "
been asmuch a slave at the Brazils asI had been at Farm
sold to a Mohammedan only excepted; and perhaps'iky,

20 ' =' 1v

'1, 73:; "
 

is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, a much
worse.

I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them up in
their distress, it was true; but that it was our duty to do so, as we
were fellow-creatures, and as we would desire to be so delivered, if we
were in the like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing for
them but what we believed they would have done for us, if we had been
in their case and they in ours; but that we took them up to serve them,
not to plunder them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing, to
take that little from them which they had saved out of the fire, and
then set them on shore and leave them; that this would be first to save
them from death, and then kill them ourselves; save them from drown-
ing, and then abandon them to starving; and therefore I would not let
the least thing be taken from them. As to setting them on shore, I
told them, indeed, that was an exceeding difficulty to us, for that the
ship was bound to the East Indies; and though we were driven out of
our course to the westward a very great way, which perhaps was directed
by Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impossible for
us wilfully to change our voyage on this particular account; nor could
my nephew, the captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he was
under charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way of Brazil; and all
I knew he could do for them was, to put ourselves in the way of meet-
ing with other ships homeward bound from the West Indies, and get
them passage, if possible, to England or France.

The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they could
not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a great consternation,
especially the passengers, at the notion of being carried away to the
East Indies: they then entreated me, that seeing I was driven so far
to the westward before I'met with them, I would at least keep on the
same course to the banks of Newfoundland, where it was possible I
might meet with some ship or sleep that they might hire to carry them
back to Canada, from whence they came.

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and there-
fore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed I considered, that to carry
this whole company to the East Indies would not only be an intolerable
severity to the poor people, but would be ruining our whole voyage, by
devouring all our provisions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party,
but what an unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us, and
in which no one could say we were to blame; for the laws of God and
nature would have forbid, that we should refuse to take up two boats
full of people in such a distressed condition; and the nature of the
thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to see0P ROBINSON CRUSOB. 307

____________--_------_-----------

them on shore somewhere or other, for their deliverance; so I eon-
sented that we would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather
would permit; and, if not, that I would carry them to Martinico, in
the West Indies.

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good ; and
as it had blowcd continually in the points between north-east andsouth-
cast a long time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to
France; for we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two were

French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been so longheating up .

against the wind, that they durst take in no passengers for fear of
wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for themselves as for those
they should take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week after this, that we made the banks of Newfoundland, where, to
shorten my story, we put all our French people on board a hark, which
they hired at sea there, to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry
them to France, if they could get provisions to victual themselves with:

when I say all the French went on shore, I should remember that the '

young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies,
desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the coast
of Coromandel : I readily agreed to that; for I wonderfully liked the man,
and had very good reason, as will appear afterwards; also four of the
seamen entered themselves in our ship, and proved very useful fellows.

 

CHAPTER II.

Steer for the West Indies--Dietessing Account of I Bristol Ship, the Crewof which we
save in a state of Starvation--Arrive st my Island--Friday's joy on discovering ib--
Afl'ecting interview betwixt him and his Father on lending-Narrative of the Oscar
rences on the Island during my absence.

FROM hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering
away south and south-hy-east, for about twenty days together, some-
times little or no wind at all, when we met with another subject for"
our humanitylto work upon, almost as deplorable as that before;

It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north, " '>>
and the 19th day of March, 1684--5, when we espied a amour-course '

south'eaSt'Wd'bY'Wuth- We soon perceived it was a'lar'ge vessel-'1',

that she bore'npto us; but could not at first know WM;fomaEe-of
her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found she' hail???" Mm
topmast,=',foremast, and bowspfihv'andpresently She mi 'gfil ,

"are hit.
 

signal of distress. The weather was pretty good, wind at north-north-
west, a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak with her.

We found her a ship of Bristol bound home from Barbadoes, but
had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes, a few days before she
was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief
mate were both gone on share; so that, beside the terror of the
storm, they were but in an indifl'erent case for good artists to bring
the ship home. They had been already nine weeks at sea, and had
met with another terrible storm after the hurricane was over, which
had blown them quite out of their knowledge to the westward, and in
which they had lost their masts, as above; they told us, they expected
to have seen the Bahama Islands, but were then driven away again to
the south-east by a strong gale of wind at north-north-west, the same
that blew now, and having no sails to work the ship with, but a main-
eourse, and a kind of square sail upon a jury~foremast, which they had
set up, they could not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to
stand away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone; their
bread and flesh was quite gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship,
and had had none for eleven days; the only relief they had was, their
water was not all spent, and they had about half a barrel of flour left;
they had sugar enough; some succades, or sweetmeats, they had at
first, but they were devoured; and they had seven casks of rum.

There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant on board,
who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail,
unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane began;
and, having no provisions of their own left, they were in a more
deplorable condition than the rest; for the seamen, being reduced to
such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may be
sure, for the poor passengers: and they were indeed in a condition
that their misery is very hard to describe.

I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led me,
the weather being fair, and the wind abated, to go on board the ship:
the second mate, who, upon this occasion commanded the ship, had
been on board our ship; and he told me indeed, that they had three
passengers in the great cabin, and that they were in a deplorable con-
dition: "Nay," says he, "I believe they are dead, for I have heard
nothing of them for above two days; and I was afraid to inquire after
them," said be, "for I had nothing to relieve them with."

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we could
spare; and indeed I had so far overruled things with my nephew, that
 

I would have victualled them, though we had gone away to Virginia,
or any part of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves: but
there was no necessity for that.

But now they were in a new danger, for they were afraid of eating
too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate, or commander,

brought six men with him in his boat, but these poor wretches looked .

like skeletons, and were so weak, they could hardly sit to their oars;
the mate himself was very ill, and half starved, for he declared he had
reserved nothing from the men, and went share and share alike with
them in every bit they ate.

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him immediately,
and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be sick and
out of order; so he stopped a while, and our surgeon mixed him up

something with some broth, which he said would be to him both food .

and physic, and after he had taken it, he grew better. In the mean-
time I forgot not the men: I ordered victuals to be given them, and
the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it; they were so exceed-
ing hungry that they were in a manner ravenous, and had no command
of themselves; and two of them ate with so much greediness, that they
we1e in danger of their lives the next morning.

The sight of these people' s distress was very moving to me, and
brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my first coming
on shore in my island, where I had not the least mouthful of food, or
any hopes of procuring it; besides the hourly apprehension I had of
being made the food of other creatures. But all the while the mate
was thus relating to me the miserable condition of the ship's company,
I could not put out of my thought the story he had told me of the
three poor creatures in the great cabin; namely, the mother, her son,
and the maid-servant, whom he had heard nothing of for two or three
days, and whom he seemed to confess they had wholly neglected, their

own extremities being so great: by ,which I understood, that they had'

really given them no food at all, and that therefore they must be

perished, and be all lying dead perhaps on the floor or deck of the
cabin.

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board
with his men to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew
that were left on board, but ordered my own boat to go on board the
ship, and with my mate and twelve men to carry them a sack of bread,

and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our sufgeon charged the men
to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard. "

the cook-room, to prevent the men' s taking it to eat raw," or tqking
out of the pot before it was well boiled, and then to give every

:3.54:

310 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

 

but a little at a time; and by this caution be preserved the men, who
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very food that was
given them on purpose to save their lives.

At the same time I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin, and
see what condition the poor passengers were in, and, if they were
alive, to comfort them and give them what refreshment was proper;
and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher with some of the prepared
broth which he had given the mate that was on board, and which he did
not question would restore them gradually. .

I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above, having a great
mind to see the scene of misery, which I knew the ship itself would
present me with in a more lively manner than I could have it by report,
I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and
went myself a little after in their boat.

I found the. poor men on board almost in a tumult to get the victnals
out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate observed his order,
and kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the men he placed
there, after using all possible persuasion to have patience, kept them
off by force: however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped in
the pot, and softened them with the liquor of the meat, which they call
brewis, and gave every one one, to stay their stomachs, and told them
it was for their own safety that he was obliged to give them but little
at a time. But it was all in vain, and had I not come on board, and
their own commander and ofiicers with me, and with good words, and
some threats also of giving them no more, I believe they would have
broke into the cook-room by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace;
for words indeed are of a very small force to a hungry belly: how-
ever, we pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for the
first time, and the next time gave them more, and at last filled their
bellies, and the men did well enough.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, first, the ship's company had
so little for themselves, it was but too true that they had at first kept
chem very low, and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or
seven days, it might be said, they had really had no food at all, and
for several days before, very little.

The poor mother, who, as the first mate reported, was a woman of
good sense and good breeding, had spared all she could get so affec-
tionately for her son, that at last she entirely sunk under it; and when
the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her
back up against the sides, between two chairs, which were lashed fin-it,
and her head sunk in between her shoulders, like a corpse, though not
 

quite (lead. My mate said all he could to revive and encourage her,
and with a spoon put some broth into her mouth; she opened her lips,
and lifted up one hand, but could not speak; yet she understood what
he said, and made signs to him, intimating, that it was too late for her;
but pointed to her child, as if she would have said, they should take '
care of him.

However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the sight, .
endeavoured to get some of the broth into her mouth; and, .as he said,
get. two or three spoonfuls down, though I question whether he could be
sure of it or not; but it was too late, and she died the same night.

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate
mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin bed as one
stretched out, with hardly any life left in him: he had a piece of an old
glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it: however, being
young, and having more strength than his mother, the mate got some-
thing down his throat, and he began sensibly to revive, though, by
giving him some time after but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary,
he was very sick, and brought it up again.

But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along upon the
deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down
with an apoplexy, and struggled for life: her limbs were distorted, one
of her hands was clasped round the frame of one chair, and she griped
it so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go; her other arm
lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set fast against the
frame of the cabin table: in short, she layjust like one in the last
agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.

The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and terrified
with the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was
broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying two or three days
before, and whom she loved most tenderly.

We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when our surgeon,
who was a man of very great knowledge and experience, a'nd with great,
application recovered her as to life, he had her upon his hand as to

her senses; for she was little less than distracted for a considerable
time after, as shall appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandums, must be desired to consider
that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country, where some- _
times people stay a week or a fortnight at a place. Our business was -,.
to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but no. lie by for them; and

 

though they werewilling to steer the same course withus for'some'days, >> 'I' '.

'yet we could carry no sail to keep pace with s shipfisthsd no masts;
however, as their captain begged of us to help W "set upismsiiii'f.
 

 

topniast, and a kind of top-mast to his jury-foremast, we did, as it
were, lie by him for three or four days, and then, having given him five
barrels of beef and pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion
of pease, flour, and what 'other things we could spare, and taking three
easks of sugar and some rum, and some pieces of eight, of them for
satisfaction, we left them, taking on board with us, at their own earnest
request, the youth and the maid, and all their goods.

The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty, well-bred,
modest, and sensible youth; greatly dejected with the loss of his mother,
and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months before at Barba-
does. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me to take him out of
the ship, for he said the cruel fellows had murdered his mother: and
indeed so they had, that is to say, passively; for they might have
spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have
preserved her life, though it had been just to keep her alive. But
hunger knows no fricnd,_no relation, no justice, no right; and there-
fore is remorseless, and capable of no compassion. V

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how it would carry
him away from all his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad circum-
stances, almost, as we found them in; that is to say, starving in the
world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if he was but
delivered from the terrible crew that he was among; that the captain
(by which he meant me, for he could know nothing of my nephew) had
saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt him; and as for the
maid, he was sure if she came to herself, she would be very thankful
for it, let us carry them whither we would. The surgeon represented
the case so affectionately to me, that I yielded, and we took them both
on board with all their goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which
could not be removed or come at; and as the youth had a bill of lading
for them, I made his commander sign a writing, obliging him to go, as
soon as he came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to
whom the youth said he was related, and to deliver a letter which I
wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow:
which I suppose was not done; for I could never learn that the ship
came to Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea, being in so
disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I am of opinion,
the first storm she met with afterwards she might founder in the sea;
for she was leaky, and had damage in her hold when I met with her.

I was now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-two minutes,
and had hitherto had a'tolerable voyage as to weather, though at hm
the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c. on the rest of our voyage;
 

 

but shortening my story for the sake of what is to follow, shall observe,
that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th of April,
1695. It was with no, small difliculty that I found the place: for as I
came to it, and went from it before, on the south and east side of the.
island, as coming from the Brazils; so now coming in between the
main and the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor any laid-
mark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether I saw it .
or no.

We heat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands
in the mouth of the great river Oroonoque, but none for my purpose:
only this I learned by my coasting the shore, that I was under one great
mistake before, namely, that the continent which I thought I saw from
the island I lived in, was really no continent, but a long island, or
rather a ridge of islands, reaching from one to the other side of the
extended mouth of that great river; and that the savages who came to
my island were not properly those which we call Caribbees, but islanders,
and other barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something nearer
to our side than the rest. .

In short, I visited several of . the islands to no purpose; some I
found were inhabited, and some were not. On one of themI found
some Spaniards, and thought they had lived there; but, speaking with
them, found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, and that
they came thither to make salt, and catch some pearl mussels, if they
could; but they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay farther
north, in the latitude of ten and eleven degrees.

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship,
sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop (which we had found a conve-
nient boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will), at length
I came fair on the south side of my island, and I presently knew the
very countenance of the place; so I brought the ship safe to an anchor
broadside with the little creek, where was my old habitation,

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him if he
knew where he was? He looked about a little, and presently clapping
his hands, cried, " Oh, yes! Oh, there! Oh, yes! Oh, there !" point-
ing toour old habitation, and fell a dancing and eapering like a mad
fellow, and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to
swim ashore to the place. ' i

" Well, Friday," said I, " do you think we shall find anybody here,
or no? and what do you think, shall we see your; father ?" The fellow
stood mute as a stock a good while; but when I named hisfather, the
poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could see the tears

run down his face very plentifully. "What is the matter. Friday?"

0
said I; are you troubled because you may see your father ?"--" No,
no !" says he. shaking his head, "no see him more, no ever more see
again !" "Why so," said I, " Friday? how do you know that ?"---
"Oh, no! 011, no !" says Friday, "he long ago die, long ago be much
old man."-----" Well, well," said I, "Friday you don't know: but shall
we see any one else then ?" The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than
I. and he points just. to the hill above my old house; and though we
lay hall' a. league off, he cries out, " Me see! me see! yes, yes' me

sucu much man there, and there, and there." I looked, but I could
see nobody--no, not with a perspective glass; which was, I suppose,
because l could not hit. the place: for the fellow was right, as I found,
upon inquiry the next. day, and there were live or six men all together
stood to look at the ship, not knowing what. to think of us.

As soon as Friday had told me. he saw people, I caused me English
ancient to he spread, and tired three guns, to give them notice we were
friends; and about half a. quarter of an hour after, we perceived a
smoke rise from the side of the creek: so I immediately ordered a
boat out, taking Friday with me; and hanging out a. white llag, or a
flag of truce, I went directly on shore, taking with me the young friar
I mentioned, to whom I had told the whole story of my living there,
and the manner of it, and every particular both of myself and those
that 1 left there, and who was on that account extremely desirous to
go with me. We had besides about sixteen men very well armed, if
We had found any new guest there which we did not. know of; but we
had no need of weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood near high water, we
rowed directly into the creek; and the first man I fixed my eye upon
was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and wholu I knew by his
face perfectly well; as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. I
ordered nobody to go on shore at first but myself; hilt. there was no
keeping Friday in the boat; for the affectionate creature had spied his
father at a distance, a good way elf of the Spaniards, where indeed I
saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go on shore, he
would hare jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he
flew away to his father like an arrow out of a bow. It would have
made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have
seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy, when he came to his
father; how he end) 'aced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him
up in his arms, set him down upon a. tree, and lay down by him; then
stood and looked at him as any one would look at a strange picture,
for a. quarter of an hour together; then lay down upon the groom],
and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got up agaiu,'u.nrlCRUSOE WELCOMED BY THE SPANIARD. 315
 

 

stared at him; one would have thought the fellow bewitched. But it
would have made a dog laugh to see how the next day his passion run
out another way: in the morning he walked along the shore, to and
again, with his father, several hours, alvays leading him by the hand
as if he had been a lady; and every now and then would come to fetch
something or other for him from the boat, either a lump of sugar, or
a drum, a biscuit, or something or other that was good. In the after-
noon his frolies ran another way; for then he would set the old man
down upon the ground, and dance about him, and made a thousand
antic postures and gestures; and all the while he did this he would be
talking to him, and telling him one story or another of his travels, and
of what had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the
same filial affection was to be found in Christians to their parents in
our parts of the world, one would be tempted to say there hardly
would have been any need of the fifth commamlmcnt.

But this is a digression,--l return to my landing. It would be
endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the
Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard, whom, as 1 said, I
knew very well, was he whose life 1 saved: he came towards the boat,
attended by one more, carrying a flag of truce also; and he did not
only not know me at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion, of its
being me that was come, till 1 spoke to him. " Seignior," said I, in
Portuguese, " do you not know me '3" At which he spoke not a word;
but giving his musket to the man that was with him, threw his arms
abroad, and saying something in Spanish that 1 did not perfectly
hear, came forward and embraced me, telling me, he was inexcusable
not to know that face again that he had once seen, as of an angel from
heaven sent to save his life: he said abundance of very handsome
things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how; and then, beckon-
ing to -tho person that attended him, bade 'him go and call out his
comrades. 110 then asked me if 1 would walk to my old habitation,
where he would give me possession of my own house again, and where
1 should see there had been but mean improvements. So I walked
along with him; but, alas! I could no more find the place again than
if 1 had never been theri: for they had planted so many trees, and
placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one another, in
ten years time they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was
inaccessible, except by such windings and blind ways as they them-
selves only who madc them could find.

I asked them, what put them upon all these fortifications? He told
me, I would say there was need enough of it, when they had given an
account how they had passed their time since their arriving in tho_ 'nguxnjmvgg
.
' . 2'."

or nonissos causes. 81'!

 

 

island, especially after they had the misfortune to find that I was
gone: he told me he could not but have some satisfaction in my good
fortune, when he heard that I was gone in a good ship, and to my
satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes a strong persuasion, that one
time or other he should see me again: but nothing that ever befell him
in his life, he said, was so surprising and afflicting to him at first, as
the disappointment he was under when he came back to the island,
and found I was not there.

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left behind,
and of whom he said he had a long story to tell me, the Spaniards all
thought themselves much better among the savages--only that their
number was so small. " And," says he, " had they been strong enough,
we had been all long ago in purgatory;" and with that he crossed
himself upon the breast. "But, sir," says he, ".I hope you will not
be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by necessity, we were
obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm them, and make them our
subjects, who would not be content with being moderately our masters,
but would be our murderers." I answered, " I was heartily afraid of
it when I left them there; and nothing troubled me at my parting
from the island, but that they were not come back, that I might have
put them in possession of every thing first, and left the other in a
state of subjection, as they deserved: but if they had reduced them
to it, I was very glad, and should be very far from finding any fault
with it, for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungovernable
villains, and were fit for any manner of mischief."

While I was saying this, came the man whom he had sent back, and
with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it was impos-
sible to guess what nation they were of; but he made all clear, both
to them and to me. First, he turned to me, and, pointing to they, K
said, " These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives-to
you," and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let them
know who I was; upon which they all came up one by one, not as if
they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and I the like ; but really
as if they had been ambassadors or nobleman, and I a monarch or a
great conqueror: their behaviour was to the last degree obliging and
courteous, and 'yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which very
well became them: and, in short, they had so much more manners
than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their civilitiu, much less
how to return them in kind.

The history of their coming to, and conduct in the island afier my
going away, is so remarkable, and has so many incidents, which the
former part of myrelation will help to understand, and which will, in-V T, 3 '
' - .'. 15:),m- x. '
w.' *\\? ~. \N\_\Y==~. 14C/ ,, .
.<< ~ e-kgfiSS\SS'SSs:SS ~ '
p' . .-\I v :t > ' '

. mm 55'
b : , '1'\ st}

(.xe

 

818 THE SPANIARD INTRODUCING CRUSOE.
 

most of the particulars, refer to that account I have already given,
that I cannot but commit them, with great delight, to the reading of
those that come after me.

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first per-
son, which will put me to the expense often thousand "Said 1's,"
and " Said he's," and " He told me's," and "I told him's," and the
like; but I shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can gather
them out of my memory from what they related to me, and from what
I met with in my conversing with them, and with the place.

In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I must
go back to the circumstances in which I left the island, and which the
persons were in of whom I am to speak. At first, it is necessary to
repeat, that I had sent away Friday's father and the Spaniard, the
two whose lives I had rescued from the savages,--I say, I had sent
them away in a large canoe to the main, as I then thought it, to fetch
over the Spaniards companions whom he had left behind him, in order
to save them from the like calamity that he had been in, and in order
to succour them for the present, and that, if possible, we might toge-
ther find some way for our deliverance afterward.

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the
least room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had
twenty years before; much less had I any foreknowledge of what
after happened, I mean of an English ship coming on shore there to
fetch them 011'; and it could not but be a very great surprise to them
when they came back, not only to find that I was gone, but to find
three strangers left on the spot, possessed of all that I had left behind
me, which would otherwise have been their own.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into. that I might begin

 

 

 

where I left ofi', was of their own part; and I desired he would give '

me a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with
the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there w

little variety in that part; for nothing remarkable happened to them
on the way, they having very calm weather and a smooth sea; for
his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that they were
overjoyed to see him, (it seems he was the principal man among them,
the captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in having been
dead some time ): they were, he said, the more surprised to see him,
because they knew that he was fallen into the hands of savages, who;
they were satisfied, would devour him, as they did all the restof their
prisoners; that when he told.them the story of his deliverance, and in
what manner he was furnished for carrying them away, it was like a
dream to them; and their astonishment, they said, was something

t2
_--_--__--_------_----------_-

like that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them who he was, and
told them the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when
he showed them the arms, the powder, the ball, and the provisions
that he brought them for their journey, or voyage, they were restored
to themselves, took a just share of the joy of their deliverance, and
immediately prepared to come away with him.

The first business was to get canoes; and in this they were obliged
not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to trespass upon
their friendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes, or periaguas,
on pretence of going out a-fishing, or for pleasure.

In these- they came away the next morning: it seems they wanted
no time to get themselves ready, for they had no baggage; neither
clothes, or provisions,'or any other thing in the world, but what they
had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to make their
bread.

They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned in
my other part, and to get off from the island; leaving three of the
most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains behind me
that any man could desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniards' great
"' grief and disappointment you may be sure.

The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when the Spaniards
came on shore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions
and other relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them
the long paper of directions, which I had left with them, containing
the particular methods which I took for managing every part of my
life there,.----the way how I baked my bread, bred up my tame goats,
and planted my corn--how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in
a word, every thing I did: all this being written down, they gave to
the Spaniards, two of whom understood English well enough; nor did
they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with any thing else, for
they agreed very well for some time. They gave them an equal ad-
mission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very sociably;
and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my method, and
Friday's father together, managed all their affairs; for as for the
Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot par-
rots, and catch tortoises, and when they came home at night, the
Spaniards provided their suppers for them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would the other
but have left them alone; which. however, they could not find' in
their hearts to do long; but, like the dog in the manger, they would
not eat themselves, and would not let others eat neither. The differ-
 

ences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth
relating; but at last it broke out into open war, and it began with all
the rudeness and insolence that can be imagined, without reason, with-
out provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed to common sense; and
though, it is true, the first relation of it came from the Spaniards
themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet when I came'to examine
the fellows, they could not deny a word of it.

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a.
defect in my former relation; and this' was, that I forgot to set down
among the rest, that just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail,
there happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was afraid
once would turn to a second mutiny; nor was it appeased till the
captain, rousing up his courage, and taking us 'all to his assistance,
parted them by force, and making two of the most refractory fellows
prisoners, he laid them 1n irons; and as they had been active in the
former disorders, and let fall some ugly dangerous words the second
time, he threatened to carry them in irons to England, and have them
hanged there for mutiny, and running away with the ship.

This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to do it, frighted
some other men in the ship; and some of them had put it in the heads
of the rest, that the captain only gave them good words for the pre-
sent till they should come to some English port, and that then they
should be all put into a jail, and tried for their lives..

The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it; upon
which it was desired that I, who still passed for a great man among
them, should go down with the mate and satisfy the men, and tell
them, that they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of the
voyage, all they had done for the time past should he pardoned. So
I went, and after passing my honour's word to them, they appeared
easy, and the more so, when I caused the two men who were in irons
to he released and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night, the
wind also falling calm. Next morning we found that our two men, \.
who had been laid in irons, had stole each of them a musket and some-
other weapons; what powder or shot they had we knew not; and had? g -
taken the ship' 3 pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and ran awry}
with her to their companions in roguery on shore.

As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-host on shore, with
twelve men and the mate, and away they went to seek thgj'ogase'ghut '
they could neither find them, nor any of the rest; .for KvthM ,
into the woods when they saw the boat coming on: shore. W p

was once resolved, in justice to their rognery;_ to have
21
 

plantations, burnt all their household stuff and furniture, and left them
to shil't without it; but having no order, he let all alone, left every
thing as they found it, and bringing the pinnaee away, came on board
without them.

These two men made their munber live: but the other three villains
were so much wielteder than these, that after they had been two or
three days together, they turned their two new comers out of doors to
shift for themselves, aml would have. nothing to do with them: nor
could they, for a good while, be persuaded to give them any food: as
for the Spaniards, they were not yet come.

When the Spaniards emne first on shore, the business began to go
lbrward; the Spaniards would have. persuaded the three English
brutes to have taken in their two eountrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they would not. hear of it: so
the two poor fellows lived by themselves, and Iimling nothing but
industry and application Would make them live comfortable, they
pitehed their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little more
to the west, to be out of the danger of the savages, who always landed
on the east parts of the island.

Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay up
their magaxines and stores in; and the Spaniards having given them
some eorn for seed, and especially some of the pease which I had left
them, they dug, and planted, and enclosed, after the pattern 1 had set
for them all, and began to live pretty well. Their first crop of corn
was on the ground, and though it was but a little bit of land which
they had dug up at first, having had but a little time, yet it was
enough to relieve them, find finding them with bread or other eatables;
and one of the fellows, being the cooks mate of the ship, was very
ready at making soup, puddings, and such other preparations, as
the rice and the milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished him
to do.

They were going on in a little thriving posture, when the three
unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour, and to
insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was
theirs; that the governor, meaning me, had given them possession of
it, and nobody else had any right to it; and, d--n them, they should
build no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay them rent
for them.

The two men thought they had jested at first, and asked them to
come and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that they had
built, and tell them what rent they demanded: and one of them merrily
told them," they were ground~landlords, he hoped if they built tene-
 

FIRING THE HUT.

ments upon the land, and made improvements, they would, according
to the custom of all landlords, grant them a. long lease; and hid them
go fetch a scrivcner to draw the writings. One of the threc, damning
and raging, told them they should see they were not in jest; and going
to a. little place at a distance, where the honest men had made a fire
to. dress their victuals, he takes a fire-brand and claps it to the outside
of their hut, and very fairly set it on fire; and it would have been all
burnt down in a few minutes, if one of the two had not.run to the
fellow, thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and that
not without some difficulty too.

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he turned upon him with a pole he had in his hand; and
had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the hut,
he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they
were both in, run in after him, and immediately they came both out
with their muskets; and the man that was first struck at with the pole
I . knocked the fellow down who began the quarrel, with the stock of his

' musket, and that before the other two could come to help him; and324 THE urn AND writs-times

 

then seeing the rest come at them, tney stoua together, and presenting
the other ends of their pieces to them, bade. them stand of.

The others had firearms with them too; but one of the two honest
men. holder than his eomrade, and made desperate by his danger, told
them if they oll'ered to more hand or foot they were all dead men, and
boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not indeed
lay down their arms; but seeing him resolute. it brought them to a
parley, and they consented to take their wounded man with them and
begoue: and, indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently with
the blow: however, they were mneh in the. wrong, since they had the
advantage, that they did not disarm them effectually, as they might
have done, and have gone immediately to the. Spaniards, and given
them an account. how the rogues had treated them; for the three
villains studied nothing but revenge, and every day gave them some
intimation that they did so.

But not to erowd this part with an account of the lesser part of their
rogneries, such as treading down their corn, shooting three young kids
and a she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed up tame for their
store; and, in a word, plaguing them night and day in this manner, it
forced the two men to such a desperation, that they resolved to fight
them all three the first time they had a fair opportunity. In order to
this they resolved to go to the. sastle, as they called it, that was my old
dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together
at that time. intending to hare. a fair battle, and the Spaniards should
stand by to see fair play. So they got up in the morning before day,
and came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their names,
telling a Spaniard that answered that they wanted to speak with them

 

CHAPTER III.

'Narrutire continued----lusolenee of three of the Englishmen to the Spaniards--They
are disurmed and brought to order--A great body of Savages land upon the Island
--'l'hey turn out to be two adverse Nations met. there by chance--A bloody Battle
betwixt them--Several of the vanquished l'arty secured by the Spaniards.

IT happened that, the day before, two of the Spaniards having been
-in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for distinc-
tion, I call the honest men; and he had made a and complaint to the
'Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with from their three
e untrymen, and how they had ruined their plantation and destroyed
    

'Q--W N
THE VAGRANTS IN THE W001).
their corn, that they had laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed
the mileh goat, and their three kids, which was all they had provided
for their sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning the
Spaniards, did not assist them again, they should be starved. When
the Spaniards came home at night, and they were all at supper, he
took the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen, though in gentle
and mannerly terms, and asked them how they could be so cruel, they
being harmless, inoffensive fellows, and that they were putting them-
selves in a way to subsist by their labour, and that it had cost them a
great deal of pains to bring things to such perfection as they had.
One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, "What had they to
do there? That they came on shore without leave, and that they
should not plant or build upon the island ; it was none of their ground."
----" Why," says the Spaniard, very calmly, " Seignior Inglese, they
must not starve."--The Englishman replied, like a true rough-hewn
tarpaulin, " They might starve and be d d, they should not plant
nor build in that place."----"But what must they do, then, Seignior ?"
says the Spaniard--Another of the brutes returned, " Do! d--n
them, they should be servants, and work for them."--"But how can
you expect that of them? they are not bought with your money; you
have no right to make them servants."--The Englishman answered,
"The island was theirs, the governor had given it to them, and I"!
man had any thing to do there but themselves ;" and with that he 'swore
by his Maker, that he would go and burn all their new huts; they
should build none upon their land.

" Why, Seignior," says the Spaniard, by the same rule, we must be
your servants too.----"Ay," says the bold dog, and so you shall too,
before we have done with you; mixing two or three G--d d--mme's
in the proper intervals of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at
that, and made him no answer. However, this little discourse had
heated them; and starting up, one says to the other--I think it was
he they called Will Atkins--" Come, Jack, let us go and have the
other brush with them; we will demolish their castle, I will warrant
you; they shall plant no colony in our dominions."

Upon this they Were all trooping away, with every man a gun, a
pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among them-
selves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity
offered ; but the. Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly understand
them as to know all the particulars; only that, in general, they
threatened them hard for taking the two Englishmen's part.

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening,
the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they wandered
about the country part of the night; and then lying down in the place.
which I used to call my bower, they were weary and overslept them-
selves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, so to
take the poor men when they were asleep; and they acknowledged it
afterwards. intending to set fire to their huts while they were in them,
and either burn them in them, or murder them as they came out: and,
as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should
not. have been kept waking.

However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have
said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering,
it happened. and very luckily for them all, that they were up and gone
abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts. '

When they came thither, and found the men gone, Atkins, who it
seems was the forwardest man, called out to his comrades, " Ha! Jack,
here's the nest; but, d--n them, the birds are flown!" They mused
a while to think what should be the occasion of their going abroad so
soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards had given them
notice of it: and with that they shook hands, and swore to one another
that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had
made this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor men's habi-
tation: they did not set fire indeed to any thing, but they pulled down
both their houses, and pulled them so limb from limb, that they left
not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where
 

they stood; they tore all their little collected household ME in pieces,
and threw every thing about in such a manner that the poor men found,
afterwards, some of their things a mile off from their habitation.

When they had done this, they pulled up all the young trees which
the poor men had planted; pulled up the enclosure they had made to
secure their cattle and their corn ; and, in a word, sacked and plundered
every thing, as completely as a herd of Tartars would have done.

The two men were at this juncture gone to find them out, and had
resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they were but
two to three: so that, had they met, there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout, resolute fellows,
to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they them-
selves could do to meet: for, as they had dodged one another, when
the three were gone thither, the two were here; and afterwards, when
the two went back to find them, the three were come to the old habitation
again: we shall see their differing conduct presently. When the three
came back like furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work
they had been about put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and
told them what they had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one
of them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a
couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his head,
and giving it a twirl about, fleering in his face, says he to him, " And you.
Scignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend
your manners." The Spaniard, who, though quite a civil man, was as
brave as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong well-made man,
looked steadily at him for a good while; and then, having no weapon
in his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist
knocked him down, as an ex is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of
the rogues, insolent as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard imme-
diately: he missed his body indeed, for the bullets went through his
hair, but one of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty
much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than
he really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he acted all
in a perfect calm; but now resolving to go through with his work, he
stooped and took the fellow's musket whom he had knocked down, and
wusjust going to shoot the man who had fired at him, when the rest of
the Spaniards being in the cave, came out, and calling to him not to
shoot, they stepped in, secured the other two, and took their arms from
them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the

Spaniardstheir enemies. as well as their own countrymel'jghey-bpga,828 rue mu AND Anna-runes

 

to cool; and giving the Spaniards better words, would have had their
arms again ; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was between
them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would be the best
method they could take to keep them from one another, told them they
would do them no harm; and if they would live peaceably, they would
he very willing to assist and associate with them, as they did before ;
but. that. they could not think of giving them their arms again, while
they appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to their own
countrymen, and had even threatened them all to make them their
servants.

'l'he rogues were now more capable to hear reason than to act reason;
but,being refused their arms, they went raving away, and raging like
madmen, threatening what they would do, though they had no firearms:
but the. Spaniards, despising their threatening, told them they should
take care how they ofl'ered any injury to their plantation or cattle; for
if they did, they would shoot them, as they would do ravenous beasts,
wherever they found them; and if they fell into their hands alive,
they should certainly be hanged. However, this was far from cooling
them ; but away they went, swearing and raging like furies of hell. As
soon as they were gone, came back the two men in passion and rage
enough also, though of another kind; for, having been at their plan-
tation, and finding it all demolished and destroyed, as above, it will
easily be supposed they had provocation enough: they could scarce
have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them
theirs ; and it was strange enough to find, that three men should thus
bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.

The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially having thus
disarmed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two English-
men resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains soever it
cost to find them out. .

But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them, that they
were already disarmed: they could not consent that they (the two)
should pursue them with firearms, and, perhaps, kill them. "But,"
said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, " we will endeavour
to make them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for, as there
is no doubt but they will come to us again when their passion is over,
being not able to subsist without our assistance, we promise you to
make no peace with them, without having a full satisfaction for you;
and upon this condition we hope you will promise to use no violence
with them, other than in your defence."

The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and with great
reluctance; but the Spaniards protested, they did it only to keep them
___--_#_____----_u_

from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last; for, said they, we are
not so many of us; here is room enough for us all, and it is a great
pity we should not be all good friends. At length, they did consent,
and waited for the issue of the thing, living for some days with the
Spaniards; for their own habitation was destroyed.

In about five days' time, the three vagrants, tired with wandering,
and almost starved with hunger, having chielly lived on turtles' eggs
all that while, came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard,
who, as I have said, was the governor, and two more with him, walk-
ing by the side of the creek, they came up in a very submissive humble
manner, and begged to be received again into the family. The Spa-
niards used them civilly, but told them, they had acted so unnaturally
by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the Spaniards),
that they could not come to any conclusion without consulting the two
Englislnnen, and the rest; but, however, they would go to them, and
discourse about it, and they should know in half an hour. It may be
guessed that they were very hard put to it; for it seems, as they were
to wait this half-hour for an answer, they begged he would send them
out some bread in the meantime; which he did, and sent them at the
same time a large piece of goat's flesh, and a broiled parrot, which
they ate very heartily, for they were hungry enough.

After half an hour's consultation they were called in, and along
debate had about them, their two countrymen charging them with the
ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them; all which they
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole,
the Spaniards acted the moderators between them; and as they had
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three, while they were
naked and unharmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild
their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same dimensions, and the

. other larger than they were before; also to fence their ground again,
where they had pulled up the fences; plant trees in the room of those
pulled up; dig up the land again for planting corn, where they had
spoiled it; and, in a word, to restore every thing in the same state as
they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it could not be, the
season for the corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges not being
possible tovbe recovered.

Well, they submitted to all this: and as they had plenty of provi-
sions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the whole
society began to live pleasantly and agreeably together again; only
that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work,--I mean,
not for themselves, except now and then a little, just as they pleased;
however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they would but live
 

 

sociably and friendly together, and study in the whole the good of the
plantation, they would be content to work for them, and let them walk
about and be as idle as they pleased; and than having lived pretty
well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave them their arms
again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as before.

It was not above a week after they had these arms, and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolcnt and tron-
blesome as before; but, however, an accident happened presently
upon this, which endangered the safety of them all: they were obliged
to lay by all private resentments and look to the preservation of their
lives.

It happened one night that the Spaniard governor, as I call him,--
that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now the
captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy
in the night, and could by no means get any sleep; he was perfectly
well in body, as he told me the story, only found his thoughts tumul-
tuous; and his mind ran upon men fighting, and killing one another,
but was broad awake, and could not by any means get any sleep: in
short, he lay a great while; but growing more and more uneasy, he
resolved to rise. As they lay, being so many of them. upon goat
skins, laid thick upon such couches and pads as they made for them-
selves, and not in hammocks and shipbeds, as I did, who was but one,
so they had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but to get up
upon their feet, and perhaps put on a coat, such as it was, and their
pumps, and they were ready for going any way that their thoughts
guided them.

Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark, he could see
little or nothing; and besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my
former account is described, and which were now grown tall, inter-
cepted his sight, so that he could only look up, and see that it was a
clear starlight night; and, hearing no noise, he returned and laid him
down again. But it was all one, he could not sleep, nor could he
compose himself to any thing like rest, but his thoughts were to the
lust degree uneasy, and yet he knew not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out.
and coming in, another of them waked, and, calling, asked who it was
that was up ? The governor told him how it had been with him.
" Say you so ?" says the other Spaniard; " such things are not to be
slighted, I assure you--there is certainly some mischief working,"
says he, "near us ;" and presently he asked him, "Where are the
Englishmen ?"--" They are all in their hats," says he, "safe enough."
1;. seems. the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment,
 

and had made a place, where the three Englishman, since their last
mutiny, always quartered by themselves, and could not come at the
rest. "Well," says the Spaniard, "there is something in it, I am
persuaded from my own experience; I am satisfied our spirits embodied
have converse with, and receive intelligence from, the spirits unem-
bodied, and inhabiting the invisible world; and this friendly notice is
given for our advantage, if we know how to make use of it. Come,"
says he, "let us go out and look abroad; and if we find nothing at all
in it to justify our trouble, I'll tell you a story to the purpose, that
shall convince you of the justice of my proposing it."

In a word, they went out to go to the top of the hill, where I used
to go; but they, being strong, and in good company, nor alone, as I
was, used none of my cautions to go up by the ladder, and then
pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but were
going round through the grove unconcerned and unwary, when they

were surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a very little way of from

them, and hearing the voices of men, not of one, or two, but of a great
number. '

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the
island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the" lefit dis-
covery of there being any inhabitants upon the place; and when, by
any necessity, they came to know it, they felt it so efl'ectually, that
they that got away were scarce able to give any account of it, for *
disappeared as soon as possible, nor did ever any that had seen me

escape to tell any one else, except it were the three savages in our last .

encounter, who jumped into the boat, of whom I mentioned that I was
afraid they should go home and bring more help. ,
Whether it was the consequence of the escape of those men, that so
great a number came now together; or whether they came ignorantly,
and by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could
not, it seems, understand: but whatever it was, it had been their busi-
ness, either to have concealed themselves, and not have seen them at
all, much less to have let the savages have seen that there were any
inhabitants in the place; but to have fallen upon them so effectually,

as that not a man of them should have escaped, which could only have '

been by getting in between them and their boats: but this presence
of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of'their tranquillity
for a great while. _ . ,

We need not doubt but that the governor, and the man with him,
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their
fellows, giving them an account of the imminent danger they were all

'in. and they again as readily took 'he alarm; but it was hn'psmihie'aa
. 'f 35;>>.

w

1/}.
persuade them to stay close within where they were, but that they
must all run out to see how things stood.

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had
opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of three
fires they had made at some distance from one another. What they
were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they knew not;
for, first, the enemy were too many; and, secondly, they did not keep
together, but were divided into several parties, and were on shore in
several places.'

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and as
they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the ='shore, they
made no doubt, but, first or last, some of them would chop in upon
their habitation, or upon some other place, where they would see the
tokens of inhabitants; and they were in great perplexity also for fear
of their flock of goats, which would have been little less than starving
them, if they should have been destroyed. So the first thing they
resolved upon, was to despatch three men away before it was light,
namely, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats
away 0 the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to
d1i1'feleixignto the 1ery cave itself.

5-9.. gould they have seen the savages. all together 1n one body, and at a

ncc f1 om their canoes, they resolved, if there had been a hundred
flew, to have attacked them; but that could not be obtained, for
there we1e some of them two miles oil" from 'the other, and, as it ap-
peared after11a1ds, 11 ere of two difi'erent nations.

After having mused a great while on the course they should take,
and beaten their brains in considering their present circumstances,
they resolved at last, while it was dark, to send the old savage (Fri-
day's father) out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something concerning
them, as what they came for, and what they intended to do, and the
like. The old man readily undertook it, and stripping himself quite
naked, as most of the savages were, away he went. After he had
been gone an hour or two, he brings word that he had been among
them undiscovered, that he found they were two parties, and of two
several nations, who had war with one another, and had had a great
battle in their own country, and that both sides having had several
prisoners taken in the fight, they were by more chance landed on the
same island for the devouring their prisoners, and making merry; but
their coming so by chance to the same place had spoiled all their mirth .
that they were in a great rage at one another, and were so near, that
he believed they would fight again as soon as daylight began to appear;
but he did not perceive that they had any notion of anybody's being
 

on the island but themselves. He had hardly made an end of telling
the story, when they could perceive, by the unusual noise they made,
that the two little armies were engaged in a bloody fight.

Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade our
people to lie close, and not to be seen: he told them their safety con-
sisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but to lie still, and the
savages would kill one another to their hands, and the rest would go
away; and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to prevail,
especially upon the Englishmen, their curiosity was so importunate
upon their prudentials, that they must run out and see the battle:
however, they used some caution, namely, they did not go openly just
by their own dwelling, but went farther into the woods, and placed
themselves to advantage, where they might securely see them 'manage
the fight, and, as they thought, not be seen by them; but it seems the
savages did see them, as we shall find hereafter.

The battle was very fierce, and if I might believe the Englishmen,
one of them said he could perceive that some of them were men of
great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great policy in guiding the
fight. The battle, they said, held two hours before they could guess
which party would be beaten, but then that party which" Coarest
our people' s habitation began to appear weakest, and, aftei' some time .

more, some of them began to fly , and this put our men again ('a
great consternation, lest any of those that fled should run into

grove before their dwelling for shelter, and thereby involuntarily did-
cover the place, and that by consequence the pursuers should do the
like in search for them. Upon this they resolved, that they would
stand armed within the wall, and whoever came into the grove they
should sally out over the wall, and kill them, so that if possible not
one should return to give an account of it; they ordered also, that it
should be done with their swords, or by knocking them down with the
stock of the musket, not by shooting them, for fear of raising an alarm
by the noise.

As they expected, it fell out: three of the routed army fled for life,
and crossing the creek ran directly into the place, not in the least
knowing whither they went, but running as into a thick wood for
shelter. .The scout they kept to look abroad gave notice of this within,
.with this addition to our men's great satisfaction, namely, that the
conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were gone.
Upon this the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would _not suf-
fer them to kill the three fugitives; but sending three men out by the
top of the hill, ordered them to go round and come in behind the>>,
surprise, ard take them prisoners; which was done. The residue "

 

' 5.!
 

the conquered people fled to their canoes and got 03' to sea; the vic-
tors retired, and made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing them-
selves into a body together, gave two great screaming shouts, which
they supposed were by way of triumph, and so the fight ended: and
the same day, about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also marched
to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island again free
to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no savages in seve-
ral years after.

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, and
viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty dead men
upon the spot; some were killed with great long arrows, several of
which were found sticking in their bodies, but most of them were killed
with great wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of which they found
in the field of battle, and as many bows, with a great many arrows.
These swords were great unwieldy things, and they must be very strong
men that. used them; most of those men that. were killed with them
had their heads mashed to pieces, as we may say, or, as we call it in
English, their brains knocked out, and several of their arms and legs
broken; so that it is evident they fight with inexpressihlc rage and
fury. They found not one wounded man that was not stone dead ; for
either they stay by their enemy till they have quite killed them, or
they carry all the wounded men, that are not quite dead, away with
them. '

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the sight
had filled them with horror, and the consequence appeared terrible to
the last degree, especially upon supposing that some time or other they
. should fall into the hands of these creatures, who would not only kill
them as enemies, but kill them for food, aswe kill our cattle. And
they professed to me, that the thoughts of being eaten up like beef
or mutton, though it was supposed it was not to be till they were dead,
had something in it so horrible, that it nauseated their very stomachs,
made them sick when they thought of it, and filled their minds with
unusual terror, that they were not themselves for some weeks after.

This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes I have been
speaking of, and, for a great while after, they were very tractable, and
went about the common business of the whole society well enough--
planted, sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the country;
but sometime after this, they fell all into such simple measures again
as brought them into a great deal of trouble.

They had taken three prisoners, as I had observed; and these three
being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, and taught
them to work for them; and as slaves they did well enough: but they.- ""3"ij

or nosmson causes. 335.

 

 

 

did not take their measures with them as I did by my man Friday,
namely, to begin with them upon the principle of having saved their
lives, and then instructed them in the rational principles of life, much
less of religion, civilizing and reducing them by kind usage and a'fl'ec-
tionate arguings; but as they gave them their food every day, so they
gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed in drudgery
enough; but-they failed in this by it, that they never had them to assist
them and fight for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to
me as the very flesh upon my bones.

But to come to the family part :--Being all now good friends, (for
common danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled them), they
began to consider their general circumstances; and the first thing that
came under their consideration was, whether, seeing the savages par-
ticularly haunted that side of the island, and that there were more
remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way of living,
and manifestly to their advantage, they should not rather remove their
habitation, and plant it in some more proper place for their safety, and
especially for the security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was conceived that they should not-
remove their habitation, because that, some time or other, they thought
they might hear from their governor again, meaning me: and if I
should send any one to seek them, I would be sure to direct them on
that side, where, if they should find the place demolished, they would
conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone, and so our
supply would go away too.

But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove them into-
the valley where my cave was, where the land was as proper to both,
and where indeed there was land enough ; however, upon second
thoughts they altered one part of that resolution too, and resolved
only to remove part "of their cattle thither, and plant part of their corn
there: and so, if one part was destroyed, the other might be saved:
and one piece of prudence they used, which it was very well they did;
namely, that they never trusted these three savages which they had
taken prisoners with knowing any thing of the plantation they had
made in that valley, or of any cattle they had there, much less of the
can: there, which they kept in case of necessity as a safe retreat; and
thither they carried also the two barrels of powder which I had left
them at my coming away.

But, however, they resolved not to change their habitation; yet they
agreed, that as I had carefully covered it first with a wall and fortifiw
tion, and then with a grove of trees; '30, seeing their safety consisted
entirely in their being concealed, of which they were now fully convinced,
they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet more efl'ectually than
before: to this purpose, as I had planted trees (or rather thrust in stakes
which in time all grew to be trees) for some good distance before the
entran 3e into my apartment, they went on in the same manner, and filled
up the rest of that whole space of ground, from the trees Ihad set quite
down to the side of the creek, where, as I said, I landed my floats, and
even into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any
place to land, or any sign that there had been any landing thereabout.
These stakes, also being of a wood very forward to grow, as I had noted
formerly, they took care to have generally very much larger and taller
than those which I had 'planted, and placed them so very thick and
close, that when they had been three or four years grown, there was no
piercing with the eye any considerable way into the plantation. As
for that part which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a
man's thigh; and among them they placed so many other short ones,
and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisado, a quarter of a
mile thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it but with alittle
army to cut it all down; for a little dog could hardly get between the
trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all: for they did the same by all the ground to the
right hand, and to the left, and round even to the top of the hill, leav-
ing no way, not so much as for themselves to come out, but by the
ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up and placed
again from the first stage up to the top; which ladder, when it was
taken down, nothing but what had wings or witchcraft to assist it could

 

 

' come at them.

This was excellently well contrived, nor was it less than what they
afterwards found occasion for; which served to convince me, that as
human prudence has authority of Providence to justify it, so it has,
doubtless, the direction of Providence to set it to work, and, would we
listen carefully to the voice of it, I am fully persuaded we might pre-
vent many of the disasters which our lives are now by our own negli-'
gence subjected to: but this by the way.

I return to the story: They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages; they had indeed
an alarm given them one morning, which put them in a great conster--
nation; for some of the Spaniards being out early one morning on the
west side, or rather end, of the island, which, by the way, was that end
where I never went, for fear of being discovered, they were surprised
with seeing about twenty canoes of Indians just coming on shore.

They made the best of their way home in hurry enough, and giving
the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all that day and the next..v 5.2;

. OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.' 337

 

going out only at night to make observation; but they had the good
luck to be mistaken, for wherever the savages went, they did not land
at that time on the island, but pursued some other design.

CHAPTER IV.

Fresh hroils betwixt the turbulentEnglishmen and the Spaniards--The English make
a voyage to the Mainland. and return in twenty-two days--Particulars of their
voyage--Description of the Men and \meen they broughtfwith them--The Colony

discovered by an unlucky accident to the Savages, who invade the Island but are
defeated.

AND now they had another broil with the three Englishmen, one of
which, a most turbulent fellow, being in'a rage at one of the three
slaves which I mentioned they had taken, because the fellow had not
done something right which he bid him do, and seemed a little nntract-
able in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-belt in which he
here it by his side, and fell upon him, the poor savage, not to correct
him, but to kill him. One of the Spaniards who was by, seeing him
give the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his

head, but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the'

poor creature's arm ofi', ran to him, and, entreating him not to murder
the poor man, clapped in between him and the savage to prevent the
mischief. '

The fellow being enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard
with his hatchet, and swore he would serve him as he intended to serve
the savage; which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with

a shovel which he had in his hand (for they were working in the field '

about the corn land) knocked the brute down; .another of the English-
men running at the same time to help his comrade, knocked the
Spaniard down, and then two Spaniards more came to help their man,
and a third Englishman fell upon them. They had none of them any
firearms, or any other weapons but hatehets and other tools, except
the third Englishman: he had one of my old rusty outlasses, with
which he made at the last Spaniards, and wounded them both. This
fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more help coming in; they

took the three Englishmen prisoners. The next question was,;what '

should be done with them? they had been so often mntinans, andr'ere

so furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that they knewrnetrghitfi

22
course to take with them, for they were mischievous to the highest
degree, and valued not what hurt they did any man; so that, in short,
it was not safe to live with them.

The Spaniard, who was governor, told them in so many words, that
if they had been his own 'countrymen he would have hanged them all;
for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and those who
were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it; but as
they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kindness of an
Englishman that they all owed their preservation and deliverance, he
would use them with all possible lenity, and would leave them to the
judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired
it might not be left to them ; "For," says he, "I am sure we ought to
sentence them to the gallows ;" and with that gives an account how
Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to have all the five Eng-
lishmen join together, and murder all the Spaniards when they were in
their sleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins:
"How! Seignior Atkins," says he, "will you murder us all 9 What
have you to say to that ?"--That hardened villain was so far from
denying it, that he said it was true, and G--d d--n him, they would
do it still before they had done with them--"Well, hut, Seignior
Atkins," said the Spaniard, "What have we done to you that you will
kill us? And what would you get by killing us? And what must we
do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill you, or will you kill us?
Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins ?" says
the Spaniard, very calmly and smiling.

Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's making a jest
of it, that had he not been held by three men, and withal had no wear
pons with him, it was thought he would have attempted to have killed
the Spaniard in the middle of all the company.

This harebrained carriage obliged them to consider seriously whit
was to be done. The two Englishmen, and the Spaniard who saved
the poor savage, were of the opinion that they should hang one of the
three for an example to the rest; and that particularly it should be
he that had twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet; and
indeed there was some reason to believe he had done it, for the poor
savage was in such a miserable condition with the wound he had
received, that it wasthought he could not live.

But the governor Spaniard still said, No, it was an Englishman that
had saved all their lives, and he would never consent to put an Eng-
lihman to death tho igh ho had murdered half of them: nay, he said.
if he had been killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left to
speak, it should be that they should pardon him.

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that
there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels are most apt to
prevail where they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into it;
but then it was to be considered what should be done to keep them
from the mischief they designed, for all agreed, governor and all, that
means were to be used for preserving the society from danger. After
a long debate, it was agreed, first, that they should be disarmed, and
not permitted to have either gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, or any
weapon, and should be turned out of the society, and left to live where
they would and how they could, by themselves; but that none of the
rest, either Spaniards or English, should converse with them, speak
with them, or have any thing to do with them; that they should be
forbid to come within a certain distance of the place where the rest
dwelt; and that if they offered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil,
burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or
cattle belonging to the society, that they should die without mercy,
and would shoot them wherever they could find them.

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the sentence,
considered a little upon it, and turning to the two honest Englishmen,
said, "Hold, you must reflect that it will belong ere they can raise
corn and cattle of their own, and they must not starve: we must
therefore allow them provisions." So he caused to be added, that
they should have a proportion of corn given them to last them eight
months, and for seed to sow, by which time they might be supposed to
raise some of their own; that they should have six milch-goats, four
lie-goats, and six kids given them, as well for present subsistence as
for a store; and that they should have tools given them for their work
in the field; such as six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the like; but
they should have none of these tools or provisions unless they would
swear solemnly that they would not hurt or injure any of the Spa-
niards with them, or their fellow Englishmen.

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to shift
for themselves. They Want away sullen and refractory, as neither
contented to go away or to stay; but as there was no remedy, they
went, pretending to go and choose a place where they should settle
themselves, to plant and live by themselves; and some provisions were
given them, but no weapons. .

About four or five days after they came again for some viotnals, and
gave the governor an account where they had pitched their-"tents, and
marked themselves out a habitation or plantation; it was- a veryieon'J .
 

 

venient place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, north-east,
much about the place where I providentially landed in my first voyage
when I was driven out to sea, the Lord alone knows whither, in my
foolish attempt to surround the island.

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them
in a manner like my first habitation, being close under the side of a
hill, having some trees growing already to the three sides of it, so that
by planting others it would be very easily covered from the sight, un-
less narrowly searched for. They desired some dry goat-skins for beds
and covering, which were given them ; and upon their giving their
words that they would not disturb the rest, or injure any of their plan-
tations, they gave them hatehets, and what other tools they could spare;
some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing, and, in a word, any thing they
wanted but arms and ammunition.

They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had got
in their first harvest, though the quantity was but small, the parcel of
land they had planted being but little; for indeed, having all their
plantation to form, they had a great deal of work upon their hands;
and when they came to make boards, and pots, and such things, they
were quite out of their element, and could make nothing of it; and
when the rainy season came on, for want of a cave in the earth, they
could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling:
and this humbled them much; so they came and begged the Spaniards
to help them, which they very readily did, and in four days worked a
great hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough to secure their
corn and other things from the rain; but it was but a poor place at
best compared to mine, and especially as mine was then; for the
Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made several new apartments
in it. .

About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new frolic
took these rogues, which, together with the former villainy they had
committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and had very near
been the ruin of the whole colony. The three new associates began,
it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they led, and that without
hope of bettering their circumstances; and a whim took them, that
they would make a voyage to the continent from whence the savages
came, and would try if they could not seize upon some prisoners among
the natives there, and bring them home, so as to make them do the
laborious part of the work for them.

The project was not so preposterous if they had gone no farther;
but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief in
the design, or mischief in the event; and if I may give my opinion,
h

 

 

they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven ; for if we will not allow
a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the
events of things with divine justice? It was certainly an apparent
vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that brought them to
the state they were in; and as they showed not the least remorse for
the crime, but added new villainies to it, such as particularly that piece
of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, because he did not, or
perhaps could not, understand to do what he was directed, and to
wound him in such a manner as, no question, made him a cripple all
his life, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could he had for
his care; and what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do
justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it was,
as was afterwards the formed design they all laid.to murder the Spa.-
niards in cold blood, and in their sleep.

But I leave observing, and return to the story: The three fellows
came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble terms
desired to be admitted to speak with them: the Spaniards very readily
heard what they had to say, which was this, that they were tired of
living in the manner they did, that they were not handy enough to
make the necessaries they wanted, and that having no help, they found
they should be starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave .to
take one of the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms
and ammunition proportioned'for their defence, they would go over to
the main, and seek their fortune, and so deliver them from the trouble
of supplying them with any other provisions. _

The Spaniards were glad'enough to be rid of them; but yet very
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were running
into; told them they had suffered such hardships upon that very spot,
that they could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that they
would be starved or murdered, and bade them consider of it.

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed
here, for they could not work, and would not work: and they could
but he starred abroad; and if they were murdered, there was an end
of them, they had no wives or children to cry after them, and, in short,
insisted importunately_upon their demand, declaring that they would
go, whether they would give them any arms or no.

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were
resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no con_-
dition to defend themselves, and that though they could ill spare their
firearms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would let'them
have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet, .
which they thought sufficient for them. '
In a word, they accepted the ofi'er; and having baked them bread
enough to serve them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as
they could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket full of dried
grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they
boldly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at
least forty miles bread.

The boat was indeed a large one, and would have very well carried
fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for them to
manage; but as they had a fair breeze and the flood-tide with them,
they did well enough. They had made a mast of a long pole, and a
sail of four large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed or laced
together, and away they went merrily enough: the Spaniards called
after them, "Ben veajo!" and no man ever thought of seeing them
any more. '

The Spaniards would often say to one another, and the two honest
Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and comfortably they
lived now those three turbulent fellows were gone; as for their ever
coming again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts that could
be imagined: when, behold, after twenty-two days' "absence, one of the
Englishmen being abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange
men coming towards him at a distance, two of them with guns upon
their shoulders.

Away runs the Englishman, as if he were bewitched, and came,
frighted and amazed, to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they were
all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island, he could not
tell who. The Spaniard, pausing a while, says to him, " How do you
mean, you cannot tell who? They are savages to be sure."--"No,
no," says the Englishman, " they are men in clothes, with arms."--
"Nay, then," says the Spaniard, " why are you concerned? If they
are not savages, they must be friends; for there is no Christian nation
upon earth but will do us good rather than harm." '

While they were debating thus came the three Englishmen, and stand-
ing without the wood which was new planted, hallooed to them; they
presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind ceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another question, namely, what
could be the matter, and what made them come back again?

It was not long before they brought the men in; and inquiringwhere
they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave them a full
account of their voyage in a few words, namely, that they reached
the land in two days, or something less, but finding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to fight them, they
durst not go on shore. but sailed on to the northward six or seven hours,
 

till they came to a great opening, by which they perceived that the land
they saw from our island was not the main, but an island: that enter-
ing tnat opening of the sea they saw another island on the right hand
north, and several more west; and being resolved to land somewhe1e,
they put over to one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on
shore; that they found the people were courteous and friendly to them,
and they gme them sewral roots, and some dried fish, and appeared
very sociable: and the women, as well as the men, were very forward
to supply them with any thing they could get for them to eat, and
brought it to them a great way upon their heads.

They bontinued here four days, and inquired, as well as they could
of them by signs, what nations were this way, and that way; and were
told of several fierce and terrible people, that lived almost every way,
who, as they made known by signs to them, used to eat men; but as
for themselves, they said that they never ate men or women, except
only such as they took in the wars; and then they owned that they
made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind, and
they told them two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and then to two
fingers; and that their great king had two hundred prisoners now, which
he had taken in his war, and they were feeding them to make them fat
for the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see
those prisoners; but the others mistaking them, thought they were
desirous to have some of them to carry away for their own eating. So
they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to
the rising; which was to signify, that the next morning at sun-rising
they would bring some for them; and accordingly the next morning
they brought down five women and eleven men, and gave them to the
Englishmen to carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring
so many cows and oxen down to a sea-port town to victual a ship.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do; to
refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront to the savage
gentry that offered them; and what to do with them they knew not;
however, upon some debate, they resolved to accept of them; and, in
return, they gave the savages that brought them one of their hatchets.
an old key, a knife, and six or seven,of their bullets, which, though
they did not understand, they seemed extremely pleased with; and
then tying the poor creatures' hands behind them, they (the people)
dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as theyjad
them, or else they that gave them this noble pres out would oertainly

\
________--_--__._---

have expected that they should have gone to work with them, have
killed two or three of them the next morning, and perhaps have invited
the donors to dinner.

But having taken their leave with all the respect and thanks that
could well pass between people, where, on either side, they understood
not one word they could say, they put oil~ with their boat, and came
back towards the first island, where, when they arrived, they set eight
of their prisoners at liberty, there being too many of them for their
occasion. I

In their voyage they endeavoured to have some communication with
their prisoners, but it was impossible to make them understand any
thing; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or do for them,
but was looked upon as going about to murder them; they first of all
unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed at that, especially the
women, as if they had just felt the knife at their throats; for they
immediately concluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed.

If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the same thing; then they
concluded it was for fear they should sink in flesh, and so not be fat
enough to kill; if they looked at one of them more particularly, the
party presently concluded it was to see whether he or she was fattest
and fittest to kill first; nay, after they had brought them quite over,
and began to use them kindly, and treat them well, still they expected
every day to make a dinner or supper for their new masters.

When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history or
Journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their new
family was? And being told that they had brought them on shore,
and put them into one of their huts, and were come to beg some vic-
tuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen,
that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down to the place
and see. them--and did so, and Friday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for when
they had brought them on shore they bound their hands,-that they
might not take the boat and make their escape,--there, I say, they
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were three men, lusty,
comely fellows, well shaped, straight and fair limbs, about thirty or
thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two might be from
thirty to forty, two more not above twenty-four or twenty-tire, and the
fifth, a tall comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The women
were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape aml features, only
tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect white, would have
passed for handsome women even in London itself, having very plea-
sant, agreeable countenances, and of a very modest behaviour, espe-
cially when they came afterwards to be clothed, and dre :
called it, though that dress was very indifi'erent, it must be cohfeisedt"
of which hereafter. .

The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our Spaniards,
who were (to give them a just character) men of the best behaviour, of
the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good humour that evervl
met with; in particular, of the most modesty, as will presently appear:
I say, the sight was very uncouth, to see three naked men, and five
naked women, all together bound, and in the most miserable circum-
stances that human nature could be supposed to be, namely, to be ex-
pecting every moment to be dragged out, and have their brains knocked
out, and then to be eaten up like a fatted calf that is killed for a dainty.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's father,
to go in and see first if he knew any of them, and then if he under-
stood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came in, he looked
seriously at them, but knew none of them, neither could any of them
understand a word he said, or a sign he could make, except one of the
women.

However, this was enough to answer the end, which was to satisfy
them, that the men into whose hands they were fallen were Christians,
that they abhorred eating of men or women, and that they might be
sure they would not be killed. As soon as they were assured of this,
they discovered such a joy, and by such awkward and several ways, as
is hard to describe, for it seems they were of several nations.

The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place, to
ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to work for the men
who had brought them, away to save their lives? At which they all
fell adancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and another
that, any thing that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to intimate
that they were willing to work.

The governor, who found that the having women among them would
presently be attended with some inconveniency, and might occasion
some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what they intended
to do with these women, and how they intended to use them, whether
as servants, or as women? One of the Englishmen answered very
boldly and readily, that they would use them as both. To which the
governor said, " I am not going to restrain you from it ; you are your
own masters as to that: but this I think is but just, for avoiding dis-
orders and quarrels among you, and I desire it of you for that reason
only, namely, that you will all engage, that if any of you take any
of these women as a woman, or wife, he shall take but one; and-that,
having taken one, none else should touch her; for though wejeaniot
 

 

 

marry any of you, yet it is but reasonable, that while you stay here,
the woman any of you takes should be maintained by the man that
takes her, and should be his wife; I mean," says he, "while he eon-
tinues here; and that none else should have any thing to do with her."
All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it without any
dilliculty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to take
any of them? But every one answered, No ; some of them said they
had wives in Spain; and the others did not like women that were not
Christians; and all together declared, that they would not touch one
of them; which was an instance of such virtue as I have not met with
in all my travels. 0n the other hand, to be short, the five English-
men took them every one a wife; that is to say, a temporary wife;
and so they set up a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Fri-
day's father lived in my old habitation, which they had enlarged
exceedingly within; the three servants, which they had taken in the
late battle of the savages, lived with them; and these carried on the
main part. of the colony, supplying all the rest with food, and assisting
them in any thing as they could, or as they found necessity required.

But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory, ill-
matehed fellows, should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two or
three of them were, without comparison, more agreeable than the
others: but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves; for they set the five women by themselves in one
of their huts, and they went all into the other but, and drew lots
among them who should choose first.

He that drew to choose first, went away by himself to the hut where
the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he chose; and it
was worth observing, that he that chose first took her that was reckoned
the homeliest and the oldest of the five, which made mirth enough
among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but the fellow
considered better than any of them, that it was application and busi-
ness that they were to expect assistance in as much as any thing else,
and she proved the best wife in the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves in a row thus, and fetched
out one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon them
again, and they firmly believed that they were now going to be de-
voured: accordingly, when the English sailor came in and fetched out
one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung about
her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and such affection,
as wwuld have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor was it pos-
sible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man, Friday's father,
who instantly let them know, that the five men who had fetched them
out one by one, had chosen them for their wives.

When they had done this, and the fright the women were in was a
little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and lelped
them; and in a few hours they had built them every one a new hut or
tent for their lodging apart ; for those they had already were crowded
with their tools, household stuff, and provisions. The three wicked
ones had pitched farthest oil', and the two honest ones nearer, but both
on the north shore of the island, so that they continued separate us
before: and thus my island was peopled in three places, and, as I
might say, three towns were begun to be planted.

And here it is very well worth observing, that as it often happens in
the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are in such a dispo-
sition of things I cannot say), the two honest fellows had the two worst
wives; and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging, that
were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do themselves good. or
any one else, had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious wives:
not that the two first were ill wires as to their temper or humour; for
all the five were most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures,
rather like slaves than wives; but my meaning is, they were not alike
capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent appli-
cation on the one hand, and to the disgrace of a slotllful, negligent,
idle temper on the other, that when I came to the place, and viewed
the several improvements, planting, and management of the several
little colonies, the two men had so far outgone the three, that there was
no comparison; they had indeed both of them as much ground laid out
for corn as they wanted. and the reason was, because, according to my
rule, nature dictated that it was to no purpose to sow more corn than
they wanted; but the difference of the cultivation, of the planting, of
the fences, and indeed every thing else, was easy to be seen at first
view.

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their huts,
that when you came to the place nothing was to be seen but a wood;
and though they had their plantation twice demolished, once by their
own countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shown in its place;
yet they had restored all again, and every thing was flourishing and -
thriving about them: they had grapes planted in order, and man-
aged like a vineyard, though they had themselves never seen any thing
of that kin'; and by the good ordering their vines, their men were-
 

as good again as any of the others. They had also formed themselves
a retreat in the thickest part of the woods, where, though there was not
a natural care, as I had found, yet they made one with incessant
labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief which followed
happened. they secured their wires and children, so that they could
never he found; they having, by sticking innumerable stakes and poles
of the wood, which, as I said. grew so easily, made a grove impassable
except, in one place, where they climbed up to get over the outside part,
and then went in by ways of their own leaving.

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they were
mueh civilized by their new settlement, compared to what they were
before, and were. not so quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity,
yet one of the certain companions of aprofligate mind never left them,
and that was their idleness. It is true, they planted corn, and made
fences; hut Solomon's words were never better verified than in them:
"I went by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was overgrown with
thorns;" for when the Spaniards came to view their crop, they could
not see it in some places for weeds; the hedge had several gaps in it,
where the wild goats had gotten in and eaten up the corn; perhaps
here and there a dead bush was crammed in to stop them out for the
present, but it was only shutting the stable door after the steed was
stolen; whereas, when they looked on the colony of the other two, there
was the very face of industry and success upon all they did; there was
not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges;
and' they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's words in another
place: "The diligent hand maketh rich;" for every thing grew and
thrived, and they had plenty within and without; they had more tame
cattle than the others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and
yet more pleasure and diversion too.

It is true the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly within
doors; and having learned the English ways of dressing and cooking
from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's mate i
on board the ship, they dressed their husband's victuals very nicely;
whereas the other could not be brought to understand it; but then the
husband, who as I said, had been cook's mate, did it himself; but as for
the husbands ,of the three wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles'
eggs, and caught fish and birds; in a word, any thing but labour, and
they fared accordingly. The diligent lived well and comfortably, and
the slothful lived hard and beggarly; and so, I believe, generally
speaking, it is all over the world.

But now I come to a scene different from all that had ever happened
before, either to them or me; and the origin of the story was this:
- 849

Early one morning there came on shore five or six canoes of Indiana,
or savages, call them which you please; and there is no room to doubt
that they came upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but
that 'part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men too,
that they did not concern themselves about it as I did; but having
been made sensible, by their experience, that their only business was
to lie concealed, and that, if they were not seen by any of the savages,
they would go ofl' again quietly when their business was done, having
as yet not the least notion of there being any inhabitants in the island,
--I say, having been made sensible of this, they had nothing to do
but to give notice to all the three plantations to keep within doors, and
not to show themselves; only placing a scout in a proper place, to give
notice when the boats went off to sea again.

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all these
measures, and made it known among the savages, that there were in-
habitants there, which was, in the end, the desolation of almost the
whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone 01?, the
Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them had the curiosity
to go to the place where they had been, to see what they had been
doing. Here, to their great surprise, they found three savages left
behind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground; it was supposed they
had either been so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts,
they were asleep, and would not stir when the others went, or they
were wandered into the woods, and did not come back in time to be
taken in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly at
a loss what to do; the Spaniard governor, as it happened, was with
them, and his advice was asked, but he professed he knew not what to
do: as for slaves, they had enough already; and as to killing them, '
they were none of them inclined to that. The Spaniard governor told
me they could not think of shedding innocent blood; for 'as to them,
the poor creatures had done no wrong, invaded none of their property,
and they thought they had no just quarrel against them to take away
their lives.

And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that let all
the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they will,
I never met with seventeen men, of any nation whatsoever, in any
foreign country, who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous,
so very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these Spaniards; and as
to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very nature; no inhumanity,
no barbarity, no outrageous passions, and yet all of them men of great V
courage and spirit.35o rm: urn .-\.\'n ADVI-IX'I'I'RIiS

 

Their temper and calmness had appeared in their hearing the inset
ferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice and humanity
appeared now m the case of the savages, as above. After some con-
sultation, they resolved upon this. that they would lie still awhile
longer, till, if possible, these three men might be gone; but then the
governor Spaniard recollected that the three savages had no heat; and
that if they were left to rove about the island, they would certainly
discover that there were inhabitants in it, and so they should be undone
that way.

Upon this they went back again, and there lay the fellows fast asleep
still ; so they resolved to awaken them, and take them prisoners; and
they did so. The poor fellows were strangely frighted when they were
seized upon and bound, and afraid, like the women, that they should
be murdered and eaten; for it seems those people think all the world
do as they do, eating men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to
that; and away they carried them.

It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to
their castle--I mean to my palace under the hill--but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work;
such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c.; and after-
wards they carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.

Here they were set to work. though it was not much they had for
them to do; and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or
that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know not,
but one of them ran away, and taking into the woods, they could never
hear of him more.

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after in
some other boats or canoes of savages, who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards, and who carrying on their revels as usual, went
off again in two days" time. This thought terrified them exceedingly;
for they concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if this
fellow got safe home among his comrades, he would certainly give them
an account that there were people in the island, as also how weak and.
few they were; for this savage, as I observed before, had never been
told, as it was very happy he had not, how many they were, or where
they lived, nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any of their guns,
much less had they shown him any other of their retired places, such
as the cave in the valley, or the new 'retreat which the two Englishmen
had made, and the like.

The first testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence.
of them was, that about two months after this, six canoes of savages,
with about seven or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along
 

the north side of the island, where they never used to come before, and
landed about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile
from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man
had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been all
there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man of them
would have escaped: but the ease difl'ered now very'much; for two
men to fifty were too much odds. The two men had the happiness to
discover them about a league of, so that it was above an hour before
they landed, and as they landed about a mile from their huts, it was
some time before they could come at them. Now having great reason
to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they did was to bind
the slaves which were left, and cause two of the three men whom they
brought with the women, who, it seems, proved very faithful to them,
to lead them with their two wives, and whatever they could carry away
with them, to their retired place in the woods, which I have spoken of
above, and there to bind the two fellows hand and foot till they heard
further.

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and
that they bent their course directly that way, they opened the fences
where their milcn-goats were kept, and drove them all out, leaving
their goats to straggle into the wood, whither they pleased, that the
savages might think they were all bred wild; but the rogue who came
with them was too cunning for that, and gave them an account of it
all, for they went directly to the place.

When the poor frighted men had secured their wives and goods, they
sent the other slave they had of the three who came with the women,
and who was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards with
all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy help; and, in the
meantime, they took their arms, and what ammunition they had, and
retreated towards the place in the wood where their wives were sent,
keeping at a distance, yet so that they might see, if possible, which
way the savages took.

They had not gone far but that, from a rising ground, they could
see the little army of their enemies come on directly to their habitao
tion, and in a moment more, could see all their huts and household
stuff flaming up together, to their great grief and mortification; for
they had a very great loss, and to_ them irretrievable, at least for some
time. They kept their station for a while, till they found the savages,
like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rummaging every
way, and every place they could think of, in search for prey, and' 1n

particular for the people, of whom it plaiply appeared they" intel
ltgence.
The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure
where they stood, as it was likely some of the wild people might come
that way, so they might come too many together, thought it proper to
make another retreat about half a mile farther, believing, as it after-
wards happened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer would be
together.

, The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick grown part of
the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow,
and vastly large; and in this tree they both took their standing, re-
solving to see what might offer.

They had not stood there long, but two of the savages appeared
running directly that way, as if they had already notice where they
stood, and were coming up to attack them; and a little way farther,
they espied three more coming after them, and five more beyond them,
all coming the same way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more
at a distance, running another way; for, in a word, they run every
way, like sportsmen beating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity, whether they should
stand and keep their posture, or fly; but after a very short debate
with themselves, they considered, that if the savages ranged the coun-
try thus before help came, they might, perhaps, find out their retreat
in the woods, and then all would be lost; so they resolved to stand
them there, and if they were too many to deal with, then they would
get to the top of the tree, from whence they doubted not to defend them-
selves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted, though all the
savages that were landed, which were near fifty, were to attack them.

Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether they should
fire at the two first, or wait for the three, and so take the middle party,
by which the two and the fire that followed would be separated; at
length they resolved to let the two first pass by, unless they should
spy them in the tree, and come to attack them. The two first savages
also confirmed them in this resolution, by turning a little from them
towards another part of the wood; but the three, and the five after
them, came forwards directly to the tree, as if they had known the
Englishmen were there.

Seeing them come so straight towards them, they resolved to take
them in a line as they came; and as they resolved to fire but one at a
time, perhaps the first shot might hit them all three; to which purpose,
the man who was to fire put three or four bullets into his piece, and
having a fair loop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he
took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they were within about
thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not miss.
 

 

While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they plainly
saw, that one of the three was the runaway savage that had escaped
from them, and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if
possible, he should not escape, though they should both fire; so the
other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the first
shot, he should be sure to have a second.

But the first was too good a marksman to miss his aim; for as the
savages kept near one another, a little behind in a line, in a word, he
fired, and hit two of them directly; the foremost was killed outright,
being shot in the head; the second, which was the runaway Indian,
was shot through the body and fell, but was not quite dead; and the
third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball
that went through the body of the second; and being dreadfully
frighted, though not much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming
and yelling in a hideous manner.

The fire that were behind, more frighted with the noise than sensible
of their danger, stood still at first; for the woods made the sound a
thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling from one
side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming and
making, every sort, a several kind of noise, according to their kind,
just as it was when I fired the first gun that, perhaps, was ever shot
ofi' in that place since it was an island.

However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what the
matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to that place where
their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough; and here the
poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were within reach of
the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, talk-
ing, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be
hurt; and who, it is very rational to believe, 'told them' that a flash of
fire first, and immediately after that thunder from their gods, had
killed those two, and wounded him. This, I say, is rational; for
nothing is more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so
they had never heard a gun in all their lives, or so much as heard of a
gun; neither: knew they any thing of killing or wounding at a distance
with fire and bullets; if they had, one might reasonably believe that
they would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of their
fellows without some apprehension of their own.

Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them to
be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who at' the same time had
no notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus intheir power,
and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fly bofi
together among them, and singling out by agreement which to aim- at."

23 .
 

they shot together. and killed, ot very much wounded, four of them_.
the fifth. t'riglttetl even to death, though not hurt, fell witlt the rest;
30 that our men, seeing tltettt all fall together, thought tltey had killed
them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men come
boldly out from tlte tree before they ltad charged tlteir guns again,
which was a wrong step. attd they were under some surprise wlten they
same to tlte ')l:l('l', and found no. less tltatt four of the men alive, and
of them two very little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged them to
fall upon them with the stocks of their ntuskets; and first they made.
sure of the runaway savage tltat had been the cause. of all the mischief.
and of another that was ltnrt in his knee, and put them out of their
pain. Then the man that. was ttot hurt at all cattle. nttd kneeled dowtt
to them with his two hands held up, attd tnade piteous mean to them
by gestures and signs for his life, but could ttot say otte word to them
that. they eould understand.

However. they signified to him to sit down at the foot of a tree
thereby: and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-twine which
he had by great chance itt his pocket, tied his feet fast together. and
his hands behind him. and there they left hint: attd with what speed
they eouhl tnake after the other two which were gone before, fearing
they. or any tttore of them, should find the way to their covered place
itt the woods. where their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay.
'l'hey eame ottee itt sight of the two ntett, but it was at. a. great distance;
however, they had the satisfitetion to see them cross over a valley
towards the sea, the quite contrary way front that. which led to their
retreat. which they were afraid of ; and being satisfied with that, they
wettt hack to the tree where they left their prisoner, who, as they sup-
posed, was delivered by his' comrades; for he was gone, and the two
pieces of rope-yarn, with which they ltad bouttd him, lay just at. the
foot of the tree.

They were now itt as great a concern as before, not knowing what
course to take, or ltow near the enemy might lte, or in what numbers;
an they resolved to go away to the place where their wives were, to
see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough to be sure; for though the savages were their own country-
folks, yet they were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the

more for the knowledge they had of them.

When they tame thither, they found the savages had been in the
wood, and very near the place, but had not found it; for, indeed, it
was inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick, as before, unless the
persons seeking." had been directed by those that knew it, which
these were not ; they found, therefore, every thing very safe, only the
women in a terrible fright. While they were here, they had the com-
fort of seven of the Spaniards coming to their assistance; the other
ten with their servants, and old Friday, I mean Friday's father, were
gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that
were kept there, in case the savages should have roved over to that
side of the country; but they did not spread so far. With the seven
Spaniards came one of the savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners
formerly, and with them also came the savage whom the Englishman
had left bound hand and feet at the tree; for it seems they came that
way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the eighth, and
brought him along with them, where, however, they were obliged to
him] him again, as they had done the two others, who were left when
the third ran away.

The prisoners began now to be a burden to them; and they were so
afraid of their escaping, that they thought they were under an absolute
necessity to kill them for their own preservation: however, the Spa-
niard governor would not consent to it; but ordered, that they should
he sent out of the way to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there,
with two Spaniards to guard them and give them food: which was
done; and they were bound there hand and foot for that night.

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged,
that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there; but,
taking five of the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets and a
pistol among them, and two stout quarter-stoves, away they went in
quest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where the men
lay that had been killed ; but it was easy to see that some more of the

 

 

savages had been there; for they attempted to carry their dead men-

away, and had dragged two of them a good way, but had giveniit
over. From thence, they advanced to the first rising ground, where
they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where they had
the mortification still to see some of the smoke; but neither could they
here see any of the savages. They then resolved, though with all
possible caution, to go forward towards their ruined plantation; but a
little before they came thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they
saw plainly the savages all embarking again in their canoes, in order
to be gone.

They seemed sorry at first that there was no way to come at them
to give them a parting blow, but upon the whole were very well satin-
fied to be rid of them.

The poor Englishmen being new twice ruined, and all their improve-
ments destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them to rebuild,
 

 

and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three countrymen,
who were not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any thing
good, yet, as soon as they heard of it (for they, living remote, knew
nothing till all was over), came and ofi'ered their help and assistance,
and did very friendly work for several days to restore their habita-
tions, and make necessaries for them; and thus in a little time they
were set upon their legs again.

About two days after this, they had the further satisfaction of seeing
three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore, and at some dis-
tance from them, with two drowned men; by which they had reason to
believe that they had met with a storm at sea, which had overset some
of them, for it blew very hard the night after they went off.

However, as some might miscarry, so on the other hand enough of
them escaped to inform the rest, aswell of what they had done, as of
what happened to them; and to whet them on to another enterprise
of the same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to attempt, with
sufiicient force to carry all before them; for except what the first man
had told them of inhabitants, they could say little to it of their own
knowledge; for they never saw one man, and the fellow being killed
that had afiirmed it, they had no other witnesses to confirm it to them.

 

CHAPTER V.

' The Island is invaded by a formidable Fleet of Savages--A terrible Engagement, in
which the Cannibals are utterly routed--Thirty-seven Wretches, the survivors, are
saved. and employed by my People as Servants--Description of Will Atkins'
ingenious Contrivanees for his Accommodation.

IT was five or six months after this before they heard any more of
the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they had not forgot
their former had luck, or had given over the hopes of better; when on
a sudden they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no less than
twenty-eight canoes, full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great
clubs, wooden swords, and such like engines of war; and they brought
such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our people into the
utmost consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the eastermost side
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to
do; and in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed, v _ . . ,._ .- - .;-a--:-r--------rq-5C/..--wg

QP BOBINBQN 0311803. 357

 

was their only. safety before, and would much more be so now, while
the number of their enemies was so great, they therefore resolved, firs'
of all, to take down the huts which were built for the two Englishmen,
and drive away their goats to the old cave; because they supposed the
savages would go directly thither as soon as it was dav to play the
old game over again, though they did not now land witmn two leagues
of it.

In the next place, they drove away all the flock of goats they had at
the old bower, as I called it, which belonged to the Spaniards; and, in
short, left as little appearance of inhabitants anywhere as possible ,
and the next morning early they posted themselves with all their force
at the plantation of the two men, waiting for their coming. As they
guessed, so it happened: these new invaders, leaving their canoes at
the east end of the island, came ranging along the shore, directly
towards the place, to the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as
our men could judge. Our army was but small indeed; but that which
was worse, they had not arms for all their number neither: the whole
account, it seems, stood thus :--first, as to men:

17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's father.
3 Slaves, taken with the women, who proved very faithful.
3 Other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards.

29
To arm these they had:
11 Muskets.
5 Pistols.
8 Fowling- -pieces.

5 Muskets, or fowling-pieces, which were taken by me from the

mutinous seamen whom I reduced.
2 Swords.
3 Old halhsrts.

29

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusil, but they
had every o'ne an halbert, or a long staff, like a quarter-stall; with a
great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a -
hatchet; also every one of our men had hatchets. Two of the we .' .3.
could not be prevailed upon but they would come into the fight, :3 '
 

they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken from the
savages when the first action happened, which I have spoken of, where
the Indians fought with one another; and the women had hatchets too.

The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so often, commanded
the whole; and William Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for
wickedness, was a most daring bold fellow, commanded under him.
The savages came forward like lions, and our men, which was the worst
of their fate, had no advantage in their situation; only that Will At-
kins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was planted
just. behind a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard,.with
orders to let the first of them pass by, and then fire into the middle
of them; and as soon as he had fired. to make his retreat, as nimbly
as he could, round a part of the wood, and so come in behind the
Spaniards where they stood, having a thicket of trees all before them

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way in
heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty of
them pass by him; then seeing the rest come in a very thick throng,
he orders three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskets with
six or seven bullets apiece, about as big as pistol bullets. How many
they killed or wounded they knew not; but the consternation and sur-
prise was inexpressible among the savages, who were frighted to the
last degree, to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men killed,
and others hurt, but see nobody that did it: when in the middle of
their fright, William Atkins and his other three let fly again among
the thickest of them; and in less than a minute the first three, being
loaded again, gave them a third volley.

Had William Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as
they had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the.
body been at hand to have poured in their shot continually, the savages
had been effectually routed; for the terror that was among them came
principally from this, namely, that they were killed by the gods with
thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that hurt them: but Wil-
liam Atkins staying to load again, discovered the cheat; some of the
savages, who were at a distance, spying them, came upon them behind;
and though Atkins and his men fired at them also, two or three times,
and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they could, yet they wounded
Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow Englishmen with their
arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian
slaves who came with the women. This slave was a most gallant fellow,
and fought most desperately, killing five of them with his own hand.
having no weapon but one of the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at. Atkins wounded. and two otheror 110131113011 causes. ' 35C/

 

men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood;'and the Spaniards"
after firing three volleys upon them, retreated also; for their number
was so great, and they were so desperate, that though above fifty of
them were killed, and more than so many wounded, yet they came on,
in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like
a cloud; and it was observed, that their wounded men, who were not
quite disabled, were made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like
mudmen.

When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the Englishman
that were killed, behind them; and the savages, when they came up t1,
them, killed them over again in a wretched manner, breaking their
arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden swords, like true
savages. But finding our men were gone, they did not seem inclined
to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a kind of ring, which is, it
seems, their custom, and shouted twice in token of their victory; after
which, they had the mortifieation to see several of their wounded men
fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have had
him march, and charge them again all together at once: but the Spa-
niard replied, "Seignior Atkins, you see_how their wounded 1nen fight'g
let them alone till morning; all these wounded men will be stiff and
sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood, and so we
shall have the fewer to engage."

The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, "That's
true, Seignior, and so shall I too; and that' s the reason I would go on
while I am warm."--" Well, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard,
"you have behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will fight for
you, if you cannot come on; but I think it best to stay till morning."
so they waited.

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages
in great disorder about their dead and wounded men. and a great hurry
and noise among them where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fall
upon them in the night, especially if they could come to give them but
one volley before they were discovered. This they had a fair oppor-
tunity to do; for one of the two Englishmen, in whose quarter it was
where the fight began, led them round between the woods and the sea-
side westward, and turning short south, they came so near where the
thickest of them lay, that before they were seen or heard, eight of
them fired in among them, and did dreadful execution upon them; in
half a minute more, eight others fired after them, pouring in their
small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were killed and vtlmnded,~
and all this while they were not able to see who hurt them, or which
way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then
divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in among
them all together. They had in each body eight persons; that is to
say. tII'enty-l'our. whereof were twenty-two men, and the two women,
who, by the way, fought desperately.

They divided the firearms equally in each party. and so of the hal-
berts and stares. They would have. had the women keep back; but
they said they were resolved to die with their husbands. Having thus
rOI'Illt'Il their little aIIIII' they III. IIrIIhed out from aIIIonIr the trees, and
came up to the teeth of the eneIIII' slIoIItin-v and hallooinIr as loud as
they eould. 'llIII savaues stood all togelhel, hut IIeI e in the utmost,

 

(Ionl'nsion. hearing~ the noise of our men shouting tIIoIII three quarters
toI'elher: they would have l'oIIIrht it' they had seen us; and as soon
as we eaIne He II enouI'lI to be seen. some :Ir-IIoIIs II III e shot. and poor
old l'IIiday II as wounded. though not. dangetonsly. But our men gave
them no time, but running up to them, tired among them three ways,
and then fell in with the butt. ends of their IIIuskets, their swords,
armed stoves, and hatehet ; and laid about them so well. that in a
word they set up a dismal serealning and howling, llying to save their
lives Ivhieh way soever they could.

()III' men were tired with the exeention, and killed, or mortally
wounded. in the two tights, about one hundred and eighty of them:
the rest being l'righted out. of their wits, seonred through the woods
and over the hills. with all the speed that fear and nimble t'eet eould
help them to do: and as we did not trouble ourselves IIIIIeh to pursue
them, they got all together to the se- -side, where they landed. and
where their eaIIoes lay. But their Ili. . ster was not at an end yet, for
it blew a teIIIihle storm of wind that evening from the sea- ward so
that it IIas impossible for them to put otl'I , my, the storm t'UIIllllllil)"
all night, when the tide IaIIIe up their Ianoes IIeI e most of them dr'iIeII
by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it required in-
finite toil to get them off; and some of them were even dashed 'tn
pieces against the heaeh, or against one another.

Our men. though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that night;
but having refreshed themselves as well as they could, they resolved to
' march to that part of the island where the savages were tied, and see
what. posture they were in. This necessarily led them over the place
where the light had been, and where they found several of the poor
creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovering life--a. sight dis~
agreeable enough to generous minds: for a truly gust man, though"GIIT "'1?" TI"! CAN-VIDA".
obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in
his misery.

However, there was no need to give any order in this case; for their
own savages, who were their servants, despatched those poor creatures
with their hatchets.

At length they came in view of the place where the more miserable
remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about one
hundred still : their posture was generally sitting upon the ground,
with their knees up towards their mouth, and the head put between
the hands, leaning down upon the knees.

When our men came within two musket-shot of them, the Spaniard
governor ordered two muskcts to be fired without ball to alarm them:
this he did, that by their countenance he might know what to expect,
namely, whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so heartily
beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he might manage
accordingly.

This stratagem took ; for as soon as the savages heard the first gun,
and saw the flash of the second, they started up upon their feet in the
greatest consternation imaginable; and as our men advanced swiftly
towards them, they all ran screaming and yawliug away, with a kind
of a howling noise, which our men did not understand, and had never
heard before; and thus they ran up the hills into the country.

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and
they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that
this might probably have been the occasion'of their coming again in
such multitudes as not to be resisted; or, at least, to come so many
and so often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them. Will
Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstamling his wound, kept always with
them, proved the best counsellor in this case. His advice was, to take
the advantage that offered, and clap in between them and their boats,
and so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any more to
plague the island.

They consulted long about this, and some were against it, for fear
of making the wretches fly into the woods, and live there desperate;
and so they should have them to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to
stir about their business, and have their plantations continually rifled.
all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, he reduced to a life of
continual distress. '

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with one hundred
men than with one hundred nations; that, as they must destroy their
boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of them destroyed them-
selves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it so plainly, that they
 

 

all came into it; so they went to work immediately with the boats,
and getting some dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to
set some of them on fire; but they were so wet that they would scarce
burn. However, the fire so burned the upper part, that it soon made
them unfit for swimming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw
what they were about, some of them came running out of the woods,
and coming as near as they could to our men, kneeled down, and
cried, "0a, 0a, Waramokoa," and some other words of their lan-
guage, which none of the others understood any thing of ; but as they
made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was easy to understand
they begged to have their boats spared, and that they would be gone,
and never return thither again.

But our men were now satisfied, that they had no way to preserve
themselves, or to save their colony, but effectually to prevent any of
these people from ever going home again: depending upon this, that
if ever so much as one of them got back into their country to tell the
story, the colony was undone; so that, letting them know that they
should not have any mercy, they fell to work with their canoes, and
destroyed them every one that the storm had not destroyed before; at
the sight of which, the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods,
which our people heard plain enough; after which, they ran about the
island like distracted men; so that, in a word, our men did not really
know at first what to do with them.

Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider, that while
they made those people thus desperate, they ought to have keptlgood
guard at the same time upon their plantations; for though, it is true,
they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not find their
main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the val-
ley; yet they found out my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all
to pieces, and all the fences and planting about it ; trod all the corn
under foot; tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe;
and did our men an inestimable damage, though to themselves not one
fan-thing's worth-of service.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet they
were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down; for,
as they were too nimble of foot for our men when they found them
single, so our men durst not go about single for fear of being sur-
rounded with their numbers. The best was, they had no weapons;
for though they had bowd, they had no arrows left, nor any materials
to make any, nor had they any edged tool or weapon among them. '

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and.
indeed, deplorable, but at the same time our men were also brought364 rue use AND summons

to very hard circumstances by them; for though their retreats were
preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled;
and what to do, or which way to turn themselves, they knew not; the
only refuge they had now, was the stock of cattle they had in the
valley by the cave, and some little corn which grew there. The three
Englishmen, William Atkins and his comrades, were now reduced to
two. one of them being killed by an arrow, which struck him on the
side of his head, just under the temples, so that he never spoke more;
and it was very remarkable, that this was the same barbarous fellow
who cut the poor savage slave with his hatchet, and who afterwards
ntended to have murdered the Spaniards.

Ilook upon their case to have been worse at this time than mine
-'as at any time after I first discovered the grains of barley and rice,
nd got into the method of planting and raising my corn, and my tame
attle; for now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves upon the
dand, which would devour every thing they could come at, yet could
e very hardly come at themselves.

The first thing they concluded when they saw what their circum-
tances were, was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the
arther part of the island, south-cast, that if any more savages came
at shore, they might not find one another: then that they would daily
31ml: and harass them, and kill as many of them as they could come

at, till they had reduced the number; and if they could at last tame
them, and bring them to any thing, they would give them corn, and
teach them how to plant, and live upon their daily labour.

In order to this they followed them, and so terrified them with their
guns, that, in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if
he (lid not hit him, he would fall down for fear; and so dreadfully
frighted they were, that they kept out of sight farther and farther,
till at last our men following them, and every day almost killing and
wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods and hollow places
so much, that it reduced them to the utmost misery for want of food ;
and many were afterwards found dead in the woods without any hurt,
but merely starved to death.

When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity
moved them; especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most
gentleman-like, generous-minded man that ever I met with in my life;
and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and bring him

0 understand what they meant, so far as to be able to act as inter-
preter, and to go among them, and see if they might be brought to

some conditions that might be depended upon, to save their lives, and
do us no spoil.
RM some time before any of them could be taken; but being weak,
and halfostarved, one of them was at last surprised, and made a pri-
soner: he was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink; but
finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him, and no violence
ofi'ered him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.

They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told
him how kind the others would be to them all; that they would not
only save their lives, but would give them a part of the island to live
in, provided they would give satisfaction that they should keep in their
own bounds, and not come beyond them, to injure or prejudice others;
and that they should have corn given them, to plant and make it grow
for their bread, and some bread given them for their present subsistence;
and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of his coun-
trymen, and hear what they said to it, assuring them, that if they did
not agree immediately, they should all be destroyed.

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number to
about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, and begged
to have some food given them; upon which twelve Spaniards and two
Englishmen, well armed, and three Indian slaves, and old Friday,
marched to the place where they were. The three Indian slaves car-
ried them a large quantity of bread, and some rice boiled up to cakes,
and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and they were ordered
to go to the side of a hill, where they sat down, ate the provisions very
thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to their words that could
be thought of; for except when they came to beg victuals and direc-
tions, they never came out of their bounds, and there they lived when
I came to the island, and I went to see them.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats, and milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and they soon
would have been a nation. They were confined to a neck of land sur-

 

rounded with high rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the sea'
before them, on the south-east corner of the island: they had land .
enough, and it 'was very good and fruitful; for they had a piece of " '

land about a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in length.
Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for
myself; and gave among them twelve hatchets, and three or four

knives; and there they lived, the most subjected innocent creatures .

that were ever heard of.

After this the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with respect to
the savages, till 'I came to revisit them, which was in about two years.
Not but that now and then some canoes of savages came on share for
their triumphal, unnatural feasts, but as they were of several nations.
and, perhaps, had never heard of those that came before, or the reason
of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after their countrymen:
and if they had, it would have been very hard for them to have found
them out.

Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that happened to
them to my return, at least that was worthy of notice. The Indians,
or savages, were wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently
went among them; but forbid, on pain of death, any of the Indians
coming to them, because they would not have their settlement betrayed
again.

One thing was very remarkable, namely, that they taught the sav-
ages to make wicker~work, or baskets; but they soon outdid their
masters , fo1 they made abundance of most mnemous things 1n wicker-
work; particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards,
lite. as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance of
other things, being very ingenious at such work when they were once
put in the way of it.

My coming was a particular relief to these people, because we fur-
nished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, and all
things of that kind which they could want.

With the help of these tools they were so very handy, that they
came at last to build up their huts, or houses, very handsomely; rad-
dling, or working it up like basket-work all the way round, which was
a very extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd, but was
an exceeding good fence, as well against heat, as against all sorts of
vermin; and our men were so taken with it, that they got the wild
savages to come and do the like for them; so that when I came to see
the two Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they
lived all like bees in a hive; and as for Will Atkins, who was now
become a very industrious, necessary, and sober fellow, he had made
himself such a tent of basket-work as I believe was never seen. It
was one hundred and twenty paces round on the outside, as I measured
by my steps: the walls were as close worked as a basket, in pannels
or squares, thirty-two in number, and very strong, standing about seven
feet high: in the middle was another not above twenty-two paces
round, but built stronger, being eight-square in its form, and in the
eight corners stood eight very strong posts, round the top of which he
laid strong pieces, joined together with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid before the roof of eight rafters, very handsome, I
assure you, and joined together very well, though he had no nails, and
only a few iron spikes, which he had made himself too, out of the old
iron that I hml left there. And indeed this fellow showed abundance
 

of ingenuity in several things which he had no knowledge, of: he made
himself a forge, with a pair of wooden bellows to blow the fire; he
made himself charcoal for his work, and he formed out of one of the
iron crows a middling good anvil to hammer upon ; in this manner he
made many things, but especially hooks, staples and spikes, bolts and
hinges. But to return to the house: after he pitched the roof of his
innermost tent, he worked it up between the rafters with basket-work
so firm, and thatched that over again so ingeniously with rice-straw,
and over that a large leaf of a tree, which covered the top, that his
house was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. Indeed he owned
that the savages made the basket-work for him.

The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round this inner
apartment, and long rafters lay from the thirty-two angles to the t0p
posts of the inner house, being about twenty feet distant: so that
there was a space like a walk within the outer wicker wall, and without
the inner, near twenty feet wide.

The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker work, but
much fairer, and divided into six apartments, for that he had six rooms
on a floor, and out of every one of these there was a door; first into
the entry, or coming into the main tent; and another door into the
space or walk that was round it; so that this Walk was also divided
into six equal parts, which served not only for a retreat, but to store
up any necessaries which the family had occasion for. These six
spaces not taking up the whole circumference, what other apartments
the outer circle had, were thus ordered: as soon as you were in. at the
door of the outer circle, you had a short passage straight before you
to the door of the inner house; but on either side was a wicker par- .
tition, and a door in it, by which you went first into a large room, or
storehouse, twenty feet wide, and about thirty feet long, and through
that into another not quite so long: so that in the outer circle were
ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to be come at through
the apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets, or retired
rooms to the respective chambers of the inner circle; and four large
warehouses, or barns, or what you please to call them, which went in
tin Jugh one another, two on either hand of the passage that led
through the outer door to the inner tent.

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the world;
nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. In this
great bee-hive lived the three families; that is to say, Will Atkins and
his companion; the third was killed, but his wife remained with three -
children,:for she was, it seems, big with child when. he died; and the,
'nther two were not at all backward to give the widow her flushes-9'2!
 

every thing. I mean as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c., and when they
lulled a kid, or found a turtle on the shore: so that they all lived well
enough, though, it was true, they were not so industrious as the other
two, as has been observed already.

One thing, however. cannot be omitted, namely, that, as for religion.
I don't know that there was any thing of that kind among them:
they pretty often indeed put one another in mind that there was a
God, by the very common method of seamen, namely, swearing by his
name: nor were. their poor, ignorant, savage wives tnucb the better
for having been married to Christians, as we must call them; for as
they knew very little of God themselves, so they were utterly incapable
of entering into any diseonrse with their wives about a God, or to talk
any thing to them concerning religion.

The. utmost of all the itnprtwetnent which 1 can say the wives had
made. from them was, that they had taught them to speak English
pretty well: and all the children they had, which were near twenty in
all, were taught to speak English too, frqu their lirst learning to speak,
though they at first. spoke it in a very broken manner, like their mothers.
There were none of those children above six years old when leatne
thither: for it was not tnuch above seven years that they had fetched
these live savage ladies over; but they had all been pretty fruitful, for
they had all children, more or less. 1 think the eook's mate's wife was
big of her sixth child; and the mothers were all a good sort of well-
goverued, quiet, laborious women, modest and decent, helpful to one
another, mighty observant and subject to their masters--I cannot call
them husbands--and wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the
Christian religion. and to be legally married; both which were happily
brought about afterwards by my means, or at least by the consequence
of my coming among them.

CHAPTER VI.

1 hold Conversations with the Spaniards. and learn the History of their situation among
the Savages. from which I relieved them--l inform the Colony for what purpose I
am come. and what I mean to do for them--Distribution of the Stores 1 brought
with me--The Priest 1 saved at Sea solomnizes the Marriages of the Sailors and
Female Indians. who had hitherto lived together as Man and Wife.

HAVING thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty
much of my five runagate Englishmen, I must say something of the
Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose story
there are some incidents also remarkable enough.
 

 

I had a great many discourses with them about their eiroumstancet
when they were among the savages: they told me readily, that they
had no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that coun-
try; that they were a poor, miserable, dejected handful of people; that
if means had been put into their hands, they had yet so abandoned
themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of their misfortunes,
that they thought of nothing but starving. One of them, a grave and
very sensible man, told me he was convinced they were in the wrong;
that it was not the part of wise men to give themselves up to their
misery, but always to take hold of the helps which reason ofi'cred, as
well for present support as for future deliverance; he told me, that
grief was the most senseless, insignificant passion in the world; for that it
regarded only things past, which were generally impossible to be recalled
or to be remedied, but had no view to things to come, and had no share
in any thing that looked like deliverance, but rather added to the afllic~
tion than proposed a remedy; and upon this he repeated a Spanish pro-
verb, which, though I cannot repeat in just the same words that he

spoke it, yet I remember I made it into an English proverb of my own,

thus:
In trouble to be troubled, ,
Is to have your trouble doubled.

He then ran on in remarks upon all the little improvements I had
made in my solitude; my unwearied application, as he called it, and
how I had made a condition, which, in its circumstances, was at first
much worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs was,
even now when they were all together. He told me it was remarkable
that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind in their distress than
any people that ever he met with; that their unhappy nation, and the
Portuguese, were the worst men in the world to struggle with misfor-
tunes; for that their first step in dangers, after common ell'orts are over,
was always to despair,----lie down under it and die, without rousing their
thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.

I told him their case and mine difl'ered exceedingly; that they were
cast upon the shore without necessaries, without supply of. food, or of
present sustenance, till they could provide it; that it is true I had this
disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the supplies I
had providentially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected driving of
the ship on shore, was such ahelp as would have encouraged any crea- '
ture in the world to have applied himself as I had done. "Seignior,"
says the Spaniard, " had we poor Spaniards been in your case, we should
never have gotten half those things out of the ship as you did. Nay,"

says he, "we should never have found means to have gotten a rsfi to
2' I
--

 

carry them, or to have gotten a raft on shore without boat or sail; and
how much less should we have done," said he, "if any of us had been
alone!" Well, I desired him to abate his compliment, and go on with
the history of their coming on shore, where they landed. He told me
they unhappily landed at a place where there were people without pro-
visions; whereas, had they had the common sense to have put off to sea
again, and gone to another island a little further, they had found pro-
visions, though without people; there being an island that way, as they
had been told, where there were provisions, though no people; that is
to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been there, and
filled the island with goats and hogs at several times, where they have
bred in such multitudes, and where turtle and sea-fowls were in such
plenty, that they could have been in no want of flesh, though they had
found no bread; whereas here they were only sustained with a few roots
and herbs, which they understood not, and which had no substance in
them, and which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough, and who
could treat them no better, unless they would turn cannibals, and eat
men's flesh, which was the great dainty of the country.

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize the
savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in the
ordinary way of living, but in vain; and how they retorted it upon
them as unjust, that they who came thither for assistance and support
should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave them bread;
intimating, it seems, that none should set up for the instructors of
others but those who could live without them.

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven
to; how sometimes they were many days without any food at all, the
island they were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that live
more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with the necessa-
ries of life than they had reason to believe others were in the same part
of the world; and yet they found that these savages were less ravenous
and voracious than those who had better supplies of food.

Also they added, that they could not but see with what demonstra-
tions of wisdom and goodness the governing providence of God directs
the events of things in the world, which they said appeared in their cir-
cumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were under, and the
harrenness of the country where they were, they had searched after a
better place to live in, they had then been out of the way of the relief
that happened to them by my mes-Is.

Then they gave me an account how the savages whom they lived
among expected them to go out with them into their wars; and it
was true. that as they had firearm with them, had they not had the
'------_------------------0--

disaster to lose their ammunition, they should not have been serviceablo
only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible both to friends
and enemies; but being without powder and shot, and in a condition
that they could not in reason deny to go out with their landlords to
their wars, when they came in the field of battle they were in a worse
condition than the savages themselves, for they neither had bows nor
arrows, nor could they use those the savages gave them, so that they
could do nothing but stand still and be wounded with arrows till they
came up to the teeth of their enemy; and then indeed the three halberts
they had were of use to them, and they would often drive a whole little
army before them with those halberts and sharpened sticks put intothe
muzzles of their muskets: but that for all this, they were sometimes
surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows;
till at last they found the way to make themselves large targets of
wood, which they covered with the skins of wild beasts, whose names
they knew not, and these covered them from the arrows of the savages;
that notwithstanding these, they were sometimes in great danger,
and were once five of them knocked down together with the clubs of
the savages, which was the time when one of them was taken prisoner,

that is to say, the Spaniard whom I had relieved; that at first they

thought he had been killed, but when afterwards they heard he was
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable, and
would willingly have all ventured their lives to have rescued him.

They told me, that when they were so knocked down, the rest of
their company rescued them, and stood over them fighting till they
were come to themselves, all but he who they thought had been dead;
and then they made their way with their halberts and pieces, standing
close together in a line, through a body of above a thousand savages,"

beating down all that came in their way, get the victorylpver their?
enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was with the less of their "

friend; whom the other party, finding him alive, carried off with some
others, as I gave an account in my former. .

They described, most affectionately, how they were surprised with
joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery, who they
thought had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, namely,
by wild men; and yet how more and more they were surprised with
the account he gave them of his errand, and that there was'a Christian
in a place near, much more one that was able, and had humanity enough
to contribute to their deliverance. ' ' v a.

They described how thq were astonished at the sight of. tbevrelief
I sent them, and at the {appearance of leaves of brad, thingith'e'y;
hadrot seen since their coming to that miserable place; how-often

ii.

 

PS--
they crossed it, and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what
a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as also of the other
things I had sent for their supply. And, after all, they would have
told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a boat and
pilots to carry them away to the person and place from whence all
these new comforts came; but they told me it was impossible to ex-
press it by words, for their excessive joy driving them to unbecoming
extravagances, they had no way to describe them but by telling me
that they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their
passion suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in some it
worked one way, and in some another; and that some of them, through
a surprise of joy, would burst out into tears; others be half mad, and
others immediately faint. This discourse extremely affected me, and
called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father, and the
poor people's ecstasy when I took them up at sea, after their ship was
on fire; the mate of the ship's joy when he found himself delivered
in the place where he expected to perish; and my own joy, when, after
t\\'enty~eight years' captivity, I found a good ship ready to carry me
to my own country. All these things made me more sensible of the
relation of these poor men, and more affected with it.

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them, I
must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the condition
in which I left them. It was their opinion, and mine too, that they
would be troubled no more with the savages; or that, if they were,
they would be able to cut them off, if they were twice as many as be-
fore; so that they had no concern about that. Then I entered into a
serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I called governor, about
their stay in the island; for as I was not come to carry any of them
off, so it would not be just to carry off some and leave others, who
perhaps would be unwilling to stay if their strength was diminished.
On the other hand, I told them I came to establish them there, not to
remove them; and then I let them know that I had brought with me
relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had been at a great charge to
supply them with all things necessary, as well for their convenience as
their defence; and that I had such particular persons with me, as well
to increase and recruit their number, as by the particular necessary
employments which they were bred to, being artificers, to assist them
in those things in which at present they were to seek.

They were all together when I talked thus to them: and before I
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by one,
if they had entirely forgot and buried the first animosities that had
been among them, and could shake hands with one another, and engage.
 

in a strict friendship and union of interest, so that there blight be no
more misunderstandings or jealousies.

William Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said,
they had met with aflictions enough to make them all sober, and ene-
mies enough to make them all friends; that for his part he would live
and die with them : and was so far from designing any thing against
the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing to him but what
his own bad humour made necessary, and 'what he would have done,
and perhaps much worse, in their case; and that he would ask them
pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and brutish things he had done
to them; and was very willing and desirous of living on terms of entire
friendship and union with them; and would do any thing that lay in
his power to convince them of it: and as for going to Epgland, he
can ed not if he did not go thither these twenty years.

The Spaniards said they had indeed at first disarmed and excluded
William Atkins and his two countrymen, for their ill conduct, as they
had let me know; and they appealed to me for the necessity they were
under to do so; but that William Atkins had behaved himself so bravely
in the great fight they had with the savages, and on several occasions
since, and had showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for, the
general interest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was past,
and thought he merited as much to be trusted with arms, and supplied
with necessaries, as any of them: and that they had testified their
satisfaction in him, by committing the command to him, next to the
governor himself; and as they had an entire confidence in him and all
his countrymen, so they acknowledged they had merited that confidence
by all the methods that honest men could merit to be valued and
trusted; and they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me
this assurance, that they would never have any interest separate from
one another.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we appointed
the next day to dine altogether, and indeed we made a splendid feast.
I caused the ship' s cook and his mate to come on shore and dress our
dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shore assisted. We brought
on shore six pieces of good beef, and four pieces of pork, out of the
ship' s provision, with our punch-bowl, and materials to fill it; and, in
particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of
English beer; things that neither the Spaniards no? the Englishmen
had tasted for many years, and which, it may be supposed, they were
exceeding glad of.

The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids, We}: the cooh's
roasted; and three of them were sent, covered up clogs, on board at
ship to the seamen, that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore,
as we did with their salt meat from on board.

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I brought
out my cargo of goods, wherein, that there might be no dispute about
dividing, I showed them that there was suflicient for them all;
and desired that they might all take an equal quantity of the goods
that were for wearing: that is to say, equal when made up. At
first, I distributed linen sufiicient to make every one of them four
shirts; and, at the Spaniards' request, afterwards made them up six:
these were exceeding comfortable to them, having been what, as I
may say, they had long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear
them.

I allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mentioned before, to make
every one 'a light coat like a frock, which I judged fittest for the heat
of the season, cool and loose; and ordered, that whenever they decayed,
they should make more, as they thought fit. The like for pumps, shoes,
stockings, and hats, &c. ,

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the coun-
tenances of all these poor men when they saw the care I had taken of
them, and how well I had furnished them. They told me I was a
father to them; and that, having such a correspondent as I was, in so
remote a part of the world, it would make them forget that they were
left in'a desolate place; and they all voluntarily engaged to me not to
leave the place without my consent.

Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me, particu-
larly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of them most
necessary people; but above all my general artificer, than whom they
could not name any thing that was more needful to them; and tho
tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work immediately, and,
with my leave, made them every one a shirt the first thing he did; and,
which was still more, he taught the women not only how to sew and
stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the shirts for
their husbands and for all the rest.

As for the carpenters, I need scarce mention how useful they were;
for they took in pieces all my clumsy unhandy things, and made them
clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves,
and every thing they wanted of that kind.

But to let them see how nature made artificers at first, I carried the
carpenters to see William Atkins's basket-house, as I called it, and
they both owned they never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity
before, nor any thing so regular, and so handily built, at least of its
kind and one of them, when he saw it, after musing a good while,
 

turning about to me, "I am sure," says he, "that man has no need
of us; you need do nothing but give him tools."

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every man
a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no barrows or
ploughs; and to every separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad~axe,
and a saw; always appointing, that as often as any were broken, or
worn out, they should be supplied, without grudging, out of the general
stores that I left behind.

Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors, and all
sorts of tools and iron-work, they had without tale as they required;
for- no man would care to take more than he wanted, and he must be a
fool that would waste or spoil them on any account whatever. And for
the use of the smith, I left two tons of unwrought iron for a supply.

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was such,
even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them; for now
they could march, as I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder,
if there was occasion; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if
they had but some little advantages of situation, which also they could
not miss of if they had occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was starved
to death, and the maid also: she was a sober, well-educated, religious
young woman, and behaved so inofl'ensively that every one gave her
a good word. She had, indeed, an unhappy life with us, there being
no woman in the ship but herself; but she bore it with patience.
After a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so fine a way of
thriving upon my island, and considering that they had neither business
nor acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking so long a
voyage,--I say, considering all this, both of them came to me, and
desired I would give them leave to remain on the island, and be
entered among my family, as they called it.

I agreed to it readily, and they had a little plot of ground allotted
to them, where they had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with
a basket work, palisaded like Atkins's and adjoining to his plantation.
Their tents were contrived so, that they had each of them a room, a
part to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great storehouse, to lay all
their goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now the other twp Eng-
lishmen moved their habitation to the same place, and so the island
was divided into three colonies, and no more; namely, the Spaniards,
with old Friday and the first servants, at my old habitation under the
hill, which was, in a word, the capital city, and where they! had so
enlarged and extended their works, as well under as omjha; outside of

the bill, that they lived, though perfectly concealed, .yet Wings.

a? .
 

Never was there such a little city in a wood, and so hid, I believe, in
. any part of the world; for I verily believe a thousand men might
have ranged the island a month, and if they had not known there was
such a thing, and looked on purpose for it, they would not have found
it; for the trees stood so thick and so close, and grew so fast matted
into one another, that nothing but cutting them down first could dis-
cover the place, except the two narrow entrances where they went in
and out, could be found, which was not very easy. One of them was
just down at the water's edge, on the side of the creek; and it was
afterwards above two hundred yards to the place; and the other was
up the ladder at twice, as I have already formerly described it; and
they had a large wood thick planted, also, on the top of the hill,
which contained above an acre, which grew apaw, and covered the
place from all discovery there, with only one narrow place between
two trees, not easy to be discovered, to enter on that side.

The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were four
families of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there, with their wives
and children; three savages that were slaves; the widow and children
of the Englishman that was killed; the young man and the maid;
and (by the way) we made a wife of her also before we went away.
There were also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I brought
with me for them; also the smith, who was a very necessary man to
them, especially as the gunsmith, to take care of their arms; and my
other man, whom I called Jack of all trades, who was himself as
good almost as twenty men, for he was not only a very ingenious fel-
low, but a very merry fellow; and before I went away, we married
him to the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship, whom I
mentioned before.

And now I speak of marrying. it brings me naturally to say some-
thing of the French ecclesiastic, that I had brought with me out of
the ship's crew whom I took at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman,
and perhaps it may give offence to some hereafter. if I leave any thing
extraordinary upon record of a man, whom, before I begin, I must,~
(to set him out in just colours), represent in terms very much to his
disadvantage in the account of Protestants: as, first, that he was a
Papist; secondly, a Popish priest; and, thirdly, a French Popish
priest.

But justice demands of me to give him a due character: and I
must say he was a grave, sober, pious, and most religious person;
exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and exemplary in almost
every thing that he did. What, then, can one say against my being
my sensible of the value of such a man, notwithstanding his profes-
 

 

sionl though it-may be my opinion, perhaps, as well as the opinion of
others who shall read this, that he was mistaken. Q

The first hour that I began to converse wi spasm he had
agreed to go with me to the East Indies, I f ' ' ason to delight
exceedingly in his conversation; and he first began with me about
religion, in the most obliging manner imaginable.

" Sir," says he, "you have not only, under God" (and at that he
crossed his breast), "saved my life, but you have admitted me to go
this voyage in your ship, and by your obliging civility have taken me
into your family, giving me an opportunity of free conversation.
Now, sir," says he, "you see by my habit what my profession is, and
I guess by your nation what yours is. I may think it is my duty, and
doubtless it is so, to use my utmost endeavours on all occasions to
bring all the souls that I can to the knowledge of the truth, and to
embrace the Catholic doctrine; but as I am here under your permis-
sion, and in your family, I am bound, in justice to your kindness, as
well as in decency and good manners, to be under your government;
and, therefore, I shall not, without your leave, enter into any debates
on the points of religion in which we may not agree, further than you
shall give me leave.

I told him, his carriage was so modest that I could not but acknow-
ledge it; that it was true, we were such people as they call heretics,
but that he was not the first Catholic that I had conversed with without
falling into any inconveniences, or carrying the questions to any height
in debate; that he should not find himself the worse used for being of
a different opinion from us; and if we did not converse without any
dislike on either side, upon that score, it would be his fault, not ours.

He replied, that he thought our conversation might be easily sepa-

rated from disputes; that it was not his business to cap principles with , ,. ~

every man be discounted with; and that he rather desired me to con. ,
verse with him as a gentleman than as a religieuz; that if I would
give him leave at any time to discourse upon religions subjects, he
would readily comply with it; and that then he did not doubt but I
would allow him also to defend his own opinions as well as he could;
but that without my leave he would not break in upon me with any
such thing.

He told me further, that he would not cease to do all that'becamo
him in his ofice as a priest, as well as a private Christian, to procure
the good of the ship, and the safety of all that was in her; and though
perhaps we would not join with him, and he could not pray with us,
he hoped he might pray for us, which he would do upon all occasions.
In this manner we convened; and as he wasefanost obliging gende-
 

man-like behaviour, so he was, if I may be allowed to say so, a man
of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learning.

He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the many
extraordinary events of it; of many adventures which had befallen
him in the few years that he had been abroad in the world, and par-
ticularly this was very remarkable, namely, that during the voyage he
was now engaged in, he had the misfortune to be five times shipped and
unshipped, and never to go to the place whither any of the ships he
was in were at first designed; that his first intent was to have gone to
Martinico, and that he went on board a ship bound thither at St.
Maloes; but being forced into Lisbon in bad weather, the ship received
some damage by running aground in the mouth of the river Tagus,
and was obliged to unload her cargo there; that finding a Portuguese
ship there, bound to the Madeiras and ready to sail, and supposing he
should easily meet with a vessel there bound to Martinico, he went On
board in order to sail to the Madeiras; but the master of the Portu-
guese ship, being but an indifferent mariner, had been out in his reckon-
ing, and they drove to Fyal; where, however, he happened to find a
very good market for his cargo, which was corn, and therefore resolved
not to go to the Madeiras, but to loud salt at the isle of May, to go
away to Newfoundland. He had no remedy in the exigence but to go
with the ship, and had a pretty good voyage as far as the Banks (so
they call the place where they catch the fish), where, meeting with a
French ship bound from France to Quebec, in the river of Canada,
and from thence to Martinieo, to carry provisions, he thought he should
have an opportunity to complete his first design. But when he came
to Quebec, the master of the ship died, and the ship proceedid no
farther. So the next voyage he shipped himself for France, in the
ship that was burnt when we took them up at sea, and then shipped
them with us for the East Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had
been disappointed in five voyages, all, as I may call it, in one voyage,
besides what I shall have occasion to mention further of the same
person.

But I shall not make digressions into other men's stories, which
have no relation to my own. I return to what concerns our affairs in
the island. He came to me one morning, for be lodged among us all
the while we were upon the island, and it happened to be just when I
was going to visit the Englishmen's colony at the farthest part of the
island,--I say, he came to me, and told me with a very grave counts.
nance, that he had for two or three days desired an opportunity of
some discourse with me, which he hoped would not be displeasing to
me, because he thought it might, in some measure correspond with myor aosmsos_._causoa 879

 

general design, which was the prosperity of my new colony, and per-
haps might put it, at least more than he yet thought it was, in the way
of God's blessing.

I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse, and turn-
ing a little short, " How, sir," said I, "can it be said that we are not
in the way of God's blessing, after such visible assistances and won-
derful deliverances as we have seen here, and of which I have given
you a large account ?"

"If you had pleased, sir,' said he with a world of modesty, and
yet with great readiness, "to have heard me, you would have found
no room to have been displeased, much less to think so hard of me,
that I should suggest that you have not had wonderful assistances and
deliverances; and I hope, on your behalf, that you are in the way of
God's blessing, and your design is exceeding good, and will prosper.
But, sir," said he, "though it were more so than is even possible to
you, yet there may be some among you that are not equally right in
their actions; and you know that in the story of Israel, one Achan in
the camp removed God's blessing from them, and turned his hand so
against them, that thirty-six of them, though not concerned in the
crime, were the objects of divine vengeance, and bore the weight of
that punishment."

I was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told him his inference
was so just, and the whole design seemed so sincere, and was really so
religious in its own nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted him,
and begged him to go on; and, in the meantime, because it seemed
that what we had both to say might take up some time, I told him I
was going to the Englishmen's plantation, and asked him to go with me,
and we might discourse of it by the way. He told me he would more
willingly wait on me thithe'r, because there, partly, the thing was acted
which he desired to speak to me about. So we walked on, and I pressed
him to be free and plain with me in what he had to say.

"Why, then, sir," says he, " be pleased to give me leave to lay down
a few propositions as the foundation of what I have to say, that we may
not difi'er in the general principles, though we maybe of some difi'ering
opinions in the practice of particulars. First, sir, though we difi'er in
some of the doctrinal articles of religion (and it is very unhappy that
it is so, especially in the case before us, as I shall show afterwards),
yet there are some general principles in which we both agree, namely,
first, that there is a God, and that this God, having given us some
stated general rules for our service and obedience, we ought not .
willingly and knowingly to ofi'end him, either by neglecting'to do what
he has commanded, or by doing what he has expressly forbidden; and

r
let our difl'erent religions be what they will, this general principle is
readily owned by us all, that the blessing of God does not ordinarily
follow a presumptuous sinning against his command; and every good
Christian will be affectionately concerned to prevent any that are under
his care living in a total neglect of God and his commands. It is not
your men being Protestants, whatever my opinion may be of such, that
discharges me from being concerned for their souls, and from endeavour~
ing, if it lies before me, that they should live in as little distance from,
and enmity with, their Maker as possible; especially if you give me
leave to meddle so far in your circuit."

I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him I granted
all he had said; and thanked him that he would so far concern himself
for us; and begged he would explain the particulars of what he had
observed, that, like Joshua (to take his own parable), I might put away
the accurscd thing from us.

"Why, then, sir," says he; " I will take the liberty you give me;
and there are three things which, if I am right, must stand in the way
of God's blessing upon your endeavours here, and which I should
rejoice, for your sake and their own, to see removed. And, sir," says
he, " I promise myself that you will fully agree with me in them all as
soon as I name them,--cspecially because I shall convince you that
every one of them may, with great ease, and very much to your satis-
faction, bc remedied."

He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities, but went on :--
" First, sir," says he, "you have here four Englishmen, who have
fetched women from among the savages, and have taken them as their
wives, and have had many children by them all, and yet are not married
to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of God and man
require; and therefore are yet, in the sense of both, no less than
adultercrs, and living in adultery. To this, sir," says he, "I know you
will object, that there was no clergyman or priest of any kind, or of
any profession, to perform the ceremony; nor any pen and ink, or
paper, to write down a contract of marriage, and have it signed between
them. And I know also, sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you,
--I mean of the agreement that he obliged them to make when they
took these women, namely, that they should choose them out by con-
sent, and keep separately to them; which, by the way, is nothing of a
marriage, no agreement with the women as wives, but only an agree-
ment among themselves, to keep them from qnarrelling.

"But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he called
it, being a Roman) consists not only in the mutual consent of the parties
to take one another as man and wife, but in the formal and legal obli-
 

gation that. there is in the contract to compel the man and woman at
all times to own and acknowledge each other; obliging the man to
abstain from all other women, to engage in no other contract while these
subsist; and on all occasions, as ability allows, to provide honestly for
them and their children ; and to oblige the women -to the same, or like
conditions, mutatie mutandie, on their side. '

"Now, sir," says he, "these men may, when they please, or when
occasion presents, abandon these women, disown their children, leave
them to perish, and take other women and marry them whilst these are
living." And here he added, with some warmth, "How, sir, is God
honoured in this unlawful liberty? And how shall a blessing succeed
your endeavours in this place, however good in themselves, and how-
ever sincere in your design, while these men, who at present are your
subjects, under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by
you to live in open adultery. 9"

I confess I was struck at the thing itself, but much more with the
convincing arguments he supported it with. For it was certainly true,
that though they had no clergyman on the spot, yet a formal contract
on both sides, made before witnesses, and confirmed by any token which
they had all agreed to be bound by, though it had been but the break~
ing a stick between them, engaging the men to own these women for
their wives upon all occasions, and never to abandon them or their
children, and the women to the same with their husbands, had been an
efl'ectual lawful marriage in the sight of God; and it was a great neg-
lect that it was not done.

But I thought to have gotten off with my young priest by telling him,
that all that part was done when I was not here; and they had lived
so many years with them now, that if it was adultery, it was past
remedy, they could do nothing in it now.

" Sir," says he, "asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right
in this,--that it being done in your absence, you could not be charged
with that part of the crime. But I beseech you, flatter not yourself
that you are not therefore under an obligation to do your nttermost
now to put an end to it. How can you think, but that, let the time:
past lie on whom it will, all the guilt for the future will lie entirely upon
you? Because it is certainly in your power now to put an end to it,
and in nobody'a power but yours."

I was so dull still,-that I did not take him right, but I imagined that,
by putting an end to it, he meant that I should part them, and not
sufi'er them to live together any longer; and I said to lu'm I could not
do that by any means, for. that it would put the who .' ,in confu-
sion. He seemcdsurprised that Ishouldso far, ' jinn, "Ne,
 

air," says he, "I do not mean that you should separate them, but
legally and cfi'ectually marry them now. And, sir, as my way of mar-
rying may not be so easy to reconcile them to, though it will be as
effectual even by your own laws, so your way may be as well before
God, and as valid among men,--I mean by a written contract signed
by both man and woman, and by all the witnesses present; which all
the laws of Europe would decree to be valid."

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity of zeal,
besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse, as to his own party or
church, and such a true warmth for the preserving people that he had
no knowledge of, or relation to,--I say, for preserving them from trans-
gressing the laws of God; the like of which I had indeed not met with
anywhere. But recollecting what he had said of marrying them by a
written contract, which I knew would stand too, I returned it back upon
him, and told him I granted all that he had said to be just, and on his
part very kind; that I would discourse with the men upon the point
now when I came to them. And I knew no reason why they should
scruple to let him marry them all; which I knew well enough would be
granted to be as authentic and valid in England as if they were mar-
ried by one of our own clcrgymen. What was afterwards done in
this matter, I shall speak of by itself.

I then pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint which
he had to make, acknowledging I was very much his debtor for. the first,
and thanked him heartily for it. ' He told me he would use the same
freedom and plainness in the second, and hoped I would take it as well;
and this was, that, notwithstanding these English subjects of mine, as
he called them, had lived with these women for almost seven years, and
hadtaught them to speak English, and even to read it, and that they
were, as he perceived, women'of tolerable understanding, and capable
of instruction; yet they had not to this hour taught them any thing of
the Christian religion; no not so much as to know that there was a
God, or a worship, or in what manner God was to be served; or that
their own idolatry, and worshipping they knew not who, was false and
absurd. ,

This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would
certainly call them to an account for; and, perhaps, at last take the work
out of their hands. He spoke this very afi'ectionately and warmly.
"I am persuaded," says he, " had those men lived in the savage coun~
try whence their wives came, the savages would have taken more pains
to have brought them to be idolaters, and to worship the devil, than
any of these men, so far as I can see, has taken with them to teach
them the knowledge'of the true God. Now, sir," said he. " though I
 

do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we should be all.
glad to see the devil's servants, and the subjects of his kingdom, taught
to know the general principles of the Christian religion; that they
might at least hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and of the resurrec-
tion, and of a future state, things which we all believe; they had at
least been so much nearer coming into the bosom of the true church,
than they are now in the public profession of idolatry and devil-wor-
ship."

I could hold no longer: I took him in my arms, and embraced him
with an excess of passion. " How far," said I to him, "have I been
from understanding the most essential part of a Christian, namely, to
love the interest of the Christian church, and the good of other men's
souls! I scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian."--
"Oh, sir, do not say so," replied he; "this thing is not your fault."--
"No i" said I; "but why did I never lay it to heart as well as you ?"
--" It is not too late yet," said he; "be not too forward to condemn
yourself."--" But what can be done now '2" said I; "you see I am
going away."--"Will you give me leave," said he, "to talk with these
poor men about it ?"--" Yes, with all my heart," said I, " and I will
oblige them to give heed to what you say too."--"As to that," said
he, "we must leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is our business
to assist them, encourage them, and instruct them: and if you will.
give me leave, and God his blessing, I do not doubt but the poor igno-
rant souls shall be brought home into the great circle of Christianity,
if not into the particular faith that we all embrace; and that even
while you stay here."--Upon this I said, " I shall not only give you
leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it." What followed on this
account, I shall mention also again in its place.

I now pressed him for the third article in which we were to blame.--
" .Why, really," says he, "it is of the same nature, and I will proceed
(asking your leave) with the same plainness as before: it is about your.
poor savages yonder, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects..
It is a maxim, sir, that is, or ought to be, received among all Chris-
tians, of what church or pretended church soever, namely, that Chris!
tian knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible means, and on
all possible occasions. It is on this principle that our church sends
missionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our'clergy,
of the superior sort, willingly engage in the most basal-dons 70%,
and the most dangerous residence among murderers and lutrbal'isggltgL
teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them aim";
embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have an opportunityw
to have six or seven-and-thirty poor savages brought over from idolatry":__--_--_--_--L_----------- .--
to the knowledge of God, their Maker find Redeemer, that I wonder
how you can pass by such an occasion of doing good, which is really
worth the expense of a man's whole life."

I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word to say; I had
here a spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me,
let his particular principles be of what kind soever. As for me, I had
not so much as entertained a thought of this in my heart before, and
I believe should not have thought of it: for I looked upon these
savages as slaves, and people whom, had we any work for them to do,
we would have used as such, or would have been glad to have trans-
ported them to any other part of the world; for our business was to
get rid of them, and we would all have been satisfied if they had been
sent to any country, so they had never seen their own. But to the
case: I say I was confounded at his discourse, and knew not what
answer to make him. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some
disorder: " Sir," said he, " I shall be very sorry, if what I have said
gives you any ofi'ence."--" No, no," said I, " I am ofl'ended with
nobody but myself; but I am perfectly confounded, not only to think
that I should never take any notice of this before, but with reflecting
what notice I am able to take of it now. You know, sir," said I,
"what circumstances I am in: I am bound to the East Indies, in a ship
freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be an insufl'erable piece
of injustice to detain their ship here, the men lying all this while
at victuals and wages upon the owners' account. It is true, I agreed
to be allowed twelve days here, and if I stay more I must pay three
pound sterling per diem demurrage; nor can I stay upon demurrage
above eight days more, and 1 have been here thirteen days already;
so that I am perfectly unable to engage in this work, unless I would
suffer myself to be left behind here again; in which case, if this single
ship should miscarry in any part of her voyage, I should be just in
the same condition that I was left in here at first, and from which I
have been so wonderfully delivered."

He owned the case was very hard upon me as to my voyage, but
laid it home upon my conscience, whether the blessing of saving seven-
and-thirty souls was not worth my venturing all I had in the world
for ?-I was not so sensible of that as he was, and I returned upon
him thus: "Why, sir, it is a valuable thing indeed to be an instrument
in God's hand to convert seven-and-thirty heathens to the knowledge
of Christ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to that
work, so that it seems naturally to fall into the way of your profession,

how is it then that you do not rather ofi'er yourself to undertake it,
than press me to it i"

a
m"--

Upon this he faced about, just before me, as he walked along, and
putting me to a full stop, made me a very low bow: " I most heartily
thank God, and you, sir," says he, "for giving me so evident a call
to so blessed awork; and if you think yourself discharged from it,
and desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do it, and think
it a happy reward for all the hazards and difficulties of such a broken,

disappointed voyage as I have met with, that I have dropped at last
into so glorious a work."

I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while he spoke this to me;
his eyes sparkled like fire, his face glowed, and his colour came and
went as if he had been falling into fits: in a word, he was fired with
the joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a considerable
while before I could tell what to say to him, for I was really surprised
to find a man of such sincerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal
beyond the ordinary rate of men, not of his profession only, but even
of any profession whatsoever. But after I had considered it a while,
I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and that he would venture,
on the single consideration of an attempt on those poor people, to be

locked up in an Implanted island for perhaps his life, and at last might
not know whether he should be able to do them any good or not?

He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a venture?
"Pray, sir," said be, "what do you think I consented to go in your
ship to the East Indies for ?"--"Nay," said I, " that I know not, un-
less it was to preach to the Indians."--" Doubtless it was," said he,
" and do you think if I can convert these seven~and~thirty men to the
faith of Christ, it is not worth my time, though I should never be
fetched off the island again? Nay, is it not infinitely of more worth
to save so many souls than my life is, or the life of twenty more of the
same profession? Yes, sir," says he, " I would give Christ and the
Blessed Virgin thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy
instrument of saving the souls of these poor men, though I was never
to set my foot of this island, or see my native country any more. But
since you will honour me," says he, "with putting me into this work
(for which I will pray for you all the days of my life), I have one
humble petition to you," said he, " besides."---" What is that ?" said
I.---" Why," says he, "it is that you will leave your man Friday with
me, to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me; for without some
help I cannot speak to them, or they to me."

I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday, because I could not
think of parting with him, and that for many reasons. He M been
the companion; of my travels; he'was not only faithful mini, has sin-
cerely afgctionate to the last degree; and I had resolved, ti do '5: j

5 ' , e- '
thing considerable for him if he outlived me, as it was probable he
would. Then I knew that as, I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant,
it would quite confound him to bring him to embrace another profes-
sion; and he would never, while his eyes were open, believe that his
old master was a heretic, and would be damned ; and this might in the
end ruin the poor fellow's principles, and so turn him back again to
his first idolatry.

However, a sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it was
this: I told him I could not say that I was willing to part with Friday
on any account whatever; though a work that to him was of more
value than his life, ought to me to be of much more value than the
keeping or parting with a servant. But, on the other hand, I was per-
suaded that Friday would by no means consent to part with me; and
then to force him to it without his consent, would be manifest injus-
tice, I had promised I would never put him away, and he had pro-
mised and engaged to me that he would never leave me unless I put
him away.

He seemed very much concerned at it; for he had no rational access
to those poor people, seeing he did not understand one word of their
language, nor they one word of his. To remove this difliculty, I told
him Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I found he also under-
stood, and he should serve him for an interpreter; so he was much
better satisfied, and nothing could persuade him but he would stay to
endeavour to convert them; but Providence gave another and very
happy turn to all this.

I come back now to the first part of his objections. When we came
to the Englishmen, I sent for them all together; and after some ac-
counts given them of what I had done for them, namely, what neces-
sary things I had provided for them, and how they were distributed,
which they were sensible of, and very thankful for, I began to talk to
them of the scandalous life they led, and gave them a full account of
the notice the elergymen had already taken of it; and arguing how
unchristian and irreligious a life it was, I first asked them if they
were married men or bachelors? They soon explained their condition
to me, and showed me that two of them were widowers, and the other
three were single men, or bachelors. I asked them with what con<<
science they could take these women, and lie with them as they had
done, call them their wives, and have so many children by them, and
not be married lawfully to them?

They all gave me the answer that I expected, namely, that there
was nobody to marry them; that they agreed before the governor to
keep them as their wives; and to keep them and own them as their
wives, and they thought, as things stood with them, they were as
legally married as if they had been married by a parson, and with all
the formalities in the world.

I told them, that no doubt they were married in the sight of God,
and were bound in conscience to keep them as their wives; but that
the laws of _men being otherwise, they might pretend they were not
married, and so desert the poor women and children hereafter; and
that their wives, being poor, desolate women, friendless and moneyless,
would have no way to help themselves: I, therefore, told them, that
unless I was assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing for
them; but would take care that what I did should be for the women
and children without them; and that unless they would give some
assurances that they would marry the women, I could not think it was
convenient they should continue together as man and wife; for that
it was both scandalous to men and ofi'ensive to God, who they could
not think would bless them, if they went on thus.

All this passed as I expected; and they told me, especially Will
Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest, that they loved their
wives as well as if they had been born in their own native country,
and would not leave them upon any account whatever; and they did
verily believe their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and did to
the. utmost of their skill, as much for them and for their children as
any women could possibly do, and they would not part with them on
any account: and Will Atkins for his own particular added, if. any
man would take him away, and ofi'er to carry him home to England,
and to make him captain of the best man-of-war in the navy, he would
not go with him if he might not carry his wife and children with him;
and if there was a clergyman in the ship, he would be married to her
now with all his heart. _

'This was just as I would have it. The priest was not with me at
that moment, but was not far olf. So, to try him further, I told him
I had a clergyman with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next morning, and bade him consider of it, and talk with
the rest. He said, as for himself, he need not consider of it at all,
for he was very ready to do it, and was glad I had a minister with
me; and he believed they would be all willing also. I then hold him
that my friend the minister was a Frenchman, and could not speak
English, but that I would act the clerk between them. He never so
much as asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant, which was
indeed what I was afraid of. But I say they never inquired about it.
So we parted; I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkim went

 

m to talk with his companions. I desired the French gentleman U3 ;

-~w\r"1I.
 

to say any thing to them till the business was thorough ripe, and I
told him what answer the men had given me.

Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me, and told me,
they had been considering what I had said; that they were very glad
to hear I had a clergyman in my company; and they were very will-
ing to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally married
as soon as I pleased; for they were far from desiring to part from
their wives; and that they meant nothing but what was very honest
when they chose them. So I appointed them to meet me the next
morning, and that in the mean time they should let their wives know
the meaning of the marriage law; and that it was not only to prevent
any scandal, but also to oblige them that they should not forsake them
whatever might happen.

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing,
and were very well satisfied with it, as indeed they had reason to be;
so they failed not to attend all together at my apartment next morn-
ing, where I brought out my clergyman: and though he had not on a
minister's gown, after the manner of England, or the habit of a priest,
after the manner of France; yet, having a black vest, something like
a cassock, with a sash round it, he did not look very unlike a minister;
and as for his language, I was interpreter.

But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and the scruple he
made of marrying the women because they were not baptized, and
professed Christians, gave them an exceeding reverence for his person;

and there was no need, after that, to inquire whether he was a clergy-
man or no.

Indeed I was afraid his scruple would have been carried so far as
that he would not have married them at all: nay, notwithstanding all
I was able to say to him, he resisted me, though modestly, yet very
steadily; and at last refused absolutely to marry them, unless he had
first talked with the men and the women too; and though at first I was
a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed to it with a good will, per-
ceiving the sincerity of his design.

When he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted him
with their circumstances, and with the present design; that he was very
willing to perform that part of his function, and marry them as I had
desired; but that before he could do it he must take the liberty to talk
with them. He told them that in the sight of all indifi'erent men, and
in the sense of the laws of society, they had lived all this while in an
open adultery; and that it was true that nothing but the consenting to
marry, or efi'ectually separating them from one another now, could put
an end to it: but there was a dificulty in it too, with respect to the

I
 

 

laws of Christian matrimony, which he was not fully satisfied about,

namely, that of marrying one that is a professed Christian, to a savage,

an idolater, and a heathen, one that is not baptized; and yet that he

did not see that there was time left for it to endeavour to persuade the

women to be baptized, or to profess the name of Christ, whom they

had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and without which they could not
be baptized.

He told them he doubted they were but indifi'erent Christians them-
selves; that they had but little knowledge of God or his ways, and
therefore he could not expect that they had said much to their wives
on that head yet; but that unless they would promise him to use their
endeavours with their wives to persuade them to become Christians,
and would, as well as they could, instruct them in the knowledge
and belief of God that made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that
redeemed them, he could not marry them; for he would have no hand
in joining Christians with savages; nor was it consistent with the prin-
ciples of the Christian religion, and was indeed expressly forbidden in

God's law.

' They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very faithfully
to them from his mouth, as near his own words as I could, only sometimes
adding something of my own, to convince them how just it was, and
how I was of his mind; and I always very faithfully distinguished
between what I said from myself, and what were the clergyman's
words. They told me it was very true what the gentleman had said,
that they were but very indifferent Christians themselves, and that
they had never talked to their wives about religion. " Lord, sir," says
Will Atkins, "how should we teach them religion? Why, we know
nothing ourselves: and besides, sir," said he, "should we go to talk to
them of God, and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell, it would be to
make them laugh at us, and ask us what we believe ourselves; and if
we should tell them we believe all the things that we speak of to them,
such as of good people going to heaven, and wicked people to the devil,
they would ask us where we intended to go ourselves, who behaved all
this, and yet are such wicked fellows, as we indeed are: why, sir,"
said Will, " 'tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion, at first hear-
ing; folks must have some religion themselves before they pretend to
teach other people." --"Will Atkins," said I to" him, "though I am
afraid what you say has too'r'niuch truth in it, yet can you not tel] 19",: ,_
wife that she is in the wrong? that there is a God, and a religion 136%
than her own; that her gods are idols, and that they can neither hear
nor speak, that there is a great Being that made all things, that can
destroy all that 11 has made; that he rewards the good and p

atHARRTVVH rm: 7mm: convLm
the bad ; that we are to be judged by him, at last, for all we do here !
You are not so ignorant but even nature itself will teach you that all

this is true; and I am satisfied you know it all to be true, and believe

it yourself."--"That's true, sir," said Atkins; " but with what face

can I say any thing to my wife of all this, when she will tell me imme-
mediately it cannot be true '2'"

" Not true i" said I, "what do you mean by that ?"--" Why, sir,"
said he, "she will tell me it cannot be true, that this God (I shall tell
her of) can be just, or can punish or reward, since I am not punished
and sent to the devil, that have been such a wicked creature as she
knows I have been, even to her, and to everybody else; and that I
should he suffered to live, that have been always acting so contrary to
what I must tell her is good, and to what I ought to have done."

"Why, truly, Atkins," said I, " I am afraid thou speakest too much
truth ;" and with that I let the clergyman know what Atkins had said,
for he was impatient to know. " Oh i" said the priest, "tell him there
is one thing will make 'him the best minister in the world to his wife,
and that is his repentance: for none teach repentance like true peni-
tents. lle wants nothing but t6 repent, and then he will be so much
the better qualified to instruct his wife: he will then be. able to tell her,
that there is not only a God, and that he is the just rewarder of good
and evil; but that he is a merciful Being, and, with infinite goodness
and leng-sufl'ering, forbears to punish those that ofl'end; waiting to be
gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather that he
should return and live; that he often suffers wicked men to go on a
long time, and even reserves damnation to the general day of retribu-
tion; that it is a clear evidence of God and of a future state that _ a;
righteous men receive not their reward, or wicked men their punish-
ment, till they come into another world; and this will lead him to teach
his wife the doctrine of the resurrection, and of the last judgment:
let him but repent for himself, he will be an excellent preacher of
repentance to his wife." '

I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the while,
and who, we could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily affected
with it: when being eager, and hardly suffering me to make an end,--
" I knew all this, master," says he, " and a great deal more ; but I
han't the impudence to talk thus to my wife, when God and my own
conscience knows, and my wife will be an undeniable evidence against
me, that I have lived as if I had never heard of God, or a future
state, or any thing about it; and to talk of my repenting, alas "' (and
with that he fetched a. deep sigh, and I could see that tears stood in" _
his eyes), "'tis past all that with me."--- "Past it, Atkins!" said {,3 '

 

.at.
 

"what dost thou mean by that ?"--"I know well enough what I mean,
sir," says he; " I mean it is too late; and that is too true."

I told my clergyman word for word what he said. The poor zealous
priest (I must call him so; for, be his opinion what it will, he had
certainly a most singular affection for the good of other men's souls;
and it would be hard to think he had not the like for his own)--I say
this zealous, ail'ectionate man could not refrain tears also: but recover-
ing himself, he said to me, "Ask him but one question: Is he easy
that it is too late, or is be troubled and wishes it were not so ?"--I put
the question fairly to Atkins; and he answered with a great deal of
passion, How could any man be. easy in a condition that certainly must
end in eternal destruction? That he was far from being easy; but
that, on the contrary, he believed it would one time or other ruin him.

" What do you mean by that '3" said I.--"Why," he said, "he be-
lieved he should, one time or another, cut his own throat, to put an
end to the terror of it."

The clergyman shook his head with a great concern in his face,
when I told him all this; but turning quick to me upon it, said, "If
that be his case, you may assure him it is not too late; Christ will
give him repentance. But pray," says he, " explain this to him, that
as no man is saved but by Christ, and the merit of his passion, pro-
curing divine mercy for him, how can it be too late for any man to
receive mercy? Does he think he is able to sin beyond the power or
reach of divine mercy? Pray tell him, there may be a time when
provoked mercy will no longer strive, and when God may refuse to
hear; but that 'tis never too late for men to ask mercy; and we that
are Christ's servants are commanded to preach mercy at all times, in
the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repent; so that
'tis never too late to repent."

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness; but
it seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rest; for he said to
me he would go and have some talk with his wife: so he went out a
while, and we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly
ignorant as to matters of religion; much as I was when I went ram-
bling away from my father, and yet that there were none of them
backward to hear what had been said; and all of them seriously pro-
mised that they would talk with their wives about it, and do their
endeavour to persuade them to turn Christians.

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer they
gave, but said nothing a good while; but at last shaking his head,
" We that are Christ's servants," says he, "can go no farther than to
exhort and instruct; and when men comply, submit to the reproot,
and promise what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are bound to accept

their good words: but believe me, sir," said he, "whatever you may
have known of the life of that man you call William Atkins, I believe
he is the only sincere convert among them; I take that man to be a
true penitent. I won't despair of the rest; but that man is perfectly
struck with the sense of his past life; and I doubt not but when he
comes to talk of religion to his wife, he will talk himself effectually
into it; for attempting to teach others is sometimes the best way of
teaching ourselves. I knew a man," added he, "who, having nothing
but a summary notion of religion himself, and being wicked and pro-
fligate to the last degree in his life, made a thorough reformation in
himself by labouring to convert a Jew: and if that poor Atkins begins
but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life for it he
talks himself into a thorough convert, makes himself a penitent, and
who knows what may follow !" ~

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising as above to en-
deavour to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the
other three couple; but Will Atkins and his wife had not yet come in.
After this my clergyman waiting a while, was curious to know where
Atkins was gone; and turning to me, says he, " I entreat you, sir, let
us walk out of your labyrinth here and look; I dare say we shall find
this poor man somewhere or other, talking seriously with his wife and
teaching her already something of religion." I began to be of the
same mind; so we went out together, and I carried him a way which
none knew but myself, and where the trees were so thick set, as that
it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to
see in than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the wood, I saw
Atkins, and his tawny savage wife, sitting under the shade of a bush,
very eager in discourse. I stopped short until my clergyman came up
to me, and then having showed him where they were, we stood and
looked very steadily at them a good while.

We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to the sun, and
to every quarter of the heavens; then down to the earth, then out to
the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees.
"Now," says my clergyman, " you see my words are made good; the
man preaches to her--mark him--now he is telling her that our God
has made him, and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods,
the trees, &c."--" I believe he is," said I. Immediately we perceived
Will Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down upon his knees, and lift
up both his hands; we supposed he said something, but we could not
hear him--it was too far off for that: he did not continue kneeling
half a minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife, Mfily'h
 

 

her again. We perceived the woman very attentive, but whether she
said any thing or no, we could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon
his knees, I could see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's
cheeks; and I could hardly forbear myself; but it wnsagreat afllictiou
to us both, that we were not near enough to hear any thing that passed
between them.

Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear of disturbing them,
so we resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversation, and it
spoke loud enough to us without the help of voice. He sat down again,
as l have said, close by her, and talked again earnestly to her, and two
or three times we could see him embrace her passionately; another time
we saw him take out his handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss
her again, with a kind of transport very unusual; and after several of
these things, we saw him on a sudden jump up again and lend her his
hand to help her up, when inunediately leading her by the hand a step
or two, they both kneeled down together, and continued so about two
minutes.

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, " St. Paul,
St. Paul, behold he prayeth l"----I was afraid Atkins would hear him;
therefore I entreatcd him to withhold himself a. while, that we might
see an end of the scene, which to me, I must confess, was the most
afi'ecting, and yet the most agreeable, that ever I saw in my life. Well,
he strove with himself, and contained himself for a while, but was in
such raptures of joy to think that the poor heathen woman was become
a Christian that he was not able to contain himself. He wept several
times; then throwing up his hands, and crossing his breast, said over
several things ejaculatory, and by way of giving God thanks for so
miraculous a testimony of the success of our endeavours: some he
spoke softly, and I could not well hear; others :nulibly; some in Latin,
some in French; then two or three times the tears of joy would inter-
rupt him, that he could not speak at all. But I begged that he would
compose himself, and let us more narrowly and fully observe what was
before us, which he did for a time, and the scene was not ended there
yet; for after the poor man and his wife were risen again from their
knees, we observed he stood talking still eagerly to her; and we ob-
served by her motion that she was greatly affected with what he said,
by her frequent lifting up her hands, laying her hand to her breast, and
such other postures as usually express the greatest seriousness and
attention. This continued about half a quarter of an hour, and then
they walked away too; so that we could see no more of them in that
situation.

I took this interval to talk with my clergyman; and first I told him,
 

I was glad to see the particulars we had both been witnesses to; that
though I was hard enough of belief in such cases, y'et'that I began to
think that it was all very sincere here, both in the man and his'wife.
however ignorant they both might be ; and I hoped such a beginning
' would have yet a more happy end: " And who knows," said I, " but
these two may in time, by instruction and example, work upon some of
the others ?"--" Some of them !" said he, turning quick upon me,
-" ny, upon all of them: depend upon it, if those two savages (for he
has been but little better as you relate it) should embrace Jesus Christ,
they will never leave till they work upon all the rest; for true religion
is naturally communicative, and he that is once made a Christian will
never leave a Pagan behind him, if he can help it." I owned it wasa
most Christian principle to think so, and a testimony of a true zeal as
well as a generous heart in him. "But, my friend," said I, " will you
give me liberty to start one difficulty here? I cannot tell how to object
the least thing against that affectionate concern which you show for the
turning the poor people from their Paganismto the Christian religion;'
but how does this comfort you, while these people are, in your account,
out of the pale of the Catholic church, without which, you believe,
there' 15 no salvation; so that you esteem these but heretics still; and,
for other reasons, as efl'ectually lost as the Pagans themselves. "'

To this he answered, with abundance of candour and Christian cha-
rity, thus: " Sir, I am a Catholic of the Roman church, and a priest
of the order of St. Benedict, and I embrace all the principles of the
Roman faith. But yet, if you will believe me, and this I do not speak
in compliment to you, or in respect to my circumstances and your
civilitics,--I say, nevertheless, I do not look upon you, who call your-
selves reformed, without some charity: I dare not say, though I know
it is our opinion in general, yet I dare not say, that you cannot be
saved; I will by no means limit the mercy of Christ, so far as to think
that he cannot receive you into the bosom of his church, in a manner
to us imperceivahle, and which it is impossible for us to know; and I
hope you have the same charity for us. I pray daily for your being
all restored to Christ's church, by whatsoever methods He, who is all-
wise, is pleased to direct. In the meantime, sure you will allow it to
consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a Protestant
and a Pagan; between him that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way
which I do not think is according to the true faith, and a savage, a
barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no Redeemer at all; and if
you are not within the pale of the Catholic church, we hope you are
nearer being restored to it than those that know nothing at all of God
or his church. I rejoice, therefore, when I see this poor man,- who;
 

you say, has been a profligate, and almost a murderer, kneel down and
pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, though not fully enlight-
ened; believing that God, from whom every such work proceeds, will
sensibly touch his heart, and bring him to the further knowledge of
the truth in his own time; and if God shall influence this poor man to
convert and instruct the ignorant savage, his wife, I can never believe
that he shall be cast away himself; and have I not reason, then, to
rejoice, the nearer any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, though
they may not he brought quite home into the bosom of the Catholic
church, just at the time when I may desire it; leaving it to the good-
ness of Christ to perfect his work in his own time, and his own way?
Certainly I would rejoice if all the savages in America were brought,
like this poor woman, to pray to God, though they were to be all Pro-
testants at first, rather than they should continue pagans and lleathens;
firmly believing, that He, who had bestowed that first light upon them,
would further illuminate them with a beam of his heavenly grace, and
bring them into the pale of his church, when he should see good."

CHAPTER VII.

Sincere and worthy Character of the Priest--Dialogue with Will Atkins and myself--
Conversation betwixt Atkins and his Indian Wife on the Subject of Religion--Her
Baptism--Settlement of the Commonwealth.

I WAS astonished at the sincerity and temper of this truly pious
Papist, as much as I was oppressed by the power of his reasoning;
and it presently occurred to my thoughts, that, if such a temper was
universal, we might all be Catholic Christians, whatever church or par~
ticular profession we joined to, or joined in; that a spirit of charity
would soon work us all up into right principles; and, in a word, as he
thought that the like charity would make us all Catholics, so I told
him, I believed, had all the members of his church the like moderation.
they would seen all be Protestants; and there we left that part, for
we never disputed at all.

However, I talked to him another way; and, taking him by the
hand, "My friend," said I, "I wish all the clergy of the Roman
church were blessed with such moderation, and an equal share of your
charity. I am entirely of your opinion; but I must tell you, that if
you should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put you
into the Inquisition."
 

 

 

"It may be so," said he; "I know not what they might do in Spain
and Italy: but I will not say they would be the better Christians for
that severity: for I am sure there is no heresy in too much charity."

Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there was
over; so we went back our own way; and when we came back we found
them waiting to be called in. Observing this, I asked my clergyman,
if we should discover to him that we had seen him under the bush, or
no; and it was his opinion we should not; but that we should talk to
him first, and hear what he would say to us: so we called him in alone,
nobody being in the place but ourselves; and I began with him thus:

"Will Atkins," said I, "prithee what education had you? What
was your father ?"

Atkins. A better man than ever I shall be, sir; my father was a
clergyman.

Urusoe. What education did he give you? -

Atkins. He would have taught me well, sir; but I despised all
education, instruction, or correction, like a beast as I was.

C'rusoe. It is true, Solomon says, "He that despiseth reproof is
brutish."

Atkins. Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed; I murdered my father: for

God's sake, sir, talk no more about that, sir: I murdered my poor
father.

Priest. Ha! a murderer?

[Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he spoke lt) and looked
pale: it seems he believed that Will had really killed his own father.] '

Omsoe. No, no, sir, I do not understand him so.--Will Atkins,
explain yourself: you did not kill your father, did you, with your
hands?

Atkins. No, sir, I did not cut his throat; but I out the thread of all
his comforts, and shortened his days: I broke his heart by the most
ungrateful, unnatural return, for the most tender, afi'ectionate treat-
ment that ever father gave, or child could receive.

Crusoe. Well, I did not ask you about your father to extort this con-
fession; I pray God give you repentance for it, and forgive you that
and all your other sins: but I asked you, because I see that, though
you have not much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some are
in things that are good; that you have known more of religion a great
deal than you have practised.

Atkins. Though you, sir, did not extort the confession that I make
about my father, conscience does: and whenever we come to look back
upon our lives, the sins against our indulgent parents are <<unruly. the398 ms urn sun anvnmnnss

 

 

 

first that touch us; the wounds they make lie deepest; and the weight
they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind, of all the sins we can commit.

Orusoe. You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins; I can-
not bear it.

Atkins. You bear it, master! I dare say you know nothing of it.

Orusoe. Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill, nay, I may say every
tree in this island, is witness to the anguish of my soul for my ingrati-
tude and base usage of a good tender father; a father much like yours
by your description; and I murdered my father as well as you, Will
Atkins; but think, for all that, my repentance is short of yours too by
a great deal.

[I would have said more if I could have restrained my passions; but I thought
that this poor man's repentance was so much sineerer than mine. that I was
going to leave ofl' the discourse and retire: for I was surprised with what he
said, and thought, that instead of my going about to teach and instruct him,

the man was made a teacher and instructor to me in a most surprising and
unexpected munch]

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly afi'ccted
with it, and said to me, "Did I not say, sir, that when this man was
converted he would preach to us all? I tell you, sir, if this one man
be made a true penitent, here will be no need of me--ho will make
Christians of all in the island." But having a little composed myself,
I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins.

" But Will," said I, " how comes the sense of this matter to touch
you just now ?"

Atkins. Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart
through my very soul: I have been talking about God and religion to
my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make a Christian of her; and
she has preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I
:live.

Crusoe. No, no; it is not your wife has preached to you; but when
you were moving religious arguments to her, conscience has flung them
back upon you.

Atkins. Ay, sir, with such a force as is not to be resisted.

Crusoe. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and your
wife; for I know something of it already.

Atkins. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it: I am
too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it; but let her
have said what she will, and though I cannot give you an account
of it, thisHI can tell you of it, that I resolve to amend and reform my
'life.

' (Irma. But tell us some of it. How did you begin, Will? for this
OF ROBINSON CREME' ' _ . 399

 

has been an extraordinary case, that is certain; she' has preached a
sermon indeed, if she has wrought this upon you.

Atkins. Why, I first told her the nature of vour laws about marriage,
and what the reasons were that men and women were obliged to enter
into such compacts as it was neither in the power of one or other to
break; that otherwise, order and justice could not be maintained, and
men would run from their wives, and abandon their children mix con-
fusedly with one another, and neither families he kept entire, nor
inheritances be settled by a legal descent.

Crusoe. You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make her under-
stand what you meant by inheritance and .families? They know no
such thing among the savages, but marry anyhow, without any regard
to relation, consanguinity. or family; brother and sister, nay, as I
have been told, even the father and daughter, and the son and the
mother.

Atkins. I believe, sir, you are misinformed; my wife assures me of
the contrary, and that they abhor it. Perhaps for any further relations

they may not be so exact as we are; but she tells me they never touch
one another in the near relations you speak of.

Crusoe. Well, what did she say to what you told her?

Atkins. She said she liked it very well,' and it was much better than -

in her country.

Crusoe. But did you tell her what marriage was?

Atkins. Ay, ay, there began all our dialogue. I asked her if she
would be married to me our way? She asked me what way that was?
I told her marriage was appointed of God; and here we had a strange
talk together, indeed, as ever man and wife had, I believe.

[3. B. This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife. as I took it down in writing
just after he told it me, was as follows:]

Wz' 0. Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God in your
country ?

Atkins. Yes, my dear, God is in every country.

' W fe No your God in my country; my country have the great old
Bcnamuckee God.

Atkins. Child, I am very unfit to show you who God' is; God is in
he.uen, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that' in
them Is.

W fe No makes de earth; no you God makee do earth, no makes
my country.

[Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not 13%)"!qu

Wife. No laugh. why laugh me? This no tin'g to raga. ' '

[He was Justly roproved by his wife, for she was more scrim iss- --.

 
 

 

. z , "7-?1:3;

400 mm: ms AND Anus-runes

 

Atkins. That's true, indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dear.
Wife. Why you say, you God make all?
Atkins. Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you, and me,

and all things; for he is the only true God; there is no God but he;
he lives for ever in heaven.

Wife. Why you no tell me long ago?

Atkins. That's true, indeed ; but I have been a wicked wretch, and
have not only forgotten to acquaint thee with any thing before, but
have lived without God in the world myself. .

Wife. What! have you dc great God in your country, you no know
him? No say 0 to him? No do good ting for him? That no possible!

Atkins. It is too true though, for all that: we live as if there was
no God in heaven, or that he had no power on earth.

Wife. But why God let you do so? Why he no makee you good
live ?

Atkins. It is all our own fault.

Wife. But you say me he is great, much great, have much great
power; can make kill when he will: why he no makee kill when you no
serve him? no say 0 to him? no be good mans?

Atkins. That is true; he might strike me dead, and I ought to

- expect it; for I have been awiekcd wretch, that is true: but God is

merciful, and does not deal with us as we deserve.

Wife. But then do not you tell God tankee for that too?

Atkins. No, indeed; I have not thanked God for his mercy any
more than I have feared God for his power.

Wife. Then you God no God; me no tink, believe he be such one,
great much power, strong; no makee kill you, though you makee him
much angry?

Atkins. What! will my wicked life hinder you from believing in
God! What a dreadful creature am I! And what a sad truth is it,
that the horrid lives of Christians hinder the conversion of heathens!

Wife. IIow me tink you have great much God up there (she points.
up to heaven), and yet no do well, no do good ting? Can he tell?
Sure he no tell what you do.

Atkins. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things; he hears us speak,
sees what we do, knows what we think, though we do not speak.

Wife. What ! he no hear you swear, curse, speak the great damn?

Atkins. Yes, yes, he hears it all.

Wife. Where be then the muchee great power strong?

Atkins. He is merciful; that is all we can say for it; and this

proves him to be the true God: he is God, and not man; and there-
fore we are not consumed.
'. or nonrrsnw causon. 4M

 

 

[Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, to think how he could tell
his wife so clearly that God sees. and hears. and knows the secret thoughts of

the heart, and all that we do; and yet that he had dared to do all the rile
things he had done.]

Mfe. Merciful! what you call (lat?

Atkins. He is our father and maker; and he pities and spares us

Wife. So then he never makes kill, never angry when you do
wicked; then he no good himself, or no great able. .

Atkins. Yes, yes, my dear; he is infinitely good, and infinitely
great, and able to punish too; and sometimes, to show his justice and
vengeance, he lets fly his anger to destroy sinners, and make examples:
many are cut ofi' in their sins.

Wife. But no makee kill you yet; then he tell you, may be, that he
no makee you kill, so you make de bargain with him, you do bad ting,
he no be angry at you, when he be angry at other mans?

Atkins. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon his good-
ness; and he would be infinitely just if he destroyed me, as he has
done other men.

er. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead! What you say to
him for that? You no tell him tankee for all that too!

Atkins. I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true.

Wz' e. Why he no makee you much good better? You say he
makee you.

Atkins. He made me, as he made all the world; 'tis I have deformed
myself, and abused his goodness, and have made myself an abominable
wretch. '

sze. I wish you makce God know me; I no makee him angry; I
no do bad wicked ting.

[Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within him. to hear a poor untnught crea-
ture desire to he taught to know God. and he such a wicked wretch that he
could not say one word to her about God, but what the reproach of his own
carriage would make most irrational to her to heliere; nay, that already she
could not believe in God. because he that was so wicked was not destroyed]

Atkins. My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach you to know
God, not God to know you, for he knows you already, and every
thought in your heart.

Wife. Why then, he know what I say to you now; he know me wish
to know him ; how shall me know who makee me?

Atkins. Poor creature, he must teach thee, I cannot teach thee,

I'll pray to him to teach thee to know him; and to forgive me, that 1
am unworthy to teach thee.

[The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to make hu- know

God. and her wishing to know him, that he said he fell down on Nahum
26 . ..,~ ,
 

her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind with the saving knowledge of
Jesus Christ. and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being the unworthy '
instrument of instructing her in the principles of religion; after which he set
down by her again. and their dialogue went on.

N. ll. This was the time when we saw him kneel down and lift up his hands.]

Wife. What you put down the knee for? What you hold up the
hand for? What you say? Who you speak to? What is that?

Atkins. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my submission to
llim that made me: I said O to him, as you call it, and as you say
your old men do to~their idol Benamuckee; that is, I prayed to him.

Wife. What you say 0 to him for?

Atkins. I prayed to him to open your eyes and your understanding.
that you may know him, and be accepted by him.

WI 0. Can he do that too?

Atkins. Yes, he can; he can do all things.

W! <<2. But he no hear what you say?

Atkins. Yes, he has bid us pray to him; and promised to hear us.

Ithc. Did you pray! When he bid you? How he bid you? What
you hear him speak?

Atkins. No, we do not hear him speak; but he has revealed himself

"Hilly ways to US.

[Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God had revealed
himself to us by his word; and what. his word was: but at last he told it her

thusz]

Atkins. God has spoken to some good men in former days, even from
heaven, -by plain words; and God has inspired good men by his Spirit;
and they have written all his laws down in a hook.

Wife. Me no understand that; where is book?

Atkins. Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book; but I hope

I shall, one time or other, get it for you to read it.

[Here he embraced her with great affection: but with inexpressible grief, that he
had not a liible.]

Wife. But how you makee me know that God teaches them to write
that book?

Atkins. By the same rule that we know him to be God.

Wife. What rule? what way you know?

Atkins. Because he teaches and commands nothing but what is
good, righteous, and holy, and tends to make us perfectly good, as
well as perfectly happy; and because he forbids and commands us
to avoid all that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its conse-
quences.

Wife. That me would understand, that me fain see; if he reward
all good thing, punish all wicked thing, he teaches all good thing, forbid
 

.1111 wicked thing, he makes all thing, he give all thing; he hear me
when I say 0 to him, as you go to do just now ; he makes me good if
I wish be good; he spare me, no makes kill me when I no be good; all
this you say he do: yes, he be great God; me take, think, believe him
be great God; me say 0 to him too with you, my dear. '

Here the poor man said he could forbear no longer; but raising her
up, made her kneel by him; and he prayed to God aloud to instruct
her in the knowledge of himself by his Spirit; and that, by some good
providence, if possible, she might some time or other come to have a
Bible, that she might read the word of God, and be taught by him to
know him.

[This was the time that we saw him lift her up by the hand. and saw him kneel
down by her, as above.]

They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too long to
set down here; and particularly she made him promise, that, since he
confessed his own life had been a wicked, abominable course of provo-
cation against God, he would reform it, and not make God angry any
more, lest he should make him dead, as she called it, and then she
should be left alone, and never be taught to know this God better; and
lest he should be miserable, as he had told her wicked men should be
after death.

This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both, but par-
ticularly the young clergyman; he was indeed wonderfully surprised
with it; but under the greatest aflliction imaginable that he could not
talk to her; that he could not speak English to make her understand
him; and as she spoke but very broken English, he could not un- -
derstand her. However, he turned himself to me, and told me, that
he believed there must be more to do with this woman than to marry
her. I did not understand him' at first, but at length he explained him-
self, namely, that she ought to be baptized.

I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for going about it
presently: " No, no; hold, sir !" said he; " though I would have her
baptized by all means, yet I must observe that Will Atkins, her has;
band, has indeed brought her, in a wonderful manner, to be willing to
embrace a religious life; and has given her just ideas of the being of
a God, of his power, justice, and mercy; yetI desire to know of him,
if he has said any thing to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation
of sinners , of the nature of faith 1n him, and the redemption by him ,

of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and a future 3

state."

I called Will Atkins again, and asked him, but the poor fellow rah, I

immediately 1nto tears, and told us he had said something to her of-

   
 

 

I

i

,1,

.1

'l

.' i
'i

vs .n'
0 M A

ST AND NEGRO W

PRIE
 

 

 

those things, but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own
conscience so reproaehed him with his horrid, ungodly life, that he
trembled at the apprehensions, that her knowledge of him should lesson
the attention she should give to those things, and make her rather con-
temn religion than receive it: but he was assured, he said, that her
mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of all those things,
that, if I would but discourse with her, she would make it appear to my
satisfaction, that my labour would not be lost upon her.

Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter be-
tween my religious priest and the woman, I entrcated him to begin with
her. lint sure such a sermon was never preached by a popish priest in
these latter ages of the world; and, as I told him, I thought he had
all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, without
the errors of a Roman Catholic; and that I took him to be such a
clergyman as the Roman bishops were, before the church of Rome
assumed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men.

in a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace the knowledge
of Christ, aml of redemption by him, not with wonder and astonish-
ment only, as she did the first notions of a God, but with joy, and
faith, and with an all'ection and a surprising degree of understanding
scarce to be imagined, much less to be expressed: and at her own
request she was baptized.

When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him, that he
would perform that oliiee with some caution, that the man might not
poi-ceire he was of the Roman church, if possible; because of other
ill consequences which might attend a difi'erence among us in that very
religion which we were instructing the other in. He told me, that as
he had no consecrated chapel, nor proper things for the office, I should
see he would do it in a manner that I should not know by it that lie
was a Roman Catholic himself, if I had not known it before, and so
he did; for saying only some words over to himself in Latin, which I
could not understand, he poured a whole dishful of water upon the
woman's head, pronouncing in French very loud, " Mary," (which was
the name her husband desired me to give her, for I was her godfather),
"l baptize thee in the name of, the Father, and of the Son, and of the
Holy Ghost'," so that none could know any thing by it what religion
he was of: he gave the benediction afterwards in Latin; but either
Will Atkins did not know but it was in French, or eise he did not take
notice of it at that time.

As soon as this was over, he married them: and after the marriage
was over, he turned himself to Will Atkins, and in a very affectionate
manner exhorted him not only to persevere in that good disposition406 rue ms AN'D .mvsnrnnns

 

 

 

he was in, but to support the convictions that were upon him, by a
resolution to reform his life; told him it was in vain to say he re-
pented, if he did not forsake his crimes; represented to him, how
God had honoured him with being the instrument of bringing his wife
to the knowledge of the Christian religion; and that he should be
careful he did not dishonour the grace of God; and that if he did, he
would see the heathen a better Christian than himself; the savage
converted, and the instrument cast away!

He said a great many good things to them both, and then recom-
mended them, in a few words, to God's goodness; gave them the
benediction again, I repeating every thing to them in English: and
thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant, agree
able day to me, that ever I passed in my whole life.

But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts hung continu-
ally upon the conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and fain he
would have stayed upon the island to have undertaken it: but I con-
vinced him, first. that his undertaking was impracticable in itself; and
secondly, that, perhaps, I could put it into a way of being done in his
absence, to his satisfaction; of which by and by.

Having thus brought the affair of the island to a narrow compass, I
was preparing to go on board the ship, when the young man, whom I
had taken out of the famished ship's company, came to me, and told
me he understood I had a clergyman with me, and that I had caused
the Englishmen to be married to the savages whom they called wives;
that he had a match, too, which he desired might be finished before I
went, between two Christians, which he hoped would not be disagree-
able to me. '

I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother's ser-
vant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island. So I
began to persuade him not to do any thing of that kind rashly, or
because he found himself in this solitary circumstance. I represented
that he had some considerable substance in the world, and good friends,
as I understood by himself, and by his maid also; that the maid was
not only poor, and a servant, but was unequal to him, she being
twenty-six, or twenty-seven years old, and he not above seventeen or
eighteen; that he might very probably, with my assistance, make a
remove from this wilderness, and come into his own country again, and
that then it would be a thousand to one but he would repent his choice,
and the dislike of that circumstance might be disadvantageous to both.
I was going to say more, but he interrupted me, smiling ; and told me
with a great deal of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses; that he
had nothing of that kind in his thoughts, his present circumstances
 

 

 

being mel mcholy and disconsolate enough, and he was very glad to hear
that I had some thoughts of putting them in a way to see their own
country again; and that nothing should have set him upon staying
there, but that the voyage I was going was so exceeding long and ha-
zardunn, and would carry him quite out of the reach of all his friends;
and that he had nothing to desire of me, but that I would settle him
in some little property of the island where he was; give him a ser-
vant or two, and some few necessaries, and he would settle himself
here like a planter, waiting the good time when, if ever I returned to
England, I would redeem him, and hoped I would not be unmindful of
him when I came to England; that he would give me some letters to
his friends in London, to let them know how good I had been to him,
and what part of the world, and what circumstances I had left him in;
and hr promised me, that whenever I redeemed him, the plantation,
and all the improvements he had made upon it, let the value be what
it won", should be wholly mine.

H11 discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his youth, and .

was the more agreeable to me, because he told me positively the match
was not for himself. I gave him all possible assurances, that, if I
lived to come safe to England, I would deliver his letters, and do his
business effectually, and that he might depend I would never forget
the circumstances I left him in. But still I was impatient to know

who was the person to be married; upon which he told me it was my '

Jack of all trades, and his maid Susan.

I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match; for in-
deed I had thought it very suitable. The character of that man I
have given already; and as for the maid, she was a very honest,
modest, sober, and religious woman; had a very good share of sense;
was agreeable enough in her person; spoke very handsomely, and to
the purpose; always with decency and good manners, and not back-
ward to speak when any thing required it, or impertinently forward to
speak when it was not her business; very handy and housewifely in
any thing that was before her; an excellent manager, 'and fit indeed

to have been governess to the whole island; she knew very well how -

to behave herself to all kind of folks she had about her, and to better
if she had found any there.

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them the same
day; and as I was father at the altar, as I may say, and gave .her
away, so I gave her a portion; for I appointed her and her husband a
handsome large space of ground for their plantation; and indeedliii
match, and the proposal the young gentleman made Wine, toigive

 

him a small property in the island, put me upon panelling it "this. , ...:
 

among them, that they might not quarrel afterwards about their situa-
tion

This sharing out the land to them, I left to Will Atkins, who indeed
was now grown a most sober, grave, managing fellow, perfectly re-
formed, exceeding pious and religious, and, as far as I may be allowed
to speak positively in such a case, I verily believe was a true sincere
penitent.

llc divided things so justly, and so much to every one's satisfaction,
that they only desired one general writing under my hand for the whole,
which I caused to be drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting
out. the bounds and situation of every man's plantation, and testifying
that I gave them thereby, severally, a right to the whole possession
and inheritance of the respective plantations or farms with their im-
provements, to them and their heirs; reserving all the rest of the
island as my own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one from me, or in my name,
came to demand it, producing an attested copy of the some writing.

As to the government and laws among them, I told them. I was not
capable of giving them better rules than they were able to give them-
selves; only made them promise me to live in love and good neigh-
bourhood with one another: and so I prepared to leave them.

One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being new settled in a
kind of commonwealth among themselves, and having much business
in hand, it was but odd to have seven-aml-thirty Indians live in a nook
of the island, independent, and indeed unemployed; for, excepting the
providing themselves food, which they had difficulty enough in doing
sometimes, they had no manner of business or property to manage: I
proposed therefore to the governor Spaniard, that he should go to
them with F riday's father, and propose to them to remove, and either
plant for themselves, or take them into their several families as ser--
vants, to be maintained for their labour, but without being absolute
slaves; for I would not admit them to make them slaves by force by
any means, because they had their liberty given by capitulation, and
as it were articles of surrender, which they ought not to break.

They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came all very cheer-
fully along with him; so we allotted them land and plantations, which
three or four accepted of, but all the rest chose to be employed as ser~
vants in the several families we had settled; and thus my colony was
in a manner settled as follows: The Spaniards possessed my original
habitation, which was the capital city, and eittended their plantation
all along the side of the brook which made the creek that I have so
often described, as far as my be wet; and as they increased their onl-
 

tare, it went always eastward. The English lived in the northeast
part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began, and came on south-
ward and south-west, towards the back part of the Spaniards; and
every plantation had a great addition of land to take in, if they found
occasion, so that they need not jostle one another for want of room.

All the west end of the island was left uninhabited, that if any of
the savages should come on shore there, only for their usual customary
lmrbarities, they might come and go; if they disturbed nobody, nobody
would disturb them: and no'doubt but they were often ashore and
went away again, for I never heard that the planters were attacked
and disturbed any more.

CHAPTER VIII.

1 entertain the prospect of converting the Indians.---Amiahle Character of the Young
Woman we saved in a furnished state at Sea--Her own Relation of her sufi'erings
from Hunger--Sail from the Island for the Emails--Encounter and rout a wholt
Fleet of Savages--Death of Friday--Arrival at Brazil.

IT now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to my friend the
clergyman, that the work of converting the savages might perhaps be
set on foot in his absence to his satisfaction, and I told him that new
I thought it was put in a fair way; for the savages being thus divided
among the Christians, if they would but every one of them do their
part with those which came under their hands, I hoped it' might have
a very good effect.

He agreed presently in that: " If," said he, "they will do their
part; but how," says he, "shall we obtain that of them ?"--I told him
we would call them all together, and leave it in charge with them, or
go to them one by one, which he thought best; so we divided it--he
to speak to the Spaniards, who were all Papists, and I to the English,
who were all Protestants; and we recommended it earnestly to them.
and made them promise that they would never make any distinction
of Papist or Protestant in their exhorting the savages to turn Chris-
tians, but teach them the general knowledge of the true God, and of
their Saviour Jesus Christ; and they likewise promised ns,-that they

 

 

 

would never have any difi'erences or disputes one with another about

religion.

When I came to Will Atkine's house (I may call it-so, for saali= a

house, or such a piece of basket-work, I believe was'not standing __
a;
 

the world again l), I say, when I came thither, I found the young wo-
man I have mentioned above and William Atkins'a wife were become
intimates; and this prudent and religious young woman had perfected
the work Will Atkins had begun; and though it was not above four
days after what I have related, yet the new baptized savage woman
was made such a Christian as I have seldom heard of any like her in
all my observation or conversation in the world.

It came next into my mind in the morning, before I went to them,
that among all the needful things I had to leave with them, I had not
left a Bible, in which I showed myself less considering for them than
my good friend the widow was for me, when she sent me the cargo of
one hundred pounds, from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles
and a Prayer-book.

However, the good woman's charity had a greater extent than ever
she imagined, for they were reserved for the comfort and instruction
of those that made much better use of them than I had done.

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to William
Atkins's tent, or house, I found the young woman and Atkins's bap-
tized wife had been discoursing of religion together (for William Atkins
told it me with a great deal of joy). I asked if they were together
now? And he said yes; so I went into the house, and he with me,
and we found them together, very earnest in discourse: "Oh, sir,"
says William Atkins, "when God has sinners to reconcile to himself,
and aliens to bring home, he never wants a messenger: my wife has
got a new instructor--I knew I was unworthy, as I was incapable of
that work ; that young woman has been sent hither from Heaven--she
is enough to convert a whole island of savages." The young woman
blushed, and rose up to go away, but I desired her to lit still; I told
her she had a good work upon her' hands, and I hoped God would bless
her in it.

We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had any book among
them, though I did not ask, but I put my hand in my pocket, and
pulled out my Bible. " Here," said I to Atkins, " I have brought you
an assistant, that perhaps you had not before. The man was so con-
founded, that he was not able to speak for some time; but recovering
himself, he takes it with both hands, and turning to his wife, " Here,
my dear," says he, " did I not tell you, our God, though he lives above,
could hear what we said? Here is the book I prayed for, when you
and I kueeled down under the bush: now God has heard us, and sent
it." When he had said thus, the man fell in such transports of pas-
sionate joy, that, between the joy of having it and giving God thanks
for it, the tears ran down his face like a child that was crying.v or nosmson censor. 411' -- ' -SS

 

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a mistake
that none of us were aware of; for she firmly believed God had sent
the book upon her husband's petition. It is true that providentially
it was so, and might be taken so in a consequent sense; but I believe
it would have been no diflicult matter at that time to have persuaded
the poor woman to have believed that an express messenger came from
Heaven on purpose to bring that individual book. But it was too
serious a matter to suffer any delusion to take place: so I turned to
the young woman, and told her we did not desire to impose upon the
new convert in her first and more ignorant understanding of things,
and begged her to explain to her that God may be very properly said
to answer our petitions, when, in the course of his providence, such
things are in a particular manner brought to pass as we petitioned for;
but we do not expect returns from Heaven in a miraculous and particu-
lar manner; and that it is our mercy it is not so.

This the young woman did afterwards effectually; so that there was,
I assure you, no priestcraft used here; and I should have thought it
one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the world to have had it so;
but the surprise of joy upon Will Atkins is really not to be expressed;
and there we may be sure was no delusion. Sure no man was ever
more thankful in the world for any thing of its kind than he was for -.
this Bible, and I believe never any man was glad of a Bible from a 'g
better principle; and though he had been a most profligate creature, "' . if?
desperate, headstrong, outrageous, furious, and wicked to a great - 3,;
degree, yet this man is a standing rule to us all for the well instructing "
children, namely, that parents should never give over to teach and
instruct, or ever despair of the success of their endeavours, let the i
children be ever so obstinate, refractory, or to appearance insensible . '
of instruction; for if ever God in his providence touches the consciences
of such, the force of their education returns upon them, and the early
instruction of parents is not lost, though it may have been many
years laid asleep, but some time or other they may find the benefit
of it.

Thus it was with this poor man. However ignorant he was, or , .,
divested of religion and Christian knowledge, he found he had somegfio "i
do with now more ignorant than himself; and that the least part of the 1. 52;;
instruction of his good father that could now come to his mind, was of '
use to him.

Among the rest it occurred to him, he 'said, how his father used to
insist much upon the inexpressible value of the Bible, the privilege and.
blessing of 1t to nations, families, and persons, but he never en. '
ed the least notion of the worth of it till now, when, being Walk to
 

heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted the help of the written.
oracle for his assistance.

The young woman was very glad of it also for the present occasion,
though she had one, and so had the youth, on board our ship, among
the goods which were not yet brought on shore. And now, having
said so many things of this young woman, I cannot omit telling one
story more of her and myself, which has something in it very inform-
ing and remarkable.

I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was reduced;
how her mistress was starved to death, and did die on board that un-
happy ship we met at sea; and how the whole ship's company being
reduced to the last extremity, the gentlewoman and her son, and this
maid, were first hardly used as to provisions, and at last totally neg-
lected and starved,----that is to say, brought to the last extremity of
hunger.

One day, being discoursing with her upon the extremities they suf-
fered, I asked her if she could describe, by what she felt, what it was
to starve, and how it appeared? She told me she believed she could,
and she told her tale very distinctly thus:

"First, sir," said she, "we had for some days fared exceeding hard,
and suffered very great hunger, but now at last we were wholly with-
out food of any kind except sugar, and a little wine, and a little water.
The first day after I had received no food at all, I found myself, to-
wards erening, first empty and siekish at my stomach, and nearer
night mightily inclined to yawning, and sleepy: I lay down on a couch
in the great cabin to sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked a
little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay down. After
being about three hours awake, it being about five o'clock in the morn-
ing, I found myself empty, and my stomach sickish again, and lay
down again, but could not sleep at all, being very faint and ill; and
thus I continued all the second day with a strange variety,----first hun-
gry, then sick again, with retchings to vomit. The second night, being
obliged to go to bed again without any food more than a draught of
fair water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that
the market was mightily stocked with provisions; that I bought some
for my mistress, and went and dined very heartily.

"I thought my stomach was full after this, as it would have been
after, or at a good dinner; but when I waked, I was exceedingly sunk
in my spirits to find myself .in the extremity of famine; the last glass
of wine we had I drank, and put sugar into it, because of its having
some spirit to supply nourishment; but there being no substance in the
stomach for the digesting office to work upon, I found the only efi'ect
0r ROBINSON causes. 418

 

of the wine was to raise disagreeable fumes from the stomach into the
head; and I lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk,
for some time.

" The third day, in the morning, after a night of strange and con-
fused, inconsistent dreams, and rather dosing than sleeping, I awaked
ravenous and furious with hunger; and I question, had not my under-
standing returned and conquered it, I say, I question whether, if I
had been a mother, and had had a little child with me, its life would
have been safe or no.

" This lasted about three hours, during which time I was twice raging
mad as any creature in Bedlam, as my young master told me, and as
he can now inform you.

"In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction, whether by the motion
of the ship, or some slip of my foot I know not, I fell down, and
struck my face against the corner of a pallet-bed, in which my mistress
lay, and with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose, and the cabin-
boy bringing me a little basin, I sat down and bled into it a great deal,
and as the blood ran from me I came to myself, and the violence of
the flame or the fever I was in abated, and so did the ravenous part
of the hunger.

" Then I grew sick, and retched to vomit, but could not, for I had
nothing in my stomach to bring up. After I had bled some time I
swooned, and they all believed I Was dead; but I came to myself soon
after, and then had a most dreadful pain in my stomach, not to be
described, not like the colic, but a. gnawing eager pain for food; and
towards night it went OH with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for
food, something like, as I suppose, the longing of a woman with child.
I took another draught of water with sugar in it, but my stomach
loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again; then I took a draught
of water without sugar, and that stayed with me, and I laid me down
upon the bed, praying most heartily that it would please God to take
me away; and composing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered a while,
and then waking, thought myself dying, being light with vapours from

an empty stomach: I recommended my soul to God, and earnestly '

wished that somebody would throw me into the sea.
"All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expiring,
but bore it with much more patience than I, and gave the last bit of
bread 'she had to her child, my young master, who would not have
taken it, but she obliged him to eat it, and I believe it saved his life,
" Towards the morning I slept again, and first when I awaked' I fell
into a violent passion of crying, and after that had- a second fit ' a
violent hunger, so that I got up ravenous, and' in a most dreadful '
__--________----_------___

dition. Had my mistress been dead, so much as I loved her, I am
certain I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as much relish,
and as unconcerned, as ever I did the flesh of any creature appointed
for food; and once or twice Iwas going to bite my own arm. At last
I saw the basin in which was the blood I had bled at my nose the day
before; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste, and such a greedy
appetite, as if I had wondered nobody had taken it before, and afraid
it should be taken from me now.

"Though, after it was down, the thoughts of it filled me with horror,
yet it checked the fit of hunger, and I drank a draught of fair water,
and was composed and refreshed for some hours after it. This was
the fourth day; and thus I held it till towards night, when, within the
compass of three hours, I had all these several circumstances over
again, one after another, namely, sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain in
the stomach, then ravenous again, then sick again, then lunatic, then
crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter of an hour; and
my strength wasted exceedingly. At night I Yaid me down, having no
comfort but in the hope that I should die before morning.

"All this night I had no sleep, but the hunger was now turned into
a disease, and I had a terrible colic and griping, wind instead of food
having found its way into my bowels; and in this condition I lay till
morning, when I was surprised a little with the cries and lamentntions
of my young master, who called out to me that his mother was dead.
I lifted myself up a little, for I had not strength to rise, but found
she was not dead, though she was able to give very little signs of life.

" I had then such convulsions in my stomach for want of some sus-
tenance, that I cannot describe them, with such frequent throes and
pangs of appetite, that nothing but the tortures of death can imitate;
and this condition I was in when I heard the seamen above cry out,
'A sail! a sail!' and halloo and jump about as if they were distracted.

"I was not able to get otf from the bed, and my mistress much less,
and my master was so sick that I thought he had been expiring; so
we could not open the cabin door, or get any account what it was that
occasioned such a combustion ; nor had we any conversation with the
ship's company for two days, they having told us they had not a
mouthful of any thing to eat in the ship; and they told us afterwards
they thought we had been dead.

" It was this dreadful condition we were in when you were sent to
save our lives; and how you found us, sir, you know as well as I, and
better too."

This was her own relation; and is such a distinct account of starving
to death, as I confess I never met with, and was exceeding entertaining
 

to me. I am the rather apt to believe it to be a true account, because
the youth gave me an account of a good part of it; though, I must
own, not.so distinct and so feelingly as his maid, and the rather because
it seems his mother fed him at the price of her own life : but the poor
maid, though her constitution being stronger than that of her mistress,
who was in years, and a weakly woman too, she might struggle harder
with it,-----I say the poor maid might be supposed to feel the extrenil't'y
something sooner than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep the
last bits something longer than she parted with any to relieve the maid.
No question. as the case is here related, if our ship, or some other, had
not so providentially met them, a few days more would have ended all
their lives, unless they had prevented it by eating one another; and
even that, as their case stood, would have served them but a little
while, they being five hundred leagues from any land, or any possi-
bility of relief, other than in the miraculous manner it happened.
But this is by the way; I return to my disposition of things among
the people.

And first, it is to be observed here, that for many reasons I did not
think fit to let them know any thing of the sloop I had framed, and
which I thought of setting up among them; for I found, at least at my
first coming, such seeds of division among them, that I saw it plainly,
had I set up the sloop, and left it among them, they would, upon very
slight disgust, have separated, and gone away from one another; or'
perhaps have turned pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves,
instead of a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intended it
to be; nor did I leave the two pieces of brass ca'nnou that I had on

board, or the tire quarter-deck guns, that my nephew took extraordir

nary, for the same reason; I thought they had enough to qualify them
for a defensive war, against any that should invade them; but I was
not to set them up for an offensive war, or to encourage them to go
abroad to attack others, which in the end would only bring ruin and
destruction upon themselves and all their undertakings. I reserved the
sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service another way, as I shall
observe in its place.

I have now done with the island: I left them all in good circum-
' stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship again
the fifth day of May, having been five-and-twenty days among them;
and, as they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I came to
remove them, I promised to send some further relief from the Brazils,
if I could possibly find an opportunity; and particularlyI promised to
send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and cows; for as to the two
cows and calves which I brought from England, we had {been obliged,
 

 

 

by the length of our vsyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to
feed them.

The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set
sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about
twenty-two days; meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but this,
that about three days after we sailed, being becalmed, and the current
setting strong to the north-north-mtst, running, as it were, into a bay
or gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of our course ;
and once or twice our men cried, '~' Land, to the westward ;" but whether
it was the continent or islands, we could not tell by any means.

But the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth, and the weather
calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards the land with some-
thing very black, not being able to discover what it was; but after
some time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a, little way,
and looking at them with a perspective, cried out, it was an army. I
could not imagine what he meant by an army, and spoke alittle hastily,
calling the fellow a. fuel,- or some such word; "Nay, sir," says he,
" don't be angry, for it is an army and a. fleet too; for I believe there
are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle along, and they
are coming towards us too apace, and full of men."

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew, the
captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island,
and having never been in those seas before, that he could not tell what
to think of it, but said two or three times we shall all be devoured. I
must confess, considering we were becalmed, and the current set strong
towards the shore, I liked it the worse; however, I bade him not to be
afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor, as soon as we came so near as
to know that we must engage them.

The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards us;
so I gave orders to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails. As for
the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear from them but fire;
and, therefore, they should get their boats out, and fasten them, one
close by the head, and the other by the stern, and man them both
well, and wait the issue in that posture: this I did, that the men
in the boats might be ready, with sheet and buckets, to put out any
fire these savages might endeavour to fix upon the outside of the
ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came
up with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians; my
mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their number, I mean of
a thousand canoes :' the most we could make of them, when they came
up, being about one hundred and twenty-six: and a great many of
 

them too; for some of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them,

some more, and the least six or seven.

When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with won-
der and astonishment, as at a sight which they had, doubtless, never
seen before; nor could they, at first, as we afterwards understood,
know what to make of us. They came boldly up, however, very near
to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; but we called to our
men in the boats, not to let them come too near them.

This very order brought us to an engagement with them without
our designing it; for five or six of their large canoes came so near
our long-boat, that our men beckoned with their hands to them to keep

back, which they understood very well, and went back; but at their .

retreat about five hundred arrows came on board us from those boats;
and one of our men in the long-bout was very much wounded.

However, I called to them not to fire by any means; but we handed
down some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set
up a kind of a fence, like waist boards, to cover them from the arrows
of the savages, if they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards, they came all up in a body astern
of us, and pretty near; so near that we could easily discern what they
were, though we could not tell their design. I easily found they were
some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been used
to engage with; and 1n a little time more they rowed somewhat fur-
ther out to sea, till they came directly broadside with us, and then
rowed down straight upon us, till they came so near that they could
hear us speak. Upon this, I ordered all my men to keep close, lest
they should shoot any more arrows, and make all our guns ready; but
being so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon the
deck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to know what they
meant, which accordingly he did: whether they understood him or not,
that I know not; but as soon as he called-to'them, siX'of them, who
were in the foremost, or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes from
us, and, stooping down, showed us their naked backs in a contemp-
tuous manner. Whether this was a defiance, or challenge, we knew
not; or whether it was done in mere contempt, or a signal to the rest;

but immediately Friday cried out, they were going to shoot; and, '

unhappily for him (poor fellow 1) they let fly about threeuhundred of
their arrows, and, to my ine'xpressible grief, killed poor Friday, no
other man being in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no
less than three arrows, and about three more fell very nigh him; such
unlucky marksmen' they were '

I was so enraged with the low of my old servant, the companion 00

21
 

all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately ordered five guns
to be loaded with small shot, and four with great; and gave them
such a broadside as they had never had in their lives before, to be
sure.

They were not above half a cable's length of when we fired; and '
our gunners took their aim so well that three or four of their canoes
were overset, as we had reason to believe, by one shot only.

The ill manners of turning up their bare backs to us, gave us
no great ofl'enee; neither did I know for certain whether that, which
would pass for the greatest contempt among us, might be understood
so by them or not; therefore, in return I had only resolved to have
fired four or five guns with powder only, which I knew would frighten
them sufilciently; but when they shot at us directly with all the fury
they were capable of, and especially as they had killed my poor Fri--
day, whom I so entirely loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well
deserved it, I not only had been justified before God and man, but
would have been very glad, if I could, to have orerset every canoe
there, and drowned every one of them.

I can neither tell how many we killed, or how many we wounded at
this broadside; but sure such a fright and hurry never was seen
among such a multitude: there were thirteen or fourteen of their
canoes split, and overset in all, and the men all set a-swimming; the
rest, frighted out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could,
taking but little care to save those whose boats were split or spoiled
with our shot: so I suppose that they were many of them lost; and
our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour
after they were all gone.

Our small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a great
many; but, in short, we never knew any thing how it went with them;
for they fled so fast, that, in three hours or thereabouts, we could not
see above three or four straggling canoes; nor did we ever see the rest
any more; for a breeze of wind springing up the same evening, we
weighed and set sail for the Brazils.

We had a prisoner indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he
would neither eat nor speak; and we all fancied he would starve him-
self to death: but I took a way to cure him; for I made them take
him, and turn him into the long-boat, and make him believe they. would
toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they found him, if
he would not speak; nor would that do, but they really did throw him
into the sea, and came away from him; and then he followed them,
for he swam like a cork, and called to them in his tongue, though they
knew not one word of what he said. However, at last, they took him
.--.--..

.n again, and then he began to be more tractable; nor did I ever
design they should drown him. '

We were now under sail again; but I was the most disoonsolate
creature alive, for want of my man Friday, and would have been very
glad to have gone back to the island, to have taken one of the rest
from thence for my occasion: but it could not be, so we went on. We
had one prisoner, as I have said, and it was a long while before we
could make him understand any thing; but in time, our men taught
him some English, and he began to be a little tractable; afterwards
we inquired what country he came from, but could make nothing'of
what he said; for his speech was so odd, all gutturals, and spoken in
the throat in such a hollow and odd manner that we could never form
a word from him; and we were all of opinion that they might speak
that language as well if they were gagged, as otherwise; nor could we
perceive that they had any occasion either for teeth, tongue, 1ips,~ or
palate; but formed their words just as a hunting-horn formsa tune,
with an open throat: he told us, however, some time after, when we
had taught him to speak a little English, that they were going with
their kings to fight a great battle. When he said kings, we asked him,
How many kings? He said, there were " five nation," (we could not
make him understand the plural e), and that they all joined to go
against two nation. We asked him, " What made them come up to
us. 9" He said, "To makee te great wonder look. '--Where it is to be
observed, that all those natives, as also those of Africa, when they
learn English, they always add two e's at the end of the words where we>>
use one, and place the accent upon the last of them; as makee, takee,
and the like; and we could not break them off it; nay, I could hardly.-
make Friday leave it ofi', though at last he did. '

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last
leave of him--poor honest Friday! We buried him with all decency
and solemnity possible, by putting him into a coflin, and throwing him
into the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns for him: and so
ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most afi'ection-
ate servant that ever man had.

We now went away with a fair wind for Brazil, and, in about twelve
days' time, we made land in the latitude of five degrees south of the
line, being the north-easternmost land of all that part of America;
We kept on south-by-east, in sight of the shore, four days, when we
made the Cape St. Augustine, and' 1n three days came to "anchor
of the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance; from whence- _-
came both my good and evil fate. ' ""' "'

Never did a ship come to this part that had lessbusineeetheui
 

and yet it was with great difiiculty that we were admitted to hold the
least correspondence on shore. Not my partner himself, who was
alive, and made a great figure among them, not my two merchant trus-
tees, nor the fame of my wonderful preservation in the island, could
obtain me that favour; but my partner, remembering that I had given
five hundred moidores to the prior of the monastery of the Augustines,
and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the monastery,
and obliged the prior that then was to go to the governor, and beg
leave for me presently, with the captain, and one more, besides eight
seamen, to come on shore, and no more ; and this upon condition ab-
solutely capitulated for, that we should not offer to land any goods out
of the ship, or to carry any person away without license.

They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods, that it was
with extreme difliculty that I got on shore three bales of English
goods, such as fine broadcloths, studs, and some linen, which I had
brought for a present to my partner.

He was a very generous, broad-hearted man, though (like me) he
came from little at first; and though he knew not that I had the least
design of giving him any thing, he sent me on board a present of fresh
provisions, wine, and sweatmeats, worth above thirty moidores, includ-
ing some tobacco, and three or four fine medals in gold. But Iwas
even with him in my present, which, as I have said, consisted of fine
broadcloth, English stufi's, lace, and fine Hollands. Also I delivered
him about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in the same goods,
for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the sloop which I had
brought with me from England, as I have said, for the use of my
colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended to my plantation.

 

CHAPTER IX.

[deep-tab a Number of additional Recruits, and a quantity of extra Stores to the
Island, and take my leave of it for ever--I determine to go with the Ship to the
East Indies--Arrival at Madagascar--Dreadml Occurrences there.

ACCORDINGLY he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was already framed; and I gave the master of her such
instructions as he could not miss the place; nor did he miss it, as I had
an account from my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with
the small cargo I had sent them; and one of our seamen, that had been
on shore with me there, offered to go withthe sloop, and settle there,
upon my letter to the governor Spaniard, to allot him a suficient
quantity of land for a plantation; and giving some clothes, and tools
for his planting work, which he said he understood, having been an old
planter in Maryland, and a buccaneer into the bargain.

I encouraged the fellow, by granting all he desired; and, as an
addition, I gave him the savage whom we had taken prisoner of war, to
be his slave, and ordered the governor Spaniard to give him his share
of every thing he wanted, with the rest.

When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me, there
was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his acquaintance,
who had fallen into the displeasure of the church: " I know not what
the matter is with him," says he, " but on my conscience, I think he is
a heretic in his heart; and he has been obliged to conceal himself
for fear of the Inquisition; that he would be very glad of such an
opportunity to make his escape, with his wife and two daughters;
and if I would let them go to the island, and allot them a plantation,
he would give them a small stock to begin with; for the oflicers of the
Inquisition had seized all his effects and estate, and he had nothing
left but a little household stud, and two slaves; and," adds he, "though
I hate his principles, yet I would not have him fall into their hands,
for he will assuredly be burnt alive if he does."

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with them;
and we concealed the man, and his wife and daughters, on board our
ship, till the sloop put out to go to sea; and then (having put all their
goods on board the sloop some time before), we put them on board the
sloop, after she was got out of the bay.

Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and their
stock, indeed, was much alike rich in tools, and in preparations, for a
farm; but nothing to begin with, but as above. However, they carried
over with them (which was worth all the rest) some materials for planting
sugar-canes, with some plants of canes; which he (I mean the Portugal
man) understood very well.

Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in the island, I sent
them, by this sloop, three milch-cows and five calves, about twenty.two
hogs among. them, three sows big with pig, two mares, and a stone-
horse.

For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three Por-
tugal women to go; and recommended it to them to marry them, and
use them kindly. I could have procured more women, but -_I remem-
bered that the poor persecuted man had two daughters, and there were
 

but five of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had whes of their own,
though in another country.

All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, very
welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now (with this addition)
between sixty and seventy people, besides little children, of which there
were a great many. I found letters at London from them all, by way
of Lisbon, when I came back to England, being sent back to the Brazils
by this sloop; of which I shall take some notice in its place.

I have now done with my island, and all manner of discourse about
it; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums, would do well to
turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read only of the fol-
lies of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much less by those
of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by almost forty years'
misery and disappointments; not satisfied with prosperity beyond
expectation; not made cautious by aflliction and distress beyond
imitation.

I had no more business to go to the East Indies, than a man at full
liberty, and having committed no crime, has to go to the turnkey at
Newgate, and desire him to lock him up among the prisoners there,
and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from England, and gone
directly to the island--had I loaded her, as I did the other vessel, with
all the necessaries for the plantation, and for my people--took a patent
from the government here, to have secured my property, in subjection
only to that of England, which, to be sure, I might have obtained--
had I carried over cannon and ammunition, servants and people. to
plant, and, taking possession of the place, fortified and strengthened
it in the name of England, and increased it with people, as I might
easily have done--had I then settled myself there, and sent the ship
back loaded with good rice, as I might also have done in six months'
time, andordered my friends to have fitted her out again for our sup-
ply,--had I done this, and stayed there myself, I had, at least, acted
like a man of common sense: but I was possessed with a wandering
spirit, scorned all advantages, pleased myself with being the patron
of these people I had placed there, and doing for them in a kind of
haughty majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch; providing for
them, as if I had been father of the whole family, as well as of the
plantation: but I never so much as pretended to plant in- the name of
any government or nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call
my people subjects to any one nation more than another; nay, I never
so much agave the place a name; but left it as I found it, belonging
to no man, and the people under no discipline or government but my
own ' who, though I had an influence over them as father and bene-~11 -..4 l q

or nonissos causon. 493,

factor, had no authority or power to act or command one way or other,
further than voluntary consent moved them to 'comply: yet even this,
had I stayed there, would have done well enough; but as I rambled
from them and came thither no more, the last letters I had from any
of them were by my partner's means, who afterwards sent another
sloop to the place; and who sent me word, though I had not the letter
t'ill five years after it was written, that they went on but poorly, were
malcontent with their long stay there; that Will Atkins was dead;
that five of the Spaniards were come away; and that though they had
not been much molested by the savages, yet they had had some skir-
mishes with them; that they begged of him to write to me to think of
the promise I had made to fetch them away, that they might see their
own country again before they died.

But I was gone a wild-goose chase indeed, and they who will have
any more of me, must be content to follow me through a new variety
of follies, hardships, and wild adventures, wherein the justice of Provi-
dence may be duly observed, and we may see how easily Heaven can
gorge us with our own desires, make the strongest of our wishes to be
our affliction, and punish us most severely with those very things which
we think it would be our utmost happiness to be allowed 1n.

Let no wise man flatter himself with the strength of his own judg-
ment, as if he were able to choose any particular station of life for
himself. Man is a short-sighted creature, sees but a very little way
before him; and as his passions are none of his best friends, so his
particular afi'ections are generally his worst counsellors.

I say this with respect to the impetuous desire I had, from a youth, .
to wander into the world, and how evident it now was that this principle
was preserved in me for my punishment. How it came on, the man-
ner, the circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is easy to give you
historically, and with its utmost variety of particulars. But the secret
ends of Divine Pro1 1dence, 1n thus permitting us to be hurried down
the stream of our own desires, are only to be understood by those who
can listen to the voice of Providence, and draw religious consequences
from God's justice and their own mistakes.

Be 1t I had business or no business, away I went. It is no time now
to enlarge any further upon the reason or absurdity of my own con-
duct; but to come to the history,--I was embarked for the voyage,
and the voyage I went. .

I shall only add here, that my honest and truly pious clergyman left
me here' , a ship being ready to go to Lisbon, he asked me leave to go
thither; being still, as he observed, bound never to finish my voyage
he Regan. How happy had it been for me, if I had gone with hifi!
But it was too late now--all things Heaven appoints are best. Had
I gone with him, I had never had so many things to be thankful for,
and you had never heard of the Second Part of the Travels and Ad~
ventures of Robinson Crusoe; so I must leave here the fruitless ex-
claiming at myself, and go on with my voyage.

From the Brazils, we made directly away over the Atlantic Sea to
the Cape de Bonne Esperance, or, as we call it, the Cape of Good
Hope; and had a tolerable good voyage, our course generally south-
east; now and then a storm, and some contrary winds. But my disas-
ters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and cross events were to
befall me on shore; that it might appear the land was as well prepared
to be our scourge as the sea, when Heaven, who directs the circum-
stances of things, pleases to appoint it to be so.

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a aupercargo on board,
who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape; only
being limited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party,
at the several ports she was to go to. This was none of my business,
neither did I meddle with it at all; my nephew, the captain, and the
sapercargo, adjusting all those things between them as they thought fit.

We made no stay at the Cape longer than was needful to take. in
fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel:
we were indeed informed that a French man-of-war of fifty guns, and
two large merchant ships, were gone for the Indies; and as I knew we
were at war with France, I had some apprehensions of them; but they
went their own way, and we heard no more of them.

I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with descriptions of
places, journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, latitudes,
meridian distances, trade-winds, situation of ports, and the like; such
as almost all the histories of long navigation are full of, and which
make the reading tiresome enough,_and are perfectly unprofitable to all
that road, except only to those who are to go to those places them-
selves.

It is enough to name the ports and places which we touched at, and
what occurred to as upon our passing from one to another. We touched
first at the island of Madagascar, where though the people are fierce and
treacherous, and, in particular, very well armed with lances and bows,
which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared very well
with them a while; they treated as very civilly; and for some trifles
which we gave them, such as knives, scissors, Ste. they brought us
eleven good fat bullocks, middling in size, but very good in flesh, which
we took in. partly for fresh provisions for our present spending, and
tho rnsi "I Salt for the ship's use.
 

We were obliged to stay here for some time after we had furnished
ourselves with provisions; and I, that was always too curious to look
Into every nook of the world wherever I came, was for going on shore
as often as I could. It was on the east side of the island that we went
on shore one evening, and the people, who by the way are very nume-
rous, came thronging about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance.
As we had traded freely with them, and had been kindly used, we
thought ourselves in no danger; but when we saw the people, we out
three boughs out of a tree and stuck them up at a distance from us,
which, it seems, is a mark in the country not only of truce and friend- '
ship, but. when it is accepted, the other side set up three poles. or
boughs also, which is a signal that they accept the truce too; but then
this is a. known condition of the truce, that you are not to pass beyond
their three poles towards them, nor they come past your three poles or
boughs towards you; so that you are perfectly secure within the three
poles, and all the space between your poles and theirs is allowed, like a
market, for free converse, traflic, and commerce. When you go thither,
you must not carry your weapons with you; and if they come into that
space, they stick up their javelins and lances all at the first poles, and
come on unarmed: but if any violence is ofi'ered them, and the truce
thereby broken, away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their wea-
pons, and then the truce is at an end.

It happened one evening when we went on shore, that a greater
number of their people came down than usual, but all was very friendly
and civil. They brought with them several kinds of provisions, for
which we satisfied them with such toys as we had; their women also
brought as milk and roots, and several things very acceptable to us,
and all was quiet; and we made us a little tent or hut, of some boughs
of trees, and lay on shore all that night.

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satisfied to
lie on shore as the rest; and the boat lying at an anchor abouts stone's
cast from the land, with two men in her to take care of her, I made
one of them come on shore, and getting some boughs of trees to
cover as also in the boat, I spread the sail on the bottom of the boat,
and lay on board, under the cover of the branches of the trees all night.

About two o'clock in the morning, we heard one of our men make a
terrible noise on the shore, calling out for God's sake to bring the boat
in, and come and help them, for they were all like to be murdered; at
the same time I heard the firing of five muskets, which was the num-
ber of the guns they had, and that three times over: for it seems, the
natives here were not so easily fiighted with guns as the savages were
ir America where I had to do with them.
 

All this while I knew not what was the matter; but rousing imme-
diately from sleep with the noise, I caused the boat to he thrust in,
and resolved, with three fusils we had on board, to land and assist our
men.

We got the boat soon to the shore; but our men were in too much
haste; for, being come to the shore, they plunged into the water to
get to the boat with all the expedition they could, being pursued by
between three and four hundred men. Our men were but nine in all,
and only five of them had fusils with them; the rest, indeed, had pis-
tols and swords, but they were of small use to them.

We took up seven of our men, and with difiiculty enough too, three
of them being very ill wounded; and that which was still worse was,
that while we stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as much
danger as they were in on shore; for they poured their arrows in upon
us so thick, that we were fain to barricade the side of the boat up with
the benches and two or three loose boards, which, to our great satis-
faction, we had, by mere accident, or providence rather, in the boat.

And yet had it been daylight, they are, it seems, such exact marks-
men, that if they could have seen but the least part of any of us, they
would have been sure of us. We had, by the light of the moon, a
little sight of them as they stood pelting us from the shore with darts
and arrows; and having got ready our firearms, we gave them a vol-
ley, and we could hear by the cries of some of them, that we had
wounded several; however, they stood thus in battle-array on the
shore till break of day, which we suppose was that they might see the
better to take their aim at us.

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our anchor,
or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the boat, and
they were as sure to hit us, as we were to hit a bird in a tree with
small shot.

We made signals of distress to the ship, which though she rode a
league of, yet my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and by
glasses perceiving the posture we lay in, and that we fired towards the
shore, pretty well understood as; and weighing anchor with all speed,
he stood as near the shore as he durst with-the ship, and then sent
another boat with ten hands in her to assist us; but we called to them
not to come too near, telling them what condition we were in. How-
ever. they stood in nearer to us; and one of the men taking the end
of a tow-line in his hand, and keeping our boat between him and the
enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam on board as,
and made the line fast to the boat, upon which we elipt our little cable,
and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of the reach of the
 

 

arrows, we all the while lying close behind the barricade we had
made.

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, that
she could lay her side to the shore, we ran along just by them. and we
poured in a broadside among them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead,
small bullets, and such stuif, besides the great shot, which made a ter-
rible havoc among them.

When we were got on board, and out of danger, we had time to ex-
amine into the occasion of this fray; and indeed our supercargo, who
had been often in those parts, put me upon it; for he said he was sure
the inhabitants would not have touched us after we had made a truce.
if we had not done something to provoke them to it. At length it
came out, namely, that an old woman, who had come to sell us some
milk, had brought it within our poles, with a young woman with her,
who also brought some roots or herbs; and while the old woman (who-
ther she was mother to the young woman or no they could not tell)
was selling as the milk, one of our men offered some rudeness to the
wench that was with her, at which the old woman made a great noise.
However, the seaman would not quit his prize, but carried her out of
the old woman's sight, among the trees, it being almost dark. The
old woman went away without her, and, as we suppose, made an out-
cry among the people she came from; who, upon notice, raised this
great army upon us in three or four hours; and it was great odds but
we had been all destroyed.

One of our men was killed with a lance thatwas thrown at him, just
at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent we had
made; the rest came 03' free, all but the fellow who was the occasion
of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mistress, for
we could not hear what became of him a great while. We lay upon
the shore two days after, though the wind presented, and made signals
for him; made our boat sail up shore and down shore several leagues,
but in vain; so we were obliged to give him over; and if he alone had
sufi'ered for it, the loss had been the less.

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore once
more, to try if I could 'learn any thing of him or them. Itwas the
third night after the action, that I had a great mind to learn, if I
could by any means, what mischief we had done, and how the game
stood on the Indian side. I was careful to do it in the dark, lest we
should be attacked again; but I ought indeed to have been sure that
the men I went with had been under my command'before I engaged in
a thing so hazardous and mischievous. as I was brought into it without
my knowledge or desire. - '
We took twenty stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the
supercargo and myself; and we landed two hours before midnight, at
the same place where the Indians stood drawn up the evening before.
I landed here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to see if
they had quitted the field, and if they had left any marks behind them,
or of the mischief we had done them; and I thought if we could sur-
prise one or two of them, perhaps we might get our man again by way
of exchange.

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two com-
panies, whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the other. We
neither could hear nor see anybody stir when we landed; so we
marched up, one body at a distance from the other, to the field of
battle. At first we could see nothing, it being very dark; but by and
by our boatswain that led the first party, stumbled and fell over a dead
body. This made them halt there awhile; for knowing by the circum--
stances that they were at the place where the Indians had stood, they
waited for my coming up. Here we concluded to halt till the moon
began to rise, which we knew would be in less than an hour, and then
we could easily discern the havoc we had made among them. We told
two-and-thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead.
Some had an arm, and some a leg shot off, and one his head: those
that were wounded we supposed they had carried away.

When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we could
come at the knowledge of, I was for going on board again; but the
boatswain and his party often sent me word, that they were resolved to
make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they called them,
dwelt, and desired me to go along with them, and if they could find
them, as they still fancied they should, they did not doubt, they said,
getting a good booty, and it might be that they might find Thomas
Jefi'rys there,--that was the man's name we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough what
answer to have given them; for I would have commanded them
instantly on board, knowing it was not a hazard fit for us to run, who
had a ship and a ship's loading in our charge, and a voyage to make,
which depended very much upon the lives of the men; but as they
sent me word they were resolved to go, and only asked me and my
company to go along with them, I positively refused it, and rose up
(for I was sitting on the ground) in order to go to the boat. One or
two of the men began to importune me to go, and when I still refused
positively began to grumble, and say they were not under my command,
and they would go. " Come, Jack," says one of the men, "will you
go with ms? I will go for one." Jack said he would; and another
followed, and then another; and, in a word, they all left me but one,
whom, with much difficulty too, I persuaded to stay; so the supercargo
and I, with one man, went back to the boat, where, I told them, we
would stay for them, and take care to take in as many of them as
should be left; for I told them it was a mad thing they were going
about, and supposed most of them would run the fate of Thomas
J eil'rys.

They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would come off
again, and they would take care, &c. So away they went. I entreated
them to consider the ship and the voyage; that their lives were not
their own, and that they were intrusted with the voyage in some mea-
sure; that if they miscarried, the ship might be lost for want of their
help, and that they could not answer it to God and man. I said a
great deal more to them on that head, but I might as well have talked
to the main-meat of the ship; they were mad upon their journey; only
they gave me good words, and begged I would not be angry; said they
would be very cautious, and they did not doubt but they would be back
again in about an hour at farthest; for the Indian town, they said, was >
not above half a mile ofi'; though they found it above two miles before
they got to it.

Well, they all went away as above; and though the attempt was
desperate, and such as none but madmen would have gone about, yet,
to give them their due, they went about it warily as well as boldly.
They were gallantly armed, that is true; for they had every man a
fusil, or musket, a bayonet, and every man a pistol; some of them had
broad cutlasses, some of them hangers, and the boatswain and two more
had pole-axes; besides all which, they had among them thirteen hand-
grenadoes. Bolder fellows, and better provided, never went about any '
wicked work in the world. .

When they went out, their chief design was plunder, and they were
in mighty hopes of finding gold there; but a circumstance, which
none of them were aware of, set them on fire with revenge, and made
devils of them all. When they came to the few Indian houses, which
they thought had been the town, which were not above half a mile ofi',
they were under a great disappointment; for there were not above
twelve or thirteen houses; and where the town was, or how big, they
knew not. They consulted, therefore, what to do, and were some time
before they could resolve; for, if they fell upon these they must cut
all their throats, and it was ten to- one but some of them might escape,
it being in the night, though the moon was up; and if one escaped, he
would run away, and raise all the town, so they should have a whole
army upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they went away, and
 

left those untouched (for the people were all asleep), they could not
tell which way to look for the town.

However, the last was the best advice; so they resolved to leave
those houses, and look for the town as well as they could. They went
on a little way, and found a cow tied to a. tree; this they presently
conchnled would be a good guide to them; for they said the cow cer~
tainly belonged to the town before them, or the town behind them, and
if they untied her, they should see which way she went: if she went
hack, they had nothing to say to her, but if she went forward, they
had nothing to do but to follow her; so they cut the cord, which was
made of twisted flags, and the cow went on before them. In a word,
the cow led them directly to the town, which, as they reported, con-
sisted of above two hundred houses, or huts; and in some of these
they found several families living together.

Here they fomnl all silent; as profoundly secure as sleep and a
country that had never seen an enemy of that kind could make them.
Upon this, they called another council, to consider what they had to
do, and, in a word, they resolved to divide themselves into three
bodies, and to set three houses on fire in three parts of the town; and
as the men came out, to seize them and bind them; if any resisted,
they need not be asked what to do then, and so to search the rest of
the houses for plunder; but resolved to march silently first through
the town, and see what dimensions it was of, and consider if they
might venture upon it or no.

They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture upon
them; but while they were animating one another to the work; three
of them that were a little before the rest called out aloud, and told
them they had found Thomas Jefl'rys; they all ran up to the place,
and so it was, indeed, for there they found the poor fellow hanged up
naked by one arm, and his throat cut. There was an Indian house
just by the tree, where they found sixteen or seventeen of the princi-
pal Indians, who had been concerned in the fray with us before, and
two or three of them wounded with our shot; and our men found
they were awake, and talking one to another in that house, but knew
not their number.

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, a.
before, that they swore to one another they would be revenged, and
that not an Indian who came into their hands should have quarter;
and to work they went immediately, and yet not so madly as by the
rage and fury they were in might be expected. Their first cure was
to get something that would soon take fire; but, after a little search,
they found that would be to no purpose, for most of the houses were
 

low, and thatched with flags or rushes, of which the country is full,
so they presently made some wild-fire, as we call it, by wetting a little
powder in the palms of their hands; and in a quarter of an hour
they set the town on fire in four or five places, and particularly that
house where the Indians were not gone to bed. As soon as the fire
began to blaze, the poor, frighted creatures began to rush out to save
their lives, but met with their fate in the attempt, and especially at
the door, where they drove them back, the boatswain himself killing
one or two with his pole-axe: the house being large, and many in it,
he did not care to go in, but called for a hand-grenade, and threw it
among them, which at first frighted them; but when it burst, made
such havoc among them, that they cried out in a hideous manner.

In short, most of the Indians who were in the open part of the house,
were killed or hurt with the grenade, except two or three more, who
pressed to the door, which the boatswain and two more kept with the
bayonets in the muzzles of their pieces, and despatched all who came
that way. But there was another apartment in the house, where the
prince, or king, or whatsoever he was, and several others were; and
they kept in till the house, which was by this time all of a light flame,
fell in upon them, and they were smothered or burnt together.

Ail this while, they fired not a gun, because they would not waken the
people faster than they could master them; but the fire began to waken
them fast enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little together
in bodies; for the fire grew so raging, all the houses being made of
light combustible stufl', that they could hardly bear the street between
them, and their business was to follow the fire for the surer execution.
As fast as the fire either forced the people out of those houses which
were burning, or frighted them out of others, our people were ready
at their doors to knock them on the head, still calling and hallooing to
one another to remember Thomas Jefi'rys.

While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy, and espe-
cially when I saw the flames of the town, which, it being night, seemed
to be just by me.

My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men too, seeing
such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was, or
what danger I was in; especially hearing the guns too, for by this
time they began to use their firearms. A thousand thoughts oppressed
his mind concerning me and the supercargo, what should become of
us; and at last, though he could ill spare any more men, yet, not
knowing what exigencies we might be in, he takes another boat, and
with thirteen men and himself, comes on shore to me.

He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat with nowe"

' or nonmsox causes. _ 433

more than two men, for one had been left to keep the boat; and
though he was glad that we were well, yet he was in the same impa
tience with us to know what was doing, for the noise continued, and
the flame increased. I confess it was next to an impossibility for any
men in the world to restrain their curiosity of knowing what had
happened, or their concern for the safety of the men. ,In a word the
captain told me he would go and help his men, let what would come.
I argued with him, as I did before with the men, the safety of the
ship, and the danger of the voyage, the interest of the owners and
merchants, &c., and told him I would go, and the two men, and only
see if we could, at a distance, learn what was like to be the event, and
come back and tell him. ,-

It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest
before; he would go, he said, and he only wished he had left but ten
men in the ship, for he could not think of having his men lost for want
of help; he had rather, he said, lose the ship, the voyage, and his
life, and all; and so away went he.

Nor was I any more able to stay behind now than I was to persuade
them not to go before; so, in short, the captain ordered two men to
row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more from the ship, leav-
ing the long boat at an anchor; and that when they came back, six
men should keep the two boats, and six more come after us, so that he
left only sixteen men in the ship; for the whole ship's company con-
sisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were lost in the first quarrel
which brought this mischief on.

Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of the
ground we trod on, and being guided by the fire, we kept no path, but
went directly to the place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was
surprising to us before, the cries of the poor people were now quite
of another nature, and filled us with horror. I must confess I never
was at the sacking of a city, or at the taking of a town by storm; I '
have heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda in Ireland, and kill-
ing man, woman, and child; and I had read of Count Tilly sacking
the city of Magdebourg, and cutting the throats of twenty-two thou-
sand of both sexes; but I never had an idea of the thing itself before,
nor is it possible to describe it, or the horror which was upon our
minds at hearing it.

However, we went on, and at length came to the town, though there
was no entering the streets of it for the fire.

The first object that we met with was the ruins of a hut, or house,
or rather the ashes of it, for the house was consumed; {and just befdre

it plain now to be seen by the light of the fire, lily-four men' and thr'oo'
28 _ ' .
 

women killed, and, as we thought, one or two more lay in the heap
among the fire. In short, these were such instances of a rage alto-
gether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was human,
that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or, if
they were the authors of it, we thought that every one of them ought
to be put to the worst of deaths: but this was not all; we saw the fire
increased forward, and the cry went on, just as the fire went on, so
that we were in the utmost confusion. We advanced a little way fur-
ther, and beheld, to our astonishment, three wom'cn naked, crying in a
most dreadful manner, and flying as if they had indeed had wings, and
after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and
consternation, with three of our English butchers (for I can call them
no better) in the rear, who, when they could not overtake them, fired
in among them, and one that was killed by their shot fell down in our
sight: when the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and that
we would murder them as well as those that pursued them, they set
up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women, and two of them fell
down, as if already dead, with the fright.

My very soul shrank within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins,
when I saw this; and I believe had the three English sailors that pur-
sued them come on, I had made our men kill them all. However, we
took some ways to let the poor flying creatures know that we would
not hurt them, and immediately they came up to us, and kneeling
down, with their hands lifted up, made piteous lamentations to us to
save them, which we let them know we would do; whereupon they
kept all together in a huddle close behind us for protection. I left my
men drawn up together, and charged them to hurt nobody, but if pos-
sible to get at some of our people, and see what devil it was possessed
them, and what they intended to do; and, in a word, to command
them off, assuring them, that if they stayed till daylight, they would
have a hundred thousand men about their ears: I_say, I left them, and
went among those flying people, taking only two of our men with me;
and there was indeed a pitcou's spectacle among them: some of them
had their feet terribly burnt with trampling and running through the
tire, others their hands burnt; one of the women had fallen down in
the fire, and was almost burnt to death before she could get out again;
two or three of the men had cuts in their backs and thighs, from our
men pursuing, and another was shot through the body, and died while
I was there.

I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was, but I
could not understand one word they said, though by signs I perceived
that some of them knew not what was the occasion themselves. I was
 

 

so terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that _I could not

stay there, but went back to my own men: I told them my resolution,
and commanded them to follow me; when, in the very moment, came

four of our men, with the boatswain at their head, running over the
heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if
they wanted more people to massacre, when our men hallooed to them
as loud as they could halloo, and with much ado one of them made
them hear, so that they knew who we were, and came up to us.

As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo, like a shout of
triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come; and without hear-
ing to hear me, " Captain," says he, " noble captain, I am glad you
are come; we have not half done yet; villains! hell-hound dogs! I
will kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head. We
have sworn to spare none of them; we will root out the very name of
them from the earth."--And thus he ran on, out of breath too with
action, and would not give us leave to speak a word.

At last, raising my voice, that I might silence him a little, "Bar-
barous dog !" said I, " what are you doing? I wont have one creature
touched more upon pain of death. I charge you upon your life to
stop your hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this
minute."

" Why, sir," says he, " do you know what you do, or what they have
done? If you want a reason for what we have done, come hither ;"

and with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging upon a tree with
his throat cut.

CHAPTER X.

Difl'erence with my Nephew on account of the Crueltiee practised at Madagascar--
Five man lost on the Arabian Shore, 03' the Gulf of Persia--The Seaman refuse to
sail, if I continue on board, in consequence of which I am left on Share--Hake a
very advantageous trading Voyage in company with an English Merchant, and pur-
chase a Vessel, which, it turns out, the Crew had mutinied and run away with.

I commas I was urged then myself, and at another time _shou1dhave
been forward enough; but I thought they had carried theirqage too
far, and thought of Jacob's words to his sons Simeon find Levi,
" Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath,,SSor jg)": '
cruel." But I had now a new task upon my hands; for "'1'!!me
I osn-ied with me saw the sight as I had done, I had as mach'fiyfigtu
 

restrain them, as I should have had with the others; nay, my nephew
himself fell in with them, and told me, in their hearing, that he was
only concerned for fear of the men being overpowered; for as to the
people, he thought not one of them ought to live; for they had all
glntted themselves with the murder of the poor man, and that they
ought to be used like murderers. Upon these words away ran eight
of my men with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody
work; and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them, came
away pensive and sad, for I could not bear the sight, much less the
horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that fell into their
hands.

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two men.
and with these I walked back to the boats. It was a very great piece
of folly in me, I confess, to venture back as it were alone; for as it
began now to be almost day, and the alarm had run over the country,
there stood about forty men, armed with lances and bows, at the little
place where the twelve or thirteen houses stood, mentioned before, but
by accident I missed the place, and came directly to the sea-side; and
by the time I got to the sea-side it was broad day: immediately I took
the pinnace and went aboard, and sent her back to assist the men in
what might happen.

I observed, that about the time I came to the boat-side, the fire was
pretty well out, and the noise abated; but in about half an hour after
I got on board. I heard a volley of our men's firearms, and saw a
great smoke; this, as I understood afterwards, was our men falling
upon the forty men, who, as I said, stood at the few houses on the
way; of whom they killed sixteen or seventeen, and set all those
houses on fire, but did not meddle with the women or children.

By the time the men got to the shore again with the pinnace, our
men began to appear: they came dropping in some and some, not in
two bodies, and in form, as they went out, but all in heaps, straggling
here and there in such a manner that a small force of resolute men
might have cut them all elf.

But the dread of them was upon the whole country. The people
were amazed and surprised, and so frighted, that I believe a hundred
of them would have tied at the sight of but five of our men. Nor in
all this terrible action was there a man who made any considerable
defence; they were so surprised between the terror of the fire, and
the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that they'knew not which
way to turn themselves; for if they fled one way, they were met by
one party, if back again, by another; so that they were everywhere
knocked down. Nor did any one of our men receive the least hurt,
except one who strained his foot, and another had one of his hands
very much burnt.

I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and indeed with all.
the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as well for his acting
so out of his duty, as commander of the ship, and having the charge
of the voyage upon him, as in his prompting rather than cooling the
rage of his men in so bloody and cruel an enterprise. My nephew
answered me very respectfully, but told me that when he saw the body
of the poor seaman whom they had murdered in such a cruel and bar-
barous manner, he was not master of himself, neither could he govern
his passion; he owned he should not have done so, as he was com-
mander of the ship, but as he was a man, and nature moved him, he
could not bear it. As for the rest of the men, they were not subject
to me at all, and they knew it well enough, so they took no notice of
my dislike.

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it. Our
men differed in the account of the number they killed: some said one
thing, some another; but, according to the best of their accounts, put
all together, they killed and destroyed about a hundred and fifty
people, men, women, and children, and left not a house standing in the
town.

As for the poor fellow, Thomas Jefi'rys, as he was quite dead, for
his throat was so cut that his head was half off, it would do him no
service to bring him away; so they left him where they found him,
only took him down from the tree, where he was banged by one hand.

However just our men thought this action to be, I was against them
in it; and I always, after that time, told them God would blast the
voyage, for I looked upon the blood they shed that night to be murder
in them: for though it is true that they killed Thomas Jeffrys, yet it
was as true that Jefi'rys was the aggressor, had broken the truce, and
had violated or debauched a young woman of theirs, who came to our
camp innocently, and on the faith of their capitulation.

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on
be: 1rd. He said it was true that we seemed to break the truce, but
really had not, and that the war was begun the night before by the
natives themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men
without any just provocation; so that as we were in a capacity to
fight them, we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon
them in an extraordinary manner; that, though the poor man had
taken liberty with a wench, he ought not to have been murdered, and
that In such a villanous manner; and that they did nothing but what.
was inst and what the laws of God allowed to be done to II" ' . A. _ 1'
One would think this should have been enough to have warned us
against going on shore among heathens and barbarians; but it is im-
possible to make mankind wise but at their own experience; and their
experience seems to be always of most use to them when it is dearest
bought.

We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence to the
coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the
supercargo's design lay at the Bay of Bengal, where, if he missed of
the business outward bound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home.

The first disaster that befell us was in the Gulf of Persia, where fire
of our men, venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the Gulf, were
surrounded by the Arabs, and either all killed or carried away into
slavery; the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue them, and
had butjust time to get off their boat. I began to upbraid them with the
just retribution of Heaven in this case; but the boatswain very warmly
told me, he thought 1 went farther in my censures than I could show
any warrant for in Scripture, and referred to the thirteenth of St. Luke,
verse 4th, where our Saviour intimates, that those men on whom the
tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the Galileans: but that
which indeed put me to silence in this case was, that none of these five
men who were now lost were of the number of those who went on
shore to the massacre of Madagascar, (so I always called it, though our
men could not bear the word " massacre" with any patience); and in-
deed this last circumstance, as I have said, put me to silence for the
present.

But my frequent preaching to them'on this subject had worse conse-
quences than I expected; and the boatswain, who had been at the head of
the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told me he found that
I continually brought that afi'air upon the stage; that I made unjust
reflections upon it, and had used the men very ill on that account, and
himself in particular; that as I was but a passenger, and had no com-
mand in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were not obliged to
bear it; that they did not not know but I might have some ill design in
my head, and perhaps call them to an account for it when they came to
England; and that, therefore, unless I would resolve to have done with
it, and also not to concern myself further with him, or any of his afi'airs,
he would leave the ship, for he did not think it was safe to sail with me
among them.

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him.
that I did confess that I had all along opposed the massacre of Mada>>
gamer, for such I would always call it ; and that I had on all occasions
_______.__._--_------------------ ---

spoken. my mind freely about it, though not more upon him than any
of the rest; that as to my having no command in the ship, that was
true, nor did I exercise any authority, only took the liberty of speak
ing my mind in things which publicly concerned as all: as to what
concern I had in the voyage, that was none of his business; I was a
considerable owner of the ship, and in that claim I, conceived 1 had a
right to speak, even further than I had yet done, and would not be
accountable to him or any one else; and began to be a little warm with
him : he made but little reply to me at that time, and I thought that
atl'air had been over. We were at this time in the road to Bengal;
and being willing to see the place, I went on shore with the supercargo,
in the ship's boat, to divert myself; and towards evening was preparing
to go on board, when one of the men came to me, and told me, he would
not have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they had
orders not to carry me on board. Any one may guess whata surprise
I was in at so insolcnt a message; and I asked the man, who bade him
deliver that errand to me? He told me, the coxswain. I said no more
to the fellow, but bid him let them know he had delivered his message,
and that I had given him no answer to it.

I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him the
story, adding, what I presently foresaw, namely, that there would
certainly be amutiny in the ship ; and entreated him to go immediately
on board the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it:
but I might have spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken to
him on shore, the matter was efl'ected on board: the boatswain, the
gunner, the carpenter, and, in a word, all the inferior oflicers, as soon
as I was gone off in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck, and
desired to speak with the captain; and there the boatswain, making a
long harangue (for the fellow talked very well), and, repeating all he
had said to me, told the captain in a few words, that as I was now gone
peaceably on shore, they were loth to use any violence with me;

which, if I had not gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to '

oblige me to have gone. They therefore thought fit to tell him, thatas
they shipped themselves to serve in the ship, under his command, they
would perform it faithfully; but if I would not quit the ship, or the
captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no
further with him; and at that word ALL, he turned his face about
towards the mainmast, which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between
them, at which all the seamen being got together, they cried out,
" One and ALL! One and ALI. !" - .

My nephew, the captain, was aman of spirit, and of great pm -'

of mind; and though he was surprised, you may be sure, at the m1

  

.- I":
 

yet- he told them calmly he would consider of the matter, but that he
could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it: he used some
arguments with them, to show them the unreasonableness and injustice
of the thing, but it was all in vain; they swore, and shook hands
round, before his face, that they would go all on shore, unless he would
engage to them not to suffer me to come on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me,
and did not know how I might take it; so he began to talk cavalierly
to them; told them that I was a very considerable owner of the ship,
and that, in justice, he could not put me out of my own house; that
this was next door to serving me as the famous pirate Kid had done,
who made the mutiny in the ship, set the captain on shore in an unin-
habited island, and ran away with the ship; that let them go into what
ship they would, if ever they came to England again, it would cost
them dear; that the ship was mine, and that he. would not put me out
of it; and that he would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too,
than disoblige me so much; so they might do as they pleased. How-
ever, he would go on shore, and talk with me there, and invited the
boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might accommodate the
matter with me. _ .

But they all rejected the proposal; and said, they would have
nothing to do with me any more, neither on board nor on shore; and
if I came on board they would go on shore. " Well," said the cap-
tain, "if you are all of this mind, let me go on shore, and talk with
him :" so away he came to me with this account, a little after the mes-
sage had been brought to me from the coxswain. .

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess; for I was not
without apprehensions that they would confine him by violence, set sail,
and run away with the. ship; and then I had been stripped naked, in
a remote country, and nothing to help myself: in short, I had been in
a worse case than when I was all alone on the island.

But they had not come to that length, -it seems, to my great satis-
faction; and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and
how they had sworn, and shook hands, that they would one and all
leave the ship, if I was suffered to come on board, I told him he should
not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore; I only desired
he would take care and send Inc all my necessary things on shore, and
leave me a sufficient sum of money, and I would find my way to Eng-
land as well as I could.

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew; but there was no
way to help it, but to comply with it. So, in short, he went on board
the ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to theirimportunity, and had sent '2: his goods from on board the ship. '80
the matter was over in a very few hours; the men returned to their
duty, and I began to consider what course I shbuld steer.

I was now alone, in the remotest part of the world, as I think I may
call it, for I was near three thousand leagues, by sea, farther ofi' from
England than I was at my island; only, it is true, I might travel here
by land, over the Great Mogul's country to Surat; might go from
thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf of Persia, and from thence might
take the way of the caravans, over the deserts of Arabia, to Aleppo
and Scanderoon, and from thence by sea again to Italy, and so over
land into France; and this, put together, might be, at least, a full
diameter of the globe; but, if it were to be measured, I suppose it
would appear to be a great deal more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English
ships, which were coming to Bengal, l'rom Achin, on the island of Sn-
matra, and get passage on board them for England: but as I came
hither without any concern with the English East India Company, so
it would be difficult to go from hence without their license, unless with
great favour of the captains of the ships, or of the Company's factors;
and to both I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by contrarieties, to see
the ship set sail without me; a treatment, I think,'a,man in my cir-
cumstances scarce ever met with, except from pirates running away
with the ship, and setting those that would not agree with their villainy
on shore: indeed this was the next door to it both ways. However,
my nephew left me two servants, or rather, one companion and one
servant: the first was clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to go
with me; and the other was his own servant. I took me also a good
lodging in the house of an English woman, where several merchants
lodged, some French. two Italians, or rather Jews, and one English-
man. Here I was handsomely enough entertained; add that I might
not be said to run_ rashly upon any thing, I stayed here above nine
months, considering what course to take, and how to manage myself.
I had some English goods with me .of value, and a considerable sum
of money; my nephew furnishing me' with a thousand pieces of eight,
and a letter of credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might n'ot be
straitened, whatever might happen. '

I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage too'; and, as I
originally intended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which, of
all other things, were the most proper for me, in my circumstances,
because I might always oarry my whole estate about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my :93th

 

 

 

or nonmsowwp'auson. ' \ ' 44'! '

m .
England, but none falling to my mind, the English merchant, who
lodged with me, and with whom I had contracted an intimate acquaint-
ance, came to me one morning: "Countryman," says he, "I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts,
may, for aught I know, suit with yours also, when you shall have tho-
roughly considered it. '

" Here we are posted," says be, "you by accident, and I by my own
choice, in a part of the world very remote from my own country; but
it is in a country where, by us who understand trade and business, a
great deal of money is to be get: if you will put a thousand pounds
to my thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first we can get
to our minds; you shall be captain, I'll be merchant, and we will go a
trading voyage to China; for what should we stand still for? The
whole world is in motion, rolling round and round; all the creatures
of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, are busy and diligent: why
should we be idle? There are no drones," says he, "living in the
world but men: why should we be of that number?"

I liked this proposal very well ; and the more because it seemed to be
expressed with so much good-will,.and in so friendly a manner. I will
not say, but that I might, by my loose and unhinged circumstances, be
the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, and indeed for any thing else;
or otherwise trade was none of my element; however, I might, per-
haps, say with some truth, that if trade was not my element, rambling
was; and no proposal for seeing any part of the world, which I had
never seen before, could possibly come amiss to me.

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our mind;
and when we got a vessel, it was not easy to get English sailors; that
is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the voyage, and manage
the sailors which we should pick up there. After some time we got a
mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and
three Portuguese foremost-men: with these we found we could do well
enough, having Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up.

There are so many travellers who have written the history of their
voyages and travels this way, that it would be but very little diversion
to anybody, to give a long account of the places we went to, and the
people who inhabit there: those things I leave to others, and refer the
reader to those journals and travels of Englishmen, many of which, 1
find, are published, and more promised every day. It is enough for
me to tell you that we made the voyage to Achin, in the island of Su-
matra, first; and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of
our wares for opium, and some for arrack; the first, a commodity which
bears a great price among the Chinese, and which, at that time, we-
 

 

very much wanted there: in a word, we went up to Susham, made a
very great voyage, Were eight months out, and returned to Bengal; and
I was very well satisfied with my adventure.

I observe, that our people in England often admire how the ofiicers
which the Company send into India, and the merchants which generally
stay there, get such very good estates as they do, and sometimes come
home worth sixty, seventy, and a hundred thousand pounds at a time.
But it is no wonder, or, at least, we shall see so much further into it,
when we consider the innumerable ports and places where they have a
free commerce, that it will then be no wonder; and much less will it
be so, when we consider, that at all those places and ports where the,
English ships come, there is so much, and such constant demand for
the growth of all other countries, that there is a certain vent for the
return, as well as a market abroad for the goods carried out.

In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money by
the first adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting
more, that, had I been twenty years younger, I should have been
tempted to have stayed here, and sought no farther for making my for-
tune: but what was all this to a man on the wrong side of threescore,
that was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a restless
desire of seeing the world, than a covetous desire of getting in it?
And indeed I think it is with great justice that I new call it a restless
desire, for it was so: when I was at home, I was restless to go abroad;
and now I was abroad, I was restless to be at home. I say, what was
this gain to me? I was rich enough already; nor .had I any uneasy
desires about getting more money; and therefore, the profits of the
voyage were things of no great force to me, for the prompting me for-
ward to farther undertakings; hence I thought, that by this voyage; I
had made no progress at all; because I was come back, as I might call
it, to the place from whence I came, as to a home; whereas my eye,
which, like that which Solomon speaks of, was never satisfied with see-
ing--was still more desirous of wandering and seeing. I was come
into a part of 'the world which I never was in before; and that part in
particular, which I had heard much of; and was resolved to see as
much of it as I could; and then I thought I might say I had seen all
the world that was worth seeing.

But my fellow-traveller and I had difi'erent notions: I do not name
this to insist upon my own, for I acknowledge his was most just, and
the most suited to the end of a merchant's life; who, when he is abroad
upon adventures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best thing
for him, which he is like to get the most money by. My new friend
kep' himself to the nature of the thing, and would have been content
 

to have gone, like a carrier's horse, always to the same inn, backward
and forward, provided he could, as he called it, find his account in it:
on the other hand, mine, as old as I was, was the notion of a mad ram-
bling boy, that never cares 'to see a thing twice over.

But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to be
nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable which
way to go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who was
always on the search for business, proposed another voyage to me,
namely, among the Spice Islands; and to bring home a load of cloves
from the Manillas, or thereabouts; places where, indeed, the Dutch do
trade, but the islands belong partly to the Spaniards; though we went
not so far, but to some other, where they have not the whole power, as
they have at Batavia, Ceylon, Ste. We were not long in preparing for
this voyage; the chief difficulty was in bringing me to come into it:
however, at last, nothing else offering, and finding that really stirring
about and trading, the profit being so great, and, as I may say, certain,
had more pleasure in it, and more satisfaction to the mind, than sitting
still, which, to me especially, was the unhappiest part of life, I resolved
on this voyage too; which we made very successfully, touching at
Borneo, and several islands, whose names I do not remember, and
came home in about five months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly
cloves, and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away for the Gulf; and, making new fire of one, we really got a great
deal of money.

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me: "Well,
now," said he, with a sort of an agreeable insult upon my indolent
temper, "is not this better than walking about here, like a man of
nothing to do, and spending our time in staring at the nonsense and
ignorance of the Pagans ?"--" Why truly," said I, " my friend, I think
it is; and I begin to be a convert to the principles of merchandising.
But I must tell you," said I, " by the way, you do not know what I am
doing; for if once I conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily,
as old as I am, I shall harass you up and down the world till I tire
you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly I shall never let you lie still."

But to be short with my speculations :'a little while after this there
came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not a European
trader, and of about two hundred tons burden: the men, as they pre-
tended, having been so sickly that the captain had not men enough to go
to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and, as if having got money enough,
or being willing, for other reasons, to go for Europe, he gave public
notice that he would sell his ship: this maze to my ears before my new
partner heard of it; and I had a great mind to buy it. So Iwen. :ka" -7 .. n, vs" T.

0? ROBINSON 0311508; 445

 

home to him, and told him of it; he considered a while, for he was no
rush man neither: but musing some time, he replied, " She is a little
too big; but, however, we will have her." Accordingly, we bought
the ship; and agreeing with the master, we paid for her, and took
possession; when we had done so, we resolved to entertain the men, if
we could, to join them with those we had, for the pursuing our busi-
ness; but, on a sudden, they not having received their wages, but their
share of the money, as we afterwards learned, not one of them was to
he found. We inquired much about them, and at length were told,
that they were all gone together, by land, to Agra, the great city of
the Mogul's residence; and from thence were to travel to Surat, and so
by sea to the Gulf of Persia.

Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, as that I missed
the opportunity of going with them; for such a. ramble, I thought, and
in such company as would both have guarded me and diverted me,
would have suited mightily with my great design; and I should both
have seen the world, and gone homewards too; but I was much better
satisfied a few days after, when I came to know what sort of fellows
they were; for, in short, their history was, that this man they called
captain was the gunner only, not the commander: that they had been
a trading voyage, in which they were attacked on shore by some of the
Malaccans, who had killed the captain and three of his men; and that
after the captain was killed, these men, eleven in number, had resolved .
to run away with the ship, which they did; and had brought her in at
the Bay of Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore; of
whom we shall bear further.

Well; let them come by the ship how they would, we came honestly
by her, as we thought; though we did not, I confess, examine into
things so exactly as we ought; for we never inquired any thing of the
seamen, who, if we had examined, would certainly have faltered in their
accounts, contradicted one another, andperhaps have contradicted them-
selves: or, one how or other, we should have seen reason to have
suspected them; but the man showed us a bill of sale for the ship to
one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such name (for I suppose it was
all a forgery), and called himself by that name: and we could not con-
tradict him; and being withal a little too unwary, or at least having
no suspicion of the thing, we went through with our bargain.
 

CHAPTER XI.

Make a trading Voyage in this Ship--Put into the River Cambodia--Am warned of
my Danger by a Countrymsn, in consequence of which we set sail. and are pursued
---Great difficulty in making our Escape.

l

Hownvnn, we picked up some English seamen here after this, and
some Dutch; and we now resolved for a second voyage to the south-
east, for cloves, &c. that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucca
isles; and, in short, not to fill this part of my story with trifles, when '
what is yet to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first to last, six
years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and forward,
and with very good success ; and was now the last year with my part-
ner, going in the ship above mentioned, on a voyage to China: but
designing first to go to Siam, to buy rice.

In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and down
a great while in the Straits of Malacca, and among the islands, we
were no sooner got clear of those difiicult seas, but we found our ship
had sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all our industry, to find
out where it was. This forced us to make for some port; and my part-
ner, who knew the country better than I did, directed the captain to
put into the river of Cambodia; for I had made the English mate, one
Mr. Thompson, captain, not being willing to take- the charge of the
ship upon myself. This river lies on the north side of the great bay
or gulf which goes up to Siam.

While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshments, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, a gunner's
mate on board an English East India ship, which rode in the same river,
up at, or near the city of Cambodia: what broughthim hither we knew
not; but he comes up to me, and, speaking English, " Sir," says he,
"you are a stranger to me, and I to you; but I have something to
tell you, that very nearly concerns you.'

I looked steadfadtly at him a good while, and he thought at first I
had known him, butI did not. " If it very nearly concerns me,' 'said
I, " and not yourself, what moves you to tell it me."--"I am moved,"
says he, by the imminent danger you are in; and for ought I see, you
have no knowledge of it." --" I know no danger I am in," said I, " but
that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out; but I propose to lay her
aground tomorrow, to see if I can find it."--" But, sir," says he, "leaky- <v- r). .(WY

0? ROBINSON CRUSOE. "7

or not leaky, find it or not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your
ship on shore to-morrow, when you hear what' I have to say to you."--
"Do you know, sir," said he, "the town of Cambodia lies about fifteen
leagues up this river? And there are two large English ships about
five leagues on this side, and three Dutch."--" Well," said I, " and
what is that to me ?"--" Why, sir," says he, "is it for a man that is upon
such adventures as you are, to come into a port, and not examine first
what ships there are there, and whether he is able to deal with them?
[ suppose you do not think you are a match for them ?"--I was amused
very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it; for I could not con-
ceive what he meant; and I turned short upon him and said, " Sir, I
wish you would explain yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I have
' to be afraid of any of the Company's ships, or Dutch ships; I am no
interloper; what can they have to say to me '3"

He looked like a man half angry, half pleased; pausing a while,
but smiling, " Well, sir," says he, "if you think yourself secure, you
must take your chance; I am sorry your fate should blind you against
good advice ; but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea immediately,
you will the very next tide be attacked by five long-boats full of men;
and, perhaps, if you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the
particulars be examined into afterwards. I thought, sir," added he,
_" I should have met with a better reception than this, for doing you a
piece of service of such importance."--" I can never be ungrateful,"
said I, " for any service, or to any man that offers me any kindness;
but it is past my comprehension," said I, " what they should have such
a design upon me for: however,'since you say there is no time to be

lost, and that there is some villanons design in handmgainst me, I '

will go on board this minute, and put to sea immediately, if my men
can stop the leak, or if we can swim without stopping it: but, sir,"

said I, " shall I go away ignorant of the reason of all this? Can you .

give me no further light into it ?"

"I can tell you but part of the story, sir," says he; " but I have a-

Dutch seamen here with me, and, I believe, I could persuade him to
tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it: but the short of the
story is this, the first part of which, I suppose, you know well enough,
namely, that you were with this ship at Sumatra; that there your
captain was murdered by the Malaccans, with three of his men; and
that you, or some of those that were on board with you, ran away
with the ship, and are since turned rmA'rss. This is the sum of the
story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure you, and'iexe-
outed with very little ceremony; for you know merchant ships show
but little>> law to pirates, if they get them in their power," . . . a

a
___--_--__.-----------------'-----

"Now you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank you; and
though I know nothing that we have done, like what you talk of, but
I am sure we came honestly and fairly by the ship; yet seeing such
work is mdoing, as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly,.I
will be upon my guard."--"Nay, sir," says he, "do not talk of being
upon your guard; the best defence is to be out of the danger: if you
have any regard to your life, and the lives of all your men, put out to
sea without fail at high water; and as you have a whole tide before
you, you will be gone too far out before they can come down; fox
they will come away at high water; and as they have twenty miles to
come, you'll get near two hours of them by the difi'ereuce of the tide,
not reckoning the length of the way: besides, as they are only boats,
and not ships, they will not venture to follow you far out to- sea, espe-
cially if it blows."

"Well," said I, "you have been very kind in this: what shall I do
for you, to make you amends ?"--"Sir," says he, "you may not be so
willing to make me amends, because you may not be convinced of the
truth of it: I will make an offer to you; I have nineteen months' pay
due to me on board the ship , which I came out of England in,
and the Dutchman, that is with me, has seven months' pay due to
him; if you will make good our pay to us, we will go along with you:
if you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we do
convince you that we have saved your life, and the ship, and the lives
of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you."

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and the
two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my partner,
who was on board, came on the quarter-deck, and called to me with a
great deal of joy, " Oh he! 0 ho! we have stopped the leak !"--"Say
you so?" said I, "thank God; but weigh the anchor, then, immedi-
ately."--" Weigh !" says he, "what do you mean by that? What is
the matter?" says he.--" Ask no questions," said I, "but all hands to
work, and weigh without losing a minute." He was surprised: but,
however, he called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor
to be got up, and, though the tide was not quite done, yet a little land
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea; then I called him into the cabin,
and told him the story at large; and we called in the men, and they
told us the rest of it: but as it took us up a great deal of time, so
before we had done, a seaman comes to the cabin door, and calls out
to us, that the captain bade him tell us we were chased--"Chased !"
said I, "by whom, and by what ?"--" By five sleeps, or boats," said
the fellow, "full of men."--"Very well," said I, "then it is apparent
there is something in it." In the next place, I ordered all our men'-y;q~):r1-.. s' "was" . _ , A"

0? ROBINSON 0311803. '

 

 

to he called up, and told them that there was a design to seize the ship
and to take us for pirates; and asked them, if they would stand by
us, and by one another? The men answered cheerfully, one and all,
that they would live and die with us. Then I asked the captain, what
way he thought best for us to manage a fight with them, for resist
them I resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said, readily,
that the way was to keep them ofi' with our great shot as long as we'
could, and then to fire at them with our small arms, to keep them from
boarding us; but when neither of these would do any longer, we
should retire to our close quarters--perhaps they had not materials to .,
break open our bulk- heads, or get in upon us. '-

The gunner had, in the mean time, orders to bring two guns to bear '
fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and load them 11
with musket bullets and small pieces of old iron, and what next came "
to hand; and thus we made ready for fight, but all this while kept out
to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats at a distance, being
five large long-boats, following us, with all the sail they could make.

Two of these boats, which, by our glasses, we could see were English,
had outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead- of them, and
gained upon us considerably, so that we found they would come up
with us; upon which we fired a gun without a shot, to intimate that
they should bring to, and we put out a flag of truce as a signal for -
parley, but they kept crowding after us till they came within shot.
Upon this we took in our white flag, they having made no answer to
it, hung out the red flag, and fired at them with shot: notwithstanding
this, they came on till they were near enough to call to them with a
speaking trumpet, which we had on board; so we called to them, and
bade them keep ofl' at their peril.

It was all one: they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come
under our stern, so to board us on our quarter: upon which, seeing
they were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the strength that
followed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon
our broadside, when immediately we fired five guns at them: one of
them had been levelled so true as to carry away the stern of the hind- i
ermost boat, and bring them to the necessity of taking down their sail,
and running all to the head of the boat to keep her from sinking, so , 3?:

"i

 

 

she lay by, and had enough of it; but seeing the foremost boat still
crowd on after us, we made ready to fire at her in particular. , _

While this was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, being - ".-
forwarder than the other two, made up to the boat which we had diso.
abled to relieve her, and we could afterwards see her take mafia m;

we called again to the foremost boat, and oifered a true to purity
29.88
 

 

 

again, and to know what was her business with us; but had no answer,
only she crowded close under our stern. Upon this our gunner, who
was a very dexterous fellow, ran out his two chase guns, and fired at
her, but the shot missing, the men in the boat shouted, waved their
caps, and came on; but the gunner, getting quickly ready again, fired
among them a second time, one shot of which, though it missed the
boat itself, yet fell in among the men, and, we could easily see, had
done a great deal of mischief among them; but we, taking no notice
of that, weared the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear upon
them, and firing three guns more, we found the boat was split almost
to pieces; in particular, her rudder, and a piece of her stern, were
shot quite away, so they handed their sail immediately, and were in
great disorder: but, to complete their misfortune, our gunner let fly
two guns at them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but we
found the boat was sinking, and some of the men already in the water.
Upon this I immediately manned out our pinnace, which we had kept '
close by our side, with orders to pick up some_of the men, if they
could, and save them from drowning, and immediately to come on
board with them, because we saw the rest of the boats began to come
up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up three
men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while before
we could recover him. As soon as they were on board, we crowded
all the sail we could make and stood further out to sea; and we found,
that when the other three boats came up to the first two, they gave
over their chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger, which though I knew not the
reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I apprehended, I
took care that we should change our course, and not let any one ima-
gine'whither we were going; so we stood out to sea eastward, quite
out of the course of all European ships, whether they were bound to
China," or anywhere else within the commerce of the European
nations.

When we were now at sea, we began to consult with the two seamen,
and inquire, first, what the meaning of all this should be? The Dutch-
man let us into the secret of it at once, telling us, that the fellow that
sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief that had run
away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose name too he
mentioned, though I do not remember it now, was treacherously mur-
dered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his men;
and that be, this Dutchman, and four more, got into the woods, where
they wandered about a great while; till at length he, in particular, in
a miraculous manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship,
 

which sailing near the shore, in its way from China, had sent their
boat on shore for fresh water; that he dnrst not come to that part of
the shore where the boat was, but made shift in the night to take in
the water further 05, and swimming a great while, at last the ship's
boat took him up.

He then told us, that he went to Batavia, where two of the seamen
belonging to the ship had arrived, having deserted the rest in their
travels; and gave an account, that the fellow who had run away with
the ship, sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a
cruizing in her; and that they had already taken an English ship, and
two Dutch ships, very richly laden.

This latter part we found to concern us directly; and though we
knew it to be false, yet, as my partner said very well, if we had fallen
into their hands, and they had such a prepossessioh against us before-
hand, it had been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or to hope
for any good quarters at their hands; especially considering that our
accusers had been our judges, and that we could have expected no-
thing from them but what rage would have dictated, and ungoverned
passion have executed; and, therefore, it was his opinion, we should
go directly back to Bengal, from whence we came, without putting in
at any port whatever; because there we could give an "count of our-
selves, and could prove where we were when the shipw'fi', whom we
bought her of, and the like; and, which was more thdii all the rest,
if we were put to the necessity of bringing it before the proper judges,
we should be sure to have some justice; and not be hanged first and
judged afterwards.

I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more
serious thinking, I told him, I thought it was a very great hazard for
us to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side
of the Straits of Malacca; and that if the alarm was given, we should
be sure to be waylaid on every side, as well by the Dutch of Batavia
as the English elsewhere; that if we should be taken, as it were, run-
ning away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there would want
no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English sailor's
opinion, who said, he was of my mind, and that we should certainly be
taken.

This danger a little startled my partner, and all the ship's com-
pany; and we immediately resolved to go away to the coast of Toni

quin, and so on to China; and from thence, pursuing the first design, .
as to trade, find some way or other to dispose of the ship,. and comb:
back in some of the vessels of the country, such as we could get.' a"

This was approved of, as the best method for our security; and accord-

a

 

 

it
'81?
. ,_,._
452 um ms AND snvsuruass'

 

ingly we steered away north-northeast, keeping above fifty leagues
off from the usual course to the eastward.

This, however, put us to some inconveniences; for first, the winds,
when we came to that distance from the shore, seemed to he more
steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the east
and east-north-east; so that we were a long while upon our voyage,
and we were but ill provided with victuals for so long a run; and,
which was still worse, there was some danger that those English and
Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us, whereof some were bound that
way, might be got in before us; and if not, some other ship bound to
China might have information of us from them, and pursue us with
the same vigour.

I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, includ-
ing the late escape'from the long-boats, to have been in the most dan-
gerous condition that ever I was in through all my past life; for,
whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for a
thief before; nor had I ever done any thing that merited the name
of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thierish. I had chiefly been
mine own enemy; or, as I might rightly say, I had been nobody's
enemy but my own. But now I was embarrassed in the worst condi-
tion imaginable; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no
condition to make that innocence appear; and if I had been taken, it
had been under a supposed guilt of the worst kind; at least, a crime
esteemed so among the people I had to do with.

This made me very anxious to make an escape, though which way
to do it I knew not; or what port or place we should go to. My
partner, seeing me thus dejected, though he was the most concerned
at first, began to encourage me; and describing to me the several
ports of that coast, told me he would put in on the coast of Cochin-
China, or the bay of Tonquin; intending to go afterwards to Macao,
a town once in the possession of the Portuguese, and where still a
great many European families resided, and particularlyithe missionary
priests usually went thither, in order to their going forward to China.

llither we then resolved to go; and accordingly, though after a
tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for provisions,
we came within sight of the coast very early in the morning; and
upon reflection upon the past circumstances we were in, and the dan-
ger, if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into a small river,
which, however, had depth enough of water for us, and to see if we
could, either overland, or by the ship's pinnace, come to know what
ships were in any port therenbouts. This happy step was, indeed, our
deliverance; for though we did not immediately see any European
 

 

ships in the bay of Tonquin, yet themext morning there came into the
bay two Dutch ships; and a third without any colours spread out, but
which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at about two leagues
distance, steering for the coast of China; and in the afternoon went
by two English ships, steering the same course; and thus we thought
we saw ourselves beset with enemies, both one way and the other.
The place we were in was wild and barbarous, the people thieves, even
by occupation or profession; and though, it is true, we had not much
to seek of them, and, except getting a few provisions, cared not how
little we had to do with them, yet it was with much difieulty that we
kept ourselves frOm being insulted by them several ways,

 

CHAPTER XII.

Obliged to come to anchor on a Savage Coast, to repair our Ship--We are attacked by
the Natives, whom our Carpenter disperses by a whimsical Contrivsnce--Serlous
Reflections upon our disagreeable Situation.

WE were in a small river of this country, within a few leagues of its
utmost limits northward, and by our boat we coasted north-east to the
point of land which opens to the great bay of Tonquin: and it was in
this beating up along the shore that we discovered as above, that, in a
word, we were surrounded with enemies. The people we were among
were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the coast; having
no correspondence with any other nation, and dealing only in fish and
oil, and such gross commodities; and it may be particularly seen that
they are, as I said, the most barbarous of any of ,the inhabitants,
namely, that among other customs they have this one, that if any
vessel had the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their coast, they
presently make the men all prisoners; that is to say, slaves; and it
was not long before we found a spice of their kindness this way, .on
the occasion following :--

I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea, and that
we could not find it out; and however it happened, that, as I have
said, it was stopped unexpectedly, in the happy minute of our being
to be seized by the Dutch and English ships, near the bay of Siam ,
yet, as we did not find the ship so perfectly tight and sound sswe
desired, we resolved, while we were in this place, to lay her on shore,
'. take out what heavy things we had on board, which were not mm.

1
.1
 

 

and to wash and clean her bottom, and if possible to find out where
the leaks were.

Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns,
and other movable things, to one side, we tried to bring her down, that
we might come at her bottom; for, on second thoughts, we did not care
to lay her dry aground, neither could we find out a proper place for it.

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight,
came wondering down to the shore to look at us; and seeing the ship
lie down on one side in such a manner, and heeling towards the shore,
and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom with stages,
and with their boats on the off side, they presently concluded that the
ship was cast away, and lay so very fast on the ground.

On this supposition, they came all about us in two or three hours'
time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of them eight, some
ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on board and
plunder the ship; and if they had found us there, to have carried us
away for slaves to their king, or whatever they call him, for we knew
not who was their governor.

When they came up to the ship, and began to row round her, they
discovered us all hard at work, on the outside of the ship's bottom
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring man
knows how.

They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who were a little sur-
prised, could not imagine what their design was; but being willing to
be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and
others to hand down arms and ammunition to those that were at work,
to defend themselves with, if there should be occasion; and it was no
more than need, for in less than a quarter of an hour's consultation,
they agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck; that we were
all at work endeavouring to save her, or to save our lives by the help
of our boats; and when we handed our arms into the boats, they con-
cluded by that motion that we were endeavouring to save some of our
goods. Upon this, they took it for granted they all belonged to them,
and away they came directly upon our men, as if it had been in a line
of battle.

Our men seeing so many of them, began to be frighted, for we lay
but in an ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know what they
should do? I immediately called to the men who worked upon the
stages, to slip them down, and get up the side into the ship, and bade
those in the boat to row round and come on board; and those few of
us who were on board, worked with all the strength and hands we had.
to brie" the ship to rights; but, however, neither the men upon the .'.3. i-"-'{'Y="""v' .

 

,OF ROBINSON 031160].

stage, nor those in the boats, could do as they were ordered, before
the Cochin-Chinese were upon them, and with two of their boats,

boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.

The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman, a stout,
strong fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, never offered to fire
it, but laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought. But he
understood his business better than I could teach him; for he grappled
the .Pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their own boat into
ours, where, taking him by the two ears, he beat his head so against
the boat's gunnel, that the fellow died instantly in his hands; and, in
the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the musket, and,
with the butt~end of it, so laid about him, that he knocked down five
of them who attempted to enter the boat. But this was little towards
resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless, because ignorant of their
danger, began to throw themselves into the long-boat, where we had
but five men to defend it. But one accident gave our men a complete
victory, which deserved our laughter rather than any thing else, and
that was this :--

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as well
as to pay the seams where he had caulked her to stop the leaks, had
got two kettles just let down into the boat; one filled with boiling
pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such stufi' as the
shipwrights used for that work; and the man that tended the carpenter
had a great iron ladle in his hand, with which be supplied the men that
were at work with that hot stufi' : two of the enemy's men entered the
boat just where this fellow stood, being in the foresheets; he imme-
diately saluted them with a ladleful of the stuff, boiling hot, which so
burnt and scalded them, being half naked, that they roared out like
two bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea. The car-
penter saw it, and cried out, " Well done, Jack, give them some more
of it ;" when stepping forward himself, he takes one of their mops, and
dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among them so
plentifully, that, in short, of all the men in three boats, there was not
one that was not soalded and burnt with it in a most frightful, pitiful
manner, and made such a bowling and crying, that I never heard a
worse noise, and, indeed, nothing like it; for it was worth observing,
that though pain naturally makes all people cry out, yet every nation
have a particular way of exclamation, and make noises as difi'ereut from
one another as their speech. I cannot give the noise these creatures
made,a better name than howling, nor a name more proper to the tone
of it' for I never heard any thing more like the noise of the wolves.'I'Annnm Tun HLAGRO.
which, as I have said, I heard bowl in the forest on the frontiers of
Languedoe.

I was never pleased with a victory better in my life; not only as it
was a. perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent before;
but as we got this victory without 'any bloodshed, except of that man
the fellow killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much
concerned at; for I was sick of killing such poor savage wretches,
even though it was in my own defence, knowing they came on errands
which they thought just, and knew no better; and that though it may
be a just thing, because necessary, for there is no necessary wickedness
in nature; yet I thought it was a sad life, when we must be always
obliged to be killing our fellmr-creatures to preserve ourselves; and,
indeed, I think so still; and I would, even now, suffer a great deal,
rather than I would take away the life even of the worst person injur-
ing me. I believe also, all considering people, who know the value of
life, would be of my opinion, if they entered seriously into the con-
sideration of it.

But to return to my story. All the while this was doing, my partner
aml I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had, with great

 

dexterity, brought the ship almost to rights; and, having gotten the i '

guns in their places again, the gunner called to me to bid our boat get
out of the way, for he would let fly among them. I called back again
to him, and bid him not offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the
work without him; but bade him heat another pitch-kettle, which our
cook, who was on board, took care of. But the enemy was so terrified
with what they met with in their first attack, that they would not come
on aga'n; and some of them that were furthest off, seeing the ship
swim, do it were, upright, began, as we supposed, to see their mistake,
and gave over the enterprise, finding it was not as they expected.
Thus we got clear of this merry fight; and having gotten some rice.
and some roots and bread, with about sixteen good big hogs on board,
two days before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go forward,
whatcVer came of it; for we made no doubt but we should be sur-

 

rounded next day with rogues enough,--perhaps more than our pitch- , .,

kettle would dispose of for us. .
We, therefore, got all our things on board the same evening, and the
next morning were ready to sail. In the meantime, lying at an anchor
some distance from the shore, we were not so much concerned, being
now in a fighting posture as well as in a sailing posture, if any enemy
had presented. The next day, having finished our work within board,
and finding our ship was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail.
We would have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to inform

\
 

ourselves of what was tobe known concerning the Dutch ships that had
been there; but we durst not stand in there, because we had seen
several ships go in, as we supposed, but a little before; so we kept on
north-east, towards the isle of Formoso, as much afraid of being seen
by a Dutch or English merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant
ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine man-of-war.

When we were thus got to sea, we kept on north-east, as if we
would go to the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this we did, that
we might not fall into the way of any of the European ships; and
then we steered north again, till ive came to the latitude of twenty-two
degrees twenty minutes, by which means we made the island of F or--
moso directly, where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very courteous and .
civil in their manners, supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly
and punctually with us in all their agreements and bargains, which is
what we (lid not find among other people, and may be owing to the re-
mains of Christianity, which was once planted here by a Dutch mission
of Protestants, and is a testimony of what I have often observed,,
namely, that the Christian religion always civilizes the people, and
reforms their manners, where it is received, whether it works saving
effects upon them or not.

From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at an
equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of China
where, our European ships usually come; but being resolved, if possi-
ble, not to fall into any of their hands, especially in this country,
where as our circumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely
ruined; nay, so great was my fear in particular, as to my being taken
by them, that I believe firmly I would much rather have chosen to fall
into the hands of the Spanish Inquisition.

living nnw come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved to put
into the first trading port we should come at; and, standing in for the
shore, a boat came ofi' two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot
on board. who, knowing us to be a European ship, came to offer his
service, which. indeed, we were very glad of, and took him on board;
upon which, without asking us whither we would go, he dismissed the
beat he came in, and sent it back.

'I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man
carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him about carrying us
tothe Gulf of Nanquin, which is the most northern part of the coast
of China. The old man said he knew the Gulf of Nanquin very well;
but, smiling, asked us what we would do there?

,, 1 told him w' would sell our cargo, and purchase China wares,
 

calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c. and so would return by the
same course we came. He told us our best port had been to have put
in at Macao, where we could not fail of a market for our opium to our
satisfaction, and might, for our money, have purchased all sorts of
China goods as cheap as we could at Nanquin.

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he was
very opinionated, or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as well
as merchants, and that we had a mind to go and see the great city of
Pekin, and the famous court of the monarch of China. " Why, then,"
says the old man, "you should go to Ningpo, where, by the river that
runs into the sea there, you may go up within five leagues of the great
canal."--This canal is a navigable made stream, which goes through
the heart of all that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers, passes
some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates, and goes up '-
to the city of Pekin, being in length near two hundred and seventy
leagues.

" Well," said I, " Seignior t'ortuguese, but that is not our business
now; the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of Nan-
quin, from whence we can travel to Pekin afterwards ?"--"Yes," he
said, "he could do so very well; and there was a great Dutch ship'
gone up that way just before." This gave me a little shock; a Dutch-
ship was now our terror, and we had much rather have met the devil,
at least, if he had not come in too frightful a figure. We depended
upon it that a Dutch ship would be our destruction, for we were in no
condition to fight them; all the ships they trade with in those parts
being of great burden, and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern,
when he named a Dutch ship; and said to me, " Sir, you need be under _
no apprehension of the Dutch; I suppose they are not now at war with
your nation."--" No," said I, " that's true; but I know not what lib-
erties men may take when they are out of the reach of the laws of
their country."--" Why," said he, " you are no pirates; what need you
fear? They will not meddle with peaceable merchants, sure."

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at
that word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels appointed by
nature to circulate it; for it put me into the greatest disorder and con-
fusion imaginable; nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but that

the old man easily perceived it. #5?
" Sir," said he, "I find you are in some disorder in your thoug' L

at my talk; pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, and-do-

peml upon it, I'll do you all the service I can."--"Why, seignior,".

said I, "it is true I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this time. '

,.
460 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

whither to go in partibular; and I am something more so for what you
said about pirates. I hope there are no pirates in these seas;' we are
but in ill condition to meet with them; for you see we have but a small
force, and but very weakly manned."

" 0 sir," said he, " do not be concerned; I do not know that there
have been any pirates in these seas these fifteen years, except one,
which was seen, as I hear. in the bay of Siam, about a month since;
but you may be assured she is gone to the southward; nor was she a
ship of any great force, or fit for the work; she was not built for a
privateer, but was run away with by a reprobate crew that were on
board, after the captain and some of his men had been murdered by
the Malaccans, at or near the island of Sumatra."

"What!" said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, " did they
murder the captain ?"----"No," said he, "I do not understand that
they murdered him ; but as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it
is generally believed they betrayed him into the hands of the Malac-
cans, who did murder him; and, perhaps, they procured them to do it."
--" Why then," said I, "they deserved death as much as if they had
done it themselves."--"Nay," said the old man, "they do deserve it,
and they will certainly have it if they light upon any English or Dutch
ship; for they have all agreed together, that if they meet that rogue,
they will give him no quarter."

"But," said I to him, "you say the pirate is gone out of these seas;
how can they meet with him then ?"--" Vhy, that is true," said he,
"they do say so; but he was, as I tell you, in' the bay of Siam, in the
river Cambodia, and was discovered there by some Dutchmen who be-
longed to the ship, and who were left on shore when they ran away
with her; and some English and Dutch traders being in the river, they
were within a little of taking him. Nay," said be, "if the foremost
boats had been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him;
but be, finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about, and
fired at these two, and disabled them before the others came up; and
then, standing of? to sea, the others were not able to follow him, and
so he got away. But they have all so exact a description of the ship,
that they will be sure to know him; and, wherever they find him, they
have vowed to give no quarter to either the captain or seamen, but to
hang them all up at the yard-arm."

"What!" said I, "will they execute them, right or wrong; hang
them first, and judge them afterwards ?"--"O sir I" said the old pilot,
"there is no need to make a formal business of it with such rogues as
those; let them tie them back to back, and set them a-diving; it is no
more than they rightly deserve."

'5,
I knew _I had my old man fast aboard, and that he could do me no
harm; so I turned short upon him. "Well, seignior," said I, " and
this is the very reason why I would have you carry us to Nanquin, and
not to put back to Macao, or to any other part of the country where
the English or Dutch ships come; for be it known to you, seignior,
those captains of the English and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash,
proud, insolent fellows, that neither know what belongs to justice, or-
how to behave themselves as the laws of God and nature direct; but
being proud of their oflices, and not understanding, their power, they
would act the murderers to punish robbers; would take upon them
to insult men falsely accused, and determine them guilty without due
inquiry; and perhaps I may live to call some of them to an account
of it, where they may be taught how justice is to be executed; and that
no man ought to be treated as a. criminal, till some evidence may be
had of the crime, and that he is the man."

With this I told him, that this was the very ship they had attacked;
and gave him a full account of the skirmish we had with their boats,
and how foolishly and coward-like they had behaved. I told him all
the story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served us. I
told him the reasons I had to believe that this story of killing the mas-
ter by the Malaccans was not true, as also the running away with the
ship; but that it was all a fiction of their own, to suggest that the men
were turned pirates; and they ought to have been sure it was so, before '
they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to resist them;
adding, that they would have the blood of those men who were killed
there, in our just defence, to answer for.

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us, we were very
much in the right to go away to the north; and that if he might ad-

vise us, it should be to sell the ship in China, which we might very I

well do, and buy or build another in the country: "And," said he,
"though you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able
enough to carry you and all your goods back again to Bengal, or any-
where else." ' I -

I told him I would take his advice when I came to any port where s

I could find a ship for my turn, or get any customer to buy this. He v .
' replied, I should meet with customers enough for the ship atNanquinfi$
and that a Chinese junk would serve me very well togo'back again; a t
and that he would procure me people both May on'e'ands'sellthe'y.
other. ~ . ~ '. v

"Well, but, seignior," says I, "as you say they know the .s'hip so
' well, I may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, lie-instrumental a":

bring some honest, innocent men, into a terrible briefly." perm '

 

 

i
, *:
murdered in cold blood; for wherever they find the ship, they will
prove the guilt upon the men, by proving this was the ship; and so
innocent men may probably be overpowered and murdered."--"Why,"
said the old man, "I'll find out a way to prevent that also; for as I
know all those commanders you speak of very well, and shall see them
all as they pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know that they had been so much in the wrong; that
though the people who were on board at first might run away with the
ship, yet it was not true that they had turned pirates; and that in
particular those were not the men that first went off with the ship,
but innocently bought her for their trade; and I am persuaded they
will so far believe me, as, at least, to act more cautiously for the time
to come."--"Well," said I, "and will you deliver one message to them
from me ?"--"Yes, I will," says he, "if you will give it under your
hand in writing, that I may be able to prove it came from you. and
not out of my own head." I answered, that I would readily give it
him under my hand. So I took a pen and ink, and paper, and wrote
at large the story of assaulting me with the long-boats, &c., the pre-
tended reason of it, and the unjust, cruel design of it; and concluded
to the commanders, that they had done what they not only should
have been ashamed of, but also, that if ever they came to England,
and I lived to see them there, they should all pay dearly for it, if the
laws of my country were not grown out of use before I arrived there.

My old pilot read this over and over again, and asked me several
times if I would stand to it. I answered, I would stand to it as long
as I had any thing left in the world; being sensible that I should, one
time or other, find an opportunity to put it home to them. But we
had no occasion ever to let the pilot carry this letter, for he never
went back again. While those things were passing between us, by way
of discourse, we went forward directly for N anquin, and, in about
thirteen days' sail, came to anchor at the south-west point of the great
Gulf of Nanquin, where, by the way, I came by accident to under-
stand, that the two Dutch ships were gone that length before me, and
that I should certainly fall into their hands. I consulted my partner
'. again in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I was, and
would very gladly have been safe on shore almOst anywhere. How-
ever, I was not in such a perplexity neither, but I asked the old pilot
if there was no creek or harbour which I might put into, and pursue
my business with the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of the
enemy. He told me, if I would sail to the southward about two-and-
forty leagues, there was a little port called Quiuchang, where the
fathers of the mission usually landed frdm Macao, on their progress to
 

teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no European
ships ever put in: and if I thought proper to put in there, I might
consider what farther course to take when I was on shore. He con-
fessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except that at some
certain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the merchants
from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese merchandises.

We all agreed to go back to this place: the name of the port, as he
called it, I may, perhaps, spell wrong, for I do not particularly remem-
ber it, having lost this, together .with the names of many other places
set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled'by the water, on
an accident which I shall relate in its order: but this I remember, that
the Chinese or Japanese merchants we correspond with, call it by a
different name from that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pro-
nounced it as above, Quinchang.

As we were unanimous in our resolutions to go to this place, we
weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore, where we were
to get fresh water; on both which occasions the people of the country
were very civil to us, and brought us abundance of things to sell to
us; I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some fowls; but
nothing without money. -

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till five
days; but it was very much to our satisfaction, and I was joyful, and '
I maysay thankful, when I set my foot safe on shore, resolving, and
my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
eii'ects any other way, though not every way to our satisfaction, we
would never set one foot on board that unhappy vessel again: and
indeed I must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life that
ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely
miserable as that of being in constant fear. Well does the Scripture
say, " The fear of man brings a snare ;" it is a life of death, and the
mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable of no relief; the
animal spirits sink, and all the vigour of nature, which usually sup-
ports men under other afliictions, and is present to them in the greatest
exigencies, fails them here.

Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by heighten- '
ing every danger; representing the English and Dutch captains to be
men incapable of hearing reason, or distinguishing between honest men
and rogues, or between a story calculated for our own turn, made ont'u i
of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true genuine account of. our .
whole voyage, progress, and design, for we might many wags. have, lg;
convinced any reasonable creature that we were not pirates; _, , . , '
we had on board, the course we steered, our franklyshowing' f' '
 

and entering into such and such ports--even our very manner, the
force we had, the number of men, the few arms, little ammunition, and
short prorisions,--all these would have served to convince any man
that we were no pirates. The opium, and other goods We had on board,
would make it appear the ship had been at Bengal; the Dutchmen,
who, it was said, had the names of all the men that were in the ship,
might easily see that we were a mixture of English, Portuguese, ln-
dians, and but two Dutchmen on board. These, and many other particu-
lar circumstances, might have made it evident to the understanding of any
commander, whose hands we might fall into, that we were no pirates.

But fear, that blind useless passion, worked another way and threw
us into the vapours; it bewildered our understandings, and set the
imagination at work, to form a thousand terrible things, that, perhaps,
might never happen. We first supposed, as indeed everybody had
related to us, that the seamen on board the English and Dutch ships,
but especially the Dutch, were so enraged at the name of a pirate, and
especially at our beating of their boats, and escaping, that they would
not give themselves leave to inquire whether we were pirates or no;
but would execute us ofilhand, as we call it, without giving us any room
for a defence. We reflected, that there was really so much apparent
evidence before them, that they would scarce inquire after any more:
as, first, that the ship was certainly the same, and that some of the
seamen among them knew her, and had been on board her: and
secondly, that when we had intelligence at the river Cambodia, that
they were coming down to examine us, we fought their boats, and fled:
so that we made no doubt but they were as fully satisfied of our being
pirates, as we were satisfied of the contrary; and I often said, I knew
not but I should have been apt to have taken the like circumstances
for evidence, if the tables were turned, and my case was theirs; and
have made no scruple of cutting all the crew to pieces, without be-
lieving, or perhaps considering, what they might have to ofi'er in their
defence.

But let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions; and both
my partner and I too scarce slept a night without dreaming of halters
and yard-arms; that is to say, gibbets--of fighting, and being taken
----of killing and being killed; and one night I was in such a fury in
my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had boarded us, and I was knocking
one of their seamen down, that I struck my double fist against the side
of the cabin I lay in, with such a force as wounded my hand most
grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh; so that

it not only waked me out of my sleep but I was once afraid I should
have lost two of my fingers.
 

Another apprehension I had, was of the cruel usage we should meet
with from them, if we fell into their hands: then the story of Am-
boyna came into my head, and how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture
us, as they did our countrymen there; and make some of our men, by
extremity of torture, confess those crimes they were never guilty of--
own themselves, and all of us to be pirates; and so they would put us
to death, with a formal appearance of justice; and that they might be
tempted to do this for the gain of our ship and cargo, which was worth
four or five thousand pounds, put all together.

These things tormented me, and my partner too, night and day;
nor did we consider that the captains of ships have no authority to act
thus; and if we had surrendered prisoners to them, they could not
answer the destroying us, or torturing us, but would be accountable
for it when they came into their own country. This, I say, gave me
no satisfaction; for, if they will act thus with us, what advantage
would it be to us that they would be called to an account for it? or, if
we were first to be murdered, what satisfaction would it be to us to
have them punished when they came home?

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflectidns I now had upon
the past variety of my particulaa circumstances; how hard I thought
it was, that I, who had spent forty years in a life of continued difi-
culties, and was at last come, as it were, at the port or haven which
all men drive at, namely, to have rest and plenty, should be a volun-
teer in new sorrows, by my own unhappy choice; and that I, who had
escaped so many dangers in my youth, should now come to be hanged
in my old age, and in so remote a place, for a crime I was not in the
least inclined to, much less guilty of; and in a place and circumstance,
where innocence was not like to be any protection at all to me.

After these thoughts, something of religion would come in; and I
would be considering that this seemed to me to e a disposition of im-
mediate Providence; and I ought to look upoirit, and submit to it as
such; that although I was innocent as to men, I was far from being
innocent as to my Maker; and I ought to look in, and examine what
other crimes in my life were most obvious to me, and for which Pro-
vidence might justly inflict this punishment as .a rytribution; and that
I ought to submit to this, just as I wouldfiiashipwreok, if it had
pleased God to have brought such a disastei'aem,

In its turn, natural courage would sometimes'kh'k its .place ;. and
then I would be talking myself up to vigorous resolution, that I would
not be taken to be barbarously used by a parcel of merciless watches,
in cold blood; that it was much better to have fallen into-the'hands

   

o' the savages, who were men-eaters, and who, .I was. smfwould .

30

x
I

~ J"

 

 

a";
 

 

 

feast upon me, when they had taken me, than by those who would
perhaps glut their rage upon me by inhuman tortures and barbarities:
that, in the case of the savages, I always resolved to die fighting to
the last gasp; and why should I not do so now, seeing it was much
more dreadful, to me at least, to think of falling into these men's
hands, than ever it was to think of being eaten by men; for the
savages, give them their due, would not eat a man till he was dead:
and killed him first as we do a bullock ; but that these men had many
arts beyond the cruelty of death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed,
I was sure to put myself into a kind of fever, with the agitations of a
supposed fight: my blood would boil, and my eyes sparkle, as if I was
engaged; and I always resolved that I would take no quarter at their
hands, but even at last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow up the
ship, and all that was in her, and leave them but little booty to boast of.

But by how much the greater weight the anxieties and perplexities
of those things were to our thoughts while we were at sea, by so much
the greater was our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on shore; and
my partner told me he dreamed that he had a very heavy load upon
his back, which he was to carry up a hill, and found that he was not
able to stand long under it; but the Portuguese pilot came, and took
it off his back, and the hill disappeared, the ground before him show-
ing all smooth and plain: and truly it was so; we were all like men
who had a load taken off their backs.

CHAPTER. XIII.

We arrive in China in safety--Dispose of the Ship--Description of the Inhabitants---
Arrive at Pekin, and find an opportunity of returning to Europe.

Fort my part, I had a weight taken oif from my heart, that I was
not able any longer to bear; and, us I said above, we resolved to go
no more to sea in that ship.. When we came on shore, the old pilot,
who was now our friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse for our
goods, which, by the way, was much the same: it was a little house .01-
but, with a large house joining to it, all built with canes, and palisadoed
round with large canes, to keep out pilfering thieves, of which it seems
there were not a few in the country. However, the magistrates allowed
us a little guard, and we had a soldier with a kind of halbert, or half-
pike, whn stood sentinel at our door, to whom we allowed a pint 'ofor sosmsox enusoa- 487

 

rice, and a little piece of money, about the value of threepence,-per
day; so that our goods were kept very safe.

The fair or mart usually kept in this place had been over for some
time; however, we found that there were three or four junks in the
river, and two Japanners; I mean ships from Japan, with goods which
they had bought in China, and were not gone away, having Japanese
merchants on shore.

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us, was to bring us
acquainted with three missionary Romish priests, who were in the town,
and who had been there some time, converting the people to Christian-
ity; but we thought they made but poor work of it, and made them but
sorry Christians when they had done. However, that was not our
business. One of these was a Frenchman, whom they called Father
Simon; he was a. jolly, well-conditioned man, very free in his conver-
sation, not seeming so serious and grave as the other two did, one of
whom was a. Portuguese, and the other a Genoese; but Father Simon
was courteous, easy in his manner, and very agreeable company; the
other two were more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the work they came about, namely, to talk with, and insin-
uate themselves among the inhabitants wherever they had opportunity.
We often ate and drank with those men; and though, I must confess,
the conversion, as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so far
from the true conversion required to bring heathen people to the faith
of Christ, that it seems to amount to little more than letting them
know the name of Christ, say some prayers to the Virgih Mary and
her Son, in a tongue which they understand not, and to cross them-
selves, and the like; yet it must be confessed, that these religious,
whom we call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people should
be saved, and that they are the instrument of it: and, on this account,
they undergo not only the fatigue of the voyage, and hazards of living
in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with the most violent tor- '
tures, for the sake of this work; and it would be a great want of
charity in us, whatever opinion we have of the work itself, and the
manner of their doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of their
zeal, who undertake it with so many hazards, and who have no pros- '
pect of the least temporal advantage to themselves. ,

But to return to my story: This French priest, Fathom. Sim was

 

appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the mission, M. p to .

Pekin, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor; and waited onlf'for an-
other priest, who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go along
with him; and we scarce ever met together but he was inviting me to
go that journey with him, telling me how he would show an an the

n ' ,v',
 

glorious things of that mighty empire, and among the rest, the great-
est city in the world; "a city," said he, "that your London and our
Paris put together, cannot be equal to." This was the city of Pekin,
which, I confess, is very great, and infinitely full of people; but as I
looked on those things with difi'erent eyes from other men, so I shall
give my opinion of them in a few words, when I come, in the course
of my travels, to speak more particularly of them.

But, first, I come to my friar, or missionary: Dining with him one
day, and being very merry together, I showed some little inclination
to go with him; and be pressed me and my partner very hard, and with
a great many persuasions, to consent. " Why, Father Simon," says
my partner, "why should you desire our company so much? You
know we are heretics, and you do not love us, nor can keep us compa-
ny with any pleasure."--" Oh," says he, "you may perhaps be good
Catholics in time; my business here is to convert heathens, and who
knows but I may convert you too ?"--" Very well, father," said I, " so
you will preach to us all the way."--" I won't be troublesome to you,"
said he; "our religion does not divest us of good manners; besides,"
said he, "we are all here like countrymen; and so we are, compared
to the place we are in; and if you are Huguenots, and I a Catholic,
we may be all Christians at last; at least," said he, " we are all gen-
tlemen, and we may converse so, without being uneasy to one another."
I liked that part of his discourse very well, and it began to put me in
mind of my priest that I had left in the Brazils; but this Father Simon
did not come up to his character by a great deal; for though Father
Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity in him neither, yet he
had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere afiection
to religion, that my other good ecclesiastic had, of whom I have said
so much.

But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor soliciting us
to go with him, but we had something else before us at that time; for
we had all this while our ship and our merchandise to dispose of ; and
we began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a
place of very little business: and once I was about to venture to sail
for the river of Kilam, and the city of Nanquin; but Providence
seemed now more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in
our afl'airs; and I was encouraged from this very time to think I should,
one way or other, get out of this entangled circumstance, and be
brought home to my own country again, though I had not the least
view of the manner; and when I began sometimes to think of it, could
not imagine by what method it was to be done. Providence, I say,
l'egan here to clear up our way a little; and the first thing that ofi'ered
 

was, that our old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us,
who began to inquire what goods we had; and, in the first place:'he
bought all our opium, and gave us a very good price for it, paying us
in gold by weight, some in small pieces of their own coin, and some in
small wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were
dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head that he might,
perhaps, deal with us for the ship too; and I ordered the interpreter
to propose it to him. He shrunk up his shoulders at it when it was
first proposed to him; but in a few days after, he came to me, with one
of the missionary priests for his interpreter, and told me he had a pro<<
posal to make to me, and that_was this: he had bought a great quan-
tity of goods of us when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to
him) of buying the ship, and that, therefore, he had not money enough
to pay for the ship; but if I would let the same men who were in the
ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan, and would
send them from thence to the Philippine Islands with another loading,
which he would pay the freight of before they went to Japan; and
that, at their return, he would buy the ship. I began to listen to this
proposal, and so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I
could not but begin to entertain a notion myself of going with him,
and so to sail from the Philippine Islands away to the South Seas; and
accordingly I asked the Japanese merchant if he would not hire as
to the Philippine Islands, and discharge us there. Hesaid, no, he
could not do that, for then he could not have the return of his cargo;
but he would discharge us in Japan, he said, at the ship's return. Well,
still I was for taking him at that proposal, and going myself; but my
partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing the dan-
gers, as well of the seas, as of the Japanese, who are a false, cruel,
treacherous people; and then of the Spaniards at the Philippines, more
false, more cruel, more treacherous than they.

But, to bring this long turn of our afi'airs to a conclusion, the first

thing we had to do was to consult with the captain of the ship, and A

with the men, and know if they were willing to go to Japan; and,
while I was doing this, the young man whom, as I' said, my nephew
had left with me as my companion for my travels, came to me and
told me, that he thought the voyage promised very fair, and that
there was a great prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad
if I undertook it; but that if I would not, and would give him leave,
he would go as a merchant, or how I pleased to order him; and if
ever he came to England, and I was there, and alive, he would,:ender
me a faithful account of his success, and it should be as mueh'inine u
l pleased.

 

 

1
i
 

I was really 10th to part with him; but considering the proapec't
of advantage, which was really considerable, and that he was a young
fellow, as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I inclined to let him
go; but first I told him, I would consult my partner, and give him an
answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed about'it, and my
partner made a most generous offer: he told me, "You know it has
been an unlucky ship, and we both resolved not to go to sea in it
again; if your steward (so he called my man) will venture the voyage,
I'll leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him make the best of
it; and if we live to meet in England, and he meets with success
abroad, he shall account for one half of the profits of the ship's freight
to us, the other shall be his own.

If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young man.
made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the same;
and all the ship's company being willing to go with him, we made over
half the ship to him in property, and took a writing from him oblig-
ing him to account for the other; and away he went to Japan. The
Japan merchant proved a. very punctual honest man to him, protected
him at Japan, and got him a license to come on shore, which the
Europeans in general have not lately obtained, paid him his freight
very punctually, sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan and
China wares, and a supercargo of their own, who, trallicking with the
Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and a great quantity
of cloves and other spice; and there he was not only paid his freight
very well, and at a very good price, but being not willing to sell the
ship then, the merchant furnished him with goods on his own aceount;
that for some money and some spices of his own, which he brought
with him, he went back to the Manillas, to the Spaniards, where he
sold his cargo very well. Here, having gotten a good actpiaintauce
at Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship; and the governor of
Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco, in America, on the coast of
Mexico; and gave him a license to land there, and travel to Mexico;
and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe, with all his men.

He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and there he sold
his ship; and having there also obtained allowance to travel by
land to Porto Bello, he found means, some how or other, to go to
Jamaica with all his treasure; and about eight years after came to
England, exceeding rich, of which I shall take notice in its place; in
the mean time, I return to our particular afi'airs.

Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, it came before
us, of course, to consider what recompense we should give to the two
men that gave us such timely notice of the design against us in theINTROIH'PRH T0 \ CHINE??? \IERI'IIIYT
river, of Cambodia. The truth was, they had done us a considerable '
service, and deserved well at- our hands; though, by the way, they
were a. couple of rogues too: for, as they believed the story of our
being pirates, and that we had really run away wyth the ship, they
came down to us, not only to betray the design that was formed against
us, but to go to sea with us as pirates; and one of them confessed
afterwards, that nothing else but 'the hopes of going a-roguing brought
. him to do it. However, the service they did us was not the less; and
therefore, as I had promised to be grateful to them, I first ordered the
money to be paid to them, which. they said was due to them on board
their respective ships; that is to say, the Englishman nineteen months'
pay, and to the Dutchman seven; and, ovtr and above that, I gave
each of them a small sum of money in gold, which contented them
very well: then I made the, Englishman gunner of the ship, the gun-
ner being now made second mate and purser; the Dutchman I made
boatswain: so they were both very well. pleased, and proved very
serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout fellows.

We were now on shore in China. If I thought myself banished,
and remote from my own country, at Bengal, where I had many ways
to get home for my money, what could I think of myself now, when I
was gotten about a thousand leagues farther off from home, and per-
fectly destitute of all manner 'of prospect of return!

All we had for it was this: that in about four months' time there

was to be another fair at that place where we were, and then we might
be able to purchase all sorts of the manufactures of the country, and
withal might possibly find some Chinese junks or vessels from Nanquin,
that would be to be sold, and would carry us and our goods whither
'we pleased. This I liked very well, and resolved to wait; besides,
as our particular persons were not obnoxious, so if any English or
Dutch. ships came thither, perhaps we might have an opportunity to
load our goods, and get passage to some other place in India nearer-
home.

Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here; but, to divert our-
selves, we took two or three journeys into the country. First, we
went ten days' journey to see the city of Nanquin, a city well worth
seeing, indeed: they say it has a million of people in it, which, how
ever, I do not believe; it is regularly built, the streets all exactly
straight, and cross one another in direct lines, which gives the figure
of it great advantage. ' .

But when I came .to compare the miserable people of these coun-
tries with ours; their fabrics, their manner of living, their govern>>
inert their religion, their wealth, and their glory (as some call it), I
 

.must confess, I do not so much as think it worth naming, or worth my
while to write of, or any that shall come after me to read.

It was very observable, that we wonder at the grandeur, the riches,
the pomp, the ceremonies; the government, the manufactures, the com-

- merce, and the conduct of these people; not that they are to be won--
dered at, or, indeed, in the least to be regarded; but because, having
fi1 st a notion of the barbarity of those countries, the rudeness and the
ignorance that prevail there, we do not expect to find any such things
so far off.

Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces and royal builu-
ings of Europe? What their trade, to the universal commerce of
England, Holland, France, and Spain? What their cities to ours, for
wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel, rich furniture, and an infinite
variety? What are their ports, supplied with a few junks and barks;
to our navigation, our merchants' fleets, our large and powerful navies?
Our city of London has more trade than all their mighty empire.
One English, or Dutch,'or French man of war, of eighty guns, would
fight with and destroy all the shipping of China. But the greatness
of their wealth, their trade, the power of their government, and
strength of their armies, are surprising to us, because, as I have said,
considering them as a barbarous nation of pagans, little better than
savages, we did not expect such things among them; and this, indeed,
is the advantage with which all their greatness and power is repre-
sented to us: otherwise, it is in itself nothing at all; for, as I have
said of their ships, so it may he said of their armies and tro'ops,----all
the forces of their empire, though they were to bring two'millions of
men into the field together, would be able to do nothing but ruin the-
country, and starve themselves. If they were to besiege a st1ong
town in Flanders, or to fight a disciplined army, one line of Ge1man
cuirassiers, or of French cavalry, would overthrow all the horse of

- China; a million of their foot could not stand before one embattled
body of our infantry, posted so as not to be surrounded, though they
were-not to be one to twenty in number,--nay, I do not boast, if I
say, that thirty thousand German or English foot, and ten thousand
French horse, would fairly beat all the forces of China. 'And so of
our fortified towns, and of the art of our engineers, in assaulting and,
defending towns: there is not a fortified town in China could hold- out
one month against the batteries and attacks of a European army giand,
at the same time, all the armies of China could never take uSSh a
town as Dunki1k, provided it was not starved,----no, not in ten years'
siege. They have firearms, it is true, but they are awkward, clumsy,
and uncertain in going ("f--they have powder, but it is of no Strength
--they have neither discipline in the field, exercise in their arms, skill
to attack, nor temper to retreat. And therefore, I must confess, it
seemed strange to me when I came home, and heard our people say
such fine things of the power, riches, glory, magnificence, and trade
of the Chinese, because I saw and knew that they were a contemptible.
herd or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, subjected to a government
qualified only to rule such a people; and, in a word--for I am now
launched quite beside my design--I say, in a word, were not its dis-
tance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and were not the Mnscovite
empire almost as rude, impotent, and ill governed a crowd of slaves
as they, the Czar of Muscovy might, with much ease, drive them all
out of their country, and conquer them in one campaign; and had the
czar, who, I since hear, is a growing prince, and begins to appear for-
midable in the world, fallen this way instead of attacking the warlike
Swedes (in whichiattempt none of the powers of Europe would have
envied or interrupted him), he might, by this time, have been Emperor
of China, instead of being beaten by the King of Sweden at Narva,
when the latter was not one to six in number. As their strength and
their grandeur, so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry, are in;-
perfect and impotent, compared to the same things in Europe. Also,
in their knowledge, their learning, their skill in the sciences: they have
globes and spheres, and a switch of the knowledge of the mathema~
tics ; but when you come to inquire into their knowledge, how short-
sighted are the wisest of their students! They know nothing of the
motion of the heavenly bodies; and so grossly, absurdly ignorant, that
when the sun is eclipsed, they think it is a great dragon has assaulted
and run away with it, and they fall a clattering with all the drums and
kettles in the country, to fright the monster away, just as we do to
hive a swarm of bees.

As this is the only excursion of this kind which I have made in all
the account I have given of my travels, so I shall make no more
descriptions of countries and people: it is none of my business, or any
part of my design ; but giving an account of my own adventures,
.through a life of infinite wanderings, and a long variety of changes,
which, perhaps, few have heard the like of, I shall say nothing of the
mighty places, desert countries, and numerous people, I have yet to
pass through, more than relates to my own story, and which my con-
cern among them will make necessary. I was now, as near as I can
compute, in the heart of China, about the latitude of thirty degrees
north of the line, for we were returning from Nanquin; I had, indeed
a mind to see the city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and
Father Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of
going away being set, and the other missionary who was to go with him
being arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve
either to go, or not to go; so I referred him to my partner, and left
it wholly to his choice, who at length resolved it in the affirmative, and
we prepared for our journey. We set out with very good advantage,
as to finding the way; for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one
of their mandarins, a kind of Viceroy, or principal magistrate, in the
province where they reside, and who take great state upon them, tra.
vell-ing with great attendance, and with great homage from the people,
who are sometimes greatly impoverished by them, because all the
countries they pass through are obliged to furnish provisions for them,
and all their attendants. That which I particularly observed, as to
our travelling with his baggage, was this; that though we received
sufficient provisions, both for ourselves and our horses, from the coun-
try, as belonging to the mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for
every thing we had after the market price of the country, and the
mandarin's steward, or commissary of the provisions, collected it duly
from us; so that our travelling in the retinue of the mandarin, though it
was a very great kindness to us, was not such a mighty favour in him,
but was, indeed, a great advantage to him, considering there were about
thirty other people travelling in the same manner besides us, under
the protection of his retinue, or, as we may call it, under his convoy.
This, I say, was a great advantage to him; for the country furnished
all the provisions for nothing, and he took all our money for them.

We were five-and-twenty days travelling to Pekin, through a coun--
try infinitely populous, but miserably cultivated: the husbandry, eco-_
nomy, and the way of living, all very miserable, though they boast so
much of the industry of the people,--I say miserable; and so it is,
if we, who understand how to live, were to endure it, or to compare it
with our own; but not so to these poor wretches, who knowtno other. .
The pride of these people is infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing
but their poverty, which adds to that which I call their misery. I
must needs think the naked savages of America live much more happy,
because, as they have nothing, so they desire nothing; whereas, these
are proud and insolent, and, in the main, are mere beggars and
drudges: their ostentation is inexpressible, and is chiefly showed in
their clothes and buildings, and in the keeping multitudes of servants
or slaves, and, which is to the last degree ridiculous, their contempt
of all the world but themselves.

I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards, in the deserts
and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary, than here: and yet the roads
here are well paved and well kept, and very convenient for travellers;
but nothing. was more awkward to me than to see such a haughty, im-
perious, insolent people, in the midst of the grossest simplicity and
ignorance; for all their famed ingenuity is no more. My friend Father
Simon, and I, used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the
beggarly pride of those people. For example, coming 'by the house
of a country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues
off from the city of Nanquin, we had, first of all, the honour to ride
with the master of the house about two miles; the state he rode in
was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty.

The habit of this greasy Don was very proper for a scaramouch, or
merry-andrew, being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry trappings of a
fool's coat, such as hanging sleeves, tafl'ety, and cuts and slashes
almost on every side; it covered a rich tafi'ety vest, as greasy as a
butcher, and which testified, that his honour must needs be a most
exquisite sloven. ' '

His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling creature, such as in
England might sell. for about thirty or forty shillings; and he had two
slaves followed him on foot, to drive the poor creature along: he had
a whip in his hand, and he belaboured the beast as fast about the head
as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode by us with about ten
or twelve servants, and we were told he was going from the city to his
country-seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on gently,
, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and as we stopped
at a village about an hour to refresh us, when we came by the country
seat of this great ,man, we saw him in a little place before his door,
eating his repast: it was a kind of a garden, but he was easy to be
seen; and we were given to understand, that the more we looked on
him, the better he would be pleased.

He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto tree, which efi'ect--
ually shaded him over the head, and on the south side; but under the
tree also was placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well
enough: he sat lolling back in a great elbow chair, being a heavy cor-
pulent man, and his meat being brought him by two women slaves; he
had two more, whose office, I think, few gentlemen in Europe would
accept of .their service in, namely, one fed the squire with a spoon,
and the other held the dish with one hand, and scraped off what he let
fall upon his worship's beard and taffety vest, with the other; while
the great fat brute thought it below him to employ his own hands in
any of those familiar offices, which kings and monarchs would rather
do than be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their servants.

' I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts them to, and
how troublesome a haughty temper, thus ill managed, must be to a
 

man of common sense; and, leaving the poor wretch to please himself
with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas we really
pitied and contemned him, we pursued our journey; only Father Simon
had the curiosity to stay, to inform himself what dainties the country
justice had to feed on, in all his state, which he said he had the honour
to taste of, and which was, I think, a dose that an English hound
would scarce have eaten, if it had been offered him, namely, a mess
of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and a little bag filled
with green pepper, and another plant which they have there, something
like our ginger, gbut smelling like musk, and tasting like mustard,----all
this was put together, and a small lump or piece of lean mutton boiled
in it; and this was his worship's repast, four or five servants more
attending at a distance. If. be fed them meaner than he was fed
himself, the spice excepted, they must fare very coarsely indeed.

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he was respected like
a king: surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended, in all his
appearances, with such pomp that I saw little of him but at a dis
tance; but this I observed, that there was not a horse in his retinue, '
but that our carriers' packhorses in England seem to me to look much
better; but they were so covered with equipage, mantles, trappings,
and such like trumpery, that you cannot see whether they are fat or
lean. In a word, we could scarce see any thing but their feet and
their heads.

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perpleizity that I
had given an account of being over, I had no anxious thoughts about 3
me, which made this journey much the pleasanter to me: nor had I
any ill accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a small
river, my horse fell, and made me free of the country, as they call it;
that is to say, threw me in z the place was not deep, but it wetted me .
all over: I mention it, because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I
had set down the names of several people and places which I had occa-
sion to remember, and w,hich not taking due care of, the leaves rotted,
and the words were never after to he read, to my great loss as to the
names of some places which I touched at in this voyage.

At length we arrived at Pekin: I had nobody with me but the youth,
whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend me as a servant, .
and who proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody '
nith him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese ,

pilot, he being desirous to see the comt, we gave him his passage, that , '

is to say, bore his charges for his company; and to use him as an '
interpreter, for he understood the language of the country, and spoke
good French and a little English; and, indeed, this old man was a most
 

man of common sense; and, leaving the poor wretch to please himself
with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas we really
pitied and contemned him, we pursued our journey ; only Father Simon
had the curiosity to stay, to inform himself what dainties the country
justice had to feed on, in all his state, which he said he had the honour
to taste of, and which was, I think, a dose that an English hound
would scarce have eaten, if it had been offered him, namely, a mess
of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and a little bag filled
with green pepper, and another plant which they have there, something
like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and tasting like mustard,--all
this was put together, and a small lump or piece of lean mutton boiled
in it; and this was his worship's repaSt, four or five servants more
attending at a distance. If. he fed them meaner than he was fed
himself, the spice excepted, they must fare very coarsely indeed.

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he was respected like
a king: surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended, in all his
appearances, with such pomp that I saw little of him but at a dis-
tance; but this I observed, that there was not a horse in his retinue, '
but that our carriers' packhorses in England seem to me to look much
better; but they were so covered with equipage, mantles, trappings,
and such like trumpery,'that you cannot see whether they are fat or
lean. In a word, we could scarce see any thing but their feet and
their heads.

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perpleirity that I
had given an account of being over, I had no anxious thoughts about 1
me, which made this journey much the pleasanter to me: nor had I
any ill accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a small
river, my horse fell, and made me free of the country, as they call it;
that is to say, threw me in: the place was not deep, but it wetted me .
all over: I mention it, because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I
had set down the names of several people and places which I had occa-
sion to remember, and which not taking due care of, the leaves rotted,
and the words were never after to be read, to my great loss as to the
names of some places which I touched at in this voyage.

At length we a1r1ved at Pekin: I had nobody with me but the youth,
whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend me as a servant, '
and who proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody I
uith him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for the P01 tuguese ,

pilot, he being desirous to see the couit, we gave him his passage, that l '

is to say, bore his charges for his company; and to use him as an
interpreter, for he understood the language of the country, and spoke
good French and a little English; and, indeed, this old 'man was a most
man of common sense; and, leaving the poor wretch to please himself _

with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas we really
pitied and 'contemned him, we pursued our journey; only Father Simon

had the curiosity to stay, to inform himself what dainties' the country V

justice had to feed on, in all his state, which he said he had the honour
to taste of, and which was, I think, a dose that an English hound
would scarce have eaten, if it had been offered him, namely, a mess
of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and a little bag filled
with green pepper, and another plant which they have there, something
like our ginger,_but smelling like musk, and tasting like mustard,---all
this was put together, and a small lump or piece of lean mutton boiled
in it; and this was his worship's repast, four or five servants more
attending at a distance. If. he fed them meaner than he was fed
himself, the spice excepted, they must fare very coarsely indeed.

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he was respected like
a king: surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended, in all his
appearances, with such pomp that I saw little of him but at a dis

tance; but this I obse1 ved that there was not a horse' in his retinue, '

but that our carriers' packhorses in England seem to me to look much
better; but they were so covered .with equipage, mantles, trappings,
and such like trumpery,-that you cannot see whether they are fat or
lean. In a word, we could scarce see any thing but their feet and
their heads.

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplekity that I

had given an account of being over, I had no anxious thoughts about ;

me, which made this journey much the pleasanter to me: nor had I
any ill accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a small
river, my horse fell, and made me free of the country, as they call it;

that is to say, threw me in: the place was not deep, but it wetted me 4

all over: I mention it, because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I
had set down the names of several people and places which I had occa-
sion to remember, and which not taking due care of, the leaves rotted,
and the words were never after to be read, to my great loss as to the
names of some places which I touched at in this voyage.

At length we arrived at Pekin: I had nobody with me but the youth,
whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend me as a servant, .
and who proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody I
with him but one servant, who was a kinsman As for the Portuguese ,
pilot, he being desirous to see the court, we gave him his passage, that y '

is to say, bore his charges for his company; and to use him as an

interpreter, for he understood the language of the country, and spoke ,

good French and a little English; and, indeed, this old man was a most
 

useful implement to liS everywhere; for we had not been above a week
at Pekin, when he came laughing: "Ah, Seignior Inglese," said he,
"I have something to tell you, will make your heart glad."--" My
heart glad i" said I; "what can that be? I don't know any thing in
this country can either give me joy or grief, to any great degree."-----
"' Yes, yes," said the .old man, in broken. English, "make you glad, we
sorrow ;" sorry, he would have said--This made me more inquisitive.
"Why," said I, "will it make you sorry ?"-----" Because," said he,
"you have brought me here twenty-five days' journey, and will leave -
me to go back alone; and which way shall I get to my port after-
wards, without a ship, without a horse, without pecune ?" so he called
money; being his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make
us merry with. '

In short, he told us there was a great caravan of MuscOvy and Polish
merchants in the city, and that they were preparing to set out on their
journey by land, to Muscovy, within four or five weeks, and he was
sure we would take the opportunity to go with them, and leave him
behind to go back alone. I confess I was surprised with this news; a
secret joy spread itself over my whole soul, which I cannot describe,
and never felt before or since, and I had no power, for a good while,
to speak a word to the old man; but at last I turned to him: " How
do you know this ?" said I; " are you sure it is true ?"-----"Yes," he
said, " I met this morning in the street, an old acquaintance of mine,
an Armenian, or one you call a Grecian, who is among them; he came
last from Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin, where I for-
merly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to go
back with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river of Wolga to
Astracan."--"Well, Seignior," said I, "do not be uneasy about being
left to go back alone; if this be a method for my return to England,
it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all."--We then went
to consult together what was to be done, and I asked my partner what
he thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would suit with his
affairs: he told me he would do just as I would; for he had settled all
his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his effects in such good hands,
that as we made a good voyage here, if he could vest it in China silks
wrought and raw, such as might be worth the carriage, he would be
content to go to England, and then make his voyage back to Bengal
' by the Company's ships.
 

CHAPTER XIV.

Set out by the Caravan--Account of the valuable Efects we took with us--Purtl:er
Description of the Interior of China--Pass the Great Wall--Attacked by Tartars,
who are dispersed by the Resolution of a Scots Merchant--The old Pilot saves my
Life--We are again attacked. and defeat the Tax-tars.

HAVING resolved upon this, we agreed, that, if our Portuguese pilot
would, go with us, we would hear his charges to Moscow, or to Eng--
land, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over-generous
in that part neither. if we had not rewarded him further; for the ser- '
vice he had done us was really worth all that, and more; for he had
not only been a pilot to nest sea, but he had been also like a broker
for-us on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant was some
hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together about
it; and, being willing to gratify him, which was, indeed, but doing him
justice, and very willing also to have him with us besides, for he was
a most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quan-
tity of coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to about one hundred
and seventy-five pounds sterling between us, and tobear his charges,
both for himself and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods.

Having settled this among ourselves, we called him to let him know
what we had resolved: I told him, he had complained of our being like
to let him go back alone, and I was now to tell him we were 1esolved
he should not go back at all; that as we had resolved to go to Europe
with the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us, and that-"we
called him to know his mind. He shook his head, and said it was a
long journey, and he had no pecune to carry him thither, nor to sub-
sist himself when he came thither. We told him, we believed it was
so, and therefore we had resolved to do something for him, that should
let him see how sensible-we were of the service he had done us; and
also how agreeable he was to us: and then I told him what we had
resolved to give him here, which he might lay out as we would do our .
own; and that as for his charges, if he would go with us, we would
set him safe ashore (life and casualties excepted), either in Muscovy '
or in England, which he would, at our own charge, except only the
carriage of his goods.

He received the proposal like a man transported, and told us, he
would go with us over the whole world' and so, in short, we all pre-g '480 rm: ms Irma immune

pared ourselves for the journey. However, as it was with us, so it
was with the other merchants, they had many things to do; and in-
stead of being ready in five weeks, it was four months and some odd
days before all things were got together. '

It was the beginning.of February, our style, when we set out from
Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had gone express back to the
port where we. had first put in, to dispose of some goods which'we had

-left there; and I, .with a Chinese merchant, whom I had some know-
ledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on his own affairs, went
to Nanquin, where I bought ninety pieces of fine damasks, with'about'
two hundred pieces of other very fine silks, of several sorts, some
mixed with gold, and had all these brought to Pekin against my part-
ner's return: besides this, we bought a very large quantity of raw
silk, and some other goods; our cargo amounting, in these goods only,
to about three thousand five hundred pounds sterling, which, together
with tea, and some fine calicoes, and three camel-loads of nutmegs and
cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, besides those we
rode upon; which, with two or three spare horses, and two horses '
loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses
in our retinue. . '

The company was very great, and, as near as I can remember, made
between three and four hundred horses and camels, and upward of a
hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided for all events.
For, as the Eastern caravans'are subject to be attacked by the Arabs,
so are these by the Tartars; but they are not altogether so dangerous
as the Arabs, nor so barbarous when they prevail. .

The company consisted of people of several nations, such as the
Muscovites chiefly; for there were about sixty of them who were mer-
chants or inhabitants of Moscow, though of them some were Livoni'
ans; and to our particular satisfaction, five of them were Scots, who
appeared also to be men of great experience in business, and very
good substance; -

When We had travelled one day' s journey, the guides, who were five
in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is to say, all
the passengers, except the servants, to a great council, as they termed
it. * 'At 'this great council, every one deposited a certain quantity of
money to a common stock, for the necessary eXpense of buying forage
on the way, where it was not otherwise to beha'd, and 'for satisfying
the guides, getting horses, and the like. And here they constituted
the journey, as they called it, namely, they named captains and ofli-

' cers to draw us all up, and give the command in case of an attack, '
- and gave every one their turn of command. N or was this forming- u's '
 

into order any more than what we found needful upon the way,as
shall be observed in its place. .

The road all on this side of the country is very populous, and is
full of potters and earth-makers; that is to say, people that tempered
the earth for the China ware; and, as I was going along, our Portu-
guese pilot, who had always something or' other to say to make us
.merry, came sneeriug to me, and told .me he would show me the '
greatest rarity in all the country; and that I should have this to say
of China, after all the ill-humoured things I had said of it, that I had
seen .one thing which was not to be' seen 'in' all the world beside. I
was veryimportunate to know' what it was; at last he told me, it was
a gentleman's house, built all with China ware. "Well," said_I, "are
not the materials of their building the product of their own country;
and so it is all China ware, is it not. "'-- "No, no," says he, "I mean,

. it is a house all made of China ware, such as you call so in England;
or, as it is called in our country, porcelain."--'"Well," said I, "such
a thing may be: how big is it? can we carry it in a box upon a camel?
If we can, we will buy it. " ----:"Upon a camel!" said the'old pilot, hold-
ing up both his hands , "why, there is a family of thirty people lives _
in it. "

I was then curious indeed to see-it; and when I came to see it, it
was nothing but this; it was a timber house, or a. house built, as we
call it in England, with lath- and plaster, but all the plastering was
really China ware, that is to say, it was plastered with the earth that
makes China ware.

The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and looked
very well, perfectly white, and painted with blue figures, as the large
China Ware in England is painted, and hard as if it had been burnt:
As to the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined with hard '
and painted tiles, like the little square tiles we call galley tilesin Eng-
. land,.all made of the finest China, and the figures exceeding fi'ne' indeed.
with extraordinary variety of colours, mixed with gold, many tiles
making but one figure, but joined so artificially, with mortar, being
made of - the same earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles-
met. The floors of the rooms were of the same 'compdsition, and as
hard as the earthen floors we have in use iu'several parts -of- England,
especially Lincolnshire, Nottin'ghamshire, LeiceStershire, &c. as hard .
as stone, and smooth,'but not'burnt and painted,-except some smaller
rooms, like cloSets, which were all, as it were, paved with the same tile:
, the ceilings, and, in a word, all the plastering work' in' the-whole house,
were of the same earth; and after all, the roof ' was covered with tiles

of the same, but of a deep shining black.
31 a ,
' This was ,a China warehouse indeed, truly and literally to be called
so; and had I not been upon the journey, I- could have stayed some days
to see and examine the particulars of it. They told me' there were
fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved at the bottom and
sides with the same, and fine statuesvset up in rows on the walks, en-
tirely formed of the porcelain earth, and burnt whole.

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be allowed
to excel in it; but I am very sure they excel in their accounts of it;
for they told me such incredible things of their performance in
crockery-ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate, as knowing it
could not be true. One told me, in particular, of aworkman that made
a ship, with all its tackle, and masts, and sails, in earthenware, big
enough to carry fifty men. If he had told me he launched it, and
made avoyage to Japan in it, I might have said something to it indeed,
but, as it was, I knew the whole story, which was, in short, asking
pardon for the word, that the fellow lied, so I smiled, and said nothing

to it.

' This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which the
leader of it for'the day'fined me about the value of three shillings;
and told me, if it had been three days' journey without the wall, as it
was three days within, he inust have fined me four times as much, and
made me ask pardon the next council day: so I promised to be more
orderly; for, indeed, I found afterwards the orders made for keeping
all together were absolutely necessary for our common safety.

In two days more we passed the great China wall made for a fortifi-
cation against the Tartars; and a very great work it is, going over hills
and mountains in an endless track, where the rocks are impassable, and
the precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or, indeed, climb
up, or where, if they did, no wall could hinder them. They tell us,
. its length is near a thousand English miles, but that the country is five
hundred, in a straight measured line, which the wall bounds, without
measuring the windings and turnings it takes: it is about four fathoms
high; and as many thick in some places.

I stood still an hour, or thereabouts, without trespassing on our
orders, for so long the caravan was in passing the gate; I say, I stood
still an hour to look at it, on every side, near and far' off; I mean,
what was within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who had been
extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty eager to hear
my opinion of it. I told him it was a most excellent thing to keep 01?
the Tartars, which he happened not to understand as I meant it, and
so took it for a compliment: but the old pilot laughed: " 0 Seignior
[nglese," said he, " you speak in colours."--" In colours!" said I,
 

" what do you mean by that 'l"---" Why, you speak what looks white
this way, and black that way: gay one way, and dull another way:
you tell him it is a good well to keep out Tartars: you tell me by that,
it is good for nothing but to keep out antars ; or, will keep out none
but Tartars. I understand you, Seignior Inglese, I understand you,"
said he, joking; " but Seignior Chinese understand you his own wayl"

"Well," said I, "seignior, do you think it would stand out an army
of our country people, with a good train of artillery? or our engi-
neers, with two companies of miners? Would they not batter it down
in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia, or blow it up in the
air, foundation and all, that there should be no sign' oil it left?"---
"Ay, ay," said he, "I know that." The Chinese wanted mightily
to know what I said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days after,
for we were then almost out of their country, and he was to leave us
in a little time afterwards; but when he knew what I had said, he was
dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard no more of his fine' Story
of the Chinese power' and greatness while he stayed.

After we had passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, something
like the Picts wall, so famous in Northumberland, and built by the
Romans, we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the peo-
ple rather confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being sub-
ject to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who rob in great
armies, and, therefore, are not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants
of an open country. -

And here I began to find the necessity of keeping together in a
caravan, as we travelled; for we saw several troops of Tartars roving
about; but when I came to see them distinctly, I wondered how that
the Chinese empire could be conquered by such contemptible fellows;
for they were a mere herd or crowd of wild fellows, keeping no order,
and understanding no discipline, or manner of fight,

Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught nothing, and
are fit for nothing; and this we found the firstiday we saw them,
which was .after we entered the wilder part of the country. Our
leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a--hunting,
as they call it; and what was this but hunting of sheep! How-
ever, it may be called hunting too; for the creatures are the wildest
and swiftest of foot that ever I 'saw of their kind ;. only they will not
run a great way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase ,
for they appear generally by thirty or forty In a flock, and,' like true
sheep, always keep together when they fly.

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet with
about forty Tartars: whether. they were hunting mutton. aswe were,
or whether they looked for another kind of prey, I know not; but as
soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kindvof horn very loud, but
with a barbarous sound that I had never heard before, and, by the
way, never care to hear again. We all supposed this was to call their
friends about them ; and so it was; for in less than half a quarter of
an hour, a troop of forty or fifty more appeared at about a mile dis-
tance; but our work was over first, as it happened. '

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst us;
and as soon as he heard the horn, he told us, in short, that we had
nothing to do but to charge them immediately, without loss of time;
and, drawing as up in a line, he asked if we were resolved?' We told
him we were ready to follow him;'so he rode directly up to them.
They stood gazing at us like a mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor
showing the face of any order at all; but as soon as they saw us ad>>
vance, they let fly their arrows; which, however, missed us very hap
pilyuit seems they mistook not their aim, but their distance; for
their arrows all fell a little short of us, but with so true an aim, that
had we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several
men wounded, if not killed.

Immediately we halted; and, though it was at a great distance, we
fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, following our
shot full gallop, resolving to fall in among them sword in hand, for
so our bold Scot that led as directed. He was, indeed, but a mer-
chant, but he behaved with that vigour and bravery on this occasion,
and yet with such a cool courage too, that I never saw any man in
action fitter for command. As soon as we came up to them, we fired
our pistols in their faces, and then drew; but they fled in the greatest
confusion imaginable; the only stand any of them made was on our
right, where three of them stood, and by signs called the rest to come
back to them, having a kind of scimitar in their hands, and their
bows hanging at their backs. Our brave commander, without asking
anybody to follow him, galloped up close to them, and, with his fusil,
knocked one of them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol,
and the third ran away; and thus ended our fight; but we had this
misfortune attending it, namely, that all our mutton that we had in
chase got away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but as for the
Tartars, there were about five of them killed; how many were wounded
we knew not; but this we knew, that the other party was so frighted
with the noise of our guns, that they fled, and never made any attempt
upon us. i

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the
Tartars were not so bol' as afterwards; but in about five days we en<<
tered a vast great wild desert, which held us three days and nights'
march; and we were obliged to carry our water with us in great leather
bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have heard they do in the
deserts of Arabia.

I_ asked our guides whose dominion this was in? and they told me

' this was a kind of border that might be called No Man's Land, being
part of the Great Karakathy, or Grand Tartary; but that, however,
it was reckoned to China; that there was no care taken here to preserve
it from the inroads of thieves; and therefore it was reckoned the worst
desert in the whole march, though we were to go over- some much
larger. .
In passing this wilderness, which, I confess, was at the first view very
frightful to me, we saw two or three times little parties of the Tartars,
but they seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to have no design
upon us; and so, like the man who met the devil, if they had nothing
to say to us, we had nothing to say to them: we let them go.

Once, however, a party of them came so near as to stand and gaze
at us; whether it was to consider what they should do, namely, to
attack us. or not attack us, we knew not; but when we were passed at
some distance by them, we made a rear-guard of forty men, and stood
ready for them, letting the caravan pass half a mile or thereabouts
before us. After a while they marched off, only we found they as:
saulted us with five arrows at their parting, one of which wounded a
horse so that it disabled him; and we left him the next day, poor crea-
ture, in great need of a good farrier.- We suppose they might shoot
more arrows, which might fall short of us; but we saw no more arrows,
or Tartars, at that time. . .

We travelled near a month after this, the ways being not so good as
at first, though still in the dominions of the emperor of China; but
lay, for the most part, in villages, some of which were fortified, because
of the incursions of the Tartars. When we came to one of these
towns, (it was about two days and a half's journey before we were to
come to the city of Nanm), I wanted to buy a camel, of which there
are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road, and of horses also,
such as they are, because so many caravans coming that way they are
very often wanted. The person that I spoke to, to get me a camel,
would have gone and fetched it for me; but I, like a fool, must be ofii--
cious, and go myself along with him. The place was about two miles-
out of the village, where, it seems, they kept the camels'and horses
feeding under a guard.

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot in company, and a Chinese,
being desirous, forsooth, of a little variety. When we came to this

)
place, it was a low marshy ground, w'alled round with a stone wall, piled
up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a little
guard of Chinese soldiers at the doors. Having bought a camel, and
agreed for the price, I came away; and the Chinese man that went
with me led the camel, when on a sudden came up five Tartars on'horse-
back; two of them seized the fellow, and took the camel from him,
while the other three stepped up to me and my old pilot; seeing us, as
it were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but my sword; which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came
up stopped short upon my drawing my sword (for they are arrant
cowards); but a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the
head, which I never felt till afterwards, and wondered, when I came to
myself,'what was the matter with me, and where I was, for he laid'nie
flat on the ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so
Providence, unlocked for, directs deliverances from dangers which to
us are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket, which I knew nothing
. of, nor the Tartar-s neither: if they had, I suppose they would not
have attacked us ; but cowards are always boldest when there is no
danger. V .

The, old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up to the
fellow that had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one hand,
and pulling him dorm by main force a little towards him with the other,
he shot him into the head, and laid him dead upon the spot; .he then
immediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I said, and be-
fore he could come forward again (for it was all done as it were in a
moment) made a blow at him with a scimitar, which he always wore,
but missing the man, out his horse into the side of his head, out one
of his ears ed by the root, and a great 'slice down the side of his face.
The. poor beast, enraged with the wounds, was no more to be governed
by his rider, though the' fellow sat well enough too; but away he flew,
and carried him quite out of the pilot's reach; and, at some distance,
rising upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell. upon
him. _-

In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel,
but he had no weapon; however, seeing the Tartar down, and his horse
fallen upon him, he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill-favoured
weapon he had'by his- side, something like a pole-axe, but not a pole-axe
either, he wrenched it from him, and made shift to knock-his Tartarian
brains out with it. But my old man had the third Tartar to deal with
still; and, seeing he did not fly as he expected, nor 'come on 'to fight
him, as he apprehended, but s'tood stock still, the old man stood still
too, and falls to work with his"tackle to charge his pistol again ;, but
as. soon as the Tartar saw the pistol, whether he supposed it to be the
same or another I know not, but away he scoured, and left my pilot,
my champion I called him afterwards, a complete victory.

By this time I was a little awake; for, I thought, when I first began
to awake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but as I said above, I
wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and what was the
matter: in a word, a few minutes after, as sense returned, I felt pain,
though, I did not know where; I clapped my hand to my head, and
took it away bloody; then I felt my head ache, and then, in another
moment, memory returned, and every thing was present to me again.

I jumped up upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword, but
no enemies in view. I found a Tartar lie dead, and his horse standing
,very quietly by him; and looking farther, I saw my champion and
deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had done, coming
back with his hanger in his hand. The old man, seeing me on my
feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a great deal of .joy,
being afraid before that I had been killed; and seeing me bloody,
would see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we call a '
broken head; neither did I afterwards find any great inconvenience
from the blow, other than the place which was hurt, and which was
well again in two or three days. I i

We made no great gain, however, by this victory; for we lost a
camel, and gained a horse: but that which was remarkable, when we
came back to the village, the man demanded to be paid for the camel.
I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before the Chinese judge
of the place; that is to say, in English, we went before a justice of the
peace. Give him his due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and
impartiality; and having heard both sides, he gravely asked the Chi-
nese man that went with me to buy the camel, whose servant he was?
"I am no servant," said be, "but went with the stranger."--_--"A_t
whose request ?" said the justice. " At the stranger's' request," said
he. " Why, then," said the justice, "you were the stranger's servant
for the time; and the camel being delivered to his servant, it was de-
livered to him, and he must pay for it."

I confess the thing was so clear that I had not 'a word to say; but.
admiring to see such just reasoning upon the consequence, and so ac-
curate stating the case, I paid willingly for the camel, and sent for
another, but you may observe, I amt. for it; I did not go to fetch it
myself any more; I had had enough of that.

The city of Naum 1s a frontier of the Chinese empire: they call it
fortified, and so it is as fortifications go there; for this I will venture
to affirm, that all the Tartars 1n Karakathy, which, I believe, are 501119
millions, could not batter down the walls with their bows and arrows;
but to call it strong, if it were attacked with cannon, would be to make
those who understand it laugh at you. '

We wanted, as I have said, about two days' journey of this city,
when messengers were sent express to- every part of the road, to tell
all travellers and caravans to halt, till they had a guard sent to them;
for that an unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all, had
appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the city.

This'was very bad =news to travellers: however, it was carefully
done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we shduld have
a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred soldiers
sent us from a garris'on of the'Chinese on our left, and three hundred
more from thelcity of N aum, and with those we advanced boldly: the
three hundred soldiers from Naum marched in our front, the two hun-
~ dred in our rear, and our men on each side of our camels with our
baggage, and thewhole caravan in the centre.' In this order, and
well prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the whole
ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the next day,
'when they did appear, it was quite another thing.

It was early in' the morning, when, marching from a little well-situ-
ated town, called Changu, we had a river to pass, where we were
obliged to ferry: and 'had the Tartars had any intelligence, then had
been the time to have attacked us, when, the caravan being over, the
rear guard was behind: but they did not appear there.

'v About three hours~ after, when we were entered upon a desert of
about fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they
raised, we saw an enemy was'at hand ; and they were at hand indeed,
for they came on upon the spur.

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the day
before, began to stagger, and the soldiers frequently looked behind
them, which is 'a certain sign in a soldier, that he is just ready to run
away. My old pilot was of my mind: and being near me, he called
out: "Seignior Inglese," said he, "those fellows must be encouraged,
or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars come on, they will never
stand it."--" I am of your mind," said 1.: " but what course must be
done ?"--" Done ?" said he; "let fifty of our men advance, and flank
them on each wing, and encouragevthem, and they will fight like brave
fellows-in brave company; but without it, they will every man turn
his back." Immediately I rode up to our leader, and told him, who
was exactly of our mind; and accordingly fifty of us marched to the
right wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of reserve;
for so we marched, lraving the lasttwo hundred men to make another
 

body to themselves, and to guard the camels; only that, if need were,
they should send a hundred men to assist the last fifty.

In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company they
were; how many, we could not tell, but ten thousand, we thought,
was the least. A party of them came on first, and viewed our posture,
traversing the ground in the front of our line; and as we found them
within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two wings to advance swiftly
and give them a salvo on each wing with their shot, which was done;
but they went off, and, I suppose, went back to given account of the '
reception'they were like to meet with; and, indeed, that salute clogged
their stomachs; for they immediately halted, stood a while to consider
of it, and, wheeling off to the left, they gave over the design, and said
no more to us for that time; which was very agreeable to our circum-
stances, which were but very indifferent for a battle with such a
number.

CHAPTER XV.

Further Account of our Journey--Description of an Idol, which we destroy--Great
danger we incur thereby--Account of our Travels through Muscovy.

Two days after this we came to the city of Naum, or Nannm. We
thanked the governor for his care for us, and collected to the value of
one hundred crowns,'or thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent
to guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison indeed, ..
and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here; but the reason of it -
was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them than
they do now, the Muscovites having abandoned that pa1t of the
country (which lies from the city west, for about two hundred miles),
as desolate and unfit for use, and more especially, being so very
remote, and so diflicult to send troops hither for its defence; for we
had yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so called.

After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts,
one of which we were sixteen days passing over, and which, as I said,
was to be called No Man's Land; and, on the 13th of April, we came
to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think the first city, or
town, or fortress, whatever it might be called, that belonged to the Czar
of Muscovy was called Argun, being on the west side of the river Argun.

I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction, that I was now
arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country; or, at least, in a country.
 

' , governed by Christians: for though the Muscovites do, in my opinion,
but just deserve the name of Christians, (yet such they pretend to be,
and are very devout in their way). It would certainly occur to any
man who travels the world as I have done, and who had any power of
reflection; I say, it would occur to him, to reflect, what a blessing it
is to be brought into the world where the name of God, and of a Re-
deemer, is known, worshipped, and adored--and not where the people,
given up by Heaven to strong delusions, worship the devil, and pros-
trate themselves to stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements,
horrible shaped animals, and statues, or images of monsters. Not a
town or city we passed through but had their pagods, their idols, and _
their temples; and ignorant people worshipping even the works of
their own hands!

Now we came where, at least, a face of the Christian worship ap-
peared, where the knee was bowed to 'Jesus; and whether ignorantly
or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the name of the true
God was called upon and adored; and it made the very recesses of my
soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scotch merchant I men-
tioned above, with my first acknowledgment of this; and, taking him
by the hand, I said to him, , "Blessed be God, we are once again come
among Christians !" He smiled, and answered, " Do not rejoice too
soon, countryman; these Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians:
and but for. the name of it, you may see very little of the substance for
some months further of our journey.

"Well," said I, " but still it is better than paganism, and worship-
ping of devils."--" Why, I'll tell you," said he, " except the Russian
soldiers in garrisons, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities upon
the road, all the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles farther,
is inhabited by the worst and most ignorant of pagans.". ' And so in-
deed we found it.

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if I un-
derstand any thing of the surface of the globe, that is to be found in
any part of the world: we had at least twelve hundred miles to the sea,
eastward; we had at least two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic
Sea, westward; and almost three thousand miles, if we left that sea
and went on west to the British and French channels 5 we had full five
thousand miles to the Indian, or Persian Sea, south; and about eight
hundred miles to the Frozen Sea, north ; nay, if some people may be
believed, there might be no sea north-east till we came round the pole,
and consequently, into the north-west, and so had a continent of land
into America, no mortal knows where; though I could give some
reasons why I believe that to be a mistake too
 

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, a good while beforewe ,
came to any considerable town, we had nothing to observe there but
this; first, that all the rivers run to the east. As I understood by the
charts which some of Our caravans had with them, it was plain that all
those rivers ran into the great river Yamour, or Gammour. - This river,

by the natural course of it, must run into the East Sea, or Chinese

   
 

Ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this river is choked?
up with bulrushes of a monstrous growth, namely, three 'feet abou't,_
and twenty or thirty feet high, I must be allowed to say I believe no'-.
thing of; but as its navigation is of no use,,bec se there is no trade
. that way, the Tartars, to whom alone it belongs, 'ealing 1n nothing but
cattle, so nobody that ever I heard of, has been curious enough either
to go down to the mouth of it in boats, or to come up from the mouth
of it in ships; but this is certain, that this river running due east, in
the latitude of sixty degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along
with it, and finds an ocean to empty itself in that latitude; so we are
sure of sea there.

Some leagues to the north of this river there are several consider-
able rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs east;
and theSe are all found to join their waters with the great river Tarta-
rus, named so from the northernmost nations of the Mogul Tartars,
who, the Chinese say, were the first Taitars in the world; and who,
as our geographers allege, are the IGog and Magog mentioned in'esacred
story.

These rivers running all northward, as well as all the other rivers I
am yet'to speak of, made it evident that the Northern Ocean bounds
the land also on that side; so that it does not seem rational in the least
to think that the land can extend itself to join with America on that
side, or that there is not a communication between the Northern and the
Eastern Ocean; but of this I shall say no more; it was my observa-
tion at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this place. ,We
new advanced from the river Arguna by easy and moderate journeys,
and were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar of Muscovy has
taken to have cities and towns built in as many places as are possible
to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison, something like the
' stationary soldiers placed by the Romans in the remotest countries of
their empire, some of which, I had read, were particularly placed in
Britain for the security of commerce, and for the lodging of travellers;
and thus it was here; though wherever we came at these towns and
stations, the garrisons and governor were. Russians, and>> professed mere
pagans, sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and stars,
or 3'] the host of heaven: and not only so, but were, of - all the
heathens and pagans that ever I met with, the most barbarous, except
only that they did not eat man's flesh, as our savages of America did.

, Some instances of this we met with in the country between Arguna,
where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of Tartars and
Russians together, called Nertzinskay; in which space is a continued

- desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over it. In a
village near the last of those places, I had the curiosity to go and see
their way of living, which is most brutish and ins'ufi'erable :_ they had, '
I suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for there stood out upon an old
stump of a tree, an idol made' of wood, frightful as the devil, at least
as any thing we can think of to represent the devil that can be made.
It had a head certainly 'not so much as resembling any creature that
the world ever saw,----ears as big as goat's horns, and as high,--eyes
as big as a crown piece, and a nose like a crooked ram's horn, and a
mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion, with horrible teeth,
hooked like a parrot's under bill. It was dressed up in the filthiest '
manner that you can suppose: its upper garment was of sheep skins,
with the wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with two
horns growing through it: it was about' eight feet high, yet had no
feet or legs, or any other proportion of parts.

This scarecrow was set up atithe outside of the village; and when
I came near to it there were sixteen or seventeen creatures, whether
men or women I could not tell, for they make no distinction by their
habits, either of body or head; these lay all flat on the ground, round
this formidable block of shapeless wood. I saw no motion among them
any more than if they had been logs of wood, like their idol ; at first .
I really thought they had been so; but when I came a little nearer,
they started up upon their feet, and raised a howling cry, as if it had
been so many deep-mouthed bounds, and walked away as if they were
displeased at our disturbing them. A little way of from this monster,
and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of sheep-skins and cow-
skins, dried, stood three butchers: I thought. they were such; for when
I came nearer to theni, I found they had long knives in their hands,
and in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one
young bullock orxsteer. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that sense-
less log of an idol; and these three men priests belonging to it; and '
the seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who brought the

' ofi'ering, and were making their prayers to that stock.

I confess I was more moved at their stupidity, and this brutish wor-
ship of a hobgoblin, than ever I was at any thing in my life,--to see
God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had granted so
many advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the works of his
hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that soul adorned 'with facul-- "
ties and capacities adapted both to honour his Maker and be honoured
by him,--I say, to see it 'sunk and degenerated to a degree so more
than stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a mere ima-- 1
ginary object dressed up by' themselves, and made terrible to themselves
by their own contrivance, adorned only with clouts and rags,--and that
this should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish
devotion by the devil himself, who, envying his Maker the homage and
adoration of his creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeit--
ing, sordid, and brutish things, as one would think should shock natqre "
itself.

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts 9
Thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there was no room to
w0nder at it,'or think it impossible. All my admiration turned to
rage; and I rode up to the image or monster, call it what you will,
and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on its head in two in' the
middle, so that it hung down by one of the horns; and one of our
men that was with me, took hold of the sheep-skin that covered it,
and pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry and howling
ran through the village, and two or three hundred people came about '
my ears, so that I was glad to scour for it; for we saw some had bows
and arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them again.

' Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which'was about fenr
miles off, in order to provide some horses, which they wanted, several
of the horses having been 'lamed and jaded with the badness of the
way, and our long march over the lastdesert; so we had some leisure
here to put my design in execution. 'I communicated'my project to
the Scots merchant, of Moscow, of whose courage I had had a suffi-
cient testimony, as above. I told him what I had seen, and with what
indignation I had since thought that human nature could be so dege-
nerate. I told him I was resolved, if I could get but four or five men
well armed to go with me, to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol;
to let them see, that it had no power to help itself, and consequently
could not be an object of worship, or to he prayed to, much less help
them that offered sacrifices to it;

He laughed at me; said he, "Your zeal may be good; but what do
you propose to yourself by it?"--"Propose!" said I; "to vindicate
the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil worship."

"But how will it vindicate the honour of God," said he, "while the
people will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless you could
speak to them too, and tell them so? and then they will fight you too,
I will assure you, for they are desperate fellows, andthat especially in
defence of their idolatryL"-i--" Can we not," said I,' "do it in the night,
and then leave them the reasons in writing, in their own language."--
"'Writing i". said be; "why, there is not in five nations of them one
man that knows any thing of a letter, or how toward a word in any
language, or in their own."--"Wretched ignorance 1" said I to him:

' "however 1 have a great mind to do it; perhaps nature may draw
inferences from it to them, to let'them see how brutish they are to
worship such horrid -things."'--" Look you, sir," said he; "if your
zeal prompts you to it so-w'armly, you must do it; but in the next
place, I would have you consider these wild nations of people are sub-
jected by force to the Czar of Muscovy's dominion; and if you do
"this, it is ten to one but they will come by thousands to the governor
of 'Nertzinskay, and complain, and demand satisfaction; and if he
[cannot give them satisfaction, it is ten to one>> but they revolt; and it
will occasion'a new war with all the Tartars in the country."

'This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for-a while; but I
harped'upon the same string still; and all that day I was uneasy to
put my project in execution. Towards the eveningthe Scots merchant
met me by accident in our walk about the town, and desired to speak
with me. "I believe," said he, "I have put you of your good design;

- - I have been a little concerned about it since; for I abhor the idol and
idolatry as much as you can do."--" Truly," said I, " you have put it
'03 a'little, as to the execution of it, but you have not put it all, out of
Tiny thoughts; and, I believe, I shall do it still before I quit this place,
- though I were to be delivered up to them for satisfaction."----" No, no,"
:said he, "God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of _
monsters! they shall not do 'that neither; that would be murdering
you indeed."--"Why," said I, "how would they use me ?"--" Use
you !" said-he; "I'll. tell you how they served a poor Russian, who
afi'ronted them in their worship just as you did, and whom they took

' prisoner, after they had lamed him with an arrow, that he could not
' run, away: they took him and stripped him stark naked, and set him
- upon the'top. of the idol monster, and stood all round him, and shot as
< many arrows into him as would'stick over his whole body; and then

' _ they burnt him, and all the arrows sticking in him,ras a sacrifice to the

"idO ."--'"And was this the same idol '3" said I. "Yes," said he,

. ".the very same.':'+-"'Well," said I,' "I will tell you a story." So I

related the story of ' our men at TMadag'ascar,' and how'they burnt and

' s'ackedthe village there, and :killed man, woman,~and child, for their

I-murdering one of ' our ,men, just as .-it.= is related before; and when I

.rhad"done,-*I added, that-I thought we ought todo so to this village.

:;3 joe" listenedf-very attentively tofth'e story; but when. I talked. of -'
 

doing so to that village, said he, " You mistake very much; it was not
this village; it .was,almost a hundred miles, from this place; but it
was the same idol, for they carry him about in procession all over the
country" ---"Well, " said I," then that idol ought to be punished for
it; and it shall, " said I," if I live this night out. "-

In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and told. me, I
should .not go alone,- but he would go with me; but he would go first,
and bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us;
," and one," said he, " as famous for his zeal asyou can- desire any one
to be against such devilish things as these." In a word, he brought
me his comrade, a Scotsman,'whom he called Captain Richardson; and
I gave him a full account of what I had seen, and also what I intended;
and he told me readily he would go with me, if it cost him his life,
So we agreed to go, only we three.' I had, indeed, proposed it to my
partner, but he declined it. He said, he was ready to assist me to the
utmost, and upon all occasions, for my defence, but that this was an
adventure quite out of his way: so, I say, We resolved upon our work,
only we three, and my man-servant, and to put it in execution that
night about midnight, with all the secrecy imaginable.

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing- to delay it till. the
next night, because the caravan being to set forward in the morning,
we supposed the governor could not pretend to give them any satisfacr
tion upon us when we were out of his power The Scots merchant,"
steady in' his. resolution to enterprise it as bold in; executing, brought
me a Tartar's robe, or gown _of sheep-skins, and a. bonnet, with-a'bow.
'and arrows, and had provided the same 'for hinmelf and his country~
man, that the people, if they saw us, should not be able to determine
who we were. - - - - -

All the first night we spent in mixing up.some combustible matter
with aquavitae, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could get, '
and having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour after
night we set out upon our expedition.

We came to the place about eleven o 'clock at night, and found- that.
the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their idol.
The night was cloudy , yet the moon gave us'light enough to see that ~
the idol stood just in the same posture and place that it did before;
The people seemed to be all at their rest; only, .'that in the great hut '
or tent, as we called it, where we saw the three priests whom we mis-
took for' butchers, we saw alight, and going up close to the door,_;\we
heard people talking,;as if; there were five-2 or six~ of them; we con:
cluded, therefore, that if we set wildfire to 'the idol, these men would
jcome out immediately andrrun; up tethe' place to rescue'it fromgthe.
 

destruction that we intended for it; and what to do with them we knew

not. Once we thought of carrying it away, and setting fire to it at a

distance, but when we came to handle it we found it too bulky for our

carriage; so we were at a loss again. The second Scotsman was for

Setting fire to the tent or hut, and knocking .the creatures that were

there on the head, when they came out; but I could not join with that:

I was against killing them, if it was possible to be avoided. "Well,
then," said the Scots merchant, " I will tell you what we will do; we

will try to make them prisoners, tie their hands, and make them stand

and see their idol destroyed."

As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about us, which
we used to tie our fireworks together with; so we resolved to attack
these people first, and with as little noise as we could. The first thing
we did we knocked at the door, when one of the priests coming to it,
we immediately seized upon him, stopped his mouth, and tied his hands
behind him, and led him to the idol, where we gagged him, that he
might not make a noise, tied his feet also together, and left him on the
ground.

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would
come out to see what the matter was, but we waited so long till the
third man came back to us, and then nobody coming out, we knocked
again gently, and immediately out came two more, and we served them
just in the same manner, but were obliged to go all with them, and lay
them down by the idol, some distance from one another; when going
back we found two more were come out to the door, and a third stood
behind them-within the door. We seized the two, and immediately
tied them, when the third stepping back, and crying out, my Scots
merchant went in after him, and taking out a composition we had made,
that would only smoke and stink, he set fire to it, and threw it' in among
them: by that time the other Scotsman and my man taking charge of
the two men already bound, and tied together also by the arm, led them
away to the idol, and left them there, to see if their idol would relieve
them, making haste back to us.

When the furze we had thrown in had filled the but with so much
smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw m a small lea-
ther bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and following it
in, we found there were but four people left, who, it seems, were two
men and two women, and, as we supposed, had been about some of their
' diabolic sacrifices. -They appeared, in short, frighted to death, at
least so as t. sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak neither,
for the smoke.

In a word, we took them, bound them as we had the other, and all
___.__----___------_

without any noise. I should have said, we brought them out of the
hquse, or hut, first; for, indeed, we were not able to bear the smoke
any more than they were. When we had done this, we carried them
altogether to the idol: when we came there we fell to work with him ;
and first we daubed him all over, and his robes also, with tar, and such
other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with brimstone; then we
stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth full of gunpowder; then we
wrapped up a great piece of wildfire in his bonnet; and then sticking
all the combustibles we had brought with us upon him, we looked about
to see if we could find any thing else to help to burn him ; when my
Scotsman remembered that by the tent, or hut, where the men were,
there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes I do not re-
member: away he and the other Scotsman ran, and fetched their arms
full of that. When we had done this, we took all our prisoners, and
brought them, having untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and
made them stand up, and set them just before their monstrous idol,
and then set fire to the whole.-

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour or thereabouts, till the pow-
der in the eyes and mouth and ears of the idol blew up, and, as we
could perceive, had split and deformed the shape of it; and, in a word,
till we saw it burnt into a mere block or log of wood; and then setting the -
dry forage to it, we found it would be soon quite consumed; so we began
to think of going away; but the Scotsman said, "No, we must not go,
for these poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the fire,
and burn themselves with the idol." So we resolved to stay till the
forage was burnt down too, and then we came away and left them.

In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellers, exceeding
busy in getting ready for our journey; nor could any man suggest
that we had been anywhere but in our beds, as travellers might be sup-
posed to be, to fit themselves for the fatigues of that day's journey.

' But it did not end so; for the next day came a great multitude of
the country people, not only of this. village, but of a hundred more,
for aught I know, to the town gates; and in a most outrageous man-
ner demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor, for the insulting
their priests, and burning their great Cham-Chi--Thaungu ; such a hard
name they gave the monstrous creature they worshipped. The people
of Nertzinskay were at first in a great consternation; for they said
the Tartars were no less than thirty thousand, and that in a few days
more they would be one hundred thousand stronger. '

The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and
gave them all the good words imaginable. He assured them he knew
nothing of it, and that there had not a soul of his garrison been

a2
 

abroad; that it could not be from anybody there; and if they would
let him know who it was, he should be exemplarily punished. They
returned haughtily, that all the country revereneed the great Cham-
Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared
to ofi'er violence to his image, but some Christian miscreants; so they
called them, it seems; and they therefore denounced war against him,
and all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to
have any cause of _war alleged to be given by him, the czar having
straitly charged him to treat the conquered country with gentleness
and civility, gave them still all the good words he could. At last he
told them, there was a caravan gone towards Russia. that morning,
and perhaps it was some of them who had done them this injury; and
that, if they would be satisfied with that, he would send after them,
to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a little; and accord-
ingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular account how
the thing was, intimating withal, that if any in our caravan had done
it, they should make their escape; but that, whether they had done it
or no, we should make all the haste forward that was possible; and
that, in the mean time, he would keep them in play as long as he
could.

This was very friendly in the governor. However, when it came to I
the caravan, there was nobody knew any thing of the matter; and, as
for us that were guilty, we were the least of all suspected: none so
much as asked us the question; however, the captain of the caravan,
for the time, took the hint that the governor gave us, and we marched
or travelled two days and two nights without any considerable stop,
and then we lay at a village called Plothus; nor did we make any long
stop here, but hastened on towards J arawena, another of the Czar of
Muscovy's colonies, and where we expected we should be safe; but it
is to be observed, that here we began, for two or three days' march,
to enter-upon a vast nameless desert, of which I shall say more in its
place; and which, if we had now been upon it, it is more than probable
we had been all destroyed. It was the second day's march from
. Plothus, that, by the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance, some
of ourpeople began to be sensible we were pursued; we had entered
the desert, and had passed by a great lake, called Schanks Osier, when
we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the other side of
the lake to the north, we travelling west. We observed they went
away west, as we did; but had supposed we should have taken that
side of the lake, whereas we very happily took the south side; and in
two days more we saw them not, for they, believiug'we were still before
 

them, pushed on till they came to the river Udda: this is. a very great
ri\ er when it passes farther north, but when we came to it, we found
it narrow and fordable. ,

The third day they either found their mistake, or had intelligence
of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the evening.
We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched upon a place for our
camp, which was very convenient for the night; for as we were upon
a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that was above five hun-
dred miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected
none but the city of J arawena, which we had yet two days' march to;
the desert, however, had some few woods in it on this side, and little
rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda. It was in a narrow
strait, between two small but very thick woods, that we pitched our
little camp for that night, expecting to be attacked in the night.

Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for; but as it was
usual for the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that desert, so
the caravans always fortify themselves every night against them, as
against armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new thing to be
pursued. '

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most ad-
vantageous camp; for we lay between two woods, with a little rivulet
running just before our front; so that we could not be surrounded or
attacked any way but in our front or rear; we took care also to make
our front as strong as we could, by placing our packs, with our camels
and horses, all in a line on the side of the river, and we felled some
trees in our rear.

In this posture we encamped for the night; but the enemy was upon
us before we had finished our situation: they did not come on us like
thieves, as we expected, but sent three messengers to us, to demand
the men to be delivered to them that had abused their priests, and
burnt their god Cham-Chi-Thaungu, that they might burn them with
fire; and, upon this, they said, they would go away, and do us no

. further harm, otherwise they would burn us all with fire. 7 Our men
looked very blank at this message, and began to stare at one another,
to see who looked with most guilt in their faces, but nobody was the
word, nobody did it. The leader of the caravan sent word, he was
well assured it was not done by any of our camp; that we were peace-

' able merchants, travelling on our business; that we had done no harm
to them, or to any one else; and therefore they must look further for
their enemies, who had injured them, for we were not the people; so
desired them not to disturb' us, for if they did, we should defend our
selves. -
They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer, and a
great crowd of them came down in the morning, by break of day, to
our camp; but, seeing us in such an advantageous situation, they durst
come no further than the brook in our front, where they stood, and
showed us such a number, as, indeed, terrified us very much; for those
that spoke least of them, spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood,
and looked at us a while; and then, setting up a grand howl, they let
fly a cloud of arrows among us; but we were well enough fortified for
that, for we were sheltered under our baggage; and I do not remember
that one man of us was hurt.

Some time after this we saw them move a little to our right, and
expected them on the rear, when a cunning fellow, a Cossack, as they
call them, of Jarawena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the
leader of the caravan, said to him, "I will send all these people away
to Sibeilka." This was a city four or five days' journey at least to the
south, and rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and,
getting on horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as it were,
back to Nertzinskay; after this, he takes a great circuit about, and
comes to the army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent express to
tell them a long story, that the people who had burnt their Cham-Chi-
Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of miscreants, as he
called them; that is to say, Christians; and that they were resolved
to burn the god Scal Isarg, belonging to the Tonguses.

As this fellow was a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke their lan-
guage, he counterfeited so well that they all took it from him, and
away they drove, in a most violent hurry, to Sibeilka, which, it seems,
was five days' journey to the south; and, in less than three hours,
they were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any more of
them, nor ever knew whether they went to that other place called
Sibeilka or no.

So we passed safely on to the city of Jarawena, where there was a
garrison of Muscovites; and there we rested five days, the caravan
being exceedingly fatigued with the last day's march, and with want
of rest in the night.

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us three-and-
twenty days' march. We furnished ourselves with some tents here,
for the better accommodating ourselves in the night; and the leader
of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, or wagons, of the country,
for carrying our water and provisions; and these carriages were our
defence every night round our little camp; so that had the Tartars
appeared, unless they had, been very numerous indeed, they would not
have been able to hurt us.01? ROBINSON onuson. 501

We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long journey;
for in this desert we saw neither house or tree, or scarce a bush; w'e
saw, indeed, abundance of the sable-hunters, as they called them.
These are all Tartars, of the Mogul Tartary, of which this country is
a part, and they frequently attack small caravans; but we saw no
numbers of them together. I was curious to see the sable-skins they
catched; but I could never speak with any of them; for they durst
not come near us; neither durst we struggle from our company to go
near them.

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well
inhabited; that is to say, we found towns and castles settled by the
Czar of Muscovy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers to protect the
caravans, and defend the country against the Tartars, who would other-
wise make it very dangerous travelling; and his czarish majesty has
given such strict orders for the well guarding the caravans and mer-
chants, that if there are any Tartars heard of in the country, detach-
ments of the garrison are always sent to see travellers safe from station
to station.

And thus the governor of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to
make a visit to, by means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted
with him, offered us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any
danger, to the next station.

I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe we
should find the country better peopled, and the people more civilized;
but I found myself mistaken in both, for we had yet the nation of the _
Tonguses to pass through, where we saw the same tokens of paganism
and barbarity, or, worse than before, only, as they were conquered by
the-Muscovites, and entirely reduced, they were not so dangerous; but
for the rudeness of manners, idolatry, and polytheism, no people in the
world ever went beyond them. They are all clothed in skins of beasts,
and their houses are built of the same. You know not a man from a
woman, neither by the ruggedness of their countenances or their
clothes; and in the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they
live under ground, in houses like vaults, which have cavities, or caves,
going from one to another.

If the Tartars had their Cham-Chi-Thaungu for a whole village, or
country, these had idols, in every but and every cave; besides, they
worship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow; and, in a word, every
thing that they do not understand, and they understand but very little :
so that almost every element, every uncommon thing, sets them a-sa~
crificing.

But I am no more to describe people than countries, any further than
 

my own story comes to be concerned in them. I met with nothing pe-
culiar to myself in all this country, which I reckon was, from the
desert which I spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of it
being another desert, which took us up twelveldays severe travelling,
without house, tree, or bush; but we were obliged again to carry our
own provisions, as well water as bread. After we were out of this
desert, and had travelled two days, we came to Janesay, a Muscovite
city, or station, on the great river Janesay. This river, they told us,
parted Europe from Asia, though our map makers, as I am told, do not
agree to it; however, it is certainly the eastern boundary of the ancient
Siberia, which now makes a province only of the vast Muscovite em~
pire, but is itself equal in bigness to the whole empire of Germany.

And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, ex-

cept in the Muscovite garrisons. All the country between the river
Oby and the river Janesay is as entirely pagan, and the people as bar-
barous, as the remotest of the Tartars; nay, as any nation, for aught
Iknow, in Asia or America. I also found, which I observed to the
Muscovite governors, whom. I had opportunity to. converse with, that
the pagans are not much the wiser, or the nearer: Christianity, for being
under the Muscovite government: which they acknowledged was true
enough ; but, they said, it was none of their business; that if the czar
expected to convert his 'Siberian, or Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it
should be done by sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; and
they added, with more sincerity than 'I expected, that they found it was
not so much the concern of their monarch to make the people Chris-
tians, as it was to make them subjects..
V From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild unculti-
. V vated country; I cannot say it is a barbarous soil; it is only barren
of people, and wants good management; otherwiseit is in itself a most
pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found
in it are all pagans, except such as are sent among them from Russia;
for this is the country, I mean on both sides the river Oby, whither the
Muscovite criminals, that are not put to death, are banished, and from
. whence it 'is next to impossible they should ever come away.

I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs, till I came
to Tobolski, the capital of Siberia, where I continued some time on
' the following occasion :-- ._.'

We had been now almost seven months on our journey, and winter
began to come on apace; whereupon my partner and I called a coun-
cil about our particular affairs, in which we found it proper, considering
that we were bound for, England, and not for Moscow, to consider how
to dispose of oufdelves. They told us of sledges and rein-deer tu
can y us over the snow in the winter time, and indeed, they have such

things as it would be incredible to relate the particulars of, by which
means the Russians travel more in the winter than they can in sum-
mer; because in these sledges they are able to run night and day: the
snow being frozen, is one universal covering to Nature, by which the hills,
the vales, the rivers, the lakes, are all smooth and hard as a stone; and
they run upon the surface, without any regard'to what is underneath.

But I had no occasion to push at a wintei journey of this kind; I
was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways.--
either I must go on as the caravan went, till I came to Jarislaw, and
then go 05' west for Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so either by
sea or land to Dantzic, where I might possibly sell my China cargo to
good advantage; or I must leave the caravan at a little town on the
Dwina, from whence I had but six days by water to Archangel, and
from thence might be sure of shipping, either to England, Holland, or
Hamburg.

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been
preposterous; for, as to Dantzic, the Baltic would be frozen up, and I
could not get passage; and to go by land in those countries, would be
far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars; likewise to Archangel,
in October all the ships would be gone from thence, and even the me1'-~
chants, who dwell there in summer, retire scuth to Moscow in the
winter, when the ships are gone; so that I should have nothing but
extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must
lie there in an empty town all the winter: so that, upon the whole, I
thought it much my better way to let the caravan go, and to make
provision to winter where I was, namely, at Tobolski, in Siberia, in
the latitude of sixty degrees, where I was sure of three things to wear
out a cold winter with, namely, plenty of provisions, such as the coun-
try afi'orded, a warm house,.with fuel enough, and excellent company;
of all which I shall give a full account in its place.

I was now in a quite difi'erent climate from my beloved island,
where I never felt cold, except when I had my ague; on the contrary,
I had much to do tolbear my clothes on my back, and never made any
fire but without doors, for my necessity, in dressing my food, &,c. Now ,
I made me three good vests, with large robes, or gowns, over them, to
hang down to the feet, and button close to the wrists, and all these
lined with furs, to make them sufliciently warm.

As to a warm house, I must confess, I greatly dislike our way in
England, of making fires in every room in the house, in open chim-
neys, which, when the fire was out, always kept the air in the room
cold as the climate But taking an apartment in a good house in the
 

town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the centre of
six several rooms, like a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke went up
one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and all the
rooms were kept equally warm, but no fire seen; like as they heat the
bagnios in England.

By this means we had always the same climate in all the rooms, and
an equal heat was preserved; and how cold soever it was without, it
was always warm within; and yet we saw no fire, nor were ever in-
commoded with any smoke. .

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be possible to
meet with good company here in a country so barbarous as that of the
most northerly part of Europe, near the Frozen Ocean, and within but
a very few degrees of Nova Zembla.

But this being the country where the state criminals of Muscovy, as
I observed before, are all banished; this city was full of noblemen.
princes, gentlemen, colonels, and, in short, all degrees of the nobility,
gentry, soldiery, and courticrs of Muscovy: here were the famous
prince Gallilf ken, or Galofi' ken, and his son; the old General Robos--
tisky, and several other persons of note, and some ladies.

CHAPTER XVI.

Conversations with a Russian Grandee--Set out on my Journey Homewards--Harassed
by Kslmucks on the Road--Arrival st Archangel--Sail from thence, and arrive
safely in England.

BY means of my Scots merchant, whom, nevertheless, I parted with
here, I made an acquaintance with several of these gentlemen, and
some of them of the first rank: and from these, in the long winter
nights in which I stayed here, I received several agreeable visits. It
was talking one night with a certain prince, one of the banished minis-
ters of state belonging to the Czar of Muscovy, that my talk of my
particular case began. He had been telling me abundance of fine
things, of the greatness, the magnificence, and dominions, and the ab-
solute power of the emperor of the Russians. I interrupted him, and
told him, that I was a greater and more powerful prince than ever the .
Czar of Muscovy was, though my dominions werefnot so large, or my
people so many. The Russian grandee looked a little surprised, and
fixing his eyes steadily upon me, began to wonder what I meant.

I told him his wonder would cease when I had explained myself.
 

 

First, I told him, I had the absolute disposal of the lives and fortunes
of 'all my subjects; that notwithstanding my absolute power, I had
not one person disaffected to my government, or to my person, in all
my dominions. He shook his head at that, and said, there, indeed,
I outdid the Czar of Muscovy. I told him, that all the lands in my
kingdom were my own, and all my subjects were not only my tenants,
but tenants at will; that they would all figlrt for me to the last drop;
and that never tyrant, for such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever
so universally beloved, and yet so horribly feared, by his subjects.
After amusing them with these riddles in gorernmcnt for a while, I
opened the case, and told them the story at large of my living in the
island, and how I managed both myself and the people there that
were under me, just as I have since minuted it down. They were
exceedingly taken with the story, and especially the prince, who told
me with a sigh, that the true greatness of life was to be master of our-
selves,----that he would not have changed such a state of life as mine,
to have been Czar of Museovy; and that he found more felicity in the
retirement he seemed to be banished to there, than ever he found in
the highest authority he enjoyed in the court of his master the Czar;
that the height of human wisdom was to bring our tempers down to our
circumstances, and to make a calm within, under the weight of the
greatest storm without. When he came first hither, he said, he used
to tear the hair from his head, and the clothes from his back, as others
had done before him: but a little time and consideration had made him
look into himself, as well as round himself, to things without; that he
foundthe mind of man, if it was but once brought to reflect upon the
state of universal life, and how little this world was concerned in its
true felicity, was perfectly capable of making a felicity for itself, fully
satisfying to itself, and, suitable to its own best ends and desires, with
but very little assistance from the world; that air to breathe in, food
to sustain life, clothes for warmth, and liberty for exercise, in order to
health, completed, in his opinion, all that the world could do for us:
and though the greatness, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures
which some enjoyed in the world, and which he had enjoyed his share
of, had much in them that was agreeable to us, yet he observed, that
all those things chiefly gratified the coarsest of our affections; such as
our ambition, our particular pride, our avarice, our vanity, and' our
sensuality; all which were, indeed, the more product of the worst part
of man, were in themselves crimes, and had in them the seeds of all
manner of crimes; but neither were related to, or concerned with, any
of those virtues that constituted us wise men, or of those graces which
distinguished us as Christians: that being now deprived of all the fan-
 

cied felicity which he enjoyed in the full exercise of all those vices, he
said, he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of them, where he
found all manner of deformity; and was now convinced, that virtue
only makes a man truly wise, rich, and great, and preserves him in
the way to a superior happiness in a future state; and in this, he said,
they were more happy in their banishment than all their enemies
were, who had the full possession of all the wealth and power that they
(the banished) had left behind them.

Nor, sir, said he, do I bring my mind to this politically, by the
necessity of my circumstances, which some call miserable; but if I
know any thing of myself, I would not go back, no, not though my
master, the Czar, should call me, and offer to reinstate me in all my
former grandeur; I say, I would no more go back to it, than I believe
my soul when it shall be delivered from this prison of the body, and
has had a taste of the glorious state beyond life, would come back to
the jail of flesh and blood it is now enclosed in, and leave heaven, to
deal in the dirt and grime of human affairs. '

He spake this with so much warmth in his temper, so much earnest-
ness and motion of his spirits, which were apparent in his countenance,
that it was evident it was the true sense of his soul; and indeed there
was no room to doubt his sincerity.

I told him, I once thought myself a kind of a monarch in my old sta-
tion, of which I had given him an account, but that I thought he was
not a monarch only, but a great conqueror; for- he that has got a vic-
tory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the absolute dominion
over himself, and whose reason entirely governs his will, is certainly
greater than he that conquers a city. "But, my lord]? said I, "shall
I take the liberty to ask you a. question ?"----" With all my heart," said
he.--" If the door of your liberty was opened," said I, "would not
you take hold of it to deliver yourself from this exile ?"

" Hold," said he, "your question is subtle, and requires some serious
just distinctions to give it a sincere answer; and I'll give it you'from.
the bottom of my heart. Nothing that I know of in this world would
move me to deliver myself from the state of banishment, except these
two: first, the enjoyment of my relations; and, secondly, a little
warmer climate. But I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp
of the court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister of state;
the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures, that is to say, follies of a
courtier; if my master should send me word this moment, that he
restores me to all he banished me from, I protest, if I know myself at
all, I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts, and these frozen
lakes, f 'r the palace of Moscow."
' "But, my lord," said I, "perhaps you not only are banished from
the pleasures of the court, and from the power, and authority, and
wealth, you enjoyed before, but you may be absent too from some of
the conveniences of life; your estate, perhaps, confiscated, and your
effects plundered; and the supplies left you here may not be suitable
to the ordinary demands of life."

"Ay," said he, "that is, as you suppose me to be a lord, or a
prince, &c. So indeed I am; but you are now to consider me only as
a man, a human creature, not at all distinguished from another; and
so I can suffer no want, unless I should be visited with sickness and
distempers. However, to put the question out of dispute; you see
our manner; we are in this place five persons of rank; we live per-
fectly retired, as suited to a state of banishment ; we have something
rescued from the shipwreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from the
mere necessity of hunting for our food; but the poor soldiers, who
are here without'that help, live in as much plenty as we. They go
into the woods, and catch sables and foxes; the labour of a month will
maintain them a year; and as the way of living is not expensive, so it
is not hard to get suflicient to ourselves: so that objection is out of
doors." '

I have no room to give a full account of the most agreeable con-
versation I had with this truly great man; in all which he showed,
that his mind was so inspired with a superior knowledge of things, so
supported by religion, as well as by a vast share of wisdom, that his
contempt of the world was really as much as he had expressed, and
that he was always the same to the last, as will appear in the story I am
going to tell.

I had been here eight months, and a dark dreadful winter I thought
it to be. The cold was so intense that I could not so much as look
abroad without being wrapt in furs, and a mask of fur before my face,
or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, and two for sight. The
little daylight we had, was, as we reckoned, for three months, not
above five hours a day, or six at most; only that snow lying on the -
ground continually, and the weather being clear, it was never quite
dark. Our horses were kept (or rather starved) under ground; and
as for our servants (for we hired servants here to look after our horses
and ourselves), we had every now and then their fingers and tees to
thaw, and'take care of, lest they should mortify and fall off.

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the
walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was
chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season; good bread
enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some
"W ~___._.._--

flesh of mutton, and of buffaloes, which is pretty good beef. All the
stores of provisions for the winter are laid up in the summer, and well
cured. Our drink was water mixed with aquavitae instead of brandy;
and, for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they have ex-
cellent good. The hunters, who ventured abroad all weathers, fre-
quently brought us in fresh venison, very fat and good; and sometimes
bear's flesh, but we did not much care for the last. We had a good
stock of tea, with which we treated our friends as above; and, in a
word, we lived very cheerfully and well, all things considered.

It was now March, and the days grown considerably longer, and the
weather at leasttolerable; so other travellers began to prepare sledges
to carry them over the snow, and to get things ready to be going; but
my measures being fixed, as I have said, for Archangel, and not for
Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no motion, knowing very well, that the
ships from the south do not set out for that part of the world till May
or June; and that if I was there at the beginning of August, it would
be as soon as any ships would be ready to go away; and therefore, I
say, I made no haste to be gone, as others did; in a word, I saw a.
great many people, nay, all the travellers, go away before me. It
seems, every year they go from thence to Moscow for trade; namely,
to carry furs, and buy necessaries with them, which they bring back
to furnish their shops: also others went on the same errand to Arch-
angel, but then they also, being to come back again above eight hun-
dred miles, went all out before me.

In short, about the latter end of May I began to make all ready to
pack up; and as I was doing this, it occurred to me, that seeing all
these people were banished by the Czar of Musoovy to Siberia, and
yet, when they came there, were at liberty to go whither they would,
why did they not then go away to any part of the world wherever
they thought fit? and I began to examine what should hinder them
from making such an attempt.

But my wonder was over, when I entered upon that subject with
the person I have mentioned, who answered me thus: " Consider, first,"
said he, "the place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we are
in; especially," said he, "the generality of the people who are ban-
ished hither. We are surrounded with stronger things than bars and
bolts: on the north side is an unnavigable ocean, where ship never
sailed and boat never swam; neither, if we had both, could we know
whither to go with them. Every other way," said he, "we have above
a thousand miles to pass through the Czar's own dominions, and by
ways utterly impassable, except by the roads made by the government,
and through the towns garrisoned by its troops; so that we could
 

neither pass undiscovered by the road, or subsist any other way; so
that it is in vain to attempt it."

I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they were in a pri-
son, every jot as secure as if they had been locked up in the castle of
Moscow; however, it came into my thoughts, that I might certainly
be made an instrument to procure the escape of this excellent person,
and that it was very easy for me to carry him away, there being no
guard over him inthe country; and as I was not going to Moscow,
but to Archangel, and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by
which I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the. desert,
but could encnmp every night where I would, we might easily pass
uninterrupted to Archangel, where I could immediately secure him on
board an English or Dutch ship, and carry him 01? safe along with me;
and as to his subsistence, and other particulars, that should be my
care, till-he should better supply himself. .

He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me all the
while I spoke; nay, I could see in his very face, that what I said put
his Spirits into an exceeding ferment; his colour frequently changed,
his eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might even be per-
ceived in his countenance; nor could he immediately answer me when
I had done, and, as it were,,expected what he would say to it; and
after he had paused a little, be embraced me, and said, "How'unhappy
are we, unguided creatures as we are, that even our greatest acts of
friendship are made snares to us, and we are made tempters of one
another! My dear friend," said be, "your offer is_so sincere, has
such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so calculated for
my advantage, that I must have very little knowledge of the world,
if I did not both wonder at it, and acknowledge the obligation I have
upon me to you for it: but did you believe I was sincere in what I
have so often said to you of my contempt of the world? Did you
believe I spoke my very soul to you, and that I had really maintained
that degree of felicity here, that had placed me above all that the
world could give me, or do for me? Did you believe I was sincere,
when I told you I would not go back, if I was recalled even to be
that once I was in the court, and with the favour of the Czar, my
master? Did you believe me, my friend, to be an honest man, or did
you think me to be a boasting hypocrite ?" Here he stopped, as if he
would hear what I would say; but, indeed, I soon after perceived, that
he stopped because his spirits were in motion; his heart was full of
struggles, and he could not go on. I was, I confess, astonished at the
thing, as well as at the man, and I used some arguments with him to
urge him to set himself free; that he ought to look upon this as a
 

door opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a summons by Provi~
dence, who has the care and good disposition of all events, to do him~
self good, and to render himself useful in the world.

He had by this time recovered himself. "How do you know, sir,"
said he, warmly, "but that, instead of a summons from Heaven, it
may be a feint of another instrument, representing, in all the alluring
colours to me, the show of felicity as a deliverance, which may in
itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin? Here I am free
from the temptation of returning to my former miserable greatness;
there I am not sure, but thatlall the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice,
and luxury, which I know remain in my nature, may revive and take
root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me; and then the happy p11-
soner, whom you see new master of his soul's liberty, shall be the
miserable slave of his own senses, in the full possession of all pe1 sonal
liberty. Dear sir, let me remain in this blessed confinement, banished
from the crimes of life, rather than purchase a show of freedom at
the expense of the liberty of my reason, and at the expense of the
'future happiness which now I have in my view, but shall then, I fear,
quickly lose sight of; for, I am but flesh, a man, a mere man, have
passions and affections as likely to possess and ove1 throw me as any
man . Oh, be not my fiiend and my tempter both together. "'

If I was surprised before I was quite dumb now, and stood silent,
looking at him; and, indeed, admi1ed what I saw. The struggle 111
his soul was so great, that, though the weather was extremely cold, it
put him into a most violent sweat, and I found he wanted to give vent
to his mind; so I said a Word or two, that I would leave him to con-
sider of it, and wait on him again; and then I withdrew to my own
apartment.

About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near the-door of the-
room, and I was going to open the door; but he had opened it, and
come in: "My dear friend," said he, "you had almost overset me,
but I am recovered; do not take it ill that I do not close with' your
offer ; I assure you, it is not for want of a. sense of the kindness of it
in you; and I come to make the most sincere acknowledgment of it to
you ; but, I hope, I have got the victory over myself."

" My lord," said I, "I hope you are fdlly satisfied that you did not
resist the call of Heaven."----"Sir," said be, "if it had been from
Heaven, the same power would have influenced me to accept it; but I
hope, and am fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven that I decline it;
and I have an infinite satisfaction in the parting, that you shall leave
me an honest man still, though not a free man."

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make profession to him ofC _.

 

my having no end in it, but a sincere desire to serve him.' He em-
braced me very passionately, and assured me, he was sensible of that,
and should always acknowledge it: and with that he ofi'ered me a very
fine present of sables, too much indeed for me to accept from a man in
his circumstances ; and I would have avoided them, but he would not
be refused. ' _

The next morning I_ sent my servant to his lordship, with a small
present of-tea, two pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of .
Japan gold, which did not all weigh above six ounces or thereabouts;
but were far short of the value of his sables, which, indeed, when I
came to England, I found worth near two hundred pounds. He ac-
cepted the tea, and one piece of the damask, and one of the pieces of
gold, which had a fine stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which I
found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any more; and
sent word by my servant, that he desired to speak with me.

When I came to him, he told me, I knew what had passed between
us, and hoped I would not move him any more in that afl'air; but that, ,
since I made such a generous ofi'er to him, he asked me, if I had kind-
ness enough to offer the same to another person that he would name to
me, in whom he had a great share of concern. I told him,_that I
could not say I inclined to do so much for any one but himself, for-
whom I had a particular value, and should have been glad to
have. been the instrument of his deliverance: however, if he would
please to name the person to me, I would give him my answer,
and hoped he would not be displeased with me, if he was with my
answer. He told me, it was only his son, who, though I had not seen,
yet was in the same condition with himself, and above two hundred
miles from him, on the other side the Oby; but that, if 1 consented,
he would send for him. '

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made some cere-
mony in letting him understand that it- was wholly upon his account ,
and that, seeing I could not prevail on him, I would show my respect
to him by my concern for his son: but these things are too tedious
to repeat here. He sent away the next day for his son, and in about
twenty days he came back with the messenger, bringing six or seven'
horses loaded with very rich furs, and which, in the whole, amounted
to a very great value.

His servants brought the horses into the town, but left the young
lord at a distance till night, when he came incognito into our apartment,
and his father presented him to me; and, in short, we concerted there
the manner of our travelling, and every thing proper for the journey.

I had bought a considerable quantity of Sables, black fox skins, fine
 

ermins, and such other furs that are very rich; I say I had bought
them in that city in exchange for some of the goods brought from
China; in particular, for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the
greatest part here, and the rest afterwards at Archangel, for a much
better price than I could have done at London ; and my partner, who
was sensible of the profit, and whose business, more particularly than
mine, was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our stay, on account
of- the traffic we made here. -' '

i It was in the beginning of June when I left this remote place, a
city, I believe, little heard of in the world ;' and, indeed, it is so far
out of the road of commerce, that I know not how it should be much
talked of. We were now come to a very small caravan, being only
thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all of them passed for mine,
though my new guest was proprietor of eleven of them. It was most
natural, also, that I should take more servants with me than I had'
before, and the young lord passed for my steward ; what great man I
passed for myself I know not, neither did it cohce'rn me to inquire.

We had here the worst and the largest desert to pass over that we
met with in all the journey; indeed I call it the worst, because the
way was very deep in some places, and very uneven in others; the
best we had to say for it was, that we thought we had no troops of
Tartars and robbers to fear, and that they'never came on this side the
river Oby, or at least but very seldom; but we found it otherwise.

My young lord had with hints faithful Muscovite servant, 'or rather
a Siberian servant, who was perfectly acquainted with the country,
and who led us by private roads, that we avoided coming into the prin-
cipal towns and cities upon the great road, such as Tumen, Soloy Ka-
maskoy, and several others; because the Muscovite garrisons, which
are kept there, are very' curious and strict in their observation upon
travellers, and searching lest any of the banished persons of note
should make their escape that way into Muscovy; but by this means,
as we were kept out of the cities, so our whole journey was a desert,
and we were obliged to encamp and lie in our tents, when we might
have had good accommodation in the cities on the way: this the young
lord was so sensible of, that he would not allow us to lie abroad, when
we came to several cities on the way, but lay abroad himself, with his
servant, in the woods, and met us always at the appointed places.

We were just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which,
in these parts, is the boundary between Europe and Asia; and the
first city on the European side was called Soloy Kamaskoy, which is
as much as to say, the great city on the river Kama; and here we

thought to have seen some evident alteration in the people, their man-
33
 

ners, their habit, their religion, and their business; but we were mis-
taken; for as we had a vast desert to pass, which by relation is near
seven hundred miles long in some places, but not above two hundred
miles over where we passed it; so, till we came past that horrible
' place, we found very little difference between that country and the
Mogul Tartary ; the people mostly Pagans, and little better than the
savages of America; their houses and towns full of idols, and their-
way of living wholly barbarous, except in the cities as above, and the
villages near them, where they are Christians, as they call themselves,
' of the Greek church; but even these have their religion mingled with
so many relics of superstition, that it is scarce to be known in some
places from mere sorcery and witchcraft.

In passing this forest, I thought indeed we must, after all our dan-
gers were, in our imagination, escaped, as before, have been plundered,
and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves: of what
country they were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachi, a kind
of Tartars, or wild people on the banks of the Oby, had ranged thus
far, or whether they were the sable-hunters of Siberia, I am yet at a
loss to know; but they were all on horseback, carried bows and arrows,
and were at first abOut five-and-forty in number. They came so near
to us as within about We musket-shot ; and, asking no' questions, they
surrounded us with their horses, and looked very earnestly upon us
twice. At length they placed themselves just in our way; upon which
we drew up in a little line before our camels, being not above sixteen
men in all; and being drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out the
Siberian servant who attended his lord, to see who they were: his
master was the more willing to let him go, because he was not a little
apprehensive that they were a Siberian troop sent out after him. The
man came up near them with a flag of truce, and called to them; but
though he spoke several of their languages, or dialects of languages
rather, helcould not understand a word they said; however, after some
signs to him not to come nearer to them at his peril, so he said he
understood them to mean, offering to shoot at him if be advanced, the
fellow came back no wiser than he went, only that by their dress, he
said he'believed them to be some Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Cir-
cassian hordes, and that there must be more of them on the great
desert, though he never heard that ever any of them were seen so far
north before.

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy: there
wason our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile's distance, a little
grove or clump of trees, which stood close together, and very near the
road; I immediately resolved we should advance to those trees,-and
___--__--__._.
fortify ourselves as well as we could there; for, first, I considered that
the trees would in .a'great measure cover us from their arrows; and'in
the next place, they could not come to charge us in a body: it was,
indeed, my old 3ortuguese pilot who proposed it; and who had this
excellency attending him, namely, that he was always readiest and
most apt to direct and encourage us in cases of the most danger. We
advanced immediately with what speed we could, and gained that little
wood, the Tartars, or thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keep-
ing their stand, and not attempting to hinder us. When we came
thither, we found, to our great satisfaction, that it was a swampy,
springy piece of ground, and, on the other side, a great spring of
water, which, running out in a little rill or brook, was a little farther
joined by another of the like bigness; and was, in short, the head or
source of a considerable river, called afterwards the Wirtska. The
trees which grew about this spring were not in all above two hundred,
but were very large, and stood pretty thick; so that as soon as we
got in, we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the enemy, unless they
alighted and attacked us on foot.

But to make this more dificult, our Portuguese, with indefatigable
application cut down great arms of the trees, and laid them hanging,
not quite cut "013', from one tree to another; so that he made a'con-
tinued fence almost round us.

We stayed here, waiting the motion of the enemy some hours, without
perceiving they made any ofl'er to stir; when about two hours before
night, they came down directly upon us; and, though we had not per-
ceived it, we found they had been joined by some more of the same, so
that they were near fourscox'e horse, whereof, however, we fancied some _
were women. rl'hey came on till they were within half a shot of our
little wood, when we fired one musket without ball, and called to'them
in the Russian tongue, to know what they wanted, and bid them keep
off; but, as if they knew nothing of what we said, they came on with
a double fury directly up to the wood side, not imagining we were so
'barricaded that they could not break in. Our old pilot. was our cap-
tain, aswell as he had been our engineer; and desired of us, not to fire
'upon them till they came within pistol-shot, that we might be sure to i
kill; and that, when we did fire, we should be sure to take good aim.
We bade him give the word of command, which he delayed so long that
they were, some of them, within two pikes' length of us when we fired.

'We aimed so true, or Providence directed our shot so sure, that we
killed fourteen of them at the first volley, and wounded several others,
as also several of their horses; for we had all of us loaded our p'ecea
"with two or three bullets af'ece at least. .
They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated immediately
about one hundred rods from us; in which time we loaded our pieces
again, and seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and caught
" four or five of their horses, whose riders, we supposed, were killed;
and coming up to the dead, we could easily perceive they were Tartai s,
but knew not from what country, or how they came to make an excur-
sion such an unusual length.

About an hour after, they made a motion to attack us again, and
rode round our little wood, to see where else they might break in; but
finding us always ready to face them, they went off again, and we re-
solved'not to stir from the place for that night.

We slept little, you may be sure; but spent the most part of the
night in strengthening our situation, and barricading the entrances into
the wood; and, keeping a strict watch, we waited for daylight, and,
when it came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed: for the -
enemy, who we thought were discouraged with the reception they had
met with, were now increased to no less than three hundred, and had
set up eleven or twelve huts and tents, as if they were resolved to be~
siege us; and this little camp they had pitched, was upon the open
plain, at about three quarters of a mile from us. We were indeed sur-
prised at this discovery; and now, I confess, I gave myself over for
lost, and all that I had. The loss of my effects did not lie so near me
(though they were very considerable) as the thoughts of falling into
the hands of such barbarians, at the latter end of my journey, after
so many difiiculties and hazards as I had gone through; and even in-
sight of our port, where we expected safety and deliverance. As for
my partner, he was raging: he declared, that to lose his goods would
be his ruin; and he would rather die than be starved; and he was for
fighting to the last drop.

The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh showed itself, was for tight
ing to the last also, and my old pilot was of the opinion we were able
to resist them all, in the situation we then were in; and thus we spent
the day in debates of what we should do; but towards evening, we
found' that the number of our enemies still increased: perhaps, as they
were abroad in several parties for prey, the first had sent out scouts
to call for help, and to acquaint them of their booty; and we did not
know but by the morning 'they might still be a greater number; so I
began to inquire of those people we had brought from Tobolski, if
there were no other, or more private ways, by which we might avoid
them in the night, and perhaps either retreat to some town, or get help
to guard us over the desert.

The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord. told us, if we de-
signed to avoid them, and not fight, he would engage to carry us off in
the night to a way that went north towards the river Petraz, by which
he made no doubt but we might get away, and the Tartars never the
wiser; but he said, his lord had told him he would not return, but
would rather choose to fight. I told him, he mistook his lord; for that
he was too wise a man to love fighting for the sake of it; that I knew
his lord was brave enough by what he had showed already; but that
his lord knew better than to desire to have seventeen or eighteen men
fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable necessity 'forced thetho it;
and that if he thought it possible for us to escape in the night, we had
nothing else to do but to attempt it. He answered, if his lord gave
him such order, he would lose his life if he did not perform it. We
soon brought his lord to give that order, though privately, and we im-
mediately prepared for the putting it in practice.

And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fire in our
little camp, which we kept burning, and prepared so as to make it
burn all night, that the Tartars might conclude we were still there;
' but, as soon as it was dark, that is to say, so as we could see the stars,
(for our guide would not stir before), having all our horses and camels
ready loaded, we followed our new guide, who, I soon found, steered
himself by the pole, or north star, all the country being level for a
long way.

After we had travelled tWo hours very hard, it began to be lighter
still; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon began to rise;
so that, in short, it was rather lighter than we wished it to be: but by
six o'clocknext morning, we were gotten nearly forty miles, though
the truth is, we almost spoiled our horses. Here we found a Russian
village, named Kirmazinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of
the Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours before night we set
out again, and travelled till eight the next morning, though not quite
so hastily as before; and about seven o'clock we passed a little river,
called Kirtza, and came to a good large town inhabited by Russians,
and very populous, called Ozomys. There we heard that several
troops, or herds, of Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but
that we were now completely out of danger of them, which was to our
great satisfaction, you may be sure. Here we were obliged to get
some fresh horses; and, having need of rest, we stayed five days; and
my partner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian, who brought us
hither, the value of ten pistoles for his conducting us.

In five days more we came to Veussima, upon the river Witzogda,
which running into the river Dwina, we were there very happily near
the end of our travels by land, that river being navigable in seven518 LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

days' passage to Archangel. From hence we came to Lawrenskoy,-
where the river joins, the third of July; and provided ourselves with
two luggage-boats, and a barge, for our convenience. We embarked
the seventh, and arrived all safe at Archangel the eighteenth, having
been a year, five months, and three days on the journey, including our
stay of eight months and odd days at Tobolski.

We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the arrival of
the ships, and must have tarried longer, had not a Hamburgher come
up in above a month sooner than any of the English ships; when,
after some consideration, that the city of Hamburgh might happen to
be as good a market for our goods as London, we all took freight with
him; and, having put our goods on board, it was most natural for me
to put my steward on board to take care of them; by which means
my young lord had a sufficient opportunity to conceal himself, never>>

_ coming on shore again in all the time we stayed there; and this he did,
that he might not be seen in the city, where some of the Moscow mer~
chants would certainly have seen and discovered him.

We sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August the same year;
and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived in the Elbe the thir-
teenth of September. Here my partner and I found a very good sale
for our goods, as well those of China, as the sables, &c., of Siberia;
and, dividing the/produce of our efl'ects, my share amounted to three
thousand four hundred and seventy-five pounds, seventeen shillings,
and three pence, notwithstanding so many losses we had sustained,
and charges we had been at; only remembering that I had included
in this, about six hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which I had
purchased at Bengal.

Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the Elbe, in
order to go to the court of Vienna, where be resolved to seek protec-
tion,_ and where he could correspond with those of his father's friends
who were left alive. He did not part without all the testimonies he
could give, of gratitude for the service I had done him, and his sense
of my kindness to the prince his father.

To conclude: having stayed near four months in Hamburgh, I
came from thence overland to the Hague, where I embarked in the
packet, and arrived in London the tenth of January, 1705, having
been gone from England ten years and nine months.

And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am preparing for a
longer journey than all these, having lived seventy-two years a life of
infinite variety, and learned sufiiciently to know the value of retirement,
and the blessing of ending our days in peace.APPENDIX.

 

Anon! seven years before the appearance of Robinson Crusoe, a Scottish sailor returned
to London after four years' solitary residence in.the island of Juan Fernandez.
Several accounts of his adventures were then published, which excited much interest
at the time, and doubtless suggested the idea of the preceding work. That the reader
may have an opportunity of comparing truth with fiction, Howell's Life of Alexander
Selkirk--a work in which all that is known of him is industriously collected--is
here stripped of collateral matters and appended '

ALEXANDER Sstcsno, for he changed the orthography of his name to SBLKmx after
he went to sea, was born at Large, in Scotland, in 1676. His father carried on the
joint trade of shoemaking and tanning, and amassed considerable property, which was
equally divided among his family.

At a proper age he was sent to school, where. he made considerable progress in the
branches usually taught, more especially in navigation, as the whole bent of his mind
was to go to sea. He was of quick parts, but aspoiled and wayward boy, frequently
engaged in mischief of one kind or another, and restless in the extreme. This was
much increased by the indulgence of his mother. who concealed as much as she could
his faults from his father, who was a strict disciplinarian ; she havingformed the most
extravagant hopes from the circumstance of his birth, as being a seventh son, or lucky
lad. These foolish hopes led her to encourage his going to sea, that he might obtain
the good fortune on which her superstitious dreams were fixed.

Until the year 1695, Alexander continued at home working with his father; but he
was still very unsettled, and gave to his parents much cause of uneasiness by his way-
ward- humours and irregular conduct, which at length brought him under church ceu-
sure. Being now eighteen years of age, and spurning the control of his father, he
went to sea, rather than be rebuked in church for his improper behaviour. For a
period of six years he remained abroad; but in what situation, or in what particular
part of the world, there are no documents to prove.

In the year 1701, we find him again at Largo, the same wayward person as ever;
nay, if possible, worse than he was before, quarrelling and fighting with his brothers
so much that the elders of the church were obliged to take up the cause, and cite him
before them. To this citation he paid due obedience, and even gave satisfaction for
his offence, after which' he left Scotland, and engaged' 111 that voyage which has ren-
dered the subsequent part of his life so interesting to the loxers of romance and of

. personal history.

With the first ship that required his services Alexander sailed for England, bentupon
going to the South Seas, that place of hope and promise, where seamen had gold' in
abundance for the taking , and where he probably had passed the six previous years.

The Spanish Succession war was raging at that time, and Captain Dampier, whose
knowledge of the South Seas was great, and his adventures well known, persuaded
several merchants to subscribea sum towards equipping two vessels to sail into thatpart
of the ocean upon aprivateering expedition, being excited by the report of the immense
sums of gold got by the Buccaneers, and by the lofty schemes of- the projector.

Dampier's first scheme was to go up the river La Plata, as far as Buenos Ayres, and

519
 

capture two or three galleons, which he said were usually stationed there. If by this
capture they obtained PS600,000 they would return home; otherwise they were' to cruise
03' the coast of Peru for the Baldivia ships, which carry great quantities of gold to
Lima. If this likewise failed, they were to attempt such rich towns as he should think
worth plundering, and. afterwards lie in wait for the Acapulco ship, said to be worth
thirteen or fourteen millions of pieces of eight.

That these objects might be attained, two vessels were equipped, the St. George,
mounting twenty-six guns, of which William Dampier was captain; John Clipperton,
chief mate; and William Funnel, who wrote an account of the voyage, second mate:
and the Cinque Ports Galley, Charles Pickering, captain ; Thomas Stradling, lieutenant;
and Alexander Selkirk, sailing-master. .

On'Septemher 1], 1703, they set soil from Kinsala, Ireland. 0n the 2d of November
the two'vessels crossed the equator. 0n the 24th, they anchored at La Grands, an un-
inhabited island belonging to the Portuguese, where they watered, and completed their
supply of wood. While they lay there, Captain Charles Pickering died, and was buried
on shore, at the watering-place, with every honour they could bestow upon his memory.
This was a misfortune that could not be repaired, and quite destroyed all hopes of
success, as he was looked upon by all as the main prop of the expedition. His death
was the event which led to Alexander Selkirk's determination rather to remain on some
island, perhaps for ever secluded from all human society, than sail with his successor,
Mr. Stradling, who was appointed in Captain Pickering's place.

It was at this time, while brooding over the untoward appearances thatwere but too
evident to every person of judgment, that he had a remarkable dream, in which he

was forewarned of the total failure of the expedition, and shipwreck of the Cinque
Ports. From this period be resolved to leave her, the first favourable opportunity,
which soon occurred.

0n the 18th of February, 1704, the vessels arrived at the island of Juan Fernandez,
and anchored In Cumberland Bay. All the crews were very busy for some time; for
here they wooded, watered, hulled,_ and refitted their ships. While thus employed.
a. violent quarrel broke out between Captain Stradling and his crew. So high did their
disputes arise, and so universal was their discontent, that forty-two out of the sixty
men went on shore, resolving not to return on board; so that for two days the vessel
rode at anchor, almost quite deserted, during which time the sailors wandered up and
down the island, without coming to any final determination. Whether Alexander was
among the revolters, or stayed with Strndling, on board, Funnel does not mention ; but
that he was with them, there is every reason to suppose, from what afterwards oc-
curred; and that, moreover, this was the time' In which he made these observations
upon the island which determined him in his subsequent choice,' Is very probable.

At length, the refractory crew being weary of their situation, Captain Dampier suc-
ceeded in reconciling them to their captain, and they returned to their duty. They
continued here till the 29th of February, when they again sailed; but, from the indecision
of Dampier, achieved nothing. 0n the 19th of May, the two ships parted company.
never to meet again. Selkirk remained with Stradling, being no doubt convinced, by
this time, that no money was to be got under Dampier's command, and that no enter-
prise would succeed where he was the leader.

From this period until the end of August, the Cinque Ports kept cruising along the
shores of Mexico, or among the islands, without any success, the St. George having
gone to the coast of Peru. During this period a. violent quarrel arose between "Hon-
est Selkirk," as Harris calls our hero, and Captain Strndling. So high did their dis-
pute arise, that Selkirk resolved to leave the vessel, whatevcr mightbs the consequence.
At length want of provisions, and the crazy state of the ship, compelled Stradling to
sail for the island of Juan Fernandez, to refit.

From the beginning to the end of September, the vessel remained undergoingrepairs.W
The disagreement, instead of being made up, became greater every day, and strength-
ened the res'olution which Selkirk had made to leave the vessel. Just before getting
under weigh, he was landed, with all his efi'eets, and he leaped on shore with a faint
sensation of freedom and joy. He shook hands with his comrades, and bade them adieu
in a hearty manner, while Stradling sat in the boat urging their return to the ship,
which order they instantly obeyed; but no sooner did the sound of their care, as they
left the bench, fall on his care, than the horrors of being left alone, cut ofl' from all
human society, perhaps for ever, rushed upon his mind. His heart sunk within him,
and all his resolution failed. He rushed into the water, and implored them to return
and take him on board with them. To all his entreaties Stradling turned a deaf ear,
and even mocked his despair; denouncing the choice he had made of remaining upon
the island as rank mutiny, and describing his present situation as the most proper
state for such a fellow, where his example would not affect others.

For many days after being left alone, Selkirk was under such great .dejection of
mind that he never tasted food until urged by extreme hunger, nor did he go to sleep
until he could watch no longer, but sat with his eyes fixed in the direction where he
had seen his shipmates depart, fondly hoping that they would return and free him from
his misery. Thus he remained seated upon his chest, until darkness shut out every
object from his sight; and morning found him still anxiously there.

When urged by hunger, he fed upon seals, and such shell-fish as he could pick up
along the shore. The reason of this was the aversion he felt to leave the beach, and
the care he took to save his powder. Though seals and shell-fish were but sorry fare,
his greatest inconvenience was the want of salt and bread, which made him loathe his
food until reconciled to it by long use.

It was now the beginning of October, 1704, which, in those southern latitudes, is the
middle of spring, when nature appears in a thousand varieties of form and fragrance,
quite unknown in northern climates; but the agitation of his mind, and the forlorn
situation in which he was now placed, caused all its charms to be unregarded. There
was present no one to partake of its sweets,--no companionto whom he could commu-
nicate the feelings of his mind. He had to contend for life in a mode quite strange to
him, and it was with much difficulty that he sustained the feeling of being alone in
such a desolate place. What greatly added to the horrors of his condition, was the
noise of the seals during the night, and the crashing made by falling trees and rocks
among the heights; which often broke the stillness of the scene with dismal sounds,
that were echoed from valley to valley. So heart-sinking was his situation, that nothing
but Divine Providence could have sustained him from falling into utter despair. Indeed,
he often thought of putting a period to his sufl'erings by a violent death; so feeble is
all the boasted firmness of the most daring courage when left for a length of time to
solitude, and its own unassisted resources.

It was in this trying situation, when his mind, deprived of all outward occupation,
was turned back upon itself, that the whole advantages of that inestimablo blessing, a
religious education in his youth, was felt in its consoling influence, when every other
hope and comfort had fled. When misery had subdued the pride of his hard and
stubborn heart, it was then he turned to that Divine Being of whom he had thought so
little at an earlier period. Then the uninhabited wilderness of Juan Fernandez was
turned into a smiling garden, and the darkness of that despair that had nearly over-
whelmed him began to clear away. By slow degrees he became reconciled to his fate;
and, as winter approached, he saw the necessity of procuring some kind of shelter from
the weather; for, even in'that genial clime, frost is common-during the night, and snow
is sometimes found upon the ground in the morning.

' The building of a hut was the first object that roused him to exertion; and his .
necessary absence from the shore gradually weaned his heart from that aim which
had alone absorbed all his thoughts, and proved a secondary means of his obtaining
 

that serenity of mind he afterwards enjoyed; but it was eighteen months before he
became fully composed, or could be for one whole day absent from the beach, and from
his usual hopeless watch for some vessel to relieve him from his melancholy sltuntiou.'
During his stay, he built himself two huts with the wood of the pimento tree, and
thatched them with a species of grass that grows to the height of seven or eight feet
upon the plains and smaller hills, and produces straw resembling that of oats. The
one was much larger than the other, and situated near a spacious wood. This he made
his sleeping-room, spreading the bed-clothes he had brought on shore with him upon a.
frame of his own construction ; and as these were out, or were used for other purposes,
he supplied their place with goats' skins.1- His pimento bed-room he used also as his
chapel; for here he kept up that simple but beautiful form of family worship which he
had been accustomed win his father's house. Soon after he left his bed, and before
he commenced the duties of the day, he sang a psalm, or part of one, then he read a
portion of Scripture, and finished with devout prayer. In the evening, before he re-
tired to rest, the same duties were performed. His devotions he repeated aloud, to
- retain the use of speech, and for the satisfaction man feels in hearing the human voice,
even when it is only his own. The greater part of his days was spent in devotion; for
he afterwards said, with tears in his eyes, that " He was a better Christian while in
his solitude than ever he was before, and feared he would ever be again."1 To dis-
tinguish the Sabbath, he kept an exact account of the days of every week and month
during the time he remained upon the island, although the method he adopted is not
mentioned in any document extante

The smaller hut, which Selkirk had erected at some distance from the other, was
used by him as a kitchen, in which he dressed his victuals. The furniture was very
scanty; but consisted of every convenience his island could afford. His most valuable
article was the pot, or kettle, he had brought from the ship to boil his meat in; the
spit was his own handiwork, made of such wood as grew upon the island; the rest was
suitable to his rudely constructed habitation. Around his dwelling browsed a parcel
of goats, remarkably tame, which he had taken when young, and lamed, but so as not
to injure their health, while he diminished their speed. These he kept as a store, in
the event of sickness, or any accident befalling him that might prevent him from catch-
ing others: his sole method of doing which was running them down by speed of foot."
The pimento wood, which burns very bright and clear, served him both for fuel and
candle. It gives out an agreeable perfume'while burning.

He obtained fire after the Indian method, by rubbing two pieces of pimento wood

together until they ignited. This he did. as being ill able to spare any of his linen for
tinder, time being of no value to him, and the labour rather an amusement. Having
recovered his peace of mind, he began likewise to enjoy greater variety in his food, and
was continually gaining some new acquisition to his store. The crawlish, many of
which weighed eight or nine pounds, he broiled or boiled as his fancy led, seasoningit
with pimento (Jamaica pepper), and at length came to relish his food without salt.

As a substitute for bread, he used the cabbage-palm, which abounded in the island.
turnips, or their tops, and likewisea species of parsnip, of good taste and flavour. He
had also Sicilian radishes and water-crosses which he found in the brooks, and many
other vegetables peculiar to the country, which he ate with his fish or goats' flesh.

Having food in abundance, and the climate being healthy and pleasant, in about

' eighteen months he became reconciled to his situation.1]' The time hung no longer heavy
upon his hands. His devotions and frequent study of the Scriptures soothed and elevated
his mind; and this, coupled with the vigour of his health, and a constantly serene sky
and temperate air, rendered his life one continual feast. His feelings were now as
joyful as they had before been melancholy. He took delight in every thing around him ,
ornamented the hut in which he lay with fragrant branches, cut from a spacious wood

- Wooden Rogers. 1' Ibld. 3 Sir Richard Steele. 2 Wooden Rogers. | Cook. 1 Sir Richard Steele.
or ALEXANDER SELKIRK. 523

 

 

on the side of which it was situated, and thereby formed a delicious bower, fanned
with continual breezes, soft and balmy as poets describe, which made this repose, after
the fatigues of the chase, equal to the most exquisite sensual pleasures.*

Yet happy and contented as he became, there were minor cares that broke 1n upon
his pleasing solitude, as it were to place his situation on a level with that of other
human beings; for man is doomed to care while he inhabits this mortal tenement.
During the early- part of his residence he was much annoyed by multitudes of rats,
which gnawed his feet and other parts of his body as he slept during the night. To
remedy this disagreeable annoyance, he caught and tamed, after much exertion and
patient perseverance, some of the cats that ran wild on the islandsf These new friends
soon pat the rats to flight, and became themselves the companions of his leisure hours.
He amused himself by teaching them to dance, and do a number of antic feats. They
bred so fast, too, under his fostering hand, that they lay upon his bed and upon the
floor in great numbers ; and although thus freed from his former troublesome visitors,
yet, so strangely are we formed, that when one care is removed another takes place.
These very protectors became a source of great uneasiness to him ; for the idea haunted
his mind, and made him at times melancholy, that, after his death, as there would he
no one to bury his remains, or to supply the cats with food, his body must be devoured
by the very animals which he at p1 esent nourished for his convenience.

The island abounds in goats, which he shot while his powder lasted, and afterwards
caught by speed of foot. At first he could only overtake kids; but latterly, so much
did his frugal life, joined to air and exercise, improve his strength and habits of body,
that he could run down the strongest goat on the island in a few minutes, and, tossing
it over his shoulders, carry it with ease to his hat. All the byways and accessible
parts of the mountains became familiar to him. He could bound from crag to Crag,
and slip down the precipices with confidence}:

With these capabilities, hunting soon became his chief amusement. It was his cus-
tom, after runuing down the animals, to slit their ears, and then allow them to escape.
The young he carried to the green lawn beside his hat, and employed his leisure hours
in taming them. They'in time supplied him with milk, and even with amusement, as
he taught them as well as his cats to dance; and he often afterwards declared, that he
never danced with a lighter heart or greater spirit anywhere to the best of music than
he did to the sound of his own voice with his dumb companionse

As the northern part of the island,-where Alexander lived, is composed' of high
craggy precipices, many of which are almost inaccessible, though generally covered
with wood, the soil is loose and shallow, so that on the bills the largest trees soon
perish for want of nourishment and are then very easily overturned. Our adven-
turer nearly lost his life from this cause. When pursuing a goat, he made a snatch
at it on the brink of a precipice, of which he was not aware, as some bushes concealed
it from him ; the animal suddenly stopped: upon which he stretched forward his hands
to seize it, when the branches gave way, and they both fell from a great height. Se1<
' kirk was so stunned and bruised by the fall, that he lay deprived of sensation, and
almost of life. Upon his recovery he found the goat lying dead beneath him. This
happened about a mile from his hut. Scarcely was he able to crawl to it when restored
to his senses; and dreadful were his sufferings during the first two or three of the ten
days that he was confined by the injury. He lay stretched upon his bed, unable to
move but with extreme pain. There was no human being to reach him adrink of cold
water, or to do the smallest service for him: yet he did not despair; his heart was at
ease, and he poured it forth in prayer; he felt a peace of mind which religion can
alone bestow, and, even in this forlorn and painful situation, a ray of hope enlivened
the gloom with which he was surrounded. This was the only disagreeable accident
that befell him during his long residence on the island.

' Sir Richard Steele. f Funnel. 1 Woodes Rogers. 2 Walter.
 

He occasionally amused himself by cutting upon the trees his name, and the date
when he was left on the island, and at times added to the first the period of his snn~
"Z'l'iinuance; so averse is man to be utterly forgotten by his species. Perishable as the
material was upon which he wrought, still the idea was pleasing to his lonely mind.
that, when he should have terminated his solitary life, some future navigator would
learn from these rude memorials, that Alexander Selkirk had lived and died upon the
island. _He had no materials for writing, wherewith to trace a .more' ample record.
Upon Lord'Anscn's arrival, however, at Juan Fernandez, in the year 1741, there was
not, so far. as his researches went, one of these names or dates to be discovered.

Abbe Baynal is not correct when he says, that Selkirk lost the use of speech while.
upon the island. All that Cook asserts is, that, at his first coming on board, he spoke
his words as it were by halves, from want of practice; while he states distinctly, that
he carried on conversation from the first, and that this hesitating manner gradually
wore 03'.

As to his clothing, it was very rude. Shoes he had none, as they were soon worn out.
This gave him very little concern, and he never troubled himself in contriving any sub-
stitute to supply their place. As his other clothes decayed, he dried the skins of the
goats he had killed to convert into garments, sewing them with slender thongs of leather,
which he cut for the purpose, and using a sharp nail for a needle. In this way he
made for himself a cap, jacket, and short breeehes. The hair being retained upon the
shin gave him a very uncouth appearance: but in this dress he ran through the under-
wood, and received aslittle injury as the animal he pursued. Having linen cloth with
him, he made it into shirts, sewing them by means of his nail and the threads of his
worsted stockings, which he untwisted for that purpose. Thus rudely equipped, he
thought his wants sufieiently supplied, fashion having no longer any empire over him.
His goats and cats being his sole companions, he was at least neighbour-like, and looked
as wild as they; his beard was of great length, as it had been untouched since he left
the ship; Still his mind was at ease, and he danced and sang amongst his dumb coin-
panions for hours together; perhaps as happy a man, nay, happier, than the gayest
ball room could have presented in the most civilized country upon earth.

One day, in his ramble along the beach, he found a few iron hoops, which had been
left by some vessel as unworthy to be taken away. This was to him a discovery that
imparted more joy than if he had found a treasure of gold and silver; for with them
he made knives when his own was worn out, and, bad as they were, they stood him in
great stead. '

Alexander Selkirk, at difi'erent times during his stay, saw vessels pass the island;
but only two ever came to anchor. At these times he concealed himself; but being
anxious on the one occasion to learn whether the ship was French or Spanish, he
approached too near, and was perceived. A pursuit immediately commenced, and

' several shots were fired in the direction in which he fled; but fortunately none of them
took efl'eet, and he got up into a tree unobserved. His pursuers stopped near it, and
killed several of his goats, but the vessel soon left the island. Cook says, " The prize
being so inconsiderable, it is likely they thought it not worth while to be at great

_ trouble to find it." Had they been French. Alexander would have given himself up
to them; but, being Spaniards, he chose rather to stay upon the island, and run the
risk of dying alone, and even of being devoured by his own cats, than fall into their
hands, as they would either have murdered him in cold blood, or caused him to linger
out a life of misery in the mines of Peru or Mexico, unless he chose to profess him--
self a. Roman Catholic, and even then he would have been compelled to pass his weary
days in one of their coasting vessels in the Pacific Ocean; for, as we have already
mentioned, it was one of their maxims never to allow an Englishman to return to
Europe, who had gained any knowledge of the south Seas.

This adventure made him resolve to use more caution in future : never a day passed
 

but he anxiously looked out for some sail over the vast expanse of ocean that lay
before him; for, even in all his tranquillity and peace of mind, the wish to leave the
island never entirely ceased to occupy his thoughts, and he would still have hailed the
arrival of an English ship with rapture.

Dampier, the projector of the expedition that left Selkirk upon the island, was
again the promoter of a second enterprise, which, under Providence, was the means
of his deliverance. , In the year 1708, while the question of the Succession war was
still in agitation, this captain applied to several merchants at Bristol, who' thought so
well of his proposal, that they agreed to fit out two armed ships, named the Duke and
the Dutchess, to cruise against the French and Spaniards. Dampier had been too un-
successful in his former adventures to obtain any command in this; but he was, on no-
eount of his nautical experience, appointed to the Duke as pilot for the South Seas.

The Duke carried thirty guns: Woodes Rogers, captain; Dr. Thomas Dover, second
captain; Robert Fry, chief lieutenant; William Dampier, pilot for the South Seas.
The Dutchess carried twenty-six guns: Stephen Courtney, captain; Edward Cook, who
wrote an account of the voyage, above alluded to, second captain.

The two vessels left Cork on the 1st of September, reached the Canaries on the 18th,
the Cape do Verd Islands on the 30th, anchored at the island Le Grands, on the coast
of Brazil, on the 18th of November, sailed for Juan Fernandez on the 2d of December,
and passed Cape Horn in latitude 61deg 58', being a more southerly passage than had
been before attempted. 0n the am of January, 1709, they came in sight of Alex-
ander Selkirk's dominions, who was, as usual, anxiously surveying the watery waste.
Slowly the vessels ross into view, and he could scarcely believe the sight real; for
often had he been deceived before. They gradually approached the island, and he at
length ascertained them to be English. Great was the tumult of passions that rose in
his mind; but the love of home overpowered them all. It was late in the afternoon
when they came in sight; and lest they should sail again without knowing that there
was a person on the island, he prepared a quantity of wood to burn as soon as it was
dark. He kept his eye fixed upon them until night fell, and then kindled his fire, and
kept it up till morning dawned. His hopes and fears having banished all desire for
sleep, he employed himself in killing several goats, and in preparing an entertainment
for his expected guests, knowing how acceptable it would be to them after their long
run, with nothing but salt provisions to live upon.

When day at length opened, he still saw them, but at a distance from the shore.
Next day, about noon, they sent a boat on shore, with Captain Dover, Mr. Fry, and
six men, all well armed, to ascertain the cause of the fire. Alexander saw the boat
leave the Duke and pull for the beach. He ran down joyfully to meet his countrymen,
and to hear once more the human voice. He took in his hand a piece of linen tied
upon a small pole as a flag, which he waved as they drew near to attract their atten-
tion. At length, he heard them call to him, inquiring for a good place to land, which
he pointed out, and, flying as swift as a deer towards it, arrived first, where he stood
ready to receive them as they stopped on shore. He embraced them by turns; but
his joy was too great for utterance, while their. astonishment at his uncouth appear-
ance struck them dumb. He had at this time his last shirt upon his back; his feet ,
and legs were bare, his thighs and body covered with the skins of wild animals. His
beard, which had not been shaved for four years and four months, was of a great
length, while a. rough goat's-skin cap covered his head. He appeared to them as wild
as the original owners of the skins which he wore. At length they began to converse.
and he invited them to his but; but its access was so very didicult and intricate, that
only Captain Fry accompanied him over the rocks which led to it. When Alexander
. had entertained him in the best manner he could, they returned to the beat, our hero
. hearing a quantity of his roasted goat's-flesh for the refreshment of the crew. During
their repast he gave them an account of his adventures and stay upon the island, atEUR526 rim LIFE .1111) ADVENTURES

 

"which they were much surprised. Captains Dover and Fry invited him to come on
'hoard; but he declined their invitation, until they satisfied him that Dampier had no
command 1n this expedition, after which he gave a reluctant consent.

So great was his aversion to Dampier, as a commander, after the experience he had
had of him, that he would rather have remained upon his island 1ts.sol1tary possessor,
now that he was reconciled to his fate, than have encountered the hardsh1ps and vex-
stions he had before endured under that navigator. This feeling must have arisen,
not from any quarrel or personal dislike to Dompier, but from a knowledge of his for-
mer misconduct in his adventures, arising from his want of constancy in carrying
through any object which he professed to have in view.

When he came on board the Duke, Dnmpier gave him an excellent character, telling
Captain Rogers that Selkirk had been the best man on board the Oinque Ports. Upon
this recommendation, h'e was immediately engaged to be mate on board the Duke. 1n
the afternoon, the ships were cleared, the sails unbent and taken on shore to be
mended, and to make tents for the sick men. Selkirk's strength and vigour were of

I " ' 5' great service to them. He caught two goats in the afternoon. They sent along with

 

 

 

  

' him their swiftest runners and a bull-dog; but these he soon left far behind, and tired
out. He himself, to the astonishment of the whole crew, brought the two goats upon
his back to the tents.

The two captains remained at the island until the twelfth of the month, busily refit-
ti'ng their ships, and getting on board what stores they could obtain. During these
ten days, Alexander was their huntsman, and procured them fresh meat. At length, '
all being ready, they set sail, when a new series of ditiieulties of another kind an-
noyed Selkirk, similar to those he had felt at his arrival upon the island. The salt
'food he could not relish for a long time, having so long discontinued the use of it; for
[which reason he lived upon biscuit and water. Spirits he did not like, from the some
cause; and, besides, he was afraid of falling into intemperence, for his religious
impressions were as yet strong. From the confirmed habit of living alone, he was

' reserved and taciturn. This frame of mind, and a sedate expression of countenance,.
(continued longer than could have been expected. Even for some time after his return
to England, these qualities were remarkable, and drew the notice of those to whose
company he was introduced. Shoes gave him great inconvenience when he first came
on board. He had been so long without them, that they made his feet swell, and

. crippled his movements; but this wore oti' by degrees, and he became once more
reconciled to their use. In other respects, he gradually'resumed his old habits as a
seamen, but without the vices which sometimes attach to the profession. He rigidly
ibstained from profane oaths, and was much respected by both captains, as well on
"Iiiecount of his singular adventure, as of his skill and good conduct; for, having had
"his books with him, he had improved himself much in navigation during his solitude.
The articles-he took on shore from the Cinque Ports were the following :--His chest,
containing his clothes and a quantity of linen, now all spent; his musket, which he
brought home with him; a pound of powder, and balls in proportion; 'a hatchet and
some tools; a knife; is pewter kettle; his flip can, which be conveyed to Scotland, (at
present in the possession of John Seloraig, his greahgrand-nephew); a few pounds of
tobacco; the Holy Bible; some devotional pieces, and one or two books on naviga.
:tion, with his-mathematical instruments.

After a very successful cruise, they reached London on the 14th of October, 1711,
Selkirk, having been just eight years, one month, and three days absent, from the
'tin'ie he embarked at Kinsale on his voyage round the world' 1n the Ginque Ports. 0f '
this long period, he had spent four years and nearly four months upon his island,
.where he was the most desolate of men, and altogether wretched, until the influence
of religr n- poured the balm of peace and consolation into his weary soul.

H "dv'enturee. in a very abridged state, were given in the accounts of this voyage,soon afterwards published. They excited great interest in London, and made his com-
pany to he courted by the curious and the learned. He was introduced to Sir Richaid
Steele, who, 1n the twenty-sixth number of_ The Englishman, published 1718, gives the
following description of him:-- "The person I speak of 1s Alexander Selkirk, whose
name is familiar to men of curiosity. I had the pleasure frequently to converse with
the man, soon oftenhis. arrival in England, in the year 1711. It was matter of great
curiosity to hear him, as he is a man of good sense, give an account of the different
revolutions in his own mind in that long solitude. When I first saw him, I thought,
even if I had not been let into his character and story, I could have discerned that he
had been much separated from company, from his aspect and gesture. There was a
strong, but cheerful seriousness in his look, and a certain disregard to the ordinary
things around him, as if he had been sunk in thought. The man frequently bewailed
his return to the world, which could not, as he said, with all its enjoyments, restore
to him the tranquillity of his solitude." This appearance, so well-described, had
quite worn at? in less than two years; for Sir Richard continues,--"'l'hat, having met
him in the streets of London, he did not recognise him, so much was he altered by his
intercourse with man in London; " and concludes with the following just remark: --
"This plain man' s story is a memorable example, that he 13 happiest who confines his
wants to natural necessities, and he that goes further in his desires increases his wants
in proportion to his acquisitions; or, to use his own (Alexander's) expression, '1 am
now worth PS800, but shall never be so happy as when I was not worth a farthin'g.' "

Selkirk, as soon as he had got the proceeds of his voyage realized, set out for Largo
and arrived early in the spring of 1712, at his native village. It was the forenoon of
a Sabbath day, when all were in church, that he knocked at the door of his paterno
dwelling; but found not those whom his heart yearned to see, and his soul longer
to embrace. He set out for the church, prompted both by his piety and his love for
his parents; for great was the change that had taken place in his feelings since he had
last been within its walls. As soon as he entered and sat down, all eyes were ,upon
him; for such a personage perhaps had seldom been seen within the church at Largo.
He was elegantly dressed in gold-laced clothes; besides, he was a stranger, which, in
a country church, is a matter of attention to thelhearers at all times. But his man-
ner and appearance would have attracted the notice of more discerning spectators
After remaining some time engaged in devotion, his eyes were ever turning to where
his parents and brothers sat, while theirs as often met his gaze; still they did not
know him. At length, his mother, whose thoughts, perhaps, at this time wandered to
her long-lost son, recognised him, and, uttering a cry of joy, could contain herself no it

"longer. Even in the house of' God, she rushed to his arms, unconscious of the impro-
priety of her conduct, and the interruption of the service. Alexander and his friends
immediately retired to his father's house to give free scope to their congratulations.

For a few days, Selkirk was happy in the company of his parents and friends;,-bnt,
from long habits, he soon felt averse to mixing in society, and was most happy when

 

 

 

 

 

 

alone. For days, his relations never saw his 'face from the dawn until late in the even- t '-

ing, when he returned'to bed. It was his custom to go .put in the morning, carrying
with_him provisions for the day; then would he wonder and meditate alone through
the secluded 'and solitary valley of Keil's Den. The romantic beauties of the place,
and, above all, the stillness that reigned there, reminded him of his beloved island,
which he never thought of but with regret for having left it. When evening forced
him to return to the haunts of men, he appeared to do so with reluctance. He retired
to his room up stairs; where he was accustomed to amuse himself with two cats that
belonged to his brother, which he taught, in imitation of a part of his occupations on
his solitary island, to dance and perform many little feats.
Attached to his father's house was a piece of ground, occupied as a garden, which

' rose in a considerable acolivity backwards. Here, on the top of the- eminence, soon ."LIFE AND ADVENTURES or ALEXKKfiER ssnxnna

 

      
 
        
   
     
  

after his arrival at Largo, Alexander constructed a sort of cave, comm
extensive and delightful view of the Forth and its shores. In fits of musing di
V on,- he was wont to sit here in bad weather, and even at other times, and-to ber
' his ever. having left his island. This recluse and unnatural propensity, as itsappo ed
, to'themrwas cause of great grief to his parents, who often remonstrated wit
V . ' and endeavoured to raise his spirits. But their efi'orts were made in vainffnay, '3'
sometimes broke out before them in .a passion of grief, and exclaimed, "0h,
beloved island l I wish I had never left thee! I never was'before the maul wai
thee! I have not been such since I left thee! and, I fear, never can be again!"_
.' Having plenty of money, he purchased a boat for himself, and often, when the ' so-
their would permit, he made little excursions, but always alone; and day after day he
'spent in fishing, either 1n the beautiful bay of Largo, or at Kingscraig Point, where
he would loiter till' evening among its romantic clifl's, catching lobsters, his favourith'
' amusement, as they reminded him of the crawfish of Juan Fernandez.
4 '*'It was thus he lived during his short stay at home, evidently far from being happy
or, contented. The visions he had formed of domestic life could not be realized, and
he remained among'his friends only because he knew not what better to do with him- , .
self. He found he was not fitted for society; his enjo'yments were all solitary; his '
pleasures were wholly derived from himself; he felt oppressed by the kind attentions of
strangers. 'At length chance threw an object in his way, that awakened in his mind
, a new train of thoughts and feelings, and roused him from his lethargy. In his wan- '
.derings up the burn side of Keil's Den, to the ruins of Balcruivie Castle and its roman-
.tic neighbourhood, he often met a young girl, seated alone, tending a single cow, the
property of her parents. Her lonely occupation and innocent looks made a deep
mpression upon him. He watched her for hours unseen, as she amused herself with
'11 wild flowers she gathered, or chanted her rural lays. At each meeting thejiin'presif
3. became stronger, and he felt more interested 1n the young recluse. At length h'e
rossed himself to her, and they joined 1n conversation. he had no aversion to com-'
. munewith her for hours together, and began to imagine that he could live and. be
happy "with a companion such as she. His fishing excursions were now neglected:
Even his cave became not so sweet a retreat. His mind led him to Keil's Den .nnd the
' amiable Sophia, He never mentioned this adventure and attachmentto his friends; '
for he felt ashamed, after his discourses to them, and the profession he had made of _
dislike to human society, to acknowledge that he-wos upon the point of marrying, and
thereby plunging into the midst of worldly cares. But he was determined to marry
ophia, though as firmly resolved not to remain at home to be the subject of their
jests. This resolution being formed, he soon persuaded the object of his choice to
elope with him, and'bid adieu to the romantic glen. Without the knowledge of their
parents, they both set ofi' for London. Alexander left his chest and all his clothes
behind; nor did he ever claim them again; and his- friends knew nothing and heard
nothing of him for many years after.

-In the end of the year 1724, or beginning of 1726, twelive years after his elopement
with Sophia Bruce, 1:. gay widow, by name Frances Candis, or Candie, came to Largo
to claim the property left to him by his father. She produced documents to prove
her right; from which it appeared that Sophia Bruce lived but a very-few years after
her marriage, and must have died some time between the years 1717 and 1720. Having
proved her marriage, and the will, which was dated the 12th of December, 1729, \
' and also the death of her husband, Lieutenant Alexander Selkirk, on heard his
maJesty's ship Weymonth, some time in the year 1728, her claim was adjusted, and
she left Largo in'a' few days ' - / \

 
  
 

 
 

    
 
    
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
 
  

 

,.-.:rr_"" "

 

 

 
 
   
   

 

   
 
  

THE END. 2- - ' ' i