A, r "r' u

fl"

"a I. u LMMMIW

.1\

L
\

Edi

, n' _-; i" [1. ":-r.-'::;."

. .llfluwmun

M>>

. .09 <<3.1. "3.19:74 ..
.V Infill hill

. .1 1!.
L ..

x1. .

:1 w, ; z y. . u:
. .nfiwfifimumlfimm.' .
sfiu'flfihyvnmv)

111x 25C/!!!
.15. 131..

t <<J
. :Iv.

"Hr

. "HEW. .
. . n. . y n I. v '
L. y .. n u.- t
. .1 4 . .

!

. . '
- ' .
n ,H H . '
n x
. .
' .

<<a

 

Ev. u ..H.. 'iuvflahdm. "w:
A mum?! '

Rfixmwf

.fiafim La...
>> . ppm; ...
. p asimfln .n...' 3m
, AA ,. .leaIHfiMutJualJWHWWW . \z
. .. , x -. ' .. w'..... I A L: In. ..'\ .v. w ' .%.w|'C/.: ' .... 17.; .,._.1C/.Iflltnvu'l\l.u. on ,

                   
               

   

'i 3 ., 1 4'>>. H . ,n I. ~ " l'. I . 'Il.'iu.0llgn...lvllhilll.lr.i A ll. #3:>>!!! n ' , rt! .. 7. NW '1.
n as. H..t3.6~.l.!.m If 3 <<$3.3; . Vfluhr'uildtl.' 2:" 2 .. '. 114050.393... MW 1.5.5....>>
s . . , 1 T v. ' . 1

. ..-. :9. . i ..

..

  

. . . ...

'a

""lg--C/ .; x

('v

L"
3'. ~'------ J'

   

7L,Comurn Poznan. Won:

the lit Volume. mentioned hoiow, In
the what. In two volcano, lane,

  

In separate Volume, no. 76 cents!
VOICES OF THE NIGHT. g' g .

BALLADS AID OTHER POEMS. ' 'J' "-31. '~
SPANISH StUDENT; 1 run at Tan! A13}. 5.: '
3:31.an on muons um cram POEMS.
EVANGELINE; A Tug or Aunts. " "i _'
THE smsmn AND Tan mufixpn. ., ., ,.
THE WAIF. A Collection of Poem. Edited; by
THE ES'I'RAY. A Deflection ot' Poems. Edited

n. Lonermow'l noel wnnfi 3.
Hrn'nxon. A- Romance. In ~one'vfilu e'

      
   
      
 
     
        
  
  

 
 

   
        
      
 
    
     
      
      

Pd" "we I" . 1".er
Oman-Man. Pogfimage Beyond the Sea," ' '

volume, 16m, price .1. "
Kaunas. A Tale. Lately published. In 0

1m. [Idea 75 mu.

1
. "e'Z".

  

'/ \
'I'wxon-Tonn Tune. A New Edition. In two 70 "
team, with Portult, price 01.50. M; '3
.Tnn SCARLET Lenin. A Ramance. In one'ybli'.)
lfimo, mutsmu. ~ ,. ' A}. __ ;, ,
. I .t ,,"";,.",
Tun Housn or In: Slum Game. In one voluxn'e' f? '. 3:

- Tnon S'rontns non Huron! AND Btoamnr. '.In 3
one volume, 161110, with fine EnpuInp,prteo75 mu. . .3 y ' 3'wmfinm's. WRITINGS.

. ' nun Monznu Suwanee. In one vol.
inked, glioo 75 cents.

' Joanna. In one volume, 16mo,
, gum in paper.

ND Oran Poems. In one volume,

ELL HOLMES'S WRITINGS.

vol e, 161110. New Edition, on.
' .10. um.

V 0
won on humans. In one vol.

9'. o
. .
.

New Edition, enlarged, with Portrait. In

DE QUINCEY'S WRITINGS.

ounssxous or AN Esausn Oneal-Erma AND Sus-
, vim" Do Psoruunu. In one volume, 161110, ptico 75 noon.

- .lgohnratcn. Essays. In one volume, 16mo, price
' ' "wooou. .

A Miscfimmuous Essays. In one volume, l6mo, p_rice
, 75 oqm.

" 'I'nn'CmsAns. In one volume, l6mo, price 75 cents.

' v

{5.35.3 GRACE GREENWOOD'S WRITINGS.
\n ' . . ..PS
1* 1' . Gnemwo'oo Luna. A Collection of Stories and
Letters. In one volume, We. "New Edition, prion 01.95.
'5" r' Poem. .In one. volume, lfimo, with fine Portrait.
mm 75 <<mo.

Huron or Mr Paws. A Book for Children. With
floo Engraving. Prlotflmtlo '

I>>BY TIOKNOR, BED, AND FIELDS. 'luema. , 8

1.....- .. %
EDWIN P. WHIPPLE'S WRITINGS. -f; 03% ~ .'-..=-';C/u;

g}... a...

 

N' "3-.
,'t'lr 'ifi

Esau: AND Rtnnws." ANew' and Revxsia'e hon." 3 :'vsyi

in

In two volumes, 16m, who 09.00. ,g '01,";m) '. gift?" '1 .3
'47": ' 4 ' ",f .
Lacronu ON Sunnc'rs common): mwmzmn. 2;.>> -. . x

. . L; Ell-Ii'if':
no Lon. In one volume. 16m, price 63 cent-(WY a 13} . 3.. '15-:st a" .'3' 53:11.1:
3 . to v I

v 4 ,- II
WASHINGTON AND run R'svow'rmN. In qnenolyme, '3'.' r {m .1 A-
16m, lulu moan. _ ' - ' 1 3 '

 
 
 

4-K.
HENRY GILES'S WRITINGS.

Lacrunts, Es'sus, AND stcznunous W
Two volumes, 1600, [Moo 01.50.

f-{QYEAJ' ;*~ (if-w: I," ...
Cnnle'rmv Tnouon'r ON Lin. In Twelve Discourses. A 5.. 1:; $3,151
hmnlmlMptlu 75 unto. g'f'ai" fizz-2;; PS3. ..

' I 'I' "'0?
IQ" {3"'.1~;..1-1
<<i3: ('3' 'I' .1? 5""- i

WILLIAM MOTHERWELL'S WRITINGS. ; .- 3>>..ng 3,.
Pozus, NARRATIVE AND Luzon... A, New Editio n' clogged,

Enlarged. Inooo mum; mm, pm. 15 mo. kg": .o1'gg;gSS-;'- j
Pos'rzmuous Bonus. In one vqume, l6mo,.$nce 3: 5'3}. :1
50 on". - '9'" '9' 9K '3 '
. . [1h 4" ,' $53.31 41!
Mstnanv, ANCIENT AND MODERN. In two, vols. 3.739" . 52.1
mm, Moe 31.50. ' Embed? 3 3"- '3'. ..
{WW3 t_ .tf Vi: 6:: '3.
:3; I I!
JAMES RUSSELL LOWELLfS WRITINGS PS3," ,3
J ;;.-of.'
Commun- Pon'rxcn. Wonxs. Revised, with AcI-a'j. = {35%;
dilioos. hum volumes, 1811.9"ch 01.50. - Egg? 3,1
. . '4'}:3'3. 1""
Tan BIGLOW PAPERS. In one vol. 16mo, 50 cents. "~'~" '3}:
. 1a.;
_ -31

mscnnmnous. . '

CHARLES SPRAGUE. Pon'rtcu. AND Pnosn. 333'55' *4
Wu-muoo. Win: fine Pom". In one volume, lfimo, prloe' 75 cent.

JOHN G. SAXE. Humonous AND SATIRICAL Poms. E
In one volume, 18m, price 50 cents. '
ROBERT BROWNING. comma Pon'rzcu, *'

Q

Wonn. In two volnmov,16mo ,ptloe 89.00.

BARRY COENWALL. ENousn SONGS AND OTHER
Bum Pane. Enlu'pd Edition. In on. volnmo, 161m, 0100.

RICHARD MONCKTON MILNES. Poms or MANY

Yuu. In one volume, leo, pfloo 75 <<on.

.; 5.35.34... .. 'l'hua'n'g'..nl_ :4".ng .Il. ;
,1} J

.. 19? "","'*"."'~':- "Y,"
:L-'ffimtz' "Wu 3%: =- Qv'
i" . $9.: '*>>I* .I-u.
0,. 1.x). 1"" .. "r. .p

>> x tub-x <<Lynx-1:, '--. .5,

7 ' 7' afnooxs runmsnnn n! 'rchN0n',"nm'm_ rams.

 
      

.36.... i!" ._ ,. _ .
jiGOETHE'S WILHELM MEISTER. Translated by
-125; 'Cmnflg _ Int" vnlnmn, 16mph>> $50.

.55":-- '- n4 - __ y \ '
n" EOETHE'S FAUST. Ttanslated by mm"... In
'19; J4WWJM..RWMM ptioo'lsanu.

ffiy CHARLES SUMNER? OR'A'I'IoNs AND Banana.
2: '55.. "rs. In "0' going>>, Ian>>, price 32.50.

i-"x?pofiafl' s. HILLARD. Tm. DANGnns m Dunn.

:g .1. 3' CIA-'5 on m Mnuumrnonnnuon. In an. wlm, 161M, nth. $5 ants.

' ~-- HORACE MANN. .. A anv Tnoucn'rs ton, A Yours
'11"! In on, volm, lento, price 25 cents.

1' '* HENRY '1'. TUCKERMAN. Ponms. In one vol-

313: qu m... 16'", '1'" 7' all". "

:f-L

" f' PHILLIP JAMES BAILE .. TnI-ANGIIRWQRLD

93311,: no Danton". Inmvnlnunfihofpfinnwunu.
" -F.' W. P.' GREENWOOD. SnnuoNn' 01' Canon-

. "I?"
:n

:5 (I: ("Antone Innnn "In-n. 1690, who ".00.
n1 MEMORYrAND HOPE. A Bonn 6r Panaman-

[5 ~33, 9:3 unsnn no iCnmonmm. . Innnnnntnmn,8vo.prIeocfl.oo.
W

32' REJECTIID AbDREss'Ee'. By nouns and Inns
*P'ji 3'38, "WNW". lMpIhownnnu.

a.>> "3:? r.
WARRENIANA B'y 1116 Author; pf Rejected Ad-
~ 'fdunun. Innunfinand Immumu. |

I.-_.
'(' 7t

:5; "' ALDERBROOK. By' mm Fonsnn. IAtwo vols.
unprin- 31.76. '

as, .
,7 '-'THE BOSTON BOOK. BnINa Sneanns or My

  

norouun mm In on. volnm. Im prion 01.85.

'1" 1' =' v

5 HEROINES 0')? THE MISSIONARY ENTER-

' _.r-Unnnn. hmnlmlfingpdenflmu-

ANGEL-VOICES , or Won>>: or COUNSEL ion Oun-
IJ' noun-n nan Won-n. In' con voInnn.IBno, who 38 <<on.

THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN. By Gnonen

' ' Conn. S'hh Won. In on. vdmw nylon 75 noun.-THE SOLITARY 0F JUAN FERNANDEZ.

OR

THE REAL ROBINSON CRUSOE.THE

SOLITARY OF JUAN FERNANDEZ;

THE REAL ROBINSON CRUSOE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF PICCIOLA.

TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH

BY

ANNE T. WILBUR.

BOSTON:

TICKNOR, REED, AND FIELDS.
unoccm.Entered according to Act o! Congress, in the year 1851, by
TICKNOR. REED, AND FIELDS,
In the Clerk's omce of the Dim-lot Court of the District of Mumhmetts.

"cums, TORI", up mums, rmmmCONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

The Royal Salmon--Pretty Kitty. --Captaiu Stradling.--
William Dampier. --Reveries and Caprioes of Miss Cathe-
fine. - e o e e e o e o e e e e o e a 1 - 10

CHAPTER 11.

Alexander Selkirk--The College; -- First Love. -- Eight
Years of Absence--Maritime Combats.--Return and De-
parture.--The Swordfish. . . . . . . . . 11-21

CHAPTER III.

The Tour of the World. -- The Way to manufacture Negroes.
--- California. -- The Eldorado. -- Revolt of Selkirk. -- The
Log-Book. --- Degradation. 7-- A Free Shore. . . . 22 - 34

CHAPTER IV.

Inspection of the Country. ---' Marimonda. -- A City seen
through the Fog.--The Sea every where--Dialogue with
a Toucan.--The first Shot.--Declaration of War. --Ven-
geance--A Terrestrial Paradise. . . . . . . 35-47vi _ comm-rs.

CHAPTER V.

Labors of the Colonist.-- His Study.--Fishing.-- Adminis-
tration. -- Selkirk Island. -- The New Prometheus. -- What
is wanting to Happiness. -- Encounter with Marimonda.--

Monologue. . 48-56

CHAPTER VI.

The Hammock. --- Poison. -- Success. --A Calm under the
Tropics.--- Invasion of the Island. --War and Plunder.--
The Oasis. --The Spy-Glass. --Reconciliation. . 57--66

CHAPTER v11.

A Tete--wtete. --The Monkey's Goblet. --The Palace. --A Re-
moval. -- Winter under the Tropics ----Plans for the Future.

--Property. --A burst of Langhter.---Misforthne not far
011'. ................67-77

CHAPTER VIII.

A New Invasion. ---Selkirk joyfully meets an ancient Ene-
my. - Combat on a Red Cedar. -- A Mother and her Little
Ones. -- The Flock. -- Fete in the Island; Pacific Combats,
Diversions and Swings. -- A Sail. ---The Burning Wood. ---
Presentiments of Marimonda. . . . . . . . 78-92

CHAPTER IX.

The Precipice.--A Dungeon in a Desert Island--Resigna-
tion.-- The passing Bird.--The browsing Goat.--The
bending Tum--Attempts at Deliverance.-- Success. --
DeathofMarimonda.. . . . . . . . . . 93--103commas. vii

CHAPTER X.

Discouragement. -- A Discovery. -- A Retrospective Glange. --
Project of Suicide. -- The Last Shot. _--- The Sea Serpent. --
The Porro. ---A Message--Another Solitary. . 104- 110

CHAPTER XI.

The Island of San Ambrosia--Selkirk at last knows what
Friendship is.--The Bath--Visits to the Tomb of Mari-
monda. -- The Departure. -- The two Islands. --- Shipwreck.
--The Port ofSafety. . . . . . . . . . 111-119

CHAPTER XII.

The Island of Juan Fernandez.--Enconn infthe Moun-
tains. -- Discussion. --- A New Captivity? . Cannomshot.
-- Dampier and Selkirk. ---- Mas a Farm--News of Strad-
ling. -- Confidences. -- End of the History of the real Rob~
inson Crusoe.--Nebuchadnezznr. . . . . . 120- 135

Concmsron. . . . . . . . . . . . 136-141
03

THE REAL ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

CHAPTER I.

The Royal Salmon.-- Pretty Kitty. --Captain Stradling.--
William Dampier. --Reveries and Caprices of Miss Cathe-
rine.

ABOUT the commencement of the last century, the
little town of St. Andrew, the capital of the county of
Fife, in Scotland, celebrated then for its University,
was not less so for its Inn, the Royal Salmon, which,
built in 1681 by a certain Andrew Felton, had de-
scended as an inheritance to his only daughter, Cathe-
rme.

This young lady, known throughout the neighbor-
hood under the name of pretty Kitty, had contributed
not a little, by her personal charms, to the success
and popularity of the inn. In her early youth, she
had been a lively and piquant brunette, with black,
glossy hair, combed over a smooth and prominent
forehead, and dark, brilliant eyes, a style of beauty

much in vogue at that period. Though tall and slen-
l2 ms somrasr or was FERNANDEZ,

der in stature, she was, as our ancestors would have
said, sufiiciently en ban point. In fine, Kitty merited
her surname, and more than one laird in the neighbor-
hood, more than one great nobleman even,---thanks
to the familiarity which reigned among the different
classes in Scotland, --had figured occasionally among
her customers, caring as little what peeple might say
as did the brave Duke of Argyle, whom Walter Scott
has shown as conversing familiarly with his snufl'
merchant.

At present Catherine Felton is in her second youth.
By a process common enough, but which at first ap-
pears contradictory, her attractions have diminished
as they developed; her waist has grown thicker, the
roses 'on her cheek assumed a deeper vermilion, her
voice has acquired the rough and hoarse tone of her
most faithful customers; the slender young girl is
transformed into a virago. Fortunately for her, at the
commencement of the eighteenth century, and espe-
cially in Scotland, reputations did not vanish as readily
as in our days. Notwithstanding her increasing size
and coarser voice, Catherine still remained pretty
Kitty, especially in the eyes of those to whom she
gave the largest credit.

Besides, if from year to year her beauty waned, a
circumstance which might tend to diminish the attrac-
tions of her establishment, like a prudent woman she
took care that her stock of ale and usquebaugh should
also from year to year improve in quality, to preserve
the equilibrium.

Undoubtedly the visits of lairds and great noblemen
at her bar were less frequent than formerly, but all
the trades-peoPIe in town, all the sailors in port, from
the Gulf of Tay to the Gulf of Forth, still patronized \
the pretty landlady.

Meanwhile Catherine was not yet married. The
gossips of the town were surprised, because she was
rich and suitors {Were plenty; they fluttered around
her constantly in great numbers, especially when
somewhat exhilarated with wine. When their gal-
lantry became obtrusive, Kitty was careful not to
grow angry; she would smile, and lift up her white
hand, tolerably heavy, till the offenders came to order.
Catherine possessed in the highest degree the art of
restraining without'discouraging them, and always so
as to forward the interests of her establishment.

To maintain the discipline of the tavern, neverthe-
less, the presence of a man was desirable; she under-
stood this. Besides, the condition of an old maid did
not seem to her at all inviting, and she did not care to
wait the epoch of a third yOuth, before making a
choice. But what would the unsuccessful candidates
say? Would not this decision be at the risk of kind-
ling a civil war, of provoking perhaps a general deser-
tion? Then, too, accustomed as she was to command,
the idea of giving herself a master alarmed her.

She was vacillating amid all these perplexities,
when a certain sailor, with cold and reserved man-
ners, whose face bore the mark of a deep sabre cut,
and who had for some time past, frequented her in
with great assiduity, without ever having addressed to
her a single word, took her aside one fine morning

'Listen to me, Kate, and do not reply hastily. lC/

4 THE SOLITARY 0F JUAN YEBNANDEZ,

came here,'not like many others, attracted by your
beautiful eyes, but because I wished to obtain recruits
for an approaching voyage which I expected to under-
take at my own risk and peril. I do not know how it
has happened, but I now think less about sailing; I
seem to be stumbling over roots. Right or wrong,I
imagine that a good little wife, who will fill my glass
while I am tranquilly smoking my pipe before a
blazing fire, may have as many charms as the best
brig in which one may sometimes perish with hun-
ger and thirst. Right or wrong,l imagine to myself
again that the prattle of two or three little monkeys
around me, may be as agreeable as the sound of the
wind howling through the masts, or of Spanish balls
whistling about one's ears. All this, Kate, signifies
that I mean to marry; and who do you suppose has
put this pretty whim into my head? who, but your-
self ? '

Catherine uttered an exclamation of surprise, per-
fectly sincere, for if she had expected a declaration,
it was certainly not from this quarter.

' Do not reply to me yet,' hastily resumed the sailor;
' he who pronounces his decree before he has heard
the pleader and maturely reflected on the case, is a
poor judge. To continue then. You are no longer a
child, Kate, and I am no longer a young man; you
are approaching thirty-- '

At these words the pretty Kitty made a gesture of
surprise and of denial.

' Do not reply to me i ' repeated the pitiless sailor.
' You are thirty! I have already passed another barrier,
but not long since. We are of suitable age for each
other. The man should always have traversed the
road before his companion. You are active and gen-
teel; that does very well for women. You have
always been an honest girl, that is better still. As for
me, my skin is not so white as yours, but' it is the
fault of a tropic sun. It is possible that I may be a
little disfigured by the scar on my cheek; but of this
scar I am proud; I had the honor of receiving it,
while boarding a vessel, from the hand of the cele-
brated Jean Bart, who, after having on that occasion
lost a fine opportunity of being honorably killed, has
just sufi'ered himself to die of a stupid pleurisy ; but it
is not of him but of myself that we are now to speak.
After having fought with Jean Bart,I have made a
voyage with our .ngt'less celebrated William Dampier,
whom I may dare. call my friend. You may therefore
understand, Kate, that if you have the reputation of an
honest girl, I have that of a good sailor. The name
of Captain Stradling is favorably known upon two
oceans, and it will be to your credit, if ever, with your
arm linked in mine, we walk as man and wife,
through any port of England or Scotland. I have
said. Now, look, reflect; if my proposition suits you,
Iwill settle for life on terra firma, and bid adieu to
the sea; if not, I resume my projected expedition, and
it will be to you, Kate, that I shall say adieu.'

Catherine Opened her mouth to thank him, as was
suitable, for his good intentions.

'Do not reply to mel' interrupted he again; 'in
three days I will come to receive your decision.'

And he went out, leaving her amazed at having
listened to so long a speech from one, who until then,6 . was somunr or mm rsnnmnsz,

seated motionless in a distant corner of the room, had
always appeared to her the most rigid and silent of
seamen.

That very day Catherine has come to a decision
concerning the captain; she thinks him ugly and
disagreeable, coarse and ignorant; he has dared to
tell her that she is thirty years old, and she will
hardly be so at St. Valentine's 'Day, which is six
weeks ahead, at least. Besides the scar which he
has received from the celebrated Jean Bart, his coun-
tenance has no beauty to boast of : his face is long
and pale, his temples are furrowed with wrinkles, and
his lips thick and heavy; his eyebrows, at the top of
his forehead, seem to be lost in his hair; his eyes are
not mates, his nose is one-sided; his form is perhaps
still worse; he walks after the fashion of a duck.
Fiel can such a man be a suitable match for the rich
landlady of the Royal Salmon, for the beautiful Kitty ;
for her who, among so many admirers and lovers, has
had but the difficulty of a choice?

The next day towards nightfall, Catherine, seated
in her bar, in the large leathern arm-chair which served
as her throne, with dreamy and downcast brow, and
chin resting on her hand, was still thinking of Captain
Stradling, but her ideas had assumed a different aspect
from those of the evening before.

She was saying to herself: 'If he has thick and
heavy lips, it is because he is an Englishman; if he
walks like a duck, it is because he is a sailor; if he
has taken me to be thirty years old, that proves
simply that he is a good physiognomist, and I shall
have one painful avowal the less to make after mar-on rm: aw. nonmson causon. "l

riage. As for his scar, he has a thousand reasons to
be proud of it, and, upon close examination, it is not
unbecoming. It would be very difficult for me to
choose a husband, on account of the discontented
suitors who will be left in the lurch; but I will relin-
quish my business, and that will put an end to all
inconvenience. He is rich, so much for the profit;
he is a captain, so much for the honor. Come, come,
Mistress Stradling will have no reason to complain l'
At this moment, Catherine Felton could meditate
quite at her case, without fear of being noticed; for
the tobacco smoke, three times as dense and abundant
as usual, enveloped-- her in an almost Opaque cloud"
There was this evening a grand fete at the tavern of
the Royal Salmon. The concourse of customers was
immense, and this time, it was neither the beauty of
the hostess, nor the quality of the liquors which had
attracted them thither.
. The serving-men and lasses were going from table
to table, multiplying themselves to pour out, not only
the golden waves of strong beer and usquebangh, but
the purple waves of claret and port; all faces were
smiling, all eyes sparkling, and in the midst of the
huzzas and sinus, was heard, with triple applause,
the name of William Dampier.

This celebrated man, now a corsair, now a skilful
seaman, who had just discovered so many unknown
straits and shores, who had just made the tour of the
world twice, in an age when the tour of the world did
not pass, as at present, for a trifling matter; who had
published, upon his return, a narrative full of novel
facts and observations; this pitiless and intelligent
pirate, who studied the coasts of Peru while he pil-
laged the cities along its shores, and meditated, in the
midst of tempests, his learned theory of winds and
tides, William Dampier, had landed, this very day at
the little part of St. Andrew.

At the intelligence of his arrival, the whole mari-
time population of the coast was in commotion; the
society of the Old Pilots, with that of the Sea Dogs,
had sent to him deputations, headed by the principal
ship-owners in the town. Captain Stradling had not
failed to be among them, happy at the opportunity of
once more meeting and embracing his former friend.

Speeches were made, as if to welcome an admiral,
. speeches in which were passed in review all his noble
qualities and the great services rendered by him to the
marine interest. To these Dampier replied with sim-
plicity and conciseness, saying to the orators:

' Gentlemen and dear comrades, you must be hoarse,
let us drink! ' .

This first trait of eccentricity could not fail to enlist
universal applause.

Commissioned by him to lead the column, Stradling
could not do otherwise than to take the road to the
Royal Salmon. It was on this occasion that he ap-
peared there before the expiration of the three days:
but he had not addressed a word to Catherine, scarcely
turned his eyes towards her. Nevertheless the cir-
cumstances were favorable to his suit.

Then a millionaire, William Dampier had imme-
diately declared his intentions to treat at his own
expense the whole company and even the whole town,
if the town would do him the honor to drink with him.on was arm. nosmson causes. 9

I

Catherine at once took him into favor. When she
heard him praise his friend and companion, the brave
Captain Stradling, she felt for the latter, not an emo- -
tion of tenderness, but a sentiment of respect and even
of good-will. Dampier, excited by his audience, did
not fail, like other conquerors by land and sea, to
recount some of his great 'deeds. Among others, he
recapitulated a certain affair in which he and his
friend Stradling had captured a Spanish galleon, laden
with piastres. From this moment the beautiful Kitty
became more thoughtful, and began to see that the
scar was becoming to the face of this good captain.
After drinking, when Dampier, still escorted by his
fidus Achates, came to settle his account with the
hostess, he chucked her familiarly under the chin, as
was his custom with landladies in the four quarters of
the globe. From any one else, the proud Catherine
would not have suffered such a liberty; to this, she
replied only by a graceful reverence, and, while the
hero and paymaster of the fete shook a rouleau of
gold upon her counter, she said, hastily bending tee
wards Stradling:

'To-morrow l' accompanying this word with an
expressive look and her most gracious smile.

The enamored Stradling, always impassible, con-
tented himself with replying:

'It is well l '

The day following, the third, the important day, that
which Catherine already regarded as her day of be-
trothal, early in the' morning, she dressed herself in
her best attire, not doubting the impatience of the
captain. Before noon, the latter entered the inn and
went directly up to the landlady.10 ran somranr or JUAN rsaNA'anz,

She received him carelessly and coldly; she was
nervous, she had not had time for reflection ; she did
not know what the captain wished; if he would let
her alone for the present, by and by she would con-
sider.

' Boy! a new pipe and some ale ! ' exclaimed Strad-
ling, addressing a waiter.

And, perfectly calm in appearance, he sauntered to
his accustomed place at the farther end of the bar-
room. However, before leaving the Royal Salmon,
approaching Catherine, he said:

'Yesterday, by your voice and gesture you said, or
almost said, yes; we sailors know the signals ; to-day
it is no, or almost no. Very well,l will wait; but
reflect, my beauty, we are neither of as young enough
to lose our time in this foolish game.'

But what had thus unexpectedly changed, from
white to black, the good intentions of Catherine in
the captain's behalf? The presence of a young boy
whom she had not seen for many years, and towards
whom she had, until then, felt only a kindly indif-

ference.
CHAPTER II.

Alexander Selkirk. -- The College. -- First Love. --Eight
Years of Absence. -- Maritime Combats. -- Return and
Departure. -- The Swordfish.

ALEXANDER Suiting--the name of the principal
personage in this narrative,--was born at Largo, in
the county of Fife, not far from St. Andrew. Entered
as a pupil in the university of the town, he at first
distinguished himself by his aptitude and his intelli-
gence, until the day when, hearing of the beauty of
the landlady of the Royal Salmon, he was seized with
an irresistible desire to see her: he saw her, and
became violently enamored. It was one of those
youthful passions, springing rather from the efferves-
cence of the age, than from the merit of the object;
one of those sudden ebullitions to which the young
recluses of science are sometimes subject, from a
prolonged compression of the natural and affectionate
sentiments.

From this moment, all the words in the Greek and
Latin dictionaries, all the principles of natural phi.
losophy, mathematics and history, suddenly taken by
storm, whirled confusedly and pell-mell in the head of

Selkirk, like the elements of the world in chaos, before
the day of creation.
His professors had predicted that at the annual

exhibition he would obtain six great prizes ; he ob-
tained not even a premium.

As a punishment, he was required to remain within
the college grounds during the vacation. But its gates

detain him.
Condemned, for the crime of desertion, to a classic

imprisonment, he was shut up in a cellar ; he escaped
through the window; in a garret; he descended by the'

roof.
Then, pronounced incorrigible, he was expelled

from the university. '
He left it joyous and happy, escaped from the tutor
commissioned to conduct him to his father, and at last

wholly free, his own master, he took lodgings in a
cabin, not far from theRoyal Salmon, and thought
himself monarch of the universe.

As soon as the doors of the inn were opened, he
penetrated there with the earliest fogs of morning,

with the first beams of day; in the evening he was
the last to cross the threshold, after the extinction of

the lights.

All day long, seated at a little table opposite the
bar, between a pipe and a pewter pot, he watched the
movements of Kitty, and followed her with admiring
eyes.

Catherine was not slow to perceive this new passion;
but she was accustomed to admiring eyes, and there-
fore paid but little heed to them. She was then at the
age of twenty-two, in all the glory of her transient
royalty; he, scarcely sixteen, was in her eyes a boy, a
raw and awkward boy, like almost all the other stu-
dents, and she contented herself with now and then
bestowing a slight smile, upon him, in common with
her other customers.

But this mechanical smile, this half extinguished
spark, did but increase the flame, by kindling in the
young man's soul a ray of hope.

At this age, passion has not yet an oral language;
it is in the heart, in the head especially, but not on the
lips; one comprehends, experiences, dreams, writes of
love in prose and verse, but does not talk of it. Selkirk
had twenty times attempted to confess his affection to
Catherine; he had as yet succeeded only in a few

simple and hasty meteorological sentences, on the rain
and fine weather. He therefore wrote.

Unfortunately, Catherine could not easily read writ-
ing; she applied to him to interpret his letter. uThis
was a hard task for the poor boy, who, with a trem-
ulous and hesitating voice, saw himself forced to
stammer through all that burning phraseology which
seemed to congeal under the breath of the reader.

The result however was that Catherine became his
friend; she encouraged his confidence, and gave him
good advice as an elder sister might have done. She
even called him by the familiar name of Sandy, which
was a good omen.

Meanwhile his scanty resources became exhausted ;
he had no longer means to pay for the pot of ale
which he consumed daily. The idea of asking credit
of his beloved, of opening with her an account, which
he might never have means to pay, was revolting to
him. On the other hand, the thought of returning
home, and asking pardon of his father, was not less
repugnant to his feelings. He was endowed with one
of those haughty and imperious natures which recog-
nize their. faults, not to repair them, but to make of
them a starting point, or even a pedestal.

He was rambling about the port, reflecting on his
unfortunate situation, when he heard mention made
of a ship ready to set sail at high tide, and which
needed a reinforcement of cabin-boys and sailors.
This was for him an inspiration; he did not'hesitate,
he hastened to engage. That very evening he had
gained the Open sea, beyond the Isle of May, and,
with his eyes turned towards the Bay of St. Andrew,
was attempting, in vain, to recognize among the lights
which were yet burning in the city, the fortunate
lantern which decorated the sacred door of the Royal
Salmon.

At present, Alexander Selkirk is twenty-four years
old. He has become a genuine sailor, and he loves
his profession; the sea is now his beautiful Kitty.
Besides, it is long since he has troubled himself about
his heart. It is empty, even of friendship, for, among
his numerous companions, the proud young man has
not found one worthy of him. After having served
two years in the merchant marine, he has entered the
navy. Thanks to the war kindled in Europe for the
Spanish succession, he has for a long time cruised
with the brave Admiral Rooks along the coasts of
France; with him, he has fought against the Danish
in the Baltic Sea, and in 1702, in the capacity of
a master pilot, figured honorably in the expedition
against Cadiz, and in the affair of Vigo. Finally,03 run But. sonmson causos. 15

under the command of Admiral Dilkes, he has just
taken part in the destruction of a French fleet.

But all these expeditions, rather military than mari-
time, and circumscribed in the narrow circle of the
seas of Eumpe, have not satisfied the vast desires of
the ambitious sailor. He experiences an invincible
thirst to apply his knowledge, to exercise his intelli-
gence on a larger scale; he is impatient for a long
voyage, a voyage of discovery.

The terrific hurricane of the twenty-seventh of
November, 1703, which drove the waves of the
Thames even into Westminster, Hall, and covered
London almost entirely with the fragments of broken
vessels, appeared to Selkirk a favorable occasion for
asking his dismissal. He easily obtained it. So many
sailors had just been thrown out of employment by
the hurricane.

Once more, the undisciplined scholar found himself
free and his own master! He profited' by this to pay

a visit to his birthplace in Scotland. His father was
dead, but he had some business to regulate there.

'Ahl' said he on his way, 'if this brave captain
should be about to undertake a voyage to the New
World, and will let me accompany him, no matter in
what capacity, all my wishes will be gratified. I
thirst to see tattooed faces, other trees besides beeches,
oaks and firs; other shores than those of the Baltic,
Mediterranean and Atlantic: Who knows whether I

may not aid him in the discovery of some new con-
tinent, some unknown island which shall bear my
name l' . .

And, cradled by the wave in the frail canoe that
bore him, he dreamed of government, perhaps of
royalty, in one of those archipelagoes which he ima-
gined to exist in the bosom of the distant Southern
seas, long afterwards explored by Cook, Bougainville
and Vancouver.

Once in port, he hastened to inquire for the dwell-
ing occupied by Dampier. The latter was absent; he
was in the harbor.

While awaiting his return, our young sailor thought
of his old friend Catherine, his pretty black-eyed Kitty,
and directed his steps towards the inn.

He found her already enthroned in her leathem
armochair, her hair neatly braided, with two small
curls on her temples; in a toilette which the early
hour of the morning did not seem to authorize ; but it
was the famous third day, and she was awaiting Strad- _
ling.

On seeing Selkirk enter, she exclaimed to the boy,
pointing to the newly-arrived: ' A pot of ale 1 '

' No,' cried the young man smiling; ' the ale which
Ionce drank here was for me a philter full of bitter-
ness ; a glass of whiskey, if you please, --' and,
pointing to the little table opposite the bar at which he
was formerly accustomed to place himself, he said:

' Serve me there; I will return to my old habits.'

Catherine looked at him with astonishment.

'Does not pretty Kate recognize me P ' said he in a
caressing tone, approaching her.

' How ! Is it possible! is it you, indeed, Sandy?'
'Yes, Alexander Selkirk, formerly a fugitive from
the University of St. Andrew; recently a master pilot
in the royal marine ; now, as ever, your very humble
servant.'

And they shook hands, and examined each other
closely, but the impression on both sides was far from
being the same.

Catherine finds Selkirk much changed, but for the
better; time and navigation have been favorable to
him. He is no longer the raw student with embar-
rassed air, awkward manner, bony frame and dilapi-
dated costume ; but a stout young man, with a broad
chest, active and graceful form; though his features
are decidedly Scotch, they are handsome; his eyes,
less brilliant than formerly, are animated with a more
attractive thoughtfulness, and the naval uniform, which
he still wears, sets off his person to advantage.

On his part, Selkirk finds Catherine also much
changed; the rosy complexion, the soft voice, the
youthful look, the twenty-two years, all are gone.
Her form has assumed a superabundant amplitude.

They drop each other's hands and utter a sigh; he,
'of regret; she, of surprise.

Both close their eyes, at the same time; she, with
the fear of gazing too earnestly; he, to recall the
being of his imagination.

However this may be, she is not yet a woman to
be despised by a sailor. He therefore prolongs his
visit: they come to interrogations, to confidences.

Catherine acquaints him with the situation of her
little business affairs; her fortune is improving; she

gives him an estimate of it in round numbers, as well
2
as of the suitors she has rejected; but she does not
mention Captain Stradling, whose arrival she yet fears
every moment.

Selkirk relates to her his campaigns, his combats
against the French, against the Danish, the victorious
attack of the English ships against the great boom
of Vigo; but, when she asks him what motive has
brought him back to St. Andrew, he replies boldly
that he came to see her and no one else, and says not
a word of Captain Dampier, whom he is even now
impatient to meet.

At last the old friends say adieu.

Then the gallant sailor, with an apparent efl'ort,
goes away, not forgetting, however, to drink his glass
of whiskey.

And this is the reason why, on the third day, Cathe-
rine has the vapors; this is the reason why, notwith-
standing her soft words of the evening before and
her grand morning toilette, she receives so coldly the
scarred adversary of the celebrated Jean Bart.

During the whole of the week following, Stradling,
Dampier and Selkirk, did not fail to meet at the Royal
Salmon. Selkirk came to see Dampier; Dampier
came to see Stradling; Stradling came to see Cathe-
rine Felton.

The latter thought the young man already knew the
two others, that he had sailed with them, and was not
surprised at their intimacy.

Sometimes Selkirk, leaving his companions in the
midst of their bottles and glasses, would describe a
tangent towards the counter, and come to converse
with the pretty hostess. He no longer felt love for
her, and notwithstanding this, perhaps for this very
reason, he now talked eloquently.

Kitty blushed, was embarrassed, and poor Captain
Stradling, listening with all his ears to the narratives
of his illustrious friend William Dampier, or pro-occu-
pied with his pipe, lost in its cloud, saw nothing,--
or seemed to see nothing.

Nevertheless one evening, he went, in his turn, to
lean on the counter:

'Kate,' said he, 'when is our marriage to take
place?'

'Are you thinking of that still? ' replied she, with
an air of levity which would once have became her
better; 'I hoped this fancy had passed out of your
head} .

' I may then set out on my voyage, Kate P '

'Why not? We will talk of our plans on your
return.'

'But I am going to make the tour of the world, as
well as my friend Dampier. Kate, it is the affair of
three years l '

'So much the better! it will give us both time for
reflection.'
'It is well!' replied the phlegmatic Englishman,

and nothing on his polar face betokened an after-
thought.

The doors closed, the lights extinguished, Catherine
retired to rest the happiest woman in the world. She
said to herself: 'Alexander loves me, and has loved

me for eight years! he deserves to be rewarded. He
has less money than the other, it is a misfortune ; -but

he has more youth and grace, that balances it. As to
rank, 8. master pilot of twenty-four is as far advanced
as a captain of forty. Between Selkirk and myself,
if the wealth is on my side, on his will be gratitude
and little attentions. At all events,l prefer a young
husband who will whisper words of love in my ear, to
amusing myself by pouring out drink for my lord and
master, while he smokes his pipe, with his feet on the
brands. Was it not thus that icicle, dressed in blue,
called Stradling, talked to me of the pleasures of mar-
riage? And what a name! But Mistress Selkirk l--
that sounds well. In our Scotland, there is the county
of Selkirk, the town of Selkirk ; there is even a
great nobleman of this name, who is something like
minister to our Queen Anne, I believe. Who knows?
we are perhaps of his family! As for walking about
the port arm-in-arm with a captain, I am sure my very
dear friends and neighbors would die with jealousy if
I took, instead of this scarred captain, a young and
handsome man. It is settled. Iwill marry Alexan-
der; to-morrow I will myself announce it to him. I
hope he will not die of joy! ' .

On the morrow she attired herself as on the day of
Selkirk's return, in her beautiful dress of cloth and
silk, with the two little curls upon her temples. She
thus waited a great part of the day. At last, about
four o'clock, Selkirk arrives in haste, his face beaming
with joy, and a gleam of triumph in his eye.

' Has he then,' thought Catherine, ' a presentiment
of the happiness in store for him? '

' Congratulate me, pretty Kitty,' said the young
man, almost out of breath; 'I am appointed mate of
the brig Swordfish, which I am to join at Dunbar.'
' How! you are going? '

' In an hour.'

' For a long time? '

' For three years at least. In a fortnight we set sail
for the East Indies. It will be a great commercial
voyage and a voyage of discovery. Unfortunately
William Dampier does not accompany us; but he
furnishes funds to the brave Captain Stradling.'

' Stradling l '

'Yes, it is he who has just engaged me, and with
whom I am to sail. Our agreement is signed,--I am
mate! lam going to explore the New World! Ah!
I would not exchange my fate for that of a king. But
time presses ; adieu, Kitty, till I see you again l '

' Three years l ' murmured Catherine.

And her curls grew straight beneath the cold perspi-
ration that covered her forehead.
CHAPTER III.

The Tour of the World. --The Way to manufacture Negroes
--- California. -- The Eldorado. -- Revolt of Selkirk. --- The
Log-Book. --Degradation. --A Free Shore.

THE Swordfish, well provisioned, even with guns
and ammunition, left Dunbar one morning with a fresh
breeze, sailed down the North Sea, passed Ireland,
France and Spain, the Azores, Canaries, and Cape
Verd Islands on the coast of Africa, and, after having '
stopped for a short time in the harbors of Guinea and
Congo, doubled the Cape of Good Hope, amid the
traditional tempest.

Entering the Indian Ocean, and passing through the
Straits of Sunda, she touched at Borneo, and at Java,
reached the Southern Sea by the Gulf of Siam, passed
the Philippine Isles, then, through the vast regions of
the Pacific Ocean, pursued the route which had been
marked out by the exploring ship of William Dampier
in 1686. Like that, the Swordfish remained a few
days at the Island of St. Pierre, before launching into
that immensity where, during nearly two months,
wave only succeeded to wave; at last she reached
the coasts of South America, and cast anchor in the
Gulf of California.

This gigantic voyage, which seemed as if it must
have been attempted under the inspiration of science
and with the hope of the most important discoveries,
had been undertaken by Stradling with no object but
of traffic and even of rapine. These had been the
great ends of most of the bold enterprises which had
preceded. The Spanish and Portuguese, in their dis-
coveries of new continents, had thought less of glory
than of riches; they had conquered the New World
only to pillage it ; the vanquished who escaped exter-
mination, were forced to dig their native soil, not to
render it more fruitful, but to procure from it, for the
profit of the vanquishcr, the gold it might contain.
Among the European nations, those who had had no
part in the conquest now sought to share the spoils.
For this the least pretext of war or commerce suf-
ficed.

Stradling availed himself of both these pretences;
when he touched at the coasts of Guinea and Congo,
it was to obtain negroes whom he expected to sell in
America. At Borneo, the opportunity presented itself
for an advantageous disposal of the greater part of his
black merchandize; as he was a man of resources
and not at all scrupulous, he soon found means to
replace them.

In the Straits of Sunda, several barques, manned by
negroes and Malays, had become entangled in the
masses of seaweed which are every where floating on
the surface of the wave; Stradling encountered them,
made the rowers enter his ship, and obligingly took
the barqucs in tow, to extricate them from their diffi-

culty. But those who ascended the side of the Sword-
fish, descended only to be sold in their turn.
Although he had received an education superior to
that of his companions, Selkirk shared in the preju-
dices of his times; he had therefore found nothing
objectionable in seeing his captain exchange at Congo
little mirrors, a few glass beads, half a dozen useless
guns, and some gallons of brandy, for men still young
and vigorous, torn from their country and their fami-
lies. Their skin was of another color, their heads
woolly; this was a profitable traffic, recognized by
governments; but when he saw Stradling seize the
property of others to refill his empty hold, he could
not control his indignation and boldly expressed it:

'It is for their salvation,' replied the captain, with-
out emotion; ' we will make Christians of them.'

On approaching the Vermilion Sea, a deep gulf
which separates California from the American con-
tinent, and makes it almost an island, the Malays
were rubbed with a mixture of tar and dragon's blood,
dissolved in a caustic oil, to give to their olive skins
a deeper shade, and theu' flat noses and silky hair
making them p'ass .IfOrf..YoloPS negroes, they were ex-
changed at CapeSLilaicas, along with the rest, for
pearls and native Winitions.

The young mate" "thought this proceeding not less
mean and dishonorable than the first; he made new
observations.

' Nothing now remains to be done, captain,' said he,
' but to~{'shave and besmear with tar the monkey you
have just. bought, and to include it among your new
race of negroes."

This time, the captain looked at him askance, and
shrugged his shoulders without replying
The storm was beginning to growl in the distance.

It was not without a secret object that, in his course
through the Southern Sea, Stradling had first of all
aimed at California.

He devoted an entire month to cruising along both
shores of this almost island, and penetrating all the
bays of the Vermilion Sea; he hoped to find there a
passage to an unknown' land, then predicted and
coveted by all navigators. What was this land? The
Eldorado I

Although I would hasten over these details of the
voyage to arrive at the more important events of this
history; now that the recent discovery of the immense
mines of gold buried beneath the hills of California
has aroused the entire world, that the name alone of
Sacramento seems to fill with gold the month which
pronounces it, there is a curious fact, perhaps entirely
unknown, which I cannot pass over in silence.

After the middle of the sixteenth century, and long
before the seventeenth, a vague rumor, a confused
tradition, had located, in the neighborhood of the
Vermilion Sea, a famed land, whose rivers rolled over
gold, and whose mountains rested on golden founda-
tions; the treasures of Mexico and Peru were nothing
in comparison with those which were to be gathered
there. An ingot of native gold was talked of, of a

pepite or eighty pounds weight.

It was a grape from the promised land.

This marvellous country had been named, in ad-
vance, Eldorado.

Amongthe bold Argonauts of these two centuries,
there was a contest as to who should first raise his
flag over this new Colchis, defended, it was said, by
the Apaches, a terriole, sanguinary and cannibal race,
whom Cortez himself could not subdue. This land of
gold some had located in New Biscay or New Mexico;
others, in the pretended kingdoms of Sonora and
Quivira; then, after several inefl'ectual attempts, the
possibility of reaching it was denied; learned men,
from the various academies of Europe, proved that the
Eldorado was not a country, but a dream; on this
subject the Old World laughed at the New; the Argo-
nauts became discouraged, and during a century the
subject was named only to be ridiculed.

And yet, in spite of sceptics and scofl'ers, the Eldo-
rado existed. It existed where tradition had placed it, on
the shores of this Vermilion Sea, now the Gulf of Cali-
fornia. For once, popular opinion had the advantage
over scientific dissertations and philosophic denials;
there, where, according to the Dictionary of Alcedo,
nothing had been discovered but mines of pewter!
where Jacques Baegert had indeed acknowledged the
presence of gold, but in meagre veins,- where Raynal
had named as curiosities only fishes and pearls,
declaring, in California, the sea richer than the land;
where in our own times M. Humboldt discovered
nothing but cylindrical cacti, on a sandy soil, re-
mained buried, as a deposit for future ages, this
treasure of the world, which seemed to be waiting in
order to leave its native soil, the moment of falling

into the hands of a commercial and industrious people,
that of the United States.

This Eldorado, Stradling sought in vain; be there-
fore decided to pursue his route along the coast ofon ran am. ROBINSON causos. 27

Mexico, now under the French flag, when he found
an opportunity for traffic with the natives, colonists or
savages; now under the English flag, when he wished
to exercise his trade of corsair, an easy profession, fox
since the disaster of Vigo, the Spanish had abandoned
their transatlantic possessions to themselves.

The Spanish soldiery of America then found them-
selves, in the presence of European adventurers, in
that state of pusillanimous inferiority in which had
been, at the period of the conquest, the subjects of the
Incas and Montezuma before the soldiers of Cortez
and Pizarro. The time was not already far passed,
when a few bands of freebooters, from France, Eng-
land and Holland, had well nigh wrested from his
Majesty, the King of Spain and the Indies, the most
extensive and wealthy of his twenty-two hereditary
kingdoms.

Stradling was following in the footsteps of these
freebooters.

Recently, two little cities on the coast had been put
under contribution for the supplies of the Swordfish;
there had been resistance, a threatened attack, a par-
ley, and capitulation; in this afl'air, the young mate
had nobly distinguished himself both as a combatant
and a negotiator, and yet the captain had not deigned
to give him a share in his distribution of compliments.

Selkirk felt an irritation the more lively that this
shore life began to be irksome. Not that his con-
science disturbed him any more than in the treatment
of the blacks; he thought it as honorable to war with
the Spaniards in the New World, as to be beaten by
them in the Old; but he compared his present chief,
Captain Stradling, with his former commander, the
noble and brave Admiral Rooke; the parallel extended
in his mind to his old companions in the royal navy,
all so frank, so gay, so loyal,-- among whom he had
yet .never found a friend,--and his new companions
of to-day, recruited for the most part in the marshy
lowlands of the merchant marine of Scotland; his
thoughts became overshadowed, and his desires for
independence, which dated from his college life, re-
turned in full force.

As much as his duties permitted, he loved to isolate
himself from all; when he could remain some time
alone in his cabin, or gaze upon the sea from a retired
corner of the deck and watch the ploughing of the
vessel, then only he was happy.

As if to increase his uneasiness, Stradling became
daily more severe and more exacting towards his chief
oflicer; he imposed upon him rude labors foreign to

his station. It seemed as if he were determined to
drive him to desperation.

He succeeded.

Selkirk protested against such treatment, and reca-
pitulated his subjects of complaint. The other paid
no more attention than he would have done to the
buzzing of a fly. .

Irritated by this outrageous impassibility, the young
man declared that there should no longer be any thing
in common between them, and that, whatever fate
might await him, he demanded to be set on shore.

Stradling touched his forehead : '

' That is a good idea,' said he, and he turned away.

The next day, they reached the Isthmus of Panama;
the persevering Selkirk returned to the charge :
' The moment is favorable for ridding yourself of
me, and me of you,' said he to the captain; 'let the
boat convey me to the shore ; I will cross the Isthmus,
reach the Gulf of Darien, the North Sea, and return
to Scotland, even before the Swordfish l '

This time the honest corsair listened attentively,
then shaking his head and winking his eye, with the
smile of a hungry vampire, replied :

'You are then in great haste to be married, com-
rade.'

It was the first word he had addressed to him relative
to Catherine during this long voyage, and this word
Selkirk had not even understood.

They were about passing Panama: the vessel con-
tinuing her voyage, Selkirk interposed his authority,
ordered the men to put about, take in sail and approach
the shore.

This Stradling prohibited, uttered a formidable oath,
and commanded the young man to bring the log-book.
When it was brought, he made the following entry:

' To-day, Sept. 24th, 1704, Alexander Selkirk, mate
of this vessel, having mutinied and attempted to desert
to the enemy, we have deprived him of his title and
his office; in case of obstinacy we shall hang him to
the yard-arm.' -

And he read the sentence to the offender.

From this day, the rebel saw himself compelled to
serve in the Swordfish as a simple sailor, and his sub-
ordinates of yesterday, to-day his equals, indemnified
themselves for the authority he had exercised over
them, which did not cure him of that native contempt
he had always felt for mankind.
A month passed away thus, during which the Sword-
fish several'times touched the shores of Peru, now to
renew her supplies of provisions and water, now to
exchange with the Indians, nails, hatchets, knives, and
necklaces of beads, for gold dust, furs, and garments
trimmed with colored feathers.

During one of these pauses, Selkirk, left on the ship,
accosted the captain once more. He knew that the
remains of some bands of freebooters were colonized
there, leading a peaceful and agricultural life; this
fact was known to all. At Coquimbo in Chili, some
English and Dutch pirates had formed a settlement of
this kind, now in the full tide of prosperity. Selkirk,
who, during an entire month, had not spoken to the
captain, now demanded, in a voice which he attempted
to render calm {ind almost supplicating, to he landed
at Coquimbo, from which they were only a few days
sail.

'You will not this time accuse me of wishing to
desert to the enemy; they are the English, Scotch,
Dutch, our countrymen and allies whom I wish to
join 1 Do you still suspect me P Well, do not .content
yourself with setting me on shore; place me in the
hands of the chief men of the settlement. Will that
suit you P ' -

Stradling winked significantly; but this was all.

'Ahl' resumed the young man with increasing
emotion, ' do not think to detain me longer on board,
to crush me beneath this humiliation! Iconsented to
serve under your orders as mate, and you have made
me the lowest of your sailors; this you had no right
to do.'
Stradling took his glass and directed it towards the
shore, where his people were engaged in trafficking
their beads and hardware.

Raising his head and folding his arms :

' Captain,' pursued Selkirk with vehemence, 'some
day or other we shall return to England, where the
laws protect all; there, I shall have the right of com-
plaint, and Queen Anne loves to render justice; be-
ware l' '

Stradling, still Spying, began to whistle God save the
Queen; then he called his monkey and made it gambol
before him.

' I will depart, I will free myself from your presence,
and that of your worthy companions; 1 will do so at
all events, do you understandl' exclaimed Selkirk
exasperated, 'I will not endure your infamous treat-
ment another weekl If you refuse to consent to my
demand, I will leave without your permission; were
the vessel twenty miles from the land, and were I to
perish twenty times on the way, I will attempt to
swim ashore. Will you land me at Coquimbo, yes or
no? Reply l '

By way of reply, Stradling ordered him to be con-
fined in the hold.

Poor Selkirk! Ah! if pretty Kitty, if the beautiful
landlady of the Royal Salmon could know all thou
hast endured for her sake, how many tears would her
fine eyes shed over thy fatel But who knows whether
she will ever hear of thee? Who can tell whether any

human being will learn the sufferings in reserve for
thee ?
Poor Selkirk! you who painted to yourself so smil-
ing a picture of this grand voyage to America; who
hoped to leave, like Dampier, your name to some strait,
some newly discovered island; you who dreamed of
scientific walks in vast prairies and under the arches
of virgin forests, you have shared only in the career
of a traflicker and a pirate; of this New World, full
of marvellous sights, you have seen only the shore,
the fringe of the mantle, the margin of this last work
of God!

Poor Selkirk, must you then return to your cold
and foggy Scotland, without having contemplated at
your ease, beneath the brilliant sun of the tropics,
one of those Edens overshadowed by the luxuriant
verdure of palm-trees, bananas, mimosas and gigantic
ferns P In your country, the bark of the trees is clad
with lichens and mosses, and the parasite mistletoe
suspends itself to the branches, more as a burden than
as an ornament; here, numerous families of the orchis,
with their singular forms, showy and variegated blos-
soms, climb along the knotty stems of the tall monarchs
of the forests; from their feet spring up, as if to en.
lace them with a magic network, the brilliant passi-
flora, the vanilla with its intoxicating perfume, the
banisteria whose roots seem to have dived into mines
of gold and borrowed from thence the color of its
petals! Hither the birds of Paradise and Brazilian
parrots come to build their nests; here the bluebird and
the purple-necked wood-pigeon coo and sing; here, like
swarms of bees, thousands of humming-birds of min-
gled emerald and sapphire, warble and glitter as they
suck the nectar from the flowers. This was what you
hoped to contemplate, poor Selkirk! and this joy, like
many others, is henceforth forbidden.

In his floating prison, in his submarine cell, his only
employment is to listen to the dashing of the waves
against the ship, or now and then to catch a glimpse
of the blue sky through the hatchways.

What cares be? He does not complain; he has
learned to abhor mankind, and he loves to be alone, in
company with himself and his own thoughts.

Several days passed in this manner.

One morning he felt the brig slacken its speed ; the
dashing of the wave against the prow diminished, and
the Swordfish, suddenly furling its sails, after having
slightly rocked hither and thither, stopped. They had
just east anchor. Where? he knows not.

Soon he hears the rattling of the rope-ladder which
serves as a stairway to those above who would commu-
nicate with his prison. They come, on the part of the
captain, to seek him. '

He finds the latter seated on the deck, surrounded
by his principal men.

' Young man,' said Stradling, ' I have been obliged
to be severe for the sake of an example ; but you have
been sufficiently punished by the time you have passed
below there,' --and he pointed to the ship's hold.
' Now, your wish shall be granted. You shall be
allowed to land.'

And the rare smile which sometimes hovered on his
lips, stole over his rigid face.

' So much the better,' replied Selkirk, laconically.

The boat was let down ; he entered it, and ten

minutes afterwards disembarked on a green shore,
334 m: sou-mar or man numnnz,

where the waves, as they broke upon it, seemed to
murmur softly in his ear the word, liberty!

The boat immediately rejoined the ship, which set
sail, coasted along Chili and Patagonia, and re-entered
the Northern Sea by the Straits of Magellan.
CHAPTER IV.

Inspection of the Country. -- Marimonda. -- A City seen
through the Fog.--The Sea every where--Dialogue with
a Toucan.--The first Shot.---Declaration of War. --ve'i'PS
geance. - A Terrestrial Paradise. '

WHILE watching the departure of the Swordfish,
Alexander Selkirk felt the same sensation as on that
day when he had seen the doors of the college of St.
Andrew thrown open for his exit; once more he was
his own master. Now, however, it is at some thou-
sands of miles from his country that he must reap the
benefits of his independence, and this idea embitters
his emotions of joy.

But is he not about to find countrymen at Coquim-
b0? And if their society should be unpleasing?--if
their habits, their mode of life, their persons, should
become objects of antipathy to the misanthropic Sel-
kirk, as it is but natural to fear? Well! after all, no
engagement binds him to them; he will he always free
to enter, in the capacity of a sailor, the first vessel
which may leave for EurOpe.

Determined to act as shall seem good to him,--to
make some excursions into the interior of the continent,
if an opportunity presents itself, and he will know how
to make one, -- he casts a first glance at the land of his
adoption.
Before him extends a vast shore, studded with
groves of trees, covered with fine turf and little flowers
joyfully unfolding their petals to the sun: two streams,
having their source at the very base of the Opposite
hills, after having meandered around this immense
lawn, unite almost at his feet.

He bends down to one of these streams, fills the
hollow of his hand with water, and tastes it, as a liba-
tion, and as a toast to the generous land which has just
received him ; the water is excellent; he plucks a
flower, and continues his inspection.

On his left rise high mountains, terraced and ver-
dant, excepting at their summits, on one of which he
perceives a goat, with long horns, stationed there im-
movable like a sentinel, and whose delicate profile is
clearly defined on the azure of the sky. On the side
towards the sea, the mountains, bending their gray and
naked heads, resemble stone giants, watching the move~
ments of the wave which dashes at their feet.

On his right, where the land declines, he sees little
valleys linked together with charming undulations; but
on the mountains at his left, in the valleys at his right,
among the hills in the distance, his eye vainly seeks
the vestige of a human habitation. '

He sets out in search of one. The boat from which
he landed has deposited on the shore his efi'ects--his
arms, his nautical instruments, his charts, a Bible, and
provisions of various kinds. Notwithstanding his pirat-
ical sentiments, the captain of the Swordfish has not
designed to precede exile by confiscation. Selkirk
takes his gun, his gourd; but, unable to carry all his
riches, he conceals them behind a stony thicket, wellor um um. nosmsou 010803. 37

defended by the darts of the cactus, and the sword-like

leaves of the aloe, not caring to have the first corner
seize them as his booty.

As he is occupied with this duty, he feels himself

suddenly clasped by two long hairy arms; he turns
his head, it is Marimonda, the captain's monkey, a
female of the largest species.

How came she there? Selkirk does not know.

Disgusted with her sea-voyages, with the intelli-
gence natural to her race, Marimonda has undoubtedly
profited by the moment of the boat's leaving the ship
to conceal herself in it and gain the shore along with
the prisoner, which she might easily have done, un-
seen by all, during the transporting of the effects and
provisions.

However this may be, Selkirk begins by freeing
himself from her grasp, repulses the monkey and sets
out: but the latter perseveres in following, and after
having, by her most graceful grimaces, sought to con-
ciliate him, marches beside him. Not caring to arrive
at Coquimbo escorted by such a companion, which
would give him in a city the appearance of a mounte-
bank and showman of monkeys, Selkirk, this time,
repulses her rudely, not with his hand, but with the
butt of his gun.

Struck in the breast by this home thrust, the poor
monkey stops, rolls up her eyes, moves her lips, and

growling confusedly her complaints and reproaches,
crouches beneath a tuft of the sapota, leaving the man

to pursue his way alone.
Selkirk has at first directed his steps toward the
valleys; after having traversed these, he arrives at38 rm: SOLITARY or mm rsaxmnnz,

the margin of a sandy plain, and as far as the eye can
reach, perceives neither city, village, house, tent nor
hut, nothing which can indicate the presence of in-
habitants. '

Nevertheless, a little grove which he has just trav-
ersed, seems to have recently, in its principal path,
passed under the shears of a gardener; the foliage
presents a certain symmetry; fragments of branches
are strewed. on the ground, which seem to have been
freshly cut; he even thinks he sees vestiges of the
passage of a flock. On the lawn of the shore, he has
seen, and still sees around him, trees with tufted
heads, which must owe this form to art. He con~
tinues his researches.

At last, in the distance, beneath a fog which is
just beginning to dissolve, he perceives a vast mass of
white and red houses, some with terraced roofs, others
covered with thatch; through the humid veil which
envelopes them, he sees the glistening of the glass in
the windows; already he hears at his feet the con-
fused noise of cities; murmuring voices reply; the
measured sound of hammers and of mills even reaches
his ear.

It is Coquimbol he cannot doubt it, and shortening
his route by a path across the hill, he quickens his
pace.

Meanwhile an east wind arises, the fog disappears ;
when he thinks he has reached the suburbs of the city,
Selkirk sees before him only an irregular assemblage
of calcareous stones, crowned 'with dry herbs, or red-
dish, arid, angular rocks, flattened at their summits,
tessellated with fragments of silex and mica, on which
the sun is just pouring his rays ; a company of goats,
which the mist had condemned to a momentary re-
pose, are bounding here and there, startling flocks of
clamorous black-birds and plaintive sea-gulls ; the fear-
less and yellow-crested woodpeckers alone do not stir,
but continue to hammer with their sharp beaks at some
old stunted trees.

The disenchantment is painful for our sailor; the
fog has deceived him with the semblance of a city, as
it has more than once deluded us in the midst of plains
' and woods, by the appearance of an ocean with its

white waves, its great capes, its bold shores, and its
vessels at anchor.

Perhaps Coquimbo is still beyond. Fearing to lose
himself if he ventures farther in an unknown land, he
resolves to eXplore it first by a look. Returning to
the shore upon which he had landed, he scales the
mountains on the north, reaches the first platform,
and from thence seeks to discover some indications of
a city. Nothing! he still ascends, the circle enlarges
around him, but with no better result. Summoning
all his courage, through a thousand difficulties, climb-
ing, drawing himself up by the arid and abrupt rocks,
piled one upon another, he at last attains a culminating
point of the mountain. He can now embrace with his
eye an immense horizon, but this immense horizon is

the seal On his right, on his left, before him, behind
him, every where the seal

He is not on the continent, but on an island.

This evening, exhausted with fatigue, he lies down
in a grotto at the foot of the mountain, where he
passes a night full of agitation and anxiety.
Rising with the sun, his first care, the next morning,
is to examine his riches and his provisions. He re-
turns to the thicket of cactus and 9.1063.

. Besides two guns, two hatchets, a knife, an iron pot,
a Bible and nautical instruments, all articles belonging
to him, he finds there a quantity of nails, 8. large frag-
ment of a sail, several horns of powder and shot; a
bag of ship biscuit, a salted quarter of pork, a little
cask of pickled fish, and a dozen cocoa-nuts.

The night before, at sight of these articles, he had
supposed a sentiment of justice and humanity to exist
in the soul of the corsair. Just now, he had said to
himself that Stradling, deceived by a false reckoning of
latitude, had landed him on an island, perhaps believ-
ing it to be a projecting shore of the continent. Now,
the abundance of his supplies, this biscuit, these salt
provisions, these fruits of the cocoa, all valueless if he
had really landed at Coquimbo, lead him to suspect
that the vindictive Englishman has designedly chosen
the place of his exile.

But this exile, is it complete isolation? Is the
island inhabited or deserted? If it is inhabited, as he
still believes he has reason to suppose, by whom is
it so P

That he may obtain a reply to this double question,
he resolves to traverse the country in its whole extent.
At the very commencement of his journey, the immo-
bility of a bird suffices to give to the doubt, on which
his thoughts vacillate, the appearance almost of a
certainty.

This bird is a toucan, of brilliant plumage and mon-
strous beak. Selkirk passes near it, with his eyes
fixed on the branch which serves as a perch, and the
toucan, without stirring, looks at him with a species of
calm and placid astonishment.

Selkirk stops; he comprehends the mute language
of the bird.

' You do not know then what a man is! He is the
enemy of every creature to whom God has given life,
the enemy even of his kind! You have then never
been threatened by the arms that I bear 1 '

And with the palm of his hand, striking the butt of
his gun, he made the hammer click.

At the sound of his voice, as at the noise of the
hammer, the bird raised its head, manifesting new and
redoubled surprise, but without any other movement.
It seemed to think that the man and the gun were one,
and that its strange interlocutor possessed two different
voices.

At last, by way of reply, it uttered a few shrill and
prolonged cries, accompanied by the rattling of its two
horny mandibles. After which, acting the great no-
bleman, cutting short the audience he has deigned to
grant, the toucan is silent, turns its head, proudly
raises one of its wings and husies itself in smoothing,
with the point of its large beak, its beautiful greenish
feathers, variegated with purple.

At some distance from this spot, still following the
margin of a wooded hill, Selkirk sees other birds,
some in their nests, others warbling in the shade ; all
manifesting no more alarm at his presence than did
the toucan. Crested orioles, hooded bullfinches, alight
to pick up little grains or insects almost at his feet;
humming-birds, variegated cotingas, red manaquins
flutter before him in the sunbeams, pursuing invisible
flies; little wood-peckers, black or green, hop around
the trunks of the trees, stopping a moment to see him
pass and then resuming their spiral ascent.

The confidence which he inspires is not confined to
these winged people. Upon a hillock of turf he
perceives an animal, with pointed nose, brown fur
enamelled with red spots, and of the size of a hare;
seated on its hind paws, longer than those in front, it
uses these, after the manner of squirrels, to carry to its
mouth some nuts of the maripa, which constitute its
breakfast. It is an agouti,l a mother, her little 'ones
are near. At sight of the stranger they run to her, but
quickly re-assured, quietly finish their morning repast.

Farther on, coatis,9 with short ears, and long tails ;

 

' Agauti. An animal of the bigness of a rabbit, with bright
red hair, and a little tail without hair. He has but two teeth
in each jaw; holds his meat in his forepaws like a squirrel,
and has a very remarkable cry: when he is angry, his hair
stands on end, and he strikes the earth with his hind feet ; and
when chased, he flies to a hollow tree, whence he is expelled
by smoke. -- Trevouz.

'3 The coati is a native of Brazil, not unlike the racoon in
the general form of the body, and, like that animal, it fre-
quently sits up on the hinder legs, and in this position carries
its {bad to its mouth. If left at liberty in a state of tameness,
it will pursue poultry, and destroy every living thing that it has
strength to conquer. When it sleeps it rolls itself into a lump,
and remains immovable for fifteen hours together. His eyes
are small, but full of life 5 and when domesticated, this crea-
ture is very playful and amusing. A great peculiarity be-
longing to this animal is the length of his snout, which
resembles in some particulars the trunk of the elephant, as it
companies of little Guinea pigs; armadillos, a species
of hedge-hog without the quills, but covered with an
armor of scales, more compact and impervious than
that of the ancient knights of the Middle Ages, arrange
themselves along the line of his route, as if to pass him
in review.

Alas! this general quiet does but deepen in the
heart of Selkirk the certainty of his isolation.

Nevertheless, yesterday, said he to himself, in this
thick wood, did I not see alleys trimmed with the
shears, trees shaped by the pruning-knife?

And the little grove which he visited the evening
previous, at that instant presents itself before him.
He examines the trees; they are myrtles of various
heights ; but among their glossy branches, he in vain
seeks traces of the pruning-knife or shears; nature
alone has thus disposed in spheroids or umbels the
extremities of this rich vegetation.

The same disappointment awaits him in the under-
wood. The only pruners have been goats, or other
animals, daintily cropping the green shoots.

Then only does the complete and terrible certainty
of his disaster fall on him and crush him. Behold him
blotted from the number of men, perhaps condemned
to die of misery and of hunger! more securely impris-
oned, more entirely forgotten by the world than the
most hardened criminal plunged in the lowest depths

w

is movable in every direction. The cars are round, and like
those of a rat; the forefeet have five toes each. The hair is
short and rough on the back, and of a blackish color ; the tail
is marked with rings of black, like the wild cat 5 the rest of
the animal is a mixture of black and red.
of the Bastilel He at least, has a jailor! Miserable
Stradlingl

At this moment he hears a noise above his head : it
is the monkey.

Marimonda, on her side, has also inspected the
island; she has already tasted its productions. Whether
she is satisfied with her discoveries, or whether for-
giveness and forgetfulness of injuries are natural to
her, on perceiving her old companion, wagging her
head in token of good-will, she descends towards him
from the tree on which she is perched.

But Marimonda is the captain's monkey; she has
been his property, his favorite, his flatterer! In the
disposition of mind in which Selkirk finds himself, he
does not need these thoughts to make him pitiless.
Marimonda reminds him of Stradling , the monkey
shall pay for the man!

He lowers his gun, and fires. The monkey has
seen the movement and divined his intentions; she
has only time to retreat behind her tree, which does
not prevent her receiving in her side a part of the
charge.

This detonation of fire-arms, the first perhaps which
has resounded in this corner of the earth since the
creation of the world, as it is prolonged from echo to
echo, even to the highest mountains, awakens in every
part of the island as it were a groan of distress. ln-
stinct, that sublime prescience, has revealed to all that
a great peril has just been born.

To the cries of afi'right from birds of every species,
to the uneasy and distant bleating of the goats, suc-
ceeds a plaintive moaning, like the voice of a wailing
infant.
It is Mari monda lamenting over her wound.

At nightfall, after an entire day of walks and explo-
rations, Selkirk is returning to his grotto on the shore,
when he sees a stone fall at his feet, then another.

While he, astonished, is seeking to divine the direc-
tion from which this invisible battery plays, a little
date-stone hits him on the cheek. He immediately
hears as it were a joyous whistling in the foliage,
which is agitated at his right, and sees Marimonda
leaping from tree to tree, using for this movement her
feet, her tail, and one hand; for she holds the other
to her side. It is a compress on her wound.

War is already in the island! Selkirk has a de-
clared enemy here! And this island, is it deserted?
He has just traversed it in every direction without see-
ing any thing which betokens the existence of a human
being.

His disaster is then complete; henceforth not a
doubt of it can exist. And yet his forehead wears
rather the character of hope and fortitude than of dis-
couragement; it is more than resignation, it is pride.

He has just visited his empire. The island, irregu-
lar in form, is from four to five leagues in length; in
breadth it is from one and a half to two leagues.
This abode to which he is condemned, is the most
enchanting retreat he could have chosen; a luxuriant
park cradled upon the waves. '

If sometimes, in the mountainous parts, he has en-
countered sterile and rugged rocks, even abysses and
precipices, they seem to be placed there only as a
contrast to the fresh and green valleys which encircle
them. If he has seen some dark, dense, inaccessible
forests, entangled in the thousand arms of interwoven
vines, he has not discovered a single reptile.

Every where, springs of living water, little streams
which are lost under a thick verdure, or fall in cas-
cades from the summits of the hills; every where a
luxuriant vegetation; esculent and refreshing plants,
celery, creases, sorrel, spring in profusion beneath his
feet; over his head, and almost within reach of his
hand, palm-cabbages, and unknown fruits of succulent
appearance: on the margin of the shores, muscles, peri-
winkles, shell-fish of every species, crabs crawling in
the moist sand; beneath the transparent waters, innu-
merable shoals of fishes of all colors, all forms. Will
game be wanting here? After what he has seen this
morning, he will not even need his gun to obtain
it. Oh! his provision of powder will last him a long
time.

What has he to desire more in this terrestrial Para-
dise? The society of men? Why? That he may
find a master, a chief, under whose will he must
bend? Men! but he despises, detests them! ls he
not then sufficient for himself? Yes! this shall be
his glory, his happiness! To live in entire liberty, to
depend only upon himself, will not this impart to his
soul true dignity? Besides, this island cannot be so
far from the coast, but, from time to time, ships, or at
least boats must come in sight. This is then for him
but a transient seclusion; but were he even condemned
to eternal isolation, this isolation has ceased to terrify
him, he accepts it! Has he not almost always lived
alone, in spirit at least? When he was in the depths
of the hold, was he not better satisfied with his fate
than when surrounded by those coarse sailors who
composed the worthy crew of the Swordfish?

To-day he is no longer the prisoner of Stradling,
he is the prisoner of God! and this thought re-assures
him.

A sailor, he has never loved but the sea; well! the
sea surrounds him, guards him! He has then only
thanks to render to God.

Arrived at his grotto, he takes his Bible, opens it;
but the sun, suddenly sinking below the horizon, per-
mits him to read only this passage on which his finger
is placed: ' Thou shalt perish in thy pride! '
CHAPTER V.

Labors of the Colonist.--His Study.--Fishing.--Adminis-
tration. -- Selkirk Island. -- The New Prometheus. -- What
is wanting to Happiness. -- Encounter with Marimonda. --
Monologue.

Tunas months have passed away.

Thanks to Selkirk, the shore which received him at
his disembarkation, presents to-day an aspect not only
picturesque, but animated. The hand of man has
made itself felt'there.

The bushes and tails of trees which hid the view of
the hills in the distance, have been uprooted and cut
down; pretty paths, covered with gravel, wind over the
vast lawn ; one in the direction of the valleys at the right,
another towards the mountains at the left; a third leads
to a tall mimosa, whose topmost boughs and dense
foliage spread out like a parasol. A wooden bench,
composed of some round sticks, driven into the earth,
with branches interwoven and covered with bark, sur-
rounds it; a rustic table,constructed in the same man-
ner, stands at the foot of the tree. This is the study
and place of meditation of the exile; here also he
comes to take his meals, in sight of the sea.

All three paths terminate in the grotto which Selkirk
continues to make his residence. This grotto he has
enlarged, quarried out with his hatchet, to make room
for himself, his furniture, and provisions. He has
even attempted to decorate its exterior with a bank of
turf, and several species of creeping plants, trained to
cover its calcareous nudity. At the entrance of his
habitation, rise two young palm-trees, transplanted
there by him, to serve as a portico. But nature is
not always obedient to man; the vines and palm-trees
do not prosper in their new location, and now the
long flexible branches of the one, and the broad leaves
of the other, droop half withered above the grotto,
which they disfigure rather than decorate.

By constant care, and with the aid of his streams,
Selkirk hopes to be able to restore them to life and
health. He has imposed on his two streams another
duty, that of supplying a bed of water-cresses and a
fish-pond, both provident establishments, the first of
which has succeeded perfectly. As for the second,
his most arduous task has been, not to dig the fish-
pond, but to people it. For this purpose he has been
compelled to become a fisherman, to manufacture a net.
He has succeeded, with some threads from his fragment
of a sail, the fibres of his cocoa-nuts, and tough reeds,
woven in close meshes; unfortunately these fine fishes,
brea'ms, eels and angel-fish, which show themselves so
readily through the limpid wave, are not as easy to
catch as to see. Under the surface, almost afa level
with the water, there is a ledge of rocks, upon which
the net cannot be managed. After several fruitless
attempts, he is obliged to content himself with the
insignificant employment of fishing with a line; a nail
flattened, sharpened and bent, performs the office of a

hook. Success ensues, but only with time and patience;
450 ms 801.1qu or JUAN rsamnnsz,

fortunately the sea-crabs allow themselves to be caught
with the hand, and the fish-pond does not long remain
useless and deserted.

Besides, has not our fortunate Selkirk the resource
of hunting? The chase he had commenced gene-
rously, like a wise monarch, who wages war only for
the general interest. It is true, that as it happens With
most wise monarchs, his own private interest is also
to be consulted, at least he thinks so.

Wild cats existed in the island, destroying young
broods, agoutis, and other small game ; he has almost
entirely rid it of these pirates, reserving to himself
only the right of levying upon his subjects the tribute
of blood. He has already signalized his administra-
tion by acts of an entirely different nature.

This king without a people, is ignorant in what
part of the great ocean, and at what distance from its
shores, is situated his nameless kingdom.

Armed with his spy-glass, by the aid of his nautical
charts, he attempts to ascertain, by the position of the
stars, its longitude and latitude. He at first believes
himself to be in one of the islands forming the group
of Chiloe; his calculations rectified, he afterwards
thinks it the Island of Juan Fernandez, then San Am-
brosio, or San Felix. Unable to determine the location
exactly, for want of correct instruments, he persuades
himself that the country he inhabits has never been
surveyed, that it is really a land without a name, and
he gives it his own ; he calls it Selkirk Island.

Ambitious youth, thou hast thus realized one of thy
brightest dreamsl Dost thou remember the day when,
on the way from Largo to St. Andrew, to join William
Dampier, thou didst already see thyself the chief of a
new country, discovered and baptized by thee P

Well! has he not more than discovered this country ?
He inhabits it, he governs it, he reigns in it! Not
satisfied with giving his name to the island, he soon
creates a special nomenclature for its various localities.
To the shore upon which he landed, he gives the name
of Swordfish Beach; the pile of white and red rocks,
which he saw through the fog, is the False Coquimbo;
he calls Toucan Forest, the wood where he saw that
bird for the first time; the Defile of Attack, is that
where Marimonda assaulted him with stones; upon
these arid rocks, furrowed by deep ravines and abound-
ing' in precipices, he has imposed the odious name of
Stradling I In his mountains he has the Oasis; it is
a little shady valley, enlivened by the murmur of a
streamlet, and with one extremity opening to the sea.

There he often goes to watch the game and the goats,
which come to drink at the brook. Above it rises the

table-land, with difliculty scaled by him on the day of
his arrival, and from whence he became convinced
that he had landed on an island. This table-land, he
has named The Discovery.

The two streams which meander over his lawn, and
before his grotto, have also received names. This,
commissioned to feed the fish-pond, and which gently
warbles through the grass, he calls The Linnet; the
other, interrupted by little cascades, and whose course
is more rapid and impetuous, he calls The Stammerer.

He has now destroyed the noxious animals, admin-
istered government, opened ways of communication,
given a name to every part of his island. How many
great rulers have done no more l
But his labors have not been confined to his fish-
pond, his bed of water-cresses, his hunting, fishing,
building, felling of trees; it has become necessary
to procure that essential element of civilization, of
comfort, fire.

What could the opulent proprietor of this enchanting
abode do without fire? Is it not necessary, if he
would open a passage through the dense woods? Is it
' not indispensable to his kitchen ? Some of his trees,
it is true, afi'ord fruits in abundance; but most of these
fruits are of a dry and woody nature ; beeides, young
and vigorous, easily acquiring an appetite by labor and
exercise, can he content himself with a dinner which
is only a dessert? Surrounded with fishes of all
colors, with feathered and other game, must he then
he reduced to dispute with the agoutis, their maripa-
nuts?

He reflects; armed with a bit of iron, he strikes the
fiinty rocks of the mountains, to elicit from them use-
less sparks. He then remembers that savages obtain
fire without flint and matches, by the friction of two
pieces of dry wood ; he tries, but in vain; he exhausts
the strength of his arms, without being discouraged;
he tries each tree, wishing even that a thunderbolt
might strike the island, if it would leave there a trace
of burning. At last, almost discouraged, he attacks
the pirnento-myrtle;l he recommences his customary
efforts of rubbing. The twigs grow warm with the
friction ; a little white smoke appears, fluttering to and

 

'Myrtus aromatica ,- its berries are known under the name
of Jamaica pepper.
fro between his hands, rapid and trembling with emo-
tion. The flame bursts forth l He utters a cry of tri-
umph, and, hastily collecting other twigs and dry
reeds, he leaps for joy around his fire, which, like
another Prometheus, he has just stolen, not from
heaven, but from earth!

Afterwards, in his gratitude, he runs to the myrtle,
embraces it, kisses it. An act of folly, perhaps; per-
haps an act of gratitude, which ascended higher than
the topmost branches of the trees, higher than the
culminating summits of the mountains of the island.

But this fire, must he, each time he may need it, go
through the same tedious process? Not far from his
grotto, in a cavity which a projecting rock protects
from the sea breeze, he piles up wood and brush, sets
fire to it, keeps it alive from time to time, by the addi-
tion of combustibles, and comprehends why, among
primitive nations, the earliest worship should have been
that of fire; why, from Zoroaster to the Vestals, the
care of preserving it should have been held sacred.

At a later period, in the ordinary course of things,
he simplified his means of preservation. With some
threads and the fat of his game, he contrived a lamp;
still later, he had oil, and reeds served him for wicks.

Dating from this moment, the entire island paid
tribute to him; the crabs, the eels, the flesh of the
agouti, savory like that of the rabbit, by turns figured
on his table. When he seasoned them with some
morsels of pork, substituting ship biscuit for bread, his
repasts were fit for an admiral.

' Although the goats had become wild, like the other
inhabitants of the island, since all had learned the
nature of man, and of the thunder, which he directed
at his will, Selkirk still surprised them within gun-shot.
Not only was their flesh profitable for food; their
horns, long and hollow, served to contain powder and
other small articles necessary to his house-keeping ; of
their skins he made carpets, coverings, and bags to
protect his provisions from dampness. He even man-
ufactured a game-pouch, which he constantly carried
when hunting.

His salt fish, his biscuit, some well smoked quarters
of goat's flesh, and the productions of his fish-pond, at
present constitute a store on which he can live for a
long time, without any care, but to ameliorate his
condition.

He is now in possession of all the enjoyments he
has coveted, abundance, leisure, absolute freedom.

And yet, his brow is sometimes clouded, and an
unaccountable uneasiness torments him; something
seems wanting; his appetite fails, his courage grows
feeble, his reveries are painfully prolonged. But, by
mature reflection, he has discovered the cause of the
evil.

What is it that is so essential to his happiness?
Tobacco.

Our factitious wants often exercise over us a more
tyrannical empire, than our real ones; it seems as if
we clung with more force and tenacity to this second
nature, because we have ourselves created it; it origi-
nates' in us; the other originates with God, and is
common to all I

Selkirk now persuades himself that tobacco alone is
wanting to his comfort; it is this privation which
throws him into these sorrowful fits of languor. If
Stradling had only given him a good stock of tobacco,
he would have pardoned all; he no longer feels
courage to hate him. What to him imports the plenty
which surrounds him, if he has no tobacco? of what
use is his leisure, if he cannot spend it in smoking?
what avails even this fire, which he has just conquered,
if he is prevented from lighting his pipe at it?
Careworn and dissatisfied, he was wandering one
morning through his domains, with his gun on his
shoulder, his hatchet at his belt, when he perceived

something dancing on a point of land, shadowed by
tall canes.

It was Marimonda.

At sight of her enemy, she darted lightly and rapidly
behind a woody hillock. An instant aherwards, he
saw her tranquilly seated on the topmost branch of a
tree, holding in each of her hands fruits which she was
alternately striking against the branch, and against
each other, to break their tough envelope. '

The sight of Marimonda has always awakened in
Selkirk a sentiment of repulsion; she not only reminds
him of Stradling, but with her withered cheeks, pro-
jecting jaw, and especially her dancing motion, he
now imagines that she resembles him; and yet, paus-
ing before her, he contemplates her not without a
lively emotion of surprise and interest.

He had already encountered her within gun-shot,
when engaged in the destruction of the wild cats, and
had asked himself whether he should not reckon her
among noxious animals. But then Marimonda, with
her hand constantly pressed against her side, was with
the other seizing various herbs, which she tasted,
bruised between her teeth, and applied to her wound ;
useless remedies, doubtless, for, grown meagre, her
hair dull and bristling, she seemed to have but a few
days to live, and Selkirk thought her not worth a
charge of powder and shot.

And here he finds her alert and healthy, holding in
the same hand which had served as a compress, no
longer the plant necessary for her cure, but the fruit
desirable for her sustenance.

'What,' said Selkirk to himself, ' in an island
where this frightful monkey has never before been,
she has succeeded in finding without difficulty the
herba sacra, that which has restored her to health and
strength! and I, Selkirk, who have studied at one of
the principal universities of Scotland, I am vainly
sighing for the plant which would suffice to render me
completely happy l Is instinct then superior to reason?
To believe this, would be ingratitude to Providence.
Instinct is necessary, indispensable to animals, be-
cause they cannot benefit by the traditions of their
ancestors. The monkey has consulted her instinct,
and it has inspired her; if Iconsult reason, what will
be her counsel? She will advise me to do like the
monkey; to seek the herb of which I feel so great a
want, or. at least to endeavor to substitute for it some-
thing analogous ; to choose, try, and taste, in short, to
follow the example of Marimondal Iwill not fail to
do so; but it is nature reversed, and, for a man, it is
too humiliating to see himself reduced to imitate a
CHAPTER VI.

The Hammock--Poison. -- Success--A Calm under the
Tropics. -- Invasion of the Island.--War and Plunder.--
The Oasis. -- The Spy-Glass. -- Reconciliation.

Do you see, upon a carpet of fresh verdure, the
sandy margin of which is bathed by a caressing wave,
that hammock suspended to the branches of those fine
trees? What happy mortal, during the heat of the
day, is there gently rocked, gently refreshed, by a light
sea breeze? It is Selkirk; and this hammock is his
sail, attached to his tall myrtles by strips of goat-skin.
Perhaps he is resting after the fatigues of the day?
No, it is the day of the Lord, and Selkirk now can
consecrate the Sabbath to repose. With his eyes half
closed, he is inhaling, undoubtedly, the perfume of his
myrtles, the soft fragrance of his heliotropes? No,
something sweeter still pre-occupies him. Is be
dreaming of his friends in Scotland, of his first love?
He has never known friendship, and the beautiful
Catherine is far from his memory. What is he then
doing in his hammock? He is smoking his pipe.

His pipe! Has he a pipe? He has them of all
forms, all sizes--made of spiral shells of various
kinds, of maripa-nuts, of large reeds; all set in
handles of myrtle, stalks of coarse grain, or the
hollow bones of birds. In these he is luxurious; he has
become a connoisseur; but this has not been the diffi-
culty. Before every thing else, tobacco was wanting.

In consequence of his encounter with Marimonda,
he ransacked the woods and meadows, seeking among
all plants those which approximated nearest to the
nature of the nicotiana. As it was necessary to judge
by their taste, he bit their leaves--chewed them, still
in imitation of the monkey: but, to his new and pro-
found humiliation, less skilful or less fortunate than the
latter, he obtained at first no other result than a sort of
poisoning: one of these plants being poisonous.

For several days he saw himself condemned to
absolute repose and a Spare diet. His mouth, swollen,
excoriated, refused all nourishment; his throat was
burning; his body was covered with an eruption, and
his languid and trembling limbs scarcely permitted him

to drag himself to the stream to quench there the thirst
by which he was devoured.

He believed himself about to die; and grief then
imposing silence on pride, with his eyes turned towards
the sea, he allowed a long-repressed sigh to escape his
heart. It was a regret for his absent country.

Very soon these alarming symptoms disappeared;
his strength returned; his water-creases and wild sorrel
completed the cure. Would he have dared to ask it of
the other productions of his island? He had become
suspicious of nature ; these, at least, he had long
known.

Scarcely had he recovered, when the want of to-
bacco made itself felt anew with more force than ever.
What to him imports experiment, what imports dan-
ger? Is it not to procure this precious, indispensable
herb,--which the world had easily done without for
thousands of years?

This time, nevertheless, become more prudent, he
no longer addresses himself to the sense of taste ; but
to odor, to that of smell. He has resolved to dry the
different plants which appear to him most proper for
the use to which he destines them, and to submit them
afterwards to a trial by fire. Will not the smoke
which escapes from them easily enable him to dis-
cover the qualities which he requires, since it is in
smoke that they are to evaporate, if he succeeds in his
researches ?

Of this grand collection of aromatics, two plants, at
last, come off victorious. One is the petunia, that
charming flower which at present decorates all our
gardens, whence the enemies of tobacco may one day
banish it; so it is only with trembling that I here
announce its relationship to the nicotiana; the other,
which, like the petunia, grows in profusion in the islands
as well as on the continent of Southern America, is
the herb coca, improperly so called, for its precious
leaves, which are to the natives of Peru and Chili,
what the betel is for the Indians of Malabar, grow on
an elegant shrub.l

These two plants, separately or together, composed,
thanks to a slight amalgam of chalk, sea-water, and
bruised pepper-cams, the most delicious tobacco.

Now, half awake, Selkirk smokes, as he busies
himself with constructing some necessary article, such
as a ladder, a stool, a basket of rushes, with which he

--------___--._____~__
' The erg/throzylum coca.
is completing the furniture of his house; he smokes
while fishing, and while hunting; on his return to his
dwelling, he lies down at the entrance of his grotto,
on his bank of turf, re-lights. his pipe at his fire, and
smokes; at the hour of breakfast or of dinner, seated
beneath the shade of his mimosa, his elbow on the
table, his Bible open before him, he smokes still.

Well! notwithstanding these pleasures so long de-
sired, notwithstanding this addition to his comfort,
notwithstanding his pipe, this vague uneasiness some-
times assails him anew.

He ascribes it to enfeebled health; and yet he
remains active and vigorous; he ascribes it to the
powerful odors of certain trees which affect his
brain. These trees he destroys around him, but
his uneasiness continues; he ascribes it to his food,
the insipidity of the fish which he has eaten without
salt, since his quarter of pork is consumed, and his
stores of pickled fish exhausted. In fact, the flesh of
fish has for some time given him a nausea, occasioned
frequent indigestions; he rcnounces it; his stomach
recovers its tone; but his fits of torpor and melan-
choly continue.

This state of suffering is most painful at those
moments of profound calm, common between the
tropics, when the birds are silent, when from the thick-
ets and burrows issue no murmurs, when the insect
seems to sleep within the closed corollas of the flow-
ers; when the leaves of the mimosa fold themselves;
when the tree-tops are not swayed by the slightest
breath of air, and the sea, motionless, ceases to dash

against the shine. What an inexpressible weight such
a silence adds to isolation! And yet it is not an
unbroken silence, for then a shrill and harsh sound
seems to grate upon the car. It is as if in this mute-
ness of nature, one could hear the motion of the earth
on its axis; then, above his head, in the depths of
immensity, the whirling of the celestial spheres and
myriads of worlds which gravitate in space. Thought
becomes troubled and exhausted before this overwhelm-
ing and terrible immobility, and the man who, at such
a moment, cannot have recourse to his kind, to distract

or re-assure him, is overpowered with his own insig-
nificance.

Sometimes the solitary calls on himself to break this
oppressive and painful silence; he articulates a few
words aloud, and his voice inspires him with fear; it
seems formidable and unnatural.

During one of these sinister calms, in which every
thing in creation seemed to pause, even the heart of
man, seated on the shore, not having even strength
to smoke, Selkirk was vainly awaiting the evening
breeze; nothing came, but .the obscurity of night.
The moon, delaying her appearance, submitting in
her turn to the sluggisbness of all things, seemed
detained below the circle of the horizon by some
fatal power; the sea was dull, gloomy, and as it were
congealed.

Suddenly, though there was not a breath of air,
Selkirk saw at his right, on a vast but limited tract
of ocean, the waves violently agitated and foaming.
He thought be distinguished a multitude of barques
and canoes furrowing the surface of the waters; not
far from Swordfish Beach, the flotilla enters a little
cove running up into the mountains.
He no longer sees any thing; but he hears a frightful
tumult of discordant cries.

There is no room for doubt! some Indian tribes,
pursued perhaps by new conquerors from Europe,
have just disembarked on the shore. W0 to him! he
can hepe from them neither pity nor mercy. A cold
sweat bathes his forehead; he runs to his grotto, takes
his gun, puts in his goatskin pouch some horns of
powder and shot, a piece of smoked meat, not forget-
ting his Bible! and passes the night wandering in the
woods, in the mountains, a prey to a thousand terrors;
hearing without cessation the steps of pursuers behind
him, and seeing fiery eyes glaring at him through the
thickets.

At day-break, with a thousand precautions, he re-
turns to his grotto. He finds the beach covered with
seals.

These were the enemies whose invasion had so
alarmed him.

It is now the middle of the month of February,
the period of the greatest trOpical beats, and these
amphibia, having left the shores of Chili or Peru,
are accomplishing one of their periodical migrations.
They have just taken possession of the island, one of
their accustomed stations. But the island has now a
master.

Where he expected to encounter a peril, Selkirk
finds amusement, a subject of study, perhaps a re-
source.

A long time ago he has read, in the narratives of
voyagers, singular stories concerning these marine
animals, these lions, these sea~elephants, flocks of old
Neptune, who have their chiefs, their pacha; who
are acquainted with and practise the discipline of war;
stationing vigilant sentinels in the spots they occupy,
communicating to each other a pass-word, and atten-
tive to the Qui viva?

He spies them, he watches them, he takes pleasure
in examining their grotesque forms,----half quadruped,
half fish; their feet encased in a sort of web, and ter-
minated by crooked claws, with which they creep on
the earth; their skins, covered with short and glossy
hair; their round heads and eyes.

He is a witness of their sports, their combats; but
very soon their frightful roaring and bellowing annoys
him, and makes him regret the silence of his solitude.
Another cause of complaint against them soon arises.

Qne morning, Selkirk finds his fish-pond and bed of
water-cresses devastated.

Exasperated, he declares war against the invaders:
during three days he tracks them, pursues them; ten
of them fall beneath his. balls, leaving the shore bathed
in their blood. The rest at last take flight, and the
army of seals, regaining the sea with despairing cries,
goes to establish itself at the other extremity of the
island.

This war has been profitable to the conqueror.
With the skin of the vanquished he makes himself a
new hammock, which permits him to employ his sail
for other uses; he also makes leather bottles, in which
he preserves the oil which he extracts in abundance
from their fat. Now he can have a lamp constantly
burning, even by night. He has all the comforts of
life. Of the hairy skin of the seals, he manufactures
a broad-brimmed hat, which shields him from the burn-
ing rays of the sun. He tastes their flesh ; it appears
to him insipid and nauseous, like that of the fish;
but the tongue, the" heart, seasoned with pepper, are
for him quite a luxury.

Days, weeks, months roll away in the same toils, the
same recreations. Whatever he may do to drive it
away, this apathetic sadness, this sinking of soul,
which has already tormented him at different periods,
becomes with Selkirk more and more frequent; he
cannot conquer it as he did the seals. His seals, he
now, regrets. When they were encamped on the
shore, they at least gave him something to look at, an
amusement; something lived, moved, near him.

When he finds himself a prey to these fits, which, in
his pride, he persists in attributing to transient indis-
position, he goes to walk in the mountains, taking with
him only his pipe, his Bible, and his spy-glass.

He often pursues his journey as far as the oasis;
there, he seats himself at the extremity of the little val-
ley, opposite the sea, from which his eye can traverse its
immense extent. He opens the holy book, and closes
it immediately ; then, his brow reddening, he seizes his
spy-glass, levels it, and remains entire hours measur-
ing the ocean, Wave by wave.

What is he looking for there? He seeks a sail, a
sail which shall come to his island and bear him from
his desert, from his ennui. His ennui he can no
longer dissimulate; this is the evil of his solitude.

One day, while he was at this spot, the setting sun
suddenly illuminated a black point, against which the
waves seemed to break in foam, as against the prow of
a ship; his eyes become dim, a tremor seizes him.
He looks again --keeps his glass for a long time fixed
on the same object, but the black point does not stir.

' Another illusion l' said he to himself; 'it is a reef,
a rock which the tide has left bare.'

He wipes the glasses of his spy-glass, he examines
again; he seems to see the waves whiten and whirl for
a large space around this rock.

' Can it be an island? If an island, is it inhabited?
I will construct a barque, and if God has pity on me I
will reach it.'

At this moment he hears footsteps resound on the
dry leaves which the wind has swept into the little
valley. He turns hastily.

It is Marimonda.

Marimonda has no longer her lively and dancing
motions , she also seems languid, sad. At sight of
Selkirk, she makes a movement as if to flee ; but
almost immediately advances a little, and, sorrowful,
with bent brow, sits down on a bank not far from him.

Has she then remarked that he is without arms?

On his side, Selkirk who had not met her for a long
time, seemed to have forgotten his former aversion.

At all events, is she not the most intelligent being
chance has placed near him? He remembers that, 1n
the ship, she obeyed the voice, the gesture of the
captain, and that her tricks amused the whole crew.
This resemblance to the human form, which he at first

disliked, now awakens in him ideas of indulgence and
peace. He reproaches himself with having treated
her so brutally, when the poor animal, who alone had

accompanied him into exile, at first accosted him with
5
a caress. And now she returns, laying aside all ill-will,
forgetting even the wound which she received from
him in an impulse of irritation and hatred, of which
she was not the object, for which she ought not to be
responsible.

He therefore makes to her a little sign with the head.
. Marimonda replies by winks of the eye and motions
of the shoulders, which Selkirk thinks not wholly desti-
tute of grace.

He rises and approaches her, saluting her with an
amicable gesture.

She awaits him, chattering with her teeth and lips
with an expression of joy.

Selkirk gently passes his hand over her forehead
and neck, calling her by name; then he starts for his
habitation, and Marimonda follows him. The man
and the monkey have just been reconciled. Both were
tired of their isolation.
CHAPTER VII.

A Tete-a-tete. --The Monkey's Goblet. --The Palace.-- A Re-
moval. -- Winter under the Tropics ---Plans for the Future.

--Property.----A burst of Laughter.--Misfonune not far
off. '

TuNQUILmY of mind has returned to our solitary;
now, his reveries are more pleasant and less prolonged;
his walks through the woods, his moments of repose
during the heat of the day seem more endurable since
something, besides his shadow, keeps him company;
he has resumed his taste for labor since there is some-
body to look at him; speech has returned to him since
somebody replies to his voice. This somebody, this
something, is Marimonda.

Marimonda is now the companion of Selkirk, his
friend, his slave; she seems to comprehend his slightest
gestures and even his ennui. To amuse him, she
resorts to a thousand expedients, a thousand tricks of
the agility peculiar to her race; she goes, she comes,
she runs, she leaps, she bounds, she chatters at his
side; she tries to people his solitude, to make a
rustling around him; she brings him his pipes, rocks
him in his hammock, and, for all these cares, all this
attention, demands only a caress, which is no longer
refused.

She is oflen a spectator of her master's repasts;
sometimes even shares them. This was at first a
favor, afterwards a habit, as in the case of honest coun-
trymen, who, secluded from the world, by degrees
admit their servants into their intimacy. Selkirk had
not to fear the importunate, unexpected visit of a neigh-
bor or a curious stranger.

So it is in the open air, on the latticed table, in the
shade of his great mimosa, that these repasts in com-
mon take place; the master occupies the bench, the
servant humbly seats herself on the stool, ready, at the
. first signal, to leave her place and assist in serving.
Have we not seen in India, ourang-outangs trained to
perform the office of domestics? and Marimonda was
in nothing inferior in intelligence and activity.

She is now fond of the flesh of the goat, of that of
the coatis and agoutis, for monkeys easily become
carnivorous; but the table is also sometimes covered
with the products of her hunting. If the dessert fails,
she hastily interrupts her repast, leaves the master to
continue his alone, buries herself in the surrounding
woods, reaches in three bounds the tops of the trees,
and quickly returns with a supply of fruits which he
can fearlessly taste, for she knows them.

Selkirk was one day a witness of the singular facility
with which she could supply her wants.

At the morning repast, seeing him use one of his
cocoa-nuts which 'he had fashioned in the form of a
cup to drink from; in her instinct of imitation, she
had attempted to seize the cup in her turn; a look of
reprimand stopped her short in her attempt. Whether
she felt a species of humiliation at being forced to
quench her thirst in the presence of her master, by
going to the banks of the stream and lapping there,
like a vulgar animal; or whether the reprimand had
painfully affected her, she abstained from drinking and
remained for some time quiet and dreamy; but at the
following repast, with lifted head and sparkling eye she
resumed her place on the stool, provided with a goblet,

a goblet belonging to her, lawfully obtained by her,
and, with an air of triumph presented it to Selkirk,
who, wondering, did not hesitate an instant to share
with the monkey the water contained in his gourd.

This goblet was the ligneous and impermeable cap-
sule, the fruit, naturally and deeply hollowed out, of a
tree called quatela.1 It was thus that the intelligent '
Marimonda, after having borrowed from the numerous
vegetables of the island their leaves, to ameliorate her
sufferings, to heal her wounds; their fruits for her
nourishment and even for her sports, also found means
to obtain the divers utensils for house-keeping of which
she stood in need.

Charmed with her gentleness, her docility, the afi'ec-
tion she seemed to bear him, Selkirk grew more and
more attached to her. Winter, that is, the rainy season
which usually lasts in these regions during the months of
June and July, was approaching ; he suffered in antici-
pation, from the idea that during this time his gentle
companion would not be able to retain her habitual
shelter, beneath the foliage of the trees ; he conceived

the project of giving up to her his grotto, and construct-

 

' The keg/this quatela, of the family of the lacythidecs, created
by Professor Richard, and whose singular fruits bear, in Peru
as well as in Chili, the denomination of monkey's goblets.
ing for himself a new habitation, spacious and commo-
dious. It is thus that our most generous resolutions,
whatever we may design to do, encountering in their
way personal interest, often turn to the increase of our
own private welfare.

At a little distance from the grotto, but farther in-
land, on the banks of the stream called the Linnet,
there was a thicket of verdure shaded by five myrtles
of from fifteen to twenty feet in height, and whose
stems presented a diameter more than sufficient to
insure the solidity of the edifice. Four of these
myrtles formed an irregular square; the fifth arose in
the midst, or nearly so; but our architect is not very
particular. He already sees the principal part of his
frame; the myrtles will remain in their places, their
roots serving as a foundation. He removes the shrubs,
the plants, the brushwood from the thicket, leaving
only a heliotrope which, at a later period, may twine
around his house and at evening shed its perfumes.
He has become reconciled to its fragrance. He trims
the trees, cuts off their tops eight feet above the ground,
leaving the middle one, which is to sustain the roof, a
foot higher; for this roof reeds and palm-leaves furnish
all the materials. The walls, made of a solid network
of young branches interwoven, and plastered with a
mixture of sand, clay, and chopped rushes, he takes
care not to build quite to the top, but to leave between
'them and the roof at little space, where the air can cir-
cnlate freely through a light trellis formed of branches
of the blue willow.

Then, having finished his work in less than a fort-
night, he contemplates it and admires it; Marimonda
herself seems to share in his admiration, and in her
joy climbing up the new building, she begins to leap,
to dance on the roof of foliage, which bears her, and
thus gives to Selkirk an additional triumph.

He now proceeds to furnish his palace; be trans-
ports thither his bed of reeds and his goatskin cover-
ings. ' How much better will he be sheltered here than
under the gloomy vault of his grotto! How has he
been able to content himself so long with such an
abode, more suitable for a troglodyte or a monkey!
He will no longer be obliged to lift up his curtain of
vines, and to peep through the fans of his palm-trees,
in order to behold the beneficent rays of the new-born
day; they will come of themselves to find him and
rejoice him at his awakening, as the sea-breezes will at
evening breathe on him, to refresh him in his repose.

Already has the interior of his cabin, of his. palace,
assumed an aspect which charms him; his guns, his
hatchets, his spy-glass, his instruments of labor, well
polished and shining, suspended in racks, upon. wooden
pegs, decorate the walls; upon another partition, his
assortment of pipes are arranged on a shelf according '
to their size; on his central pillar, he suspends his
game-bag, his gourd, his tobacco-pouch, and various
articles of daily use. As for his iron pot, his smoked
meat, his stock of skins, and bottles of seal-oil, he
leaves them under the guardianship of Marimonda in
the grotto which he will now make his store-house, his
kitchen: he will not encumber with them his new
dwelling.

He new sets himself to prepare new furniture; he
will construct a small portable table, two wooden seats,
one for himself, the other for Marimonda, when she
comes from her grotto to visit his cabin; for he has
now a neighborhood. Besides, during the rainy sea-
son, they will be forced to dine under cover.

The first rains have commenced, gentle, fertilizing
rains, falling at intervals and lovingly drank in by the
earth ; Selkirk no longer thinks of his table and seats;
another project has just taken the place of these, and
seems to deserve the precedence.

Marimonda has just returned from a tour in the
woods, bringing fruits of all sorts, among them some
which Selkirk has never before seen. He tastes them
with more care and attention than usual ; then, becom-
ing thoughtful, with his chin resting on his hand says to
himself : ' Why should I not make these fruits grow at
my door, not far from my habitation? Why should I
not attempt to improve them by cultivation? This is a
very simple and very prudent idea which should have
occurred to me long since; but I was alone, absolume
alone; and one loses courage when thinking of self
only. A garden, at once an orchard and. a vegetable
garden, will be at least as useful to me as my fish-pond
and bed of water-cresses ; I will make one around my
cabin; it will set it off and give it a more home-like
appearance! Is not the stream placed here expressly
to traverse it and water it P Afterwards, if God assist
me, I will raise little kids which will become goats and
give me milk, butter, cheese I Why have I not thought
of this before P It would have been too much to have
undertaken at once. Ishall then have tame goats; I
will also have Guinea-pigs, agoutis, and coatis. My
house shall be enlarged, I will have a farm, a dairy!
But the time has not yet come ; let us first prepare the
garden. Why has it not been already prepared? I am
impatient to render the earth productive, fruitful by
my cares, to walk in the shade of the trees I may
plant; it seems to me that I shall be at home there,
more than any where else !'

You are right, Selkirk ; to possess the entire island,
is to possess nothing; it is simply to have permission
to hunt, a right of promenade and pasture, which the
other inhabitants of the island, quadrupeds or birds,
can claim as well as yourself. What is property,
without the power of improvement? Can the earth
become the domain of a single person, when the true
limits of his possessions must always be those of the
field which affords him subsistence? Envy not then
the happiness of the rich; they are but the transient
holders and distributors of the public fortune; we pos-
sess, in, reality, only that which we can ourselves
enjoy; the rest escapes us, and contributes to the
well-being of others.

Selkirk comprehends that his streams, his bankpf
turf, his fish-pond, his bed of water-cresses, his grotto,
his cabin, belong to him far otherwise than the twelve
or fifteen square leagues of his island; to his private
domain he now intends to add a garden, and this
garden, this orchard, will be to him an increase of his
wealth, since it will aid in the satisfaction of his wants.

The humidity with which the earth begins to be
penetrated, facilitates his labors; he sets himself to
the work.

Behold him then, now armed with his hatchet, now
with a wooden shovel, which he has just manufactured,
clearing the ground, digging, transplanting young fruit-
trees, or sowing the seeds which he is soon to see
spring up and prosper. Every thing grows rapidly
in these climates.

When the garden-spot is marked out, dug, sown,
planted, not forgetting the kitchen vegetables, and
especially the coca and petunia-nicotiana, Selkirk,
' with his arms folded on his spade, thanks God with all
his heart,-- God who has given him strength to finish
his work.

He has never felt so happy as when, with his hands
behind his back, he walks smoking, among his beds,
in which nothing has as yet appeared ; but he already
sees, in a dream, his trees covered with blossoms;
around these blossoms are buzzing numerous swarms
of bees; he reflects upon the means of compelling
them to yield the honey of which they have just stolen
from him the essence. It is a settled thing, on. his farm
he will have hives 1 After his bees, still in his dream,
come flocks of humming-birds to plunder in their turn.
The happy possessor of the garden will exact no tribute
from them, but the pleasure of seeing them suspend,
by a silken thread, to the leaves of his shrubs, the ele-
gant little boat in which they cradle their fragile brood.
Nothing seems to him more beautiful than his embryo
garden; here, he is more than the monarch of the
island ; he is a proprietor! '

Thanks to the garden, Selkirk sees with resignation
the two long months of the rainy season pass away.
When the heavy torrents render the paths impassable,
he consoles himself by thinking that they aid in the
germination of his seeds, in the rooting of his young

0
plants. Sometimes, between two deluges, he can
scarcely find time to procure himself sufficient game;
what matters it! he lives on his provisions: he is for-
cibly detained within; but has he not now good cheer,
good company, and occupation, during his leisure
hours ?

It is now that he completes his furniture. His table
and his seats finished, he undertakes to provide for
another want, equally indispensable,

Worn out by the weather, and by service, his gar-
mems are becoming ragged. He must shield himself
from the humidity of the air; where shall he procure
materials? Has he not the choice between seal-skins
and goat-skins? He gives the preference to the latter,
as more pliable, and behold him a tailor, cutting with
the point of his knife; as for thread, it is furnished by
the fragment of the sail; and two days afterwards, he
finds himself flaming in a new suit.

To describe the delirious stupefaction of Marimonda,
when she perceives her master under this strange cos-
tume, would be a thing impossible. She finds him
almost like herself, clad like her, in a hairy suit.
Never tired of looking at him, of examining him curi-
ously, she leaps, she gambols around him, now rolling
at his feet, and uttering little cries of joy, now sus-
pended over his head, at the top of the central pillar,
and turning her wild and restless eyes. When she
has thus inspected him from head to foot, she runs
and crouches in a comer, with her face towards the
wall, as if to reflect; then, whirling about, returns
towards him, picks up on the way the garment he has
just laid aside, looking alternately at this and at the
other, very anxious to know which of the two really
made a part of the person.

After having enjoyed for a few moments the surprise
and transports of his companion, Selkirk takes his
Bible and his pipe, and, placing the book on the table,
bends over it, preparing to read and to meditate. But,
whether in consequence of her joyous excitement, or
whether she is emboldened by the species of fraternity
which costume establishes between them, Marimonda,
without hesitation, directs herself to the little shelf,
chooses from it a pipe in her turn, places .it gravely
between her lips, astonished at not seeing the smoke
issue frOm it in a Spiral column ; and, with an impor-
tant air, still imitating her master, comes to sit opposite
him, with her brow inclined, and her elbow resting on
the table.

Willingly humoring her whim, Selkirk takes the
pipe from her hands, fills it with his most spicy tobacco,
lights it, and restores it to her.

Hardly has Marimonda respired the first breath,
when suddenly letting fall the pipe, overturning the
table, emitting the smoke through her mouth and nos.
trils, she disappears, uttering plaintive cries, as if she
had just tasted burning lava.

At sight of the poor monkey, thus thrown into con-
fusion, Selkirk, for the first time since his residence in
the island, laughs so loudly, that the echo follows the
fugitive to the grotto, where she had taken refuge, and
is prolonged from the grotto to the Oasis, from the
Oasis to the summit of the Discovery.
The exile has at last laughed, laughed aloud, and,
at the same moment, a terrible disaster is taking place
without his knowledge; a new war is preparing for
him, in which his arms will be useless.
CHAPTER VIII.

A New Invasion. --Selkirk joyfully meets an ancient Ene-
my. --Combat on a Red Cedar. -- A Mother and her Little
Ones. -- The Flock. --Fete in the Island; Pacific Combats,

Diversions and Swings. --A Sail. --The Burning Wood. ---
Presentiments of Marimonda.

Tan next morning the sun has scarcely touched the
horizon, Selkirk is still asleep, when he is awakened by
a sort of tickling at his feet. Thinking it some caress
or trick of Marimonda, risen earlier than usual, he half
opens his eyes, sees nothing, and places himself again
in a posture to continue his nap. The same tickling is
renewed, but with more perseverance, and very soon
something sharp and keen penetrates to the quick the
hard envelope of his heel. The tickling has become
a bite.

This time wide awake, he raises his head. His
cabin is full of rats!

Near him, a company of them are tranquilly en-
gaged in breakfasting on his coverings and the rushes
of his couch; they are on his table, hisseats, along
his pillow and his walls; they are playing before his
door, running hither and thither through the crevices
of his roof, multiplying themselves on his rack and
shelf; all biting, gnawing, nibbling--some his seal-
skin hat, his tobacco-pouch, the bark ornaments of his
furniture; others the handles of his tools, his pipes,
his Bible, and even his powder-horn.

Selkirk utters a cry, springs from his couch, and
immediately crushes two under his heels. The rest
take flight.

As he is pursuing these new invaders with the shovel
and musket, he perceives at a few paces' distance Mari-
monda, sorrowful and drooping, perched on the strong
branch of a sapota-tree. By her piteous and chilly
appearance, her tangled and wet hair, he doubts not
but she has passed the whole night exposed to the
inclemency of the weather. But he at first attributes
this whim only to her ill-humor the evening before.

On perceiving him, Marimonda descends from her
tree, sad, but still gentle and caressing, and with ges-
tures of terror, points to the grotto. He runs thither.

Here another spectacle of disorder and destruction
awaits him ; the rats are collected in it by thousands;
his furs, his provisions of fruit and game, his bottles
formerly filled with oil, every thing is sacked, torn in
pieces, afloat; for the water has at last made its way
through the crevices of the mountain. To put the
climax to his misfortune, his reserve of powder, not-
withstanding its double envelope of leather and horn,
attacked by the voracious teeth of his aggressors, is
swimming in the midst of an oily slime.

The solitary now possesses, for the purpose of hunt-
ing, for the renewal of these provisions so necessary to
his life, only the few charges contained in his portable
powder-horn, and in the barrels of his guns. The
blow which has just struck him is his ruin! and still
the hardest trial appointed for him is yet to come.
In penetrating the ground, the rains of winter have
driven the rats from their holes; hence their invasion
of the cabin and the grotto.

Against so many enemies, what can Selkirk do,
reduced to his single strength?

He succeeds, nevertheless, in killing some; Mari-
monda herself, armed with the branch of a tree, serves
as an ally, and aids him in putting them to flight; but
their combined efforts are ineffectual. An hour after,
the accursed race are multiplying round him, more
numerous and more ravenous than ever.

He comprehends then what an error he has com-
mitted in the complete destruction of the wild cats
which peopled the island. With the most generous
intentions, how often is man mistaken in the object he
pursues! We think we are ridding us of an enemy,
and we are depriving ourselves of a protector. God
only knows what he does, and he has admitted appa-
rent evil, as a principle, into the admirable composition
of his universe; he suffers the wicked to live. Selkirk
had been more severe than God, and he repeats it. If
his poor cats had only been exiled, he would hasten to
proclaim a general amnesty. Alas! there is no am-
nesty with death. But has he indeed destroyed all?
Perhaps some still exist in those distant regions which
have already served as a refuge for that other banished
race, the seals.

The rains have ceased; the storms of winter, always
accompanied by overpowering heat and dense fogs, no
longer sadden the island by anticipated darkness, or
the gloomy mutterings of continual thunder. The sun,
though ,garue,1 absorbs the remainder of the inunda-
tion. Followed by Marimonda, Selkirk, for the first
time, has ventured to the woods and thickets between
the hills beyond the shore and the False Coquimbo,
when a sound, sweeter to his car than would have been
the songs of a siren, makes him pause suddenly in
ecstasy: it is the mewing of a cat.

This cat, strongly built, with a spotted and glossy
coat, white nose, and brown whiskers, is stationed at a
little distance, on a red cedar, where she is undoubted-
ly watching her prey.

She is an old settler escaped from the general mas-
sacre ; the last of the vanquished; perhaps!

Without hesitation, Selkirk clasps the trunk of the
tree, climbs it, reaches the first branches; Marimonda
follows him and quickly goes beyond. At the aspect
of these two aggressors, like herself clad in skin, the
cat recoils, ascending; the monkey follows, pursues
her from branch to branch, quite to the top of the
cedar. Struck on the shoulder with a blow of the
claw, she also recoils, but descending, and declaring
herself vanquished in the first skirmish, immediately
gives over the combat, or rather the sport, for she has
seen only sport in the affair.

Selkirk is not so easily discouraged; this cat he
must have, he must have her alive ; he wishes to make
her the guardian of his cabin, his protector against the
rats. Three times he succeeds in seizing her; three

times the furious animal, struggling, tears his arms or
W
'In Peru and Chili, they call garua that mist which some-

times, and especially after the rainy season, floats around the
disk of the sun.
6
face. It is a terrible, bloody conflict, mingled with
exclamations, growlings, and frightful mewings. At
last Selkirk, forgetting perhaps in the ardor of combat
the object of victory, seizes her vigorously by the skin
of the neck, at the risk of strangling her; with the
other hand he grasps her around the body. The diffi-
culty is now to carry her. Fortunately he has his
game-bag. With one hand he holds her pressed
against the fork of the tree; with the other arm he
reaches his game-bag, opens it; the conquered animal,
half dead, has not made, during this manoeuvre, a
single movement of resistance. But when the hunter
is about to close it, suddenly rousing herself with a
leap, distending by a last efl'ort all her muscles at once,
she escapes from his grasp, and precipitates herself
from the top of the cedar, to the great terror of Mari-
monda, then peaceably crouched under the tree, whom
the cat brushes against in falling, and to the great disap-
pointment of Selkirk, who thinks he has the captive in
his pouch.

Sliding along the trunk, Selkirk descends quickly to
the ground; but the enemy has already disappeared,
and left no trace. In vain his eyes are turned on all
sides; he sees nothing, neither his adversary nor Mari-
monda, who has undoubtedly fled under the impression
of this last terror.

As he is in despair, a whistling familiar to his ear is
heard, and at two hundred paces distant he perceives,
on an eminence of the False Coquimbo, his monkey,
bent double, in an attitude of contemplation, appearing
very attentive to what is passing beneath her, and
changing her posture only to send a repeated summons

to her master.
At all hazards he directs himself to this quarter.

What a spectacle awaits him! In a cavity at the
foot of the eminence where Marimonda is, he finds,
crouching, still out of breath with her struggle and her
race, his fugitive. She is a mother! and six kittens,
already active, are rolling in the sun around her.

Selkirk, seizing his knife, kills'the mother, and
carries off the little ones.

A short time after, the rats have deserted the shore.
But their departure, though it prevents the evil they
might yet have done, does not remedy that already
accomplished.

The provisions of the solitary are almost entirely
destroyed, and the little powder which remains is
scarcely sufficient for a reserve which he no longer
knows where to renew.

The moment at last comes when he possesses no
other ammunition than the only charge in his gun.
This last charge, his last resource, oh! how preciously
he preserves it to-day. While it is there, he can still
believe himself armed, still powerful; he has not
entirely exhausted his resources; it is his last hope.
Who knows? -- perhaps he may yet need it to protect
his life in circumstances which he cannot foresee.

But since his gun must remain suspended, inactive,
to the Walls of his cabin, it is time to think of supply-
ing the place of the services it has rendered; it is time
to realize his dream, and, according to the usual course
of civilization, to substitute the life of a farmer and
shepherd for that of a hunter.

Already is his colony augmented by six new guests,
domesticated in his house; already, on every side, his
seeds are peeping out of the ground under the most
favorable auspices; his young trees, firmly mated, are
growing rapidly beneath the double influence of heat
and moisture; at the axil of some of their leaves, he
sees a bud, an earnest of the harvest. He must now
occupy himself with the means of surprising, seizing
and retaining the ancestors of his future flock.

Here, patience, address or stratagem can alone
avail.

Notwithstanding his natural agility, he does not
dream of reaching them by pursuit. Since his last
hunts, goats and kids keep themselves usually in the
steep and mountainous parts of the island. To leap
from rock to rock, to attempt to vie with them in
celerity and lightness appears to him, with reason, a
foolish and impracticable enterprise. Later, perhaps,
. . . Who knows?

He manufactures snares, traps; but suspicion is
now the order of the day around him; each holds
himself on the grid viva. After long waiting without
any result, he finds in his snares a coati, some little
Guinea pigs; here is one resource, undoubtedly, but
he aims at higher game, and the kids will not allow
themselves to be taken by his baits.

He remembers then, that in certain parts of Amer-
ica, the hunters, in order to seize their prey living,
have recourse to the lasso, a long cord terminated by
a slip-noose, which they know th to throw at great
distances, and almost always with certainty.

With a thread which he obtains from the fibres of
the aloe, with narrow strips of skin, closely woven, he
composes a lasso more than fifty feet long; he tries
it; he exercises it now against a tuft of leaves de-
tached from a bush, now against some projecting
rock; afterwards he tries it upon Marimonda, who
often enough, by her agility and swiftness, puts her
master at fault.

In the interval of these preparatory exercises, Sel-
kirk occupies himself with the construction of a lat-
ticed inclosure, destined to contain the flock which he
hopes to possess; he makes it large and spacious, that
his young cattle may bound and sport at their case ;'
high, that they may respect the limits he assigns them.
In one corner, supported by solid posts, he builds a
shed, simply covered with branches; that, his flock
may there be sheltered from the heat of the day.
The inclosure and the shed, together with his garden,
form a new addition to his great settlement.

Whenhis kids shall have become goats, when the
epoch of domesticity shall have arrived for them, when
they shall have contracted habits of tameness, when
they have learned to recognize his voice, then, and
then only, will he permit them to wander and browse
on the neighboring hills, under the direction of a
vigilant guardian. This guardian, where shall he
find? Why may it not be Marimonda? Marimonda,
to whose intelligence he knows not where to aflix
bounds!

Dreams, dreams, perhaps! and yet but for dreams,
but for those gentle phantoms which he creates, and
by which he surrounds himself, what would sustain
the courage of the solitary?

When Selkirk thinks he has acquired skill in the
use of the lasso, he buries himself among the high
mountains situated towards the central part of his
island. Several days pass amid fruitless attempts,
and when the delicately-carved foliage of the mimosa
announces, by its folding, that night is approaching,
he regains his cabin, gloomy, care-worn, and despair-
ing of the future.

Meanwhile, by his very failures, he has acquired
experience. One evening, he returns to his dwelling,
bringing with him two young kids, with scarcely per-
ceptible horns, and reddish skin, varied with large
brown spots. Marimonda welcomes her new guests,
and this evening all in the habitation breathes joy and
tranquillity.

The week has not rolled away, when the number of
Selkirk's goats exceeds that of his cats ; and he takes
pleasure in seeing them leap and play together in his
inclosure; his mind has recovered its serenity.

'Yes,' said he, with pride, ' man can suffice for
himself, can depend on himself only for subsistence
and welfare! AmI not a striking proof? Did not
all seem lost for me, when an unforeseen catastrophe
destroyed the remnant of the provision of powder
which I owed to the pity of that miserable captain?
Ah! undoubtedly according to his hateful calculations,
he had limited the term of my life to the last. charge
which my gun should contain; this last charge is still
there i Of what use will it be to me? Why do I need
it? Are not my resources for subsistence more cer-
tain and numerous to-day than before? What then
is wanting? The society of a Stradling and his fol-
lows? God keep me from them! The best member
of the crew of the brig Swordfish came away when I
did. I have received from Marimonda more proofs of
devotion than from all the companions I have had on
land and on sea. What have 1 to regret? I am well I
off here ; may God keep me in repose and health l '

After this sally, he thought of his hives, which were
still wanting, and of the methods to be employed to
seize a swarm of bees.

A month after, Selkirk, who religiously kept his
reckoning on the margin of his Bible, resolved to cele-
brate the New Year. It was now the first of January,
1706.

On this day he dined, not in his cabin, nor under his
tree, but in the middle of the inclosure, surrounded by
his family; fruits and good cheer were more abundant
than usual; Marimonda, as was her custom, dined at
the same table with himself: the cats shared in the
feast; the goats roved around, stretching up to gaze
with their blue eyes on the baskets of fruits, and re-
turning to browse on the grass beneath the feet of the
guests. Selkirk, as the master of the house, and chief
of the family, generously distributed the provisions to
his young and frolicksome republic, and Marimonda
assisted him as well as she could, in doing the honors.

After the repasts, there were races and combats;
the remains of the baskets were thrown to the most
skilful and the most adroit; then came, diversions and
swings.

Lying in his hammock, where he smoked his most
excellent tobacco in his best pipe, Selkirk smilingly
contemplated the capricious bounds, the riotous sports
of his cats and kids, their graceful postures, their fra-
ternal combats, in which sheathed claws and the inof- .
fensive horn were the only weapons used on either
side.

To give more variety to the fete, Marimonda de-
velopes all the resources of her daring suppleness; she
leaps from right to left, clearing large spaces with
inconceivable dexterity. Attaining the summit of a
tree, she whistles to attract her master's attention,
then, with her two fore-paws clasped in her hind ones,
she rolls herself up like a ball and drops on the
ground; the foliage crackles beneath her fall, which
seems as if it must be mortal; for her, this is only
sport. Without altering the position of her limbs, she
suddenly stops in her rapid descent, by means of her
prehensile tail, that fifth hand, so powerful, with which
nature has endowed the monkeys of America. Then,
Suspended by this organ alone, she accelerates her
motions to and fro with incredible rapidity, quickly
unwinds her tail from the branch by which she' is
suspended, and with a dart, traversing the air as if
winged, alights at a hundred paces distance on a vine,
which she instantly uses as a swing.

Selkirk is astonished; he applauds the tricks of
Marimonda, the sports and combats of his other sub.
jects. Meanwhile, his eyes having turned towards the
sea, his brow is suddenly overclouded. At the expira-
tion of a few .moments of an uneasy and agitated
observation, he utters an exclamation, springs from his
hammock, runs to his cabin, then to the shore, where
he prostrates himself with his hands clasped and
raised towards heaven.

He has just perceived a sail.

Provided with his glass, he seeks the sail upon the
waves, he finds it. 'It is without doubt a barque,'
said he to himself; 'a barque from the neighboring
island, or some point of the continent !-' And looking
again through his copper tube, he clearly distinguishes
three masts well rigged, decorated with white sails,
which are swelling in the east wind, and gilded by the
oblique rays of the declining sun.

' It is a brig! The Swordfish, perhaps! Yes, Strad-
ling has prolonged his voyage in these regions. The
time which he had fixed for my exile has rolled away!
He is coming to seek me. May he be blessed! '

The movement which the brig made to double the
island, had increased more and more the hopes of
Selkirk, when the Spanish flag, hoisted at the stern,
suddenly unfolded itself to his eyes. '

'The enemy! ' exclaimed he; ' woe is me! If they
land on this coast, whither shall I fly, where conceal
myself P In the mountains! Yes, I can there succeed
in escaping them! But, the wretches! they will de-
stroy my cabin, my inclosure, my garden! the fruit
of so much anxiety and labor l '

And, with palpitating heart, he again watches the
manaauvres of the brig. The latter, having tacked
several times, as if to get before the wind, hastily
changed her course and stood out to sea.

Selkirk remains stupefied, overwhelmed. ' These
are Spaniards,' murmured he, after a moment's hesita-
tion; ' what matters itl Am I now their enemy? I
am only a colonist, an exile, a deserter from the
English navy. They owe me protection, assistance,
as a Christian. lf they required it, I would serve
on board their vessel! But they have gone; what
method shall I employ to recall them, to signalize my

presence P '
There was but one; it was to kindle a large fire on

the shore or on the bill. He needs hewn wood, and

his supplies are exhausted ; what is to be done?
For an instant, in his disturbed mind, the idea arises

to tear the lattice-work from his inclosure, the pillars
and the roof from his shed, to pile them around his

cabin, and set fire to the whole.
This idea he quickly repulses, but it suffices to show

what passed in the inner folds of the'heart of this man,
who had just now forced himself to believe that happi-
ness was yet possible for him.

On farther reflection, he remembers that behind his
grotto, on one of the first terraces of the mountain,
there is a dense thicket, where the trees, embarrassed
with vines and dry briers, closely interwoven, calcined
by the burning reflections of the sun on the rock which
surrounds them, present a collection of dead branches

and mouldy trunks, scarcely masked by the semblance

of vegetation.
Thither he transports all the brands preserved under

the ashes of his hearth; he makes a pile of them,-
throws upon it armfuls of chips, bark and leaves. The
flame soon runs along the bushes which encircle the
thicket; and, when the sun goes down, an immense
column of fire illuminates all this part of the island,

and throws its light far over the ocean.
Standing on the shore, Selkirk passes the night with

his eyes fixed on the sea, his ear listening attentively
to catch the distant sound of a vessel; but nothing
presents itself to his glance upon the luminous and
sparkling waves, and amid their dashing he hears no

other sound but that of the trees and vines crackling in
the flames.

At morning all has disappeared. The fire has ex-
hausted itself without going beyond its bounds, and the
sea, calm and tranquil, shows nothing upon its surface
but a few flocks of gulls.

A week passes away, during which Selkirk remains
thoughtful and taciturn; he rarely leaves the shore;
he still beholds the sports of his cats and his kids, but
no longer. smiles at them ; Marimonda, by way of
amusing him, renews in his presence her surprising
feats, but the attention of the master is elsewhere.

Nevertheless, he cannot allow himself time to dream
long with impunity ; his reserve of smoked beef is
nearly exhausted ; to save it, he has again resorted to
the shell-fish, which his stomach loathes'; to the sea-
crabs, of which he is tired; he needs other nourish-
ment to restore his strength. He shakes off his
lethargy, takes his lasso, his game-bag. His plan now
is, not to hunt the kids, but the goats themselves.

As he is about to set out, Marimonda approaches,
preparing to accompany him. In his present frame of
mind, Selkirk wishes to be alone, and makes her com-
prehend, by signs, that she must remain at home and
watch the flock; but this time, contrary to her custom,
she does not seem disposed to obey. Notwithstanding
his orders, she follows him, stops when he turns,
recommenees to follow him, and, by her supplieating
looks and expressive gestures, seeks to obtain the per-
mission which he persists in refusing. At last Selkirk
speaks severely, and she submits, still protesting
against it by her air of sadness and depression.
Was this, on her part, caprice' or foresight? No
one has the secret of these inexplicable instincts,
which sometimes reveal to animals the presence of an
invisible enemy, or the approach of a disaster.

At evening, Selkirk had not returned! Marimonda
passed the night in awaiting him, uttering plaintive
cries.

On the morrow the morning rolled away, then the
day, then the night, and the cabin remained deserted,
and Marimonda in vain scaled the trees and hills in the
neighborth to recover traces of her master.

What had become of him?
CHAPTER IX.

The Precipice.- A Dungeon in a Desert Island.--Resigna-
tion.-- The passing Bird--The browsing Goat.--The

bending Tree.-- Attempts at Deliverance. -- Success.--
Death of Marimonda.

IN that sterile and mountainous quarter of the island
to which he has given the name of Stradling,---that
name, importing to him misfortune, -- Selkirk, ventur-
ing in pursuit of a goat, has fallen from a precipice.

Fortunately the cavity is not deep. After a tran-
' sient swoon, recovering his footing, experiencing only
a general numbness, and some pain caused by the con-
tusions resulting from his fall, he beth himself of
the means of escape.

But a circle of sharp rocks, contracting from the
base to the summit, forms a tunnel over his head; no
crevice, no precipitous ledge, interrupts their fatal
uniformity. Only around him some platforms of sandy
earth appear; he digs them with his knife, to form
steps. Some fragments of roots project here and there
through the interstices of the stones; he hopes to find
a point of support by which to scale these abrupt walls.
The little solidity of the roots, which give way in his
graSp; his sufferings, which become more intense at
every effort; these thousand rocky heads bending at
once over him; all tell him plainly that it will be im-
possible for him to emerge from this hole--that it is
destined to be his tomb.

Poor young sailor, already condemned to isolation,
separated from the rest of mankind, could he have fore-
seen that one day his captivity was to be still closer 1 that
his steps would be chained, that the sight even of his
island would be interdicted! and that in this desert,
where he had neither persecutor nor jailer to fear, he
would find a prison, a dungeon!

After three days of anguish and tortures, after new
and ineffectual attempts,--exhausted by fatigue, by
thirst, by hunger,--consumed by fever, supervened in
consequence of all his sufferings of body and soul, he
resigns himself to his fate ; with his foot, he prepares
his last couch, composed of sand and dried leaves
shaken from above by the neighboring trees; he lies
down, folds his arms, closes his eyes, and prepares to
die, thinking of his eternal salvation.

Although he tries not to allow himself to be dis-
tracted by other thoughts, from time to time sounds
from the outer world disturb his pious meditations.
First it is the joyous song of a bird. To these vibrat-
ing notes another song replies from afar, on a more
simple and almost plaintive key. It is doubtless the
female, who, with a sort of modest and repressed ten-
derness, thus announces her retreat to him who calls;
then a rapid rustling is heard above the head of the
prisoner. It is the songster, hastening to rejoin his
companion.

Selkirk has never known love. Once perhaps,-- in
a fit of youth and delirium; and it was this false love
which tore him from his studies, from his country!
Ah! why did he not remain at Largo, with his father?
To-day he also would have had a companion! In that
smiling country where coolness dwells, where labor is
so easy, life so sweet and calm, the paternal roof
would have sheltered his happiness! Oh! the joys of
his infancy ! his green and sunny Scotland.

The regrets which arise in his heart he quickly ban-
ishes; his dear remembrances he sacrifices to God;
he weaves them into a fervent prayer.

Very soon an approaching bleating rouses him again
from his abstractions. A goat, with restless eye, has
just stretched her head over the edge of the precipice,
and for an instant fixes on him her astonished glance.
Then, as if re-assured, defying his powerlessness, with
a disdainful lip she quietly crops some tufts of grass
growing on the verge of the tunnel.

On seeing her, Selkirk instinctively lays his hand on
the lasso which is beside him.

' If I succeed in reaching her, in catching her,'
said he, ' her blood will quench the thirst which
devours me, her flesh will appease my hunger. But
of what use would it be? Whence can I expect aid
and succor for my deliverance P This would then
only prolong my sufl'erings.'

And, throwing aside the end of the lasso which he
has just seized, he again folds his arms on his breast,
and closes his eyes once more.

I know not what stoical philosopher--Athens, I
believe, a prey to a malady which he thought incur-
able, -- had resolved to die of inanition. At the expira-
tion of a certain number of days, abstinence had cured
him, and when his friends, in the number of whom he
reckoned Cicero, exhorted him to take nourishment,
persisting in his first resolution, ' Of what use is itl'
said he also, ' Must I not die sooner or later? Why
should I then retrace my steps, when I have already
travelled more than half the road?'

Selkirk had more reason than Atticus to decide
thus; besides, his friends, where are they, to exhort
him to live? Friends l--has he ever had any P

Night comes, and with the night a terrific hurricane
arises. By the glare of the lightning he sees a tree,
situated not far from the tunnel, bend towards him,
almost broken by the violence of the wind.

' Perhaps Providence will send me a method of sav-
ing myself i ' murmured Selkirk; ' should the tree fall
on this side, if its branches do not crush me, they will
serve as steps to aid me to leave this pit! I am
saved 1 '

But the tree resists the storm, which passes away,
carrying with it the last hope of the captive.

Towards the morning of the fourth day his fever has
ceased; the tortures of hunger and thirst are no longer
felt; the complete annihilation of his strength is to him
a kind of relief; sleep seizes him, and with sleep he
thinks death must come.

Soon, in his dream, in a hallucination Springing
undoubtedly from the weakness of his brain, plaints,
confused and distant groans, reach him from different
points of the island. These sorrowful cries, almost
uninterrupted, afterwards approach, and are repeated
with increasing strength. He awakes, he listens; the
bushes around him crackle and rustle; even the earth
emits a dull sound, as beneath the bounding of a goat;
the cries are renewed and become more and more dis-
tinct, like the sobs of a child. Selkirk puts his hand
to his forehead. These plaints, these sobs, he thinks
he recognizes, and, suddenly raising himself with a
convulsive effort, he exclaims:

' Marimonda l '

And Marimonda runs at her master's voice, changes,
on seeing him, her cries of distress for cries of joy,
leaps and gambols on the edge of the cavity, and,
quickly finding a way to join him, suspends herself by
her tail to one of the branches on the verge, and
springs to his side.

Then contortions, caresses, winks of the eyes,
motions of the head, whining, whistling, succeed each
other; she rolls .before him, embraces him closely,
seeking by every method to supply the place of that
speech which alone is wanting, and which she almost
seems to have. Good Marimondal her humid and
shivering skin, her bruised and bleeding feet, her in-
flamed eyes, plainly tell Selkirk how long she has been
in search of him, how she has watched, run, to find
him, and, not finding him, what she has suffered at
his absence.

Her first transports over, by his pale complexion, by
his dim eye, she quickly divines that it is want of food
which has reduced him to this condition. Swift as a
bird she climbs the sides of the tunnel ; she repeatedly
goes and returns, bringing each time fruits and canes
full of savory and refreshing liquid. It is precisely
the usual hour for their first repast, and once more
they can partake of it together.

Revived by this repast, by the sight of his com-

7
panion in exile, Selkirk recovers his ideas of life and
liberty. This abyss, from which she ascends with so
much facility, who knows but with her aid he may be
able in his turn to leave it? He remembers his'lasso;
he puts one end of it into Marimonda's hand. It is now
necessary that she should fix it to some projection of
the rock, some strong shrub, which may serve as a
point of support.

It was perhaps presuming too much on the intelli-
gence which nature has bestowed on the race of
monkeys. At her master's orders, Marimonda would
seize the end of the cord, then immediately abandon
it, as she needed entire freedom of motion to enable
her to scale the walls of the tunnel.

After several inefl'ectual attempts, Selkirk, as a last
resort, decided to encircle Marimonda with the noose of
the lasso, and, by a gesture, to send her towards those
heights where he was so impatient to join her.

She departs, dragging after her the chain, of which
he holds the other extremity: this chain, the only
bridge thrown for him between the abyss and the port
of safety, between life and death!

With what anxiety he observes, studies its oscilla-
tions! Several times he draws it towards him, and
each time, as if in reply to his summons, Marimonda
suddenly re-appears at the brow of the precipice, pre-
paring to re-deseend; but he repulses her with his
voice and gestures, and when these methods are insuf-
ficient,----when Marimonda, exhausted with lassitude,
seated on the verge of the tunnel, persists in remaining
motionless, he has recourse to projectiles. To compel
her to second him in his work, the possible realization
of which he himself scarcely comprehends, he throws
at her some fragments of stone detached from his
rocky wall, and even the remains of that repast for
which he is indebted to her. Even when she is ata
distance, informed by the movements of the lasso of
the direction she has taken, he pursues her still.

Suddenly the cord tightens in his hand. He pulls
again, he pulls with force; the cord resists! Fire
mounts to his brain ; his sluggish blood is quickened;
his heart and temples beat violently; his fever returns,
but only to restore to him, at this decisive moment,
his former vigor. He hastily digs" new steps in the
interstices of the rock; with his hands suspending
himself to the lasso, assisted by his feet, by his knees,
sometimes turning, grasping the projecting roots, the
angles of his wall, he at last reaches the top of the
cliff.

Suddenly he feels the lasso stretch, as if about to
break; a mist passes over his eyes: his head becomes
dizzy, the cord escapes his grasp. But, by a mechan-
ical movement, he has seized one of the highest
projections of the tunnel, he holds it, he climbs,--he
is saved.

And during this perilous ascension, absorbed in the
difficulties of the undertaking, attentive to himself
alone, staggering, with a buzzing sound in his ears, he
has not heard a sorrowful, lamentable moaning, not
far from him.

Dragging hither and thither after her the rope of
leather and fibre of aloes, Marimonda, rather, doubt-
less, by chance than by calculation, had enlaced it
around the trunk of the same tree which the night
before, during the storm, had agitated its dishevelled

branches above the deep couch of the dying man.
This trunk had served as a point of resistance; but,
during the tension, the unfortunate monkey, with her
breast against the tree, had herself been caught in the

folds of the lasso.
When Selkirk arrives, he finds her extended on the

ground, blood and foam issuing from her mouth, and her

eyes starting from their sockets. Kneeling beside her,
he loosens the bonds which still detain her. Excited by
his presence, Marimonda makes an effort to rise, but
immediately falls back, uttering a new cry of pain.
With his heart full of anguish, taking her in his
arms, Selkirk, not without a painful effort, not without
being obliged to pause on the way to recover his
strength, carries her to the dwelling on the shore.
This shore he finds deserted and in confusion.
Deprived of their daily nourishment during the pro-
longed absence of their master, the goats have made a
passage through the inclosure, by gnawing the still
green foliage which imprisoned them ; the hurricane of
the night has overthrown the rest. Before leaving,
they had ravaged the garden, destroyed the promises
of the approaching harvest, and devoured even the
bark of the young trees.' The cats have followed the
goats. Selkirk has before his eyes a spectacle of
desolation; his props, his trellises, the remains of his
orchard, of his inclosure, of his shed, a part even of
the roof of his cabin, strew the earth in confusion
around him.
But it is not this which occupies him now. He has
prepared for Marimonda a bed beside his own; he
takes care of her, he watches over her, he leaves her
only to seek in the woods, or on the mountains, the
herb which may heal her; he brings all sorts, and by
armfuls, that she may choow ;---does she not know
them better than himself?

As she turns away her head, or repulses with the
hand those which he presents, he thinks he has not yet
discovered the one she requires, and though still sufi'ero
ing, though himself exhausted by so many varying
emotions, he re-commences his search, to summon the
entire island to the assistance of Marimonda. From
each of his trees he borrows a branch; from his
bushes, his rocks, his streams--a plant, a fruit, a leaf,
a root! For the first time he ventures across the
pajonals--spongy marshes formed by the sea along
the clifl's, and where, beneath the shade of the man-
groves, grow those singular vegetables, those gelatinous
plants, endowed with vitality and motion. At sight of
all these remedies, Marimonda closes her eyes, and re'
opens them only to address to her friend a look of
gratitude.

The' only thing she accepts is the water he ofl'ers
her, the water which he himself holds to her lips in his
cocoa-nut cup.

During a whole week, Selkirk remains constantly
absorbed in these cares, useless caresl--Marimonda
cannot be healed! In her breast, bruised by the folds
of the lasso, exists an important lesion of the organs
essential to life, and from time to time a gush of blood
reddens her white teeth.

'Whatl' said Selkirk to himself, 'she has then
accompanied me on this corner of earth only to be
my victim! To her first caress I replied only by
brutality; the first shot I fired in this island was
directed against her. I pursued for a long time, with
my thoughtless and stupid hatred, the only being who
has ever loved me, and who to-day is dying for having
saved me from that precipice from which I drove her
with blows of stones! Marimonda, my companion,
my friend,--nol thou shalt not die! He who sent
thee to me as a consolation will not take thee away so
soon, to leave me a thousand times more alone, more
unhappy, than ever! God, in clothing thee with a
form almost human, has undoubtedly given thee a soul
almost like ours; the gleam of tenderness and intelli-
gence which shines in thine eyes, where could it have
been lighted, but at that divine fire whence all affection
and devotion emanate? Well! I will implore Him for
thee; and if He refuse to hear me, it will be because
He has forgotten me, because He has entirely forsaken
me, and I shall have nothing more to expect from His
mercy!'

Falling then upon his knees, with his forehead upon
the ground, he prays God for Marimonda.

Meanwhile, from day to day the poor invalid grows
weaker; her eyes become dim and glassy; her limbs
frightfully emaciated, and her hair comes off in large
masses.

One evening, exhausted with fatigue, after having
wrapped in a covering of goat-skin Marimonda, who
was in a violent fever, Selkirk was preparing to retire
to rest; she detained him, and, taking his hand in both
of hers, cast upon him a gentle and prolonged look,
which resembled an adieu.
He seated himself beside her on the ground.

Then, without letting go his hand, she leaned her
head on her master's knee, and fell asleep in this
position. Selkirk dares not stir, for fear'of disturbing
her repose. lnsensibly sleep seizes him also.

In the morning when he awakes, the sun is illumi-
nating the interior of his cabin; Marimonda remains
in the same attitude as the evening before, but her
hands are cold, and a swarm of flies and mosquitoes
are thrusting their sharp trunks into her eyes and ears.

She is a corpse.

Selkirk raises her, uttering a cry, and, after having
cast an angry look towards heaven, wipes away two
tears that trickle down his cheeks.

Thou thoughtest thyself insensible, Selkirk, and be-
hold, thou art weepingl--thou, who hast more than
once seen, with unmoistened eye, men, thy com-
panions, in war or at sea, fall beneath a furious sword,
or under the fire of batteries! Among the sentiments
which honor humanity, which elevate it notwithstand-
ing its defects, thou hadst preserved at least thy confi-
dence in God and in his mercy, Selkirk, and to-day
thou doubtest both i

Why dost thou weep? why dost thou distrust God?

Because thy monkey is dead I
CHAPTER X.

Discouragement. -- A Discovery. -- A Retrospective Glance. --
Project of Suicide. -- The Last Shot. --- The Sea Serpent.--
The Porto. -- A Message. -- Another Solitary.

Hts provisions are exhausted, and Selkirk thinks
not of renewing them; his settlement on the shore is
destroyed, and he thinks not of rebuilding it; the fish-
pond, the bed of water-creases are encroached upon
by sand and weeds, and he thinks not of repairing
them. His mind, completely discouraged, recoils be-
fore such labors; he has scarcely troubled himself to
replace the roof of his cabin.

In the midst of his dreams, Selkirk had not counted
enough 'on two terrific guests, which must sooner or
later come : despair and ennui.

Nevertheless, he had read in his Bible this passage:
' As the worm gnaweth the garment and rottenness
the wood, so doth the weariness of solitude gnaw the
heart of man.'

One day, as he was descending from the Oasis,
where he had dug a tomb for Marimonda, he be-
thought himself of visiting the site of his burning
wood.

Around him, the earth, blackened by the ravages of
the fire, presented only a naked, gloomy and desolate
picture. To his great surprise, beneath the ruins,
under coal dust and halfocalcined trunks of trees, he
discovered, elevated several feet above the soil, "the
partition of a wall, some stones quarried out and
placed one upon another; in fine, the remains of a
building, evidently constructed by the hand of man.

Men had then inhabited this island before him!
What had become of them? This wood, impenetrably
choked, stifled with thorny bushes, briars and vines,
and which he had delivered over to the flames, was
undoubtedly a garden planted by them, on a sheltered"
declivity of the mountain; the garden which sur-
rounded their habitation, as he had himself designed
his own to do.

Ah! if he could have but found them in the island,
how different would have been his fate! But to live
alone! to have no companions but his own thoughts!
amid the dash of waves, the cry of birds, the bleating
of goats, incessantly to imagine the sound of a human
voice, and incessantly to experience the torture of
being undeceived! What elements of happiness has
he ever met in this miserable island? When he
dreamed of creating resources for a long and peaceful
future, he lied to himself. A life favored by leisure
would but crush him the oftener beneath the weight of
thought, and it is thought which is killing him, the
thought of isolation !

What import to him the beautiful sights spread out
before his eyes? The vast extent of sky and earth
has repeated to him each day that he is lost, forgotten
on an obscure point of the globe. The sunrises and
sunsets, with their magic aspects, this luxuriant tropi-
cal vegetation, the magnificent and picturesque scenery
of his island, awaken in him only a feeling of restraint,
an uneasiness which he cannot define. Perhaps the
emotions, so sweet to all, are painful to him only
because he cannot communicate them, share them
with another. It is not the noisy life of cities which
he asks, not even that of the shore. But, at least, a
companion, a being to reply to his voice, to be asso-
ciated with his joys, his sorrows. Marimondal No,
he recognizes it now! Marimonda could amuse him,
but was not sufficient; she inhabited with him only the
exterior world, she communicated with him only by
things visible and palpable ; her affection for her mas-
ter, her gentleness, her admirable instinct, sometimes
succeeded in lessening the distance which separated
their two natures, but did not wholly fill up the in-
terval.

He had exaggerated the intelligence which, besides,
increased at the expense of her strength, as with all
monkeys; for God has not willed that an animal
should approximate, too closely to man ; he had over-
rated the sense of her acts, because he needed near
him a thinking and acting being; but with her, con-
fidences, plans, hopes, communication, the exchange
of all those intimate and mysterious thoughts which
are the life of the soul, were they possible? Even
her eyes did not see like his own; admiration was
forbidden to her; admiration, that precious faculty,
which exists only for mam--and which becomes
extinct by isolation.

How many others become extinct also!

Self-love, a just self-esteem, that powerful lever
which sustains us, which elevates us, which compels
us to respect in ourselves that nobility of race which
we derive from God, what becomes of it' in solitude P
For Selkirk, vanity itself has lost its power to stimu-
late. Formerly, when in the presence of his com-
rades at St. Andrew or of the royal fleet, he had
signalized himself by feats of address or courage, a
sentiment of pride or triumph had inspired him. Since
his arrival in the island, his courage and address have
had but too frequent opportunities of exercising them-
selves, but he has been excited only by want, by
necessity, by a purely personal interest. Besides, can
one utter an exclamation of triumph, where there is
not even an echo to repeat it?

After having thus painfully passed in review all of
which his exile from .the world had deprived him, he
exclaimed:

' To live alone, what a martyrdom! to live useless
to all, what a disgrace! What! does no one need
me? What! are generosity, devotion, even pity, all
those noble instincts by which the .soul reveals itself,
for ever interdicted to me? This is death, death
premature and shameful! Ahl why did I not remain
at the foot of that precipice? '

With downcast head, he remained some time over-
whelmed with the weight of his discouragement ; then,
suddenly, his brow cleared up, a sinister thought
crossed his mind ; he ran to his cabin, seized his gun.
This last shot, this last charge of powder and lead,
which he has preserved so preciously as a final re-
source, it will serve to put an end to his days! Well,
is not this the most valuable service he can expect
from it? He examines the gun; the priming is yet
undisturbed; he passes his nail over the flint, leans
the butt against the ground, takes off the thick leather
which covers his foot, that he may be able to fire with
more certainty. But during all these preparations his
resolution grows weaker; he trembles as he rests the
gun against his temples; that sentiment of self-pre-
servation, so profoundly implanted in the heart of man,
re-awakens in him. He hesitates--thrice returning
to his first resolution, he brings the gun to his fore-
head; thrice he removes it. At last, to drive away
this demon of suicide, he fires it in the air.

Scarcely has he thus uselessly thrown away this
precious shot before he repeats. He approaches the
shore; it is at the moment when the tide is at its
lowest ebb; the sun touches the horizon. Selkirk lies
down on the damp beach :--'When the wave re-
turns,' said he, ' if it be God's will, let it take me ! '

Slumber comes first. Exhausted with emotion,
yielding to the lassitude of his mind, he falls asleep.
In the middle of the night, suddenly awakened by the
sound of the advancing wave, he again flees before the
threat of death; he no longer wishes to die. Once in
safety, he turns to contemplate that immense sea
which, for an instant, he had wished might be his
tomb.

By the moonlight, he perceives as it were a long
and slender chain, which, gliding upon the crest of the
waves, directs itself towards the shore. By its form,
by its copper color, by the multiplicity of its rings,
unfolding in the distance, Selkirk recognizes the sea-

serpent, that terror of navigators, as he has often heard
it described.
' The mind of the solitary is a perpetual mirage.

Filled with terror, he flies again; he conceals him-
self, trembling, in the caverns of his mountains; he
has become a coward; why should he affect a courage
he does not feel? No one is looking at himl

The next day, instead of the sea-serpent, he finds
on the beach an immense cryptogamia, a gigantic
alga, of a single piece, divided into a thousand cylin-
drical branches, and much superior to all those he has
observed in the Straits of Sunda. The rising tide had
thrown it on the shore.

While he examines it, he sees with surprise all sorts
of birds come to peek at it; coatis, agoutis, and even
rats, come out of their holes, boldly carrying away
before his eyes fragments, whence issues a thick and
brown sap. Emboldened by their example, and espe-
cially by the balsamic odor of the plant, he tastes it.
It is sweet and succulent.

This plant is no other than that providential vege-
table called by the Spaniards pow-a, and which forms
so large a part of the nourishment of the poor inhaba
itants of Chili.l

The sea, which had already sent Selkirk seals to
furnish him with oil and furs in a moment of distress,
had just come to his assistance by giving him an easily
procured aliment for a long time.

Another surprise awaits him.

Between the interlaced branches of his alga, be dis-

M

'It is the Dunn'llaa utilis, dedicated to Dumont d'Urville,
by Rory de St. Vincent, and classed by him in the laminariees,
an important and valuable family of marine cryptogamia.
covers a little bottle, strongly secured with a cork and
wax. It contains a fragment of parchment, on which
are traced some lines in the Spanish language.

Although he is but imperfectly acquainted with this
language, though the characters are partially efl'aced
or scarcely legible, Selkirk, by dint of patience and
study, soon deciphers the following words:

' In the name of the Holy Trinity, to you who may
read'--(here some words were wanting,)--'greet-
ing. My name is Jean Gons--(Gonzalve or Gonsa-
les ; the rest of the name was illegible.) After having
seen my two sons, and almost all my fortune, swal-
lowed up in the sea with the vessel Fernand Cortes,
in which I was a passenger, thrown by shipwreck on
the coasts of the Island of San Ambrosio, near Chili,
I live here alone and desolate. May God and men
come to my aid! '

At the bottom of the parchment, some other charac-
acters were perceptible, but without form, without con-
nection, and almost entirely destroyed by a slight
mould which had collected at the bottom of the bottle.
CHAPTER XI.

The Island San Ambrosia--Selkirk at last knows what
Friendship is. --The Rail. --Visits to the Tomb of Mari-

monda. -- The Departure. --- The two Islands. -- Shipwreck.
-- The Port of Safety.

As he read this, Selkirk was seized with intense
pity for the unfortunate shipwrecked. What! on this
same ocean, undoubtedly on these same shores, lives
another unhappy being, like himself exiled from the
world, enduring the same sufferings, subject to the
same wants, experiencing the same ennui, the same
anguish as himself! this man has confided to the sea
his cry of distress, his complaint, and the sea, a faith-
ful messenger, has just deposited it at the feet of
Selkirk!

Suddenly he remembers that rock, that island, dis-
cerned by him, on the day when at the Oasis, he was
reconciled to Marimonda.

That is the island of San Ambrosio; it is there, he
does not doubt it for an instant, ,that his new friend
lives; yes, his friend! for, from this moment he expe-
riences for him an emotion of sympathetic affection.
He loves him, he is so much to be pitiedl Poor
father, he has lost his sons, he has lost his fortune and
the hope of returning to his country; and yet there
reigns in his letter a tone of dignified calmness, of
religious resignation which can come only from a
noble heart. He is a Spaniard and a Roman Catho-
lic; Selkirk is a Scotchman and a Presbyterian; what
matters it?

To-day his friend demands assistance, and he has
resolved to dare all, to undertake all to respond to
his appeal. Like a lamp deprived of air, his mind
has revived at this idea, that he can at last be useful
to others than himself. The inhabitant of San Am-
brosio shall be indebted to him for an alleviation of his
sorrows; for companionship in them. What is there
visionary about this hope? Had he not already con-
ceived the project of preparing a barque to explore
that unknown coast? God seems to encourage his
design, by sending him at once this double manna for
the body and soul, the porro, which will suffice for his
nourishment, and this writing, which the wave has just
brought, to impose on him a duty.

He immediately sets himself to the work, and obsta-
cles are powerless to chill his generous excitement.
Of the vegetable productions of the island, the red
cedar and myrtle are those which grow of the largest
size;1 but yet their trunks are not large enough to
serve when hollowed out for a barque. Well ! he will
construct a raft.

He fells young trees, cuts off their branches, rolls
them to the shore, on a platform of sand, which the
waves reach at certain periods; he fastens them solidly
together with a triple net-work of plaited leather, cords

________________----------------------------------

l The myrtus mazimus attains 13 metres (9. little more than
42 feet) in height.
woven of the fibre of the aloe, supple and tough vines;
he chooses another with diverging and horizontal roots,
the habitual direction taken by all the large vegetables
of this island, the sand of which is covered only by
two feet of earth. This shall be the mast. He plants
it in the middle of the raft, where "is kept upright by
its roots, knotted and interwoven with the various
pieces which compose the floor. For a sail, has he
not that which was left him by the Swordfish? and
will not his seal-skin hammock serve as a spare sail?

He afterwards constructs a helm, then two strong
ears, that he may neglect no chance of success. He
fastens his structure still more firmly by all that re-
mains to him of his nails and bolts, and awaits the
high tide to launch his skiff upon the sea.

He has never felt calmer, happier, than during the
long time occupied in these labors; their object has
doubled his strength. The moments of indispensable
repose, he has passed at the Oasis, beside the tomb of
Marimonda, of that Marimonda, who by her example,
opened to him the life of devoledness in which he has
just engaged. Thence, with his eye turned upon that
island where dwells the unknown friend from whom he
has received a summons, he talks to him, encourages
him, consoles him; he imparts to him his resolution to
join him soon, and it seems as if the same waves
which had brought the message will also undertake to
transmit the reply.

At present, Selkirk finds some sweetness in pitying
evils which are not his own; he no longer dreams of

wrapping himself in a cloak of selfishness; that dis-
3 .
dainful heart, hitherto invincibly closed, at last experi-

ences friendship, or at least aspires to do so.
At last, the day arrives when the sea, inundating
the marshes, bending the mangroves, reaches, on the

sandy platform, 0 e of the corners of his raft.
Selkirk hastens to transport thither his hatchets, his

guns, his seal-skins and goat-skins, his Bible, his spy-
glass, his pipes, his ladder, his stools, even his traps;
all his riches! it is a complete removal.

On taking possession of the island, he had engraved
on the bark of several trees the date of his arrival; he
now inscribes upon them the day of his departure.

For many months his reckoning has been interrupted;

to determine the date is impossible', he knows onlyr

the day of the week.

When the wave ha
himself with one of the long

d entirely raised his barque, aiding
oars to propel it over

the rocky bottom, he gained the sea. Then, after
having adjusted his sail, with his hand on the helm, he
it an adieu,

turned towards his island to address to

laden with maledictions rather than regrets.
Swelled by a southeast wind, the sail pursues its

course towards that other land, the object of his new
desires. At the expiration of some hours, by the aid
of his glass, what from the summit of his mountains
had appeared to him only a dark point, a rock beaten
by the waves, seems already enlarged, allowing him to
see high hills covered with verdure. He has not then

deceived himself l There exists a habitable land,--
habitable for two! It has served as a refuge to the
shipwrecked man, to his friend! Ah! how impatient

he is to reach this shore where he is to meet him!
Several hours more of a slow but peaceful naviga-
tion roll away. He has arrived at a distance almost
midway between the point of departure and that of
arrival. Looking alternately at the islands Selkirk and
San Ambrosio, both illuminated by the sunset, with
their indefinite forms, their bases buried in the waves,
their terraced summits, veiled with a light fog, they
appear like the reflection of each other. But for the
discovery which he had previously made of the second,
he would have believed this was his own island, or

rather its image, represented in the waters of the sea.

But in proportion as he advances towards his new
conquest, it increases to his eyes, as if to testify the
reality of its existence, now by a mountain peak, now
by a cape. He had seen only the profile, it now pre-
sents its face, ready to develope all its graces, all its
fascinations; while its rival, disdained, abandoned,
becomes by degrees efl'aced, and seems to wish to
conceal its humiliation beneath the wave of the great
ocean.

Suddenly, without any apparent jar, without any
flaw of wind, on a calm sea, the stem of the tree serv-
ing as a mast vacillates, bends forward, then on one
side; the roots, which fasten it to the floor of the raft,
are wrenched from their hold; the sail, diverging in
the same direction, still extended, drags it entirely
down, and it is borne away by the wave. -

Struck with astonishment, Selkirk puts his foot on
the helm, and seizes his oars ; but oars are powerless
to move so heavy a machine. What is to be done P

He who has not been able to endure isolation in the
midst of a terrestrial paradise, from which he has just
mself, must he then be reduced to

on the immensity of the ocean,
s scarcely lashed together?

The situation is frightful, terrific ; Selkirk dares not

contemplate it, lest his reason should give way. He
must have a sail; a mast! He has his Spare sail ; for
to detach one of the

the mast, his only resource is
timbers which compose theframe-work of his raft.
Perhaps this will destroy its solidity; but he has no

choice.
He takes the best of his hatchets, chooses among

the straight stems of which his floating dwelling is
hich seems most suitable; he cuts

precautions, the bonds which
not without difficulty, from the
which it has been attached.
f to this task, the raft,
of the sea, has slowly
red with foam, as if

voluntarily exiled hi

have for an asylum,
only a few trunks of tree

composed, that w
away with a thousand
fasten it; he frees it,
contact of other logs to
But while he devotes himsel
' obedient to a mysterious motion
drifted on; the surface is cove
sub-marine waves are lashing it. Selkirk springs to
the helm ; the tiller breaks in his hands; he seizes the
cars, they also break. An unknown force hurries him

He has just fallen into one of those rapid car-

on.
outh, traverse the waters

rents which, from north to s

of the Pacific Ocean.
Borne away in a contrary direction from that which

he has hitherto pursued, the land of which he had
come in search seems to fly before him. Whither is

he going? into what regions, into what solitudes of
be carried, far from islands and con-

tinents ?

To add to his terror, in these latitudes, where day
suddenly succeeds to night and night to day, where
twilight is unknown, the sun, just now shining brightly,
suddenly sinks below the horizon.

In the midst of profound darkness, the unhappy
man pursues this fatal race, leading to inevitable de-
struction. During a part of this terrible night, he
hears the frail frame-work which supports him crack-
ing beneath his feet. How long must his sufferings
last? He knows not. At last, jostled by adverse
waves, shaken to its centre, the raft begins to whirl
around, and something heavier than the shock of the
wave comes repeatedly to give it new and rude blows.
The first rays of the rising moon, far from calming the
terrors of the unhappy mariner, increase them. In his
dizzy brain, these wan rays which silver the surface
of the sea, seem so many phantoms coming to be
present at his last moments. Pale, bent double,with his
hair standing upright, clinging to some projection of
his barque, he in vain attempts to fix his glance on
certain strange objects which he sees ascending, de-
scending, and rolling around him.

They are the trunks of the trees which formed a
part of his raft, limbs detached from its body, and
which, now drawn into the same whirlpool, are by
their repeated shocks, aiding in his complete de-
struction;

In face of this imminent, implacable death, Selkirk
ceases to struggle against it. He has now but one
resource; the belief in another life. The religious
instinct, which has already come to his assistance,
revives with force. Clingiug with his hands and feet
to these wavering timbers, which are almost disioined,
half inundated by the wave, which is encroaching more
and more upon his last asylum, he directs his steps
towards the Spot where he had deposited his arms and
furs; he takes from among them his Bible, not to read
it, but to clasp it to his heart, whose agitation and
terror seem to grow calm beneath its sacred contact.

He then attempts to absorb his thoughts in God; he
blames himself for not having been contented with the '
gifts he had received from Him ; he might have lived
happily in Scotland, or in the royal navy. It is this
perpetual desire for change, these aSpirations after the
unknown, which have occasioned his ruin.

At this moment, raising his eyes towards heaven,
he sees, beneath the pale rays of the moon, a mass of
rocks rising at a little distance, which he immediately
recognizes. There is the bay of the Seals, the peak
of the Discovery. That hollow, lying in the shadow,
is the valley of the Oasis! As on the first day of his
arrival, on one of the steepest summits of the moun-
tain, he perceives stationed there, immovable, like a
sentinel, a goat, between whose delicate limbs shines
a group of stars, celestial eyes, whose golden lids
seem to vibrate as if in appeal. It is his island ! He
does not hesitate; suddenly recovering all his ener-
gies, he springs from the raft, struggles with vigor,
with perseverance against the current, triumphs over
it, and, after prolonged efforts, at last reaches this
haven of deliverance, this port of safety; he lands,
fatigued, exhausted, but overcome with joy and grati-
tude. Profoundly thanking God from his heart, he
prostrates himself, and kisses with transport the hos-
pitable soil of this island, --which, on the morning of
the same day, he had cursed.
Alas'! does not reflection quickly diminish this
lively joy at his return and safety? From this ship-
wreck, poor sailor, thou hast saved only thyself: thy
tools, thy instruments of labor, even thy Bible, are a
prey to the sea !

It is now, Selkirk, that thou must sufiice for thyself!
It is the last trial to which thou canst be subjected!
CHAPTER XII.

The Island of Juan Fernandez.--Encounter in the Moun-
tains.-- Discussion. -- A New Captivity. -- A Cannon-shot.
--Dampier and Selkirk--Mas a Farm--News of Strad-

ling. -- Confldences. --End of the History of the real Bob-
inson Crusoe. -- Nebuchadnezzar.

ON the 1st of February, 1709, an English vessel,
equipped and sent to sea by the merchants of Bristol,
after having sailed around Cape Horn, in company
with another vessel belonging to the same expedition,
touched alone, about the 33d degree of south lati-
tude, at the Island of Juan Fernandez, from a hundred
and ten to a hundred and twenty leagues distant from
the coast of Chili.

The second ship was to join her without delay.

Symptoms of the scurvy had appeared on board,
and it was intended to remain here for some time, to
give the crew opportunity of recovering their health.

Their tents pitched, towards evening several sailors,
having ventured upon the island, were not a little sur-
prised to see, through the obscurity, a strange being,
hearing some resemblance to the human form, who, at
their approach, scaling the mountains, leaping from
rock to rock, tied with the rapidity of a deer, the light-
ness of a chamois.

Some doubted whether it was a man, and prepared
to fire at him. They were prevented by an officer
named Dower, who accompanied them.

On their return to their companions, the sailors
related what they had seen; Dower did not fail to do
the same among the officers; and this evening, at the
encampment on the shore, in the forecastle as well as
on the quarter-deck, there were narratives and sup-
positions that would 'amuse an assembly of Puritans
through the whole of Lent,' says the account from
which we borrow a part of our information.

At this period, tales of the marvellous gained great
credence among sailors. Not long before, the Span-
iards had discovered giants in Patagonia; the Portu-
guese, sirens in the seas of Brazil; the Frenchitritons
and satyrs at Martinique ; ,the Dutch, black men, with
feet like lobsters, beyond Paramaribo.

The strange individual under discussion was unques-
tionably a satyr, or at least one of those four-footed,
hairy men, such as the authentic James Carter
declared he had met with in the northern part of
America.

Some, thinking this conclusion too simple, adroitly
insinuated that no one among the sailors who had met
this monster, had noticed in him so great a number of
paws. Why four paws? --why should he not be a
monopedous man, a man whose body, terminated by a
single leg, cleared, with this support alone, considera-
ble distances? Was not the existence of the mono-
pedous man attested by modern travellers, and even in
antiquity and the middle ages, by Pliny and St. Au-
gustine P

Others preferred to imagine in this singular person-
age the acephalous man, the man without a head,
named by the grave Baumgarthen as existing on the
new continent. They had not discovered many legs,
but neither had they discovered a head; why should
he have one P

And the discussion continued, and not a voice was
raised to risk this judicious observation; if neither
head nor limbs have been distinguished, it may per-
haps be because he has been seen only in the dark.

The next day, each wished to be satisfied; a regu-
lar hunt was organized against this phenomenon ; they
set out, invaded his retreat, pursued him, surrounded
him, at last seized him, and the brave sailors of Great
Britain discovered with stupefaction, in this monope-
dous, acephalous man, in this satyr, this cercopithe-
ens, what? A countryman, a Scotchman, a subject of
Queen Anne 1

It was Selkirk; Selkirk, his hair long and in dis-
order, his limbs encased in fragments of skins, and
half deprived of his reason.

His island was Juan Fernandez, so called by the
first navigator who discovered it; this was Selkirk
Island.

When he was conducted before Captain Woodes
Rogers, commander of the expedition, to the interro-
gations of the latter, the unfortunate man, with down-
east look, and agitated with a nervous trembling,
replied only by repeating mechanically the last sylla-
bles of the phrases which were addressed to him by
the captain.

A little recovered from his agitation, discovering
that he had Englishmen to deal with, he attempted to
pronounce some words; he could only mutter a few
incoherent and discOnnected sentences.

' Solitude and the care of providing for his subsist.-
ence,'.says Paw, ' had so occupied his mind, that all
rational ideas were efl'aced from it. As savage as the
animals, and perhaps more so, he had almost en-
tirely forgotten the secret of articulating intelligible
sounds.'

Captain Rogers having asked him how long he had
been secluded in this island, Selkirk remained silent;
he nevertheless understood the question, for his eyes
immediately opened with terror, as if he had just
measured the long space of time which his exile had
lasted. He was far from having an exact idea of it;
be appreciated it only by the sufferings he had endured
there, and, looking fixedly at his hands, he opened and
shut them several times.

Reckoning by the number of his fingers, it was
twenty or thirty years, and every one at first believed
in the accuracy of his calculation, so completely did
his forehead, furrowed with wrinkles, his skin black-
ened, withered by the sun, his hair whitened at the
roots, his gray beard, give him the aspect of an old
man.

Selkirk was born in 1680 ; he was then only
twenty-nine.

After having replied thus, he turned his head, cast a a
troubled look on the objects which surrounded him ; a
remembrance seemed to awaken, and, uttering a cry,
stepping forward, he pointed with his finger to a cedar
on his left. It was the tree on which, when he left the
Swordfish, he had inscribed the date of his arrival in
the island. The officer Dower approached, and, not-
withstanding the crumbling of the decayed bark, could
still read there this inscription: -

' Alexander Selkirk -- from Largo, Scotland, Oct.
27, 1704.'

His exile from the world had therefore lasted four
years and three months.

Notwithstanding the interest excited by his misfor-
tunes, by his name, his accent, more than by his lan-
guage, Captain Rogers, an honorable and humane
man, but of extreme severity on all that appertained
to discipline, recognized him as a British subject, sus-
pected him to be a deserter from the English navy,
and gave orders that he should be put under guard,
pending a definitive decision.

The sailors commissioned to this office did not find
it an easy thing to guard a prisoner who could climb
the trees like a squirrel, and outstrip them all in- a
race. As a precaution, they commenced by binding
him firmly to the same cedar on which his name was
engraved. There the unfortunate Selkirk figured as a
curious animal, ornamented with a label.

Afterwards, more for pastime than through mis-
chief, they tormented him with questions, to obtain
from him hesitating or almost senseless replies, which
bewildered him much; then they began to examine,
. with childish surprise, the length of his beard, of his
hair and nails; the prodigious development of his
muscles; his bare feet, so hardened by travel, that
they seemed to be covered with horn moccasins.
Having found beneath his goat-skin rags, a knife,
whose blade, by dint of use and sharpening, was
almost reduced to the proportions of that of a pen-
knife, they took it away to examine it; but on seeing
himself deprived of this single weapon, the only relic
of his shipwreck, the prisoner struggled, uttering wild
howls ; they restored it to him._

At the hour of repast, Selkirk had, like the rest, his
portion of meat and biscuit. He ate the biscuit, mani-
festing great satisfaction; but he, who had at first
suffered so much from being deprived of salt, found
in the meat 8. degree of saltness insupportable. He
pointed to the stream; one of his guards courteously
offered him his gourd, containing a mixture of rum and
water; he approached it to his lips, and immediately
threw it away with violence, as if it had burned him.

At evening, he was transported on board.

A few days after he began to acquire a taste for
common food; his ideas became more definite;
speech returned to his lips more freely and clearly;
but liberty of motion was not yet restored to him,
a new captivity opened before him, and his irritation
at this was presenting an obstacle to the complete
restoration of his faculties, when God, who had so-
deeply tried him, came to his assistance.

One morning, as the crew of the ship were occu-
pied, some in caulking and tarring it, others in gather-
ing edible plants on the island, a cannon-shot resounded
along the waves. The caulkers climbed up the rig-
ging, the provision-hunters ran to the shore, the oflicers
seized their spy-glasses, and all together quickly uttered
a huzza! The vessel which had sailed in company with
that of Captain Rogers, the Duchess, of Bristol, had
arrived. This vessel, commanded by William Cook,
had, for a master-pilot, a man ,more celebrated in
maritime annals than the commanders of the expe-
dition themselves;-----this was Dampier, the indefati-
gable William Dampier, who, a short time since a
millionaire, now completely ruined in consequence of
foolish speculations and prodigalities, had just under-
taken a third voyage around the world.

Scarcely had he disembarked, when he heard of the
great event of the day--of the wild man. His
name was mentioned, he remembered having known
an Alexander Selkirk at St. Andrew, at the inn of the
Royal Salmon. He went to him, interrogated him,
recognized him, and, without loss of time, after having
had his hair and beard cut, and procured suitable
clothing for him, presented him to Capt. Rogers; he
introduced him as one of his old comrades, formerly
an intrepid and distinguished oflicer in the navy, one
of the conquerors of Vigo, who had been induced by
himself to embark in the. Swordfish, partly at his
expense.

Restored to liberty, supported, revived, by the kind
cares of Dampier, his old hero, Selkirk felt rejuvenated.
His first thought then is for that other unfortunate man,
still an exile perhaps in his desert island. After having
informed the old sailor that he had found a little bottle,
containing a written parchment, he said: ' Dear Cap-
tain, it would be a meritorious act, and one worthy of
you, to co-operate' in the deliverance of this unhappy
man. A boat will suffice for the voyage, since the Island
of San Ambrosio is so near this. Oh! how joyfully
would I accompany you in this excursion ! '

'My brave hermit,' replied Dampier, shaking his
head, 'the neighboring island of which you speak is
no other than the second in this group, named Mae 6
Fuera. As for the other, that San Ambrosio which
you think so near, if it has not become a floating
island since my last voyage, if it is still where I lefi it,
under the Tropic of Capricorn, to reach it will not .be
so trifling a matter; besides, your little bottle must be a
bottle of ink. There is here confusion of place and
confusion of time; not only is Mas d Fuera not San
Ambrosio, but this latter island, far from being a
desert, as your correspondent has said, has been in-
habited more than twenty years by a multitude of
madmen, fishermen and pirates, potato-eaters and old
sailors, who, when I visited them, in 1702, politely
received me with gun-shots, and whose politeness I
returned with cannon-shots. Therefore, my boy, he
who wrote to you must have been dead when you
received his letter. What date did it bear? '

' None,' said Selkirk ; 'the last lines were efi'aced ;'
and he trembled at the idea of all the dangers he had
run in pursuit of this .friend, who no longer existed,
and of a land which he had never inhabited.

After having satisfied a duty of humanity, that
which he had regarded as a debt contracted towards a
friend, Selkirk, among other inquiries, let fall the name
of Stradling. This .time, it was hatred which asked
information.

His hatred was destined to be gratified.

In pursuing his voyage, after having coasted along
the shores of the Straits of Magellan, Stradling, sur-
prised by a frightful hurricane, had seen his vessel
entirely disabled. Repulsed at five different times,
now by the tempest, now by the Spaniards, from the
ports where he attempted to take refuge, he was
thrown, near La Plata, on an inhospitable shore. At-
tacked, pillaged by the natives, half of his crew having
perished, with the remains of his ship he constructed
another, to which he gave the name of the Cinque
Ports, instead of that of the Swordfish, which it was no
longer worthy to bear. This was a large pinnace, on
which he had secretly returned to England. For seve-
ral years past, Dampier had not heard of him.

Selkirk thought himself sufficiently avenged; his
present happiness silenced his past ill-will. He even
became reconciled to his island. _

Each day he traversed its divers parts, with emotions
various as the remembrances it awakened. But he
was now no longer alone! Arm and arm with Dam-
pier, he revisited these places where he had suffered
so much, and which often resumed for him their en-
chanting aSpects.

His companion was soon informed of his history.
When he had related what we already know, from
his landing to the construction of his raft, and to his
frightful shipwreck, he at last commenced, not without
some mortification, the recital of his final miseries,
which alone could explain the deplorable state in which
the English sailors had found him.

By the loss of his hatchets, his ladder, his other
instruments of labor, condemned to inaction, to power-
lessness, he had nothing to occupy himself with but to
provide sustenance. But the sea had taken his snares
along "with the rest. He at first subsisted on herbs,
fruits and roots ; afterwards his stomach rejected
these crudities, as it had repulsed the fish. Armed
with a stick, he had chased the agoutis; for want of
agoutis, he had eaten rats.

By night, he silently climbed the trees to surprise
the female of the toucan or blackbird, which he 'piti-
lessly stifled over their young brood. Meanwhile, at
the noise he made among the branches, this winged
prey almost always escaped him.

He tried to construct a ladder; by the aid of his
knife alone, he attempted to cut down two tall trees.
During this operation his knife broke--only a frag-
ment remained. This was for him a great trial.

He thought of making, with reeds and the fibres of
the aloe, a net to catch birds; but all patient occupation,
all continuous labor, had become insupportable to him.

That he might escape the gloomy ideas which
assailed him more and more, it became necessary to
avoid repose, to court bodily fatigue.

By continual exercise, his powers of locomotion had
developed in incredible proportions. His feet had be-
come so hardened that he no longer felt the briers or
sharp stones. ' When he grew weary, he slept, in
whatever place he found himself, anthese were his
only quiet hours.

To chase the agoutis had ceased to be an object
worthy of his efforts; the kids took their turn, aller-
wards the goats. He had acquired such dexterity of
movement, and such strength of muscle, such certainty
of eye, that to leap from one projection of rock to
another, to spring at one bound over ravines and deep
cavities, was to him but a childish sport. In these

feats he took pleasure and pride.
9
Sometimes, in the midst of-his flights through space,
he would seize a bird on the wing.

The goats themselves soon lost their power to strug-
gle against such a combatant. Notwithstanding their
number, had Selkirk wished it, he might have depopu-
lated the island. He was careful not to do this.

If he wished to procure a supply of provisions, he
directed his steps towards the most elevated peaks of
the mountain, marked his game, pursued it, caught it
by the horns, or felled it by a blow from his stick;
after which his knife-blade did its office. The goat
killed, he threw it on his shoulders, and, almost as
swiftly as before, regained the cavernous grotto or
leafy tree, in the shelter of which he could this day
eat and sleep. He had for a long time forsaken his
cabin, which was too far distant from his hunting-
grounds.

If he had a stock of provision on hand, he still pur-
sued the goats as usual, but only for his personal
gratification. If he caught one, he contented himself
with slitting its ear; this was his seal, the mark by
which he recognized his free flock. During the last
years of his abode in the island, he had killed or
marked thus nearly five hundred.1

In the natural course of things, as his physical
powers increased, his intelligence became enfcebled.

Necessity had at first aroused his industry, for all

 

.__-_

'Long afler his departure from Juan Femaudez, the ship's
crews, who came there for supplies, or the pirates who took
refuge there, found goats whose ears had been slit by Sel-

kirk's knife.
industry awakes at the vdice of want; but his own had
been due rather to his recollections than to his in-
genuity. He thought himself a creator, he was only
an imitator.

Whatever may have been said by those who, in the
pride of a deceitful philosophy, have wished to glorify
the power of the solitary man--if the latter, supported
by certain fortunate circumstances, can remain some
time in a state hardly endurable, it is not by his own
strength, but by means which society itself has fur-
nished. This is the incontestable truth, from which, in
his pride, Selkirk had turned away.

Deprived of exercise and of aliment, his thoughts,
no longer sustained by reading the Holy Book, were
day by day lost in a chaos of dreams and reveries.

A prey to terrors which he could not explain, he
feared darkness, he trembled at the slightest sound of
the wind among the branches; if it blew violently, he
thought the trees would be uprooted and crush him; if
the sea roared, he trembled at the idea of the submer-
sion of his entire island.

When he traversed the woods, especially if the heat
was great, he often heard, distinctly, voices which
called him or replied. He caught entire phrases;
others remained unfinished. These phrases, con-
nected neither with his thoughts nor his situation, were
strange to him. Sometimes he even recognized the
voice.

Now it was that of Catherine, scolding her servants;
now that of Stradling, of Dampier, or one of his col.
lege tutors. Once he heard thus the voice of one of
his classmates whom be least remembered ; at another
time it was that of his old admiral, Rourke, uttering
the words of command.

If he attempted to raise his own to impose silence
on these choruses of demons who tormented him, it
was only with painful efforts that he could succeed in
articulating some confused syllables.

He no longer talked, but he still sang; he sang the
monotonous and mournful airs of his psalms, the words
of which he had totally forgotten. His memory by
degrees became extinct. Sometimes even, he lost the

sentiment of his identity; then, at least, his state of
isolation, and the memory'of his misfortunes ceased to

weigh upon him.

He nevertheless remembered, that about this time,
wordfish Beach, attracted by an
unusual noise there, he had seen it covered with
soldiers and sailors, doubtless Spaniards. The idea of
finding himself among men, had suddenly made his
heart heat; but when he descended the declivity of the
hills in order to join them, several shots were fired;

the balls whistled about his ears, and, filled with terror,

he had fled.
Once more he had found himself there, but without

then he could no longer find his way,
, through the woods and

Ah l how had his ancient

abode changed its aspect! How many years had
rolled away since he lived there! The little gravelled
paths, which conducted to the grotto and the mimosa,
were effaced; the mimosa, its principal branches
broken, seemed buried beneath its own ruins; of his
fish-pond, his bed of water-creases, not a vestige

having approached S

intending it, for
remained; his grotto, veiled, hid beneath the thick
curtains of vines and heliotropes, was no longer visi-
ble; his cabin had ceased to exist,--overthrown,
swept away doubtless, by a hurricane, as his inclosure
had been. He could discover the spot only by the five
myrtles, which, disembarrassed of their roof of reeds
and their plaster walls, had resumed their natural deco-
rations, green and glossy, as if the hatchet had never
touched them. At their feet tufts of briers and other
underbrusb had grown up, as formerly. The two
streams, the Linnet and the Stammerer, alone had suf-
fered no change. The one with its gentle murmur,
the other with its silvery cascades, after having em-
braced the lawn, still continued to flow towards the sea,
where they seemed to have buried, with their waves,
the memory of all that had passed on their borders.

At sight of his shore, which seemed to have retained
no vestige of himself, Selkirk remained a few mo-
ments, mournful and lost in his incoherent thoughts, in
the midst of which this was most prominentz--Yet
alive, already forgotten by the world, I have seen my
traces disappear, even from this island which I have
so long inhabited l

A rustling was heard in the foliage; he raised his
eyes, expecting to see Marimonda swinging on the
branch of a tree. Perceiving nothing, he remembered
that Marimonda reposed at the Oasis; he took the
road from the mountain which led thither, but when he
arrived there, when he was before her tomb, covered
with tall grass, he had forgotten why he came.

One of those unaccountable fits of terror, which
were now more frequent than formerly, seized him,
and he precipitately descended the mountain, spring-
ing from peak to peak along the rocks.

The religious sentiment, which formerly sustained
Selkirk in his trials, was not entirely extinct; but it
was obscured beneath his darkened reason. His
religion was only that of fear. When the sea was
violently agitated, when the storm howled, he pros-
trated himself with clasped hands; but it was no
longer God whom he implored; it was the angry
ocean, the thunder. He sought to disarm the genius
of evil. The lightning having one day struck, not far
from him, a date-palm, he worshipped the tree. His
perverted faith had at last terminated in idolatry.

This was, in substance, what Alexander Selkirk
related to William Dampier; what solitude had done
for this man, still so young, and formerly so intelli-
gent; this was what had become of the despiser of
men, when left to his own reason.

Dampier listened with the most profound attention,
interrupting him in his narrative only by exclamations
of interest or of pity. When he ceased to speak, hold-
ing out his hand to him, he said:

'My boy, the lesson is a rude one, but let it be
profitable to you; let it teach you that ennui on board
a vessel, even with a Stradling, is better than ennui in
a desert. Undoubtedly there are among us trouble- '
some, wicked people, but fewer wicked than crack-
brained. Believe, then, in friendship, especially in
mine; from this day it is yours, on the faith of Wil-
liam Dampier.'

And he opened his arms to the young man, who
threw himself into them.
On their return to the vessel, Dampier presented to
Selkirk his own Bible. The latter seized it with
avidity, and, after having turned over its leaves as if to
find a text which presented itself to his mind, read
aloud the following passage :

'He was driven from the sons of men; and his
heart was made like the beasts, and his dwelling was
with the wild asses; they fed him with grass like oxen,
and his body was wet with the dew of heaven.'---
DANIEL v. 21.
CONCLUSION.

CAPT. ROGERS, in his turn, learned the misfortunes
of Selkirk and became attached to him; from this mo-
ment, the sailors themselves showed him great defer-
ence; he was known among them by the name of the
governor, and this title clung to him.

To do the honors of his island, the governor one
day gave to the crews of the two vessels, the spectacle
of one of his former hunts. Resuming his ancient
costume, he returned to the high mountains, where,
before their eyes, he started a goat, and darting in
pursuit of it, over a thousand cliffs, sometimes clearing
frightful abysses, by means of a vine which be seized

on his passagc,---this method he owed to Marimonda,
--he succeeded in forcing his game to the hills of the
shore. Arrived there, exhausted, panting, drawing
itself up like a stag at bay, the goat stopped short.
Selkirk took it living on his shoulders, and presented it
to Capt. Rogers. Its ear was already slit.

By way of thanks, the captain announced that he
might henceforth be connected with the expedition,
with his old rank of mate, which was restored to him.
For this favor Selkirk was indebted to the solicitations
of Dampier.

In the same vessel with Dampier, he made another
three years' voyage, visited Mexico, California, and
the greater part of North America; after which, still
in company with Dampier, and possessor of a pretty
fortune, he returned to England, where the recital of
his adventures, already made public, secured him the
most honorable patronage and friendship. Among his
friends,rmay be reckoned Steele, the co-laborer, the
rival of Addison, who consecrated a longchapter to
him in his publication of the Tatler.

Selkirk did not fail to visit Scotland. Passing
through St. Andrew, could he help experiencing anew
the desire to see his old friend pretty Kitty? Once
more he appeared before the bar of the Royal Salmon.
This time, on meeting, Selkirk and Catherine both
experienced a sentiment of painful surprise. The
latter, stouter and fuller than ever, fat and red-faced,
touched the extreme limit of her fourth and last youth ;
the solitary of Juan Fernandez, with his gray hair, his
copper complexion, could scarcely recall to the re-
spectable hostess of the tavern the elegant pilot of the
royal navy, still less the pale and blend student, of
whom she had been, eighteen years before, the first
and only love.

'ls it indeed you, my poor Sandy,' said she, with an
accent of pity ; 'I thought you were dead.'

'I have been nearly so, indeed, and a long time
ago, Kitty. But who has told you of me? '

' Ala's l It was my husband himself.'

'You are married then, Catherine. So much the
better.' i

' So much the worse rather, my friend; for, would
you believe it, the old monster, bent double as he is
with age and rheumatism, was bright enough to dupe
me finely; to dupe me twice. In the first place, by
making me believe you were dead when you were
not. But he well know, the cheat, that if I refused
him once, it was because my views were turned in
your direction.'

Selkirk made a movement which escaped Cathe-
rine; she continued:

'His second deception was to arrive here in tri-
umph, in the midst of the cries 'of joy and embraces
of the Sea-Dogs and Old Pilots. One would have
thought he had in his pockets all the mines of Guinea
and Peru. He did not say so, but I thought it could
not be otherwise ; and I married him, since I believed
you no longer living. His trick having succeeded, he
then told me of his shipwreck, his complete ruin. Ahl
with what a good heart would I have sent him pack-
ing! But it was too late, and it became necessary
that the Royal Salmon, founded by the honorable
Andrew Felton, should furnish subsistence for two;
and this is the reason why, Mr. Selkirk, you find me
still here, a prisoner in my bar, and cursing all the
captains who make the tour of the world only to come
afterwards and impose upon poor and inexperienced
young girls! '

Selkirk had not at first understood the lamentations
of Catherine; but a twilight commenced to dawn in
his ideas; he divined that his name had been used for
an act of basencss; and, without being able to account

for it, he felt the return of an old leaven of spite, an
old hatred revived.

' Who is your husband? What is his name P ' asked
he, in a loud voice and with a tone of authority.
.. ' Do not grow angry, Sandy? Do not seek a quar-
rel with him now. What is done, is done; Iam his

wife, do you understand? It is of no use to recall the
past.'

'And who thinks of recalling it? I simply asked
you who he was? '

'You will be prudent; you promise me? Well!
do you see him yonder, in the second stall, at the
same place he formerly occupied? He has just poured
out some gin to those sailors, and is drinking with them.
It is he who is standing up with an apron on.'

' Stradling ! ' exclaimed Selkirk, with sparkling eyes.
But at the sight of this apron, finding his old captain
become a waiter, his hatred and projects of vengeance.
were suddenly extinguished.

Alexander Selkirk returned to England in 1712.
The history of his captivity in the Island of Juan Fer-
nandez had appeared iii the papers; several apoc-
ryphal relations had been already published, when
in 1717, Daniel De Foe published his Robinson
Crusoe.

He is really the same personage; but in this lat-
ter version, the Island of Juan Fernandez, in spite of
distance and geographical impossibilities, is peOpled
with savage Caribs; Marimonda is transformed into
the simple Friday; history is turned into romance,
but this romance is elevated to all the dignity of a
philosophical treatise.

Rendering full justice to the merit of the writer, we
must nevertheless acknowledge that he has completely
altered, in a mental view, the physiognomy of his
model. Robinson is not a man suffering entire isola-
tion; he has a companion, and the savages are inces-
santly making inroads around him. It is the European
developing the resources of his industry, to contend
at once with an unproductive land and the dangers
created by his enemies.

Selkirk has no enemies to repulse, and he inhabits
a fruitful country. He needs, before every thing else,
the presence of man, one of those fraternal affections
in which he refuses to believe. His sufferings origi-

,nate in his very solitude. In solitude, Robinson im-
proves and perfects himself; Selkirk, at first as full
of resources as he, ends by becoming discouraged
and brutified. '

, Which of the two is most true to nature?

The first is an ideal being, for in no quarter of the
globe has there ever been found one analogous to the
Robinson of De Foe; the other, on the contrary, is
to be met with every where,"denying the dependence
of an isolated individual; but this dependence, even in
the midst of a prodigal nature, if it is not to the honor
of man, is to the honor of society at large.

Notwithstanding all that has been said, the solitary
is a man imbruted, vegetating, deprived of his crown.
' Solitude is sweet only in the vicinity of great cities.'1
By an admirable decree of Providence, the isolated
being is an imperfect being; man is completed by
man.

Notwithstanding the false maxims of a deceitful
philosophy, it is to the social state that we owe, from

 

lBernardin de St. Pierre. Seneca had said: .Miscenda ct
alternauda sun: solitudo ct frequentia.on THE REAL Robinson 03113013. 141

the greatest to the least, the courage which animates
and sustains us; God has created us to live there and
to love one another; it is for this reason that selfishness
is a shameful vice, a crime! It is, so to speak, an
infringement of one of the great laws of Nature.

THE END., ~ ,, . . ("It , g. Luw4flhid .. 5.>>. ' ...'H I \ I! u . A .i, II! I .. v r . \u , , '
' . 'u 1.. . ' _' '; mug... '10.! 0'1. Itikow... (I 9' 'III nut-gar. 1...... V6 . O ' _ .O no 6 _ r. H , 9.0. II... V N p _
d, Lhow.'..lllwu'~ {EH3 ._ on ' ,C.! 0C/hnrhylh I!!! Kilian" ."H I iii ,' .3! i v .. A, h'u La. rti. .0 ' . .- $ . I 0.. v K04... 1. a . L. f' 06.. _I or..." a" O A. t a. ~ "W?!" $4! v. w! . y
.7 '. v , .7 l1 . I. . 1 ' . : 1 ' I - v - . ./
_ _ '0'th -03! . an. n .I .. .1 I Q -0111" I! a , _ - u, . 3 '0. 0 .Mo& I .. .1 .Oia5 Jul C/ 'SS c <<A :00 s. .Q .. f'ti".l it ll [$in 1.. :40 v

i /, s 1 . n _ ,
".11. 3.3441. "mini: , ...._.. .1 sf>>... in.
i. w fill; iii?! .5" - . ll t Cl.- t
{a r . . mas! "whincvtlflmnuwtu Ind i,_| La 1 '
;. .5 .... L??? 1.4
'1

'qu t u... .
n I 11'. O} '
hiiifi .5! V)" (5." In ...|I . Mir 5? .
e {5.13%. sztxvlh. e. ....L.,A.'...u..ini.lslav .2: Uh
b I o , '01-. , k ' ruin"! VA. ' 0. . _
V'lzfi; I #40,},le '0'. vIMWk-Duofln.SS.uolnhpv-Kw It 10.7":'11- .
m , .r '1'! A
Q ' A 1 _ l r h .. A t. ilflb ' W... i.
.u ' II luli$a'u.dl,.. '-- .| W
C .u w. T. to ._ ,u .u . w
3&1! 51.6.5?
'.,'
I '0.I ,w>> u
o