THE

SHILLING ENTERTAINING LIBRARY.

EDITED BY J. S. LAURIE.

ROBINSON CRUSOE.'It will stand in need of a commentary to male it
intelligible!

'Not at all,' replied Sampson ; 'for it is so plain, that
than is no d-zficulty in it: children thumb it, bags read it,
men understand it, and old folks commend it."

DON meo'rn.TEE FOOTPBINT 01" m SANDSTHE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE

ON THE

ISLAND 0F JUAN FERNANDEZ.

BY'

DANIEL DEFOE.

L O N D O N :
LONGMAN, GREEN, LONGMAN, ROBERTS, _& GREEN.
1 8 6 3.1.02400!
'IXII'III I! IPOT'IIIWOODI All) C0-

llW-l'l'nll'l' "IVA IIINTRODUCTION TO THE SERIES.

Tn object of the 'Emnnmma mer' is to provide the

young and, generally Speaking, the less educated" portion of the
community with books which they will find readable.

Many similar projects have been started, and have failed.
The Proprietors of the present 'Lmaanr' believe that those
failures are to be ascribed to a fundamental deficiency which,
with proper attention and care, may be fully supplied.

In undertakings of this kind too little allowance has been
made for what may almost be termed the repulsiveness o'f a
book to the untutored .mind. Children freed from irksome
tasks, and working men wearied with a hard day's toil, cannot
possibly be induwd to read until they find out what a wealth
of entertainment is conoealed under the hard, ungraeeful forms
of typography. Nothing appears more certain than that they
will not read at all, unless materials are placed before them. a

V1 INTBOD UCT ION.

which are calculated to arouse their interest and enchain their
attention.

The practical problem, therefore, to be solved is, to furnish
a selection of works which wfli appeal to that dominant prin-
ciple in the human breast, the love of pleasure. The aim of the
Editor of the 'Emnramme memr' is to provide an ample
and varied repast for the gratification of this instinct. The
concentration of his efforts upon this single point will give the
present series of books its distinctive character.

Aglance at the sources upon which he has sh-eady'drswn
will, it is believed, convince those who are acquainted with
English literature, that such volumes as the 'Exm'ruma
mer' promises to contain will necessarily tend to enlarge
the intellectual views, and to direct and strengthen the moral
sentiments of every reader. But the prime end kept in view
will be to afford, in a wide and liberal sense, pleasure and
amusement; and to this end whatever bears more directly
upon the practical utilities of life will invariably be held
subordinate.

It is proper to state that the Editor assumes the right of
adapting the original texts so as to suit his purpose. Gram-
matical constructions which are too involved and difficult will
be simplified; modern words and idioms will be substituted
for such as have become obsolete or nearly obsolete; and in all

cases passages which are unsuitable to the young will be
expunged.

Each of the volumes will be embellished with a series of full-
page illustrations drawn by Mr. Handel-cock, Mr. Shields, and
other artists of acknowledged merit. .

Special attention will be paid to the binding of the volumes.
They will be prepared for being well thumud. The type, also,
in which they will be printed will be of the clearest and dis-
tinctest kind that can be procured.vau-a-- ~- '11 -->--v~- > "WWW g-q-x-cv-n--w--um--r 'W't'I'WW-"V'VW

ROBINSON CRUSOE.CONTENTS.

CHAPTERI.

My Birth and Parentage -- At Nineteen Years of Ago I deter-
mine to go to Sea --Dissuaded by my Parents-- Run away
with a. Schoolfellow, and go on board Ship ---A Storm arises,
during which I m dreadfully frightened --Ship founders--
Myself and Crew saved by a Boat from another Vessel, and
landed near Yarmouth ---- Meet my Compunion's Father, who
advises me never again to go to Sea, but in vain ----Travel to
London . . . . . . . . . Page 1

CHAPTER II. '

I go on board Ship bound for Africa --Driven out of our Course
by a Hurricane -- Find ourselves off the coast of South
America --Wrecked on a. Sandbank-- All Hands lost except
myself. . . . . . . . . 17

CHAPTER III.

Appearance of the Wreck and Country next Day--Swim on
Board of the Ship, and by means of a. Contrivance get a
' Quantity of Stores on Shore-- Shoot a Bird, but it turns out
perfect Carrion--Moralise upon my Situation--The Ship
blown of Land, and totally lost--Set out in Search of a
(proper Place for a Habitation--See Numbers of Goats--
Melancholy Reflections . . . . . . Page 27

CHAPTER IV.
armors mom in roman.

Fall upon various Schemes to make Tools, Baskets, &c. --My
Walks in the Woods -- At a. great Loss for an Evening Candle,
but fall upon an Expedient to supply the Want--Strange
Discovery of Corn -- A terrible Earthquake and Storm . 65

CHAPTER V.

nxmc'rs mom MY JOURNAL (com).

Observe the Ship driven farther aground by the late Storm--

Procure a vast quantity of Necessaries from the Wreck--
Catch a large Turtle--I fall ill of a Fever and Ague --Ter-
rible Dream, and serious Reflections thereupon--Find a

Bible in one of the Seamen's Chests thrown ashore, the Read-
ing whereof gives me great Comfort . . . . 65

CHAPTER VI.

EXTRACTS FROM MY JOURNAL (CONTINUED).

I begin to take a Survey of my Island -- Discover plenty of To-
bacco, Grapes, Lemons, and Sugar-canes, wild, but no human
Inhabitants--Resolve to lay up a Store of these Articles, to
furnish Myself with against the wet Season-- My Cat, which
I supposed lost, returns with Kittens--I regulate my Diet,
and shut Myself up for the wet Season--Sow my Grain,
which comes to nothing; but I discover and remedy my
Error -- Take Account of the Course of the Weather. Page 76

CHAPTER VII.

Make a second Tour through the Island--Catch a young Parrot.
which I afterwards teach to speak-- My mode of Sleeping at
Night ---- Find the other side of the Island much more pleasant
than mine, and covered with Turtle and Sea-fowl ---Catch a
young Kid, which I tame -- Return to my old Habitat-ion --
Great Plague with my Harvest . . . . . 87-

CHAPTER VIII.

I attempt to mould Earthenware, and succeed-- Description of
my Mode of Baking--Begin to make a Boat--After it is
finished am unable to get it down to the Water -- Serious
Reflections--My Ink and Biscuits exhausted, and Clothes
in a. bad State -- Contrive to make a. Dress of Skins. . 101

CHAPTER IX.

I succeed in getting a. Canoe afloat, and set out on a Voyage in
the sixth Year of my Reign or Captivity -- Blown out to Sea
--Reach the Shore with great Difficulty--Fall Asleep, and
am awakened by a Voice calling my Name -- Devise various
Schemes to tame Goats, and at last succeed . . . .117

CHAPTER X.

Description of my Figure; also of my Dwelling and Enclosures---
Dreadful Alarm on seeing the Print of a Man's Foot on the
Shore '-- Take every possible Measure of Precaution . 128xiv concurs.

CHAPTER XI.

My Kingdom is invaded by Savages -- Second Invasion -- They
chase 9. Savage to devour him--I rescue him, and kill his
Pursuers -- Terror of my Savage Friend - My Behaviour
allays his Fears-- Christen him Friday . . Page 139

CHAPTER XII.

I am at great Pains to instruct Friday respecting my Abhor-
rence of the cannibal Practices of the Savages--He is amazed
at the 'Efi'ects of the Gun, and considers it an intelligent
Being ----Begins to talk English tolerably-- A Dialogue--He
describes to me some white Men who had come to his
Country, and still lived there . . . . . 149

CHAPTERXIII.

How Friday and I fall in with white Savages--They prepare
to murder their Captain and Oficers -- Friday and I come to
the Rescue -- We seize the mutinied Ship --My Deliverance
and Return to England . . . . . . 157LIST OF' ILLUSTRATIONS.

--.deg.-_

FAG.

1. Tan Fear-m on m Sum . . Frontiapiece 138
2. Swnnmm 1'0 m Wm . . . . . 28
3. Romsox Cnuson mm mm CATS . . . . 80
4. Tu 0mm Fm . . . . . . 141
5. Cm or FREDA! . . . . . . . 144
6. Tu Dunstan . . . . . . . 161'I am monarch of all I survey,
My. rzyht there is none to dispute;
From the centre all round to the sea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
0 Solitude! where' are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms
27am reign in this horrible place.'

'lt"#44...

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

CHAPTER I.

11me and Parentsge--AtNinmsnYeai-s of AgeIdeterminetogo to
Sea --Dissuaded by my Puents-- Run away with a Schooflellow, and go
on Board Ship--A. Storm arises, during which I am dreadfully fright-
ened--Ship founders--Myself and Crew saved by a Boat from another
Vessel, and landed near Yarmouth-- Meet my Companion's Father, who
advises me never again to go to Sea, but in vain--Travel to London.

I was born in the year 1682, in the city of York, of a good
family, though 'on one side not native, my father being a
foreigner from Bremen, who had settled at Hull. Having
made his fortune by trading, he retired to York: from that
town he had married my mother, whose relations were
named Robinson, after whom I was christened Robinson.
Kreutznaer was my father's name; but, by'-the usual con-
ruption of words in England, we are now-'called, nay, we
call ourselves and write our name, Crusoe; and so my oom-
panions always called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly
comnianded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, but he was
killed at the battle fought near Dunkirk against the

B

. 42 ROBINSON causes.

Spaniards. "'hat became of my second brother I never
knew, any more than my father or mother knew what
afterwards became of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with rambling
thoughts. My father, who was of the old school, had
given me a competent share of learning, as far as house-
education and a country free-school generally go. He
designed me for the law, but I would be satisfied with
nothing but going to sea; and my inclination to this led
me so strongly against the will, nay, the commands of my
father, and against all the entreaties and persuasions of my
mother and other friends, that there seemed to be something
fatal in the perversity with which my nature tended
directly to that life of misery which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was
confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with
me upon this subject. He asked me what reasons, more
than a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving my
father's house and my native country, where I might be
well introduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune
by application and industry, so as to enjoy a life of ease
and pleasure. He told me it was men of desperate fortunes
on the one hand, or of restless ambition on the other, who
went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and
make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature out of
the common road; that these things were all either too far
above me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle
state, or what might be called the upper station of the
lower class, which he had found, by long experience, was
the best state in the world--the most suited to human
happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the
toil and sufferings, of the handicraft part of mankind, and
not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy
of the upper section of society. He told me I might judge
of the happiness of this state by this one thing, namely, that
this was the state of life which all other people envied;
that kings have frequently lamented the miserable conse-
quences of being born to great things, and wished they had
been placed in the middle of the two extremes, between the
mean and the great; that the Wise Man gave his testimony
to this, as the just standard of true happiness, when he
prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.

After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, nor to
precipitate myself into miseries, which nature, and the
station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided
against; that I was under no necessity of earning my
bread; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to
enter me fairly into the- station of life which he had just
been recommending; that if ease and happiness were not
in store for me, I should have none but myself to blame;
and that he should have nothing whatever to answer for,
having thus discharged his duty in warning me against
measures which he knew would be to my hurt.

I observed in this last part of his warning, which was

:8 2
truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know
it to be so himself-- I say, I observed the tears run down
his face very plentifully, and when he alluded to my probable
misfortunes, with none to assist me, he was so moved that
he broke ofl' the conversation, and told me his heart was
so full he could say no more.

I was sincerely affected by what my father had said;
and, indeed, who could be otherwise? so I resolved not
to think any more of going abroad, but to settle at home,
according to my father's desire. But, alas! a few days
wore off the impression; and, in short, to prevent any of
my father's further importunities, in a few weeks after I
resolved to run quite away from him. However, I did not
act so hastily as the first heat of my resolution prompted,
for I took my mother at a time when I thought her a little
pleasanter than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts
were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I should
never settle to anything with resolution enough to go
through with it, and my father had better give me his
consent, than force me to go without it; that I was now
eighteen years old, which was too late to go apprentice to
a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure, if I did,
I should never serve out my time, but I should certainly
run away from my master before my time was out, and go
to sea. I begged she would ask my father to let me go
one voyage abroad, promising that, if I did not like it, I
would go no more, but, by a double diligence, recover the
time lost.

This put my mother into a great passion. She told me
she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father
upon such a subject; that he knew my interest too well to
give his consent to anything so much to my disadvantage.
For her own part, she wondered how I could think of any
such thing, after the conversation I had had with my
father, and in the face of such kind and tender expressions
as she knew he had used to me, and that, in short, if I
would ruin myself, there was no help for it; but I might
depend upon it I should never have their consentto do so.

Though my mother refused to breach the subject to my
father, yet I afterwards heard that she reported everything
to him, and that my father, after showing great concern at
it, said to her, with a sigh --- ' That boy might be happy if
he would stay at home, butif he goes abroad he will be the
most miserable wretch that ever was born: I can give no
consent to it.'

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose,
though, in the mean time, I continued obstinately deaf to
all proposals of settling to business, frequently expostulat-
ing with my father and mother about their being so posi-
tively determined against that to which they knew my
inclination prompted me. But being one day at Hull,
whither I had gone by more chance, without any purpose of
running away at that time,--I say, being there, one of
my companions, who was going by sea to London in his
father's ship, pressed me to go with him, using the common
allurement of a seafaring man, that it should cost me
nothing for my passage. I consulted neither father nor
mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of my
intentions, but leaving them to hear of it as they might--
without asking God's blessing or my father's, without any
consideration of circumstances or consequences, and in an
evil hour--on September 1, 1651, I went on board a ship
bound for London. Never, I believe, did any young ad-
venturer's misfortunes begin sooner, or continue longer, than
mine. The ship had no sooner got out of the Humber than
the wind began to blow, and the sea to rise, in a most
frightful manner; and, as I had never been at sea before, I
was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in mind.
I now began seriously to reflect how justly I was overtaken
by the judgment of Heaven for wickedly leaving my
father's house and abandoning my duty. All the good
counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my mother's
entreaties, now came fresh into my mind; and my conscience,
which had not yet reached that pitch of hardness in which
it has since been, reproached me with my contempt of
advice, and my breach of duty to God and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea ran very
high, though nothing like what I have often seen since--no,
nor like what I saw a few days after; but at that time it
was enough to affect me, being but a young sailor, who had
never known anything of the matter. I expected every
wave would have swallowed us up, and that every time the
ship plunged down into the trough or hollow of the sea, we
should never rise again. In this agony of mind, I made
many vows and resolutions, that, if it pleased God to spare
my life in this one voyage, if ever I got my foot upon
dry land again, I would never set it in a ship while I
lived; that I would take my father's advice, and never run
myself into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw
plainly the goodness of my father's observations about the
middle station of life, how easy, how comfortable he had
lived all his days, without having been exposed to tempests
at sea, or troubles on shore; and, in short, I resolved that
I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my
father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while
the storm continued, and, indeed, some time after; but the
next day the wind abated and the sea became calmer, so I
began to be a little inured to it. However, I was very
grave all that day, being still a little sea-sick ; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind lulled, and a
charming evening followed; the sun went down perfectly
clear, and rose brilliant the next morning, so that the
smoothness of the sea, with the sun shining upon it,
appeared to me the most delightful sight I had ever seen.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no longer
sea-sick, but very cheerful; looking with wonder upon the
sea, that was so rough and ten'ible the day before, and
could be so calm and pleasant so shortly after. And now,
lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion,
who had indeed enticed me away, comes to me :--

'Well, Bob,' said he, clapping me upon the shoulder,
' how do you do after it ? I warrant you were frightened,
weren't you, last night, when it blew but a capful of wind ? '

' A capful, (1' you call it,' said I, ' 't was a terrible storm.'

'A storm, you fool,' replies he, ' do you call that a
storm? Why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good
ship and sea room, and we think nothing of such a squall of
wind as that; but you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob.
Come, let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all
that. Do you see what charming weather 'tis now ? '

To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way
of all sailors; the punch was made, and I was made half
drunk with it, and in that one night's wickedness I drowned
all my repentance, all my reflections upon my past conduct,
and all. my resolutions for the future. In a word, just as
the sea had returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness, by the abatement of that storm, so my
troubled thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions
of being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the
current of my former desires having returned, I entirely
forgot the vows and promises that I had made in my
distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflection ; and
my serious thoughts sometimes did, as it were, endeavour
to return again; but I shook them off, and roused myself
from them, as if from a distemper; and, applying myself
to drinking and company, soon mastered the return of those
fits (for so I called them). Thus I had, in five or six days,
got as complete a victory over conscience as any young
fellow resolved not to be troubled with it could desire.
But I was to have still another chance, and Providence
resolved to leave me entirely without excuse; for if I would
not take the first trial for a deliverance, the next was to be
one respecting which the worst and most hardened wretch
among us would confess both the danger and the mercy.ROBINSON 030301;. 9

The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into the Yar-
mouth roads; the wind having been contrary, and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the storm.
Here we were obliged to come to anchor, and here we lay,
the wind continuing contrary--namely, south-west--for
seven or eight days, during which time a great many ships
from Newcastle came into the same roads, as the common
harbour, where the ships might wait for a wind for the
river.'

After we had lain here four or five days, the wind con-
tinued to blow very hard. However, the roads being
reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage safe, and
our ground-tackle very strong, our men were unconcerned,
and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent the
time in rest and mirth, after the manner of seamen. But
the eighth day, in the morning, the wind increased, and we
had all hands at work to strike 1' our topmasts, and make
everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy
as possible. By noon the sea ran very high indeed; and
our vessel shipped several seas, and we thought once or
twice our anchor had parted ; upon which our master
ordered out the sheet anchor, so that we rode with two
anchors ahead.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and now I.
began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the
seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in the
business of preserving the ship, yet, as he went in and out

' River, that is, the Thames. 1' Strike, that is, lower.
of his cabin by me, 1 could hear him say softly to himself,
several times, ' Lerd, be merciful tons! We shall be all lost,
we shall be undone,' and the like. During all this confu-
sion I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, in a frame of
mind I cannot describe. I could ill resume the first peni-
tence, which I had so obstinately trampled upon and hard-
ened myself against. I thought the bitterness of death had
been past, and that this, too, would be nothing like the
first. But when the master himself came by me, as I said
just now, and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully
frightened. I got up and looked out; but such a dismal
sight I never saw: the sea rose mountains high, and broke
upon us every three or four minutes. When I could look
about, I could see nothing but distress around us. Two
ships that rode near us, we found had cut their masts by
the board, and our men cried out that a ship, which rode
about a mile ahead of us, had foundered. Two more ships,
being driven from their anchors, had run out of the roads
to sea, and that with not a mast standing. The light ships
fared the best, as not laboring so much in the sea; but
two or three of them drove close by us, running away, with
only their sprit--sail out, before the wind.

Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the
master of our ship to let them cut away the fore-mast,
which he was very unwilling to do; but the boatswain
protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship would
founder, he consented; and when they had cut away the
fore-mast, the main-mast stood so loose, and shook the ship
so much, they were obliged to cut it away also, and make
a clear deck.nonmsou causes. 11

Anyone may judge what a condition I must have been in
on seeing all this ----I, who was so young a sailor, and who
had been in such a fright before at but little. But, if I can
express at this distance the thoughts I had at that time, I
was in tenfold more horror of mind on account of my
former convictions, that is, for having returned from them to
the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was at
death itself; and these, added to the terrors of the storm,
put me into such a condition, that I can by no words
describe it. But the worst had not yet come; the storm
continued with such fury, that the seamen themselves
acknowledged they had never seen a worse. We had a.
good ship, but she was deeply laden, and she so wallowed
in the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried out
she would founder. It was my advantage, in one respect,
that I did not know what they meant by ' founder,' till I
inquired. However, the storm was so violent, that I saw
what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some
others, more sensible than the rest, at their prayers ---
expecting every moment that the ship would go to the
bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the
rest of our distresses, one of the men that had been down on
purpose to see, cried out we had sprunga leak; another said
there were four feet of water in the hold. Then all hands
were called to the pump. At that very word my heart,
as I thought, died within me, and I fell backwards upon
the side of the bed where I sat, into the cabin. However,
the men roused me, and told me, that I, who was able to
do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another, at
which I stirred up, and went to the pump, and worked
very heartily. While this was being done, the master,
seeing some light colliers, who, unable to ride out the
storm, were obliged to slip their anchors and run away to
sea, ordered a gun to be fired as a signal of distress. I,
who knew not what that meant, was so surprised that I
thought the ship had foundered, or some dreadful thing
happened. In a word, I was so surprised, that I fell down
in a swoon. As this was a time when everybody had his
own life to think of, nobody minded me, or what was to
become of me; but another man stepped up to the pump,
and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking
I was dead; and it was a great while before I came to
myself.

We worked on, but, the water increasing in the hold, it
was apparent that the ship would go down, and though the
storm began to abate a little, yet, as it was not possible she
could float till we might run into port, so the master con--
tinued firing guns for help ; and at last a light ship, just ahead
of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was at the utmost
risk that the boat came near us, but it was impossible for
us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship-side.
At length, the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their
lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the stem
with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great length.
This they, after much labor and risk, took hold of, and we
hauled them close under our stern, and all got into their
boat. It was useless for them, after we were in the boat,
to think of reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let
her drive before the wind, and only to pull her in towards
the shore, as much as we could; and our master promised
the men, that if the boat was stayed upon shore, he would
make it good to their master. So partly rowing and partly
driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping
towards the shore, almost as far as Wintertonness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out
of our ship, before We saw her sink; and then I understood,
for the first time, what was meant by a. ship foundering at
sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up,
when the seamen told me she was sinking; for my heart
was as it were dead within me, partly with fright, partly
with horror of .mind, and the thought of what was yet
before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet laboring at
the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when
our boat mounted the waves, we were able to see the shore) a
great many people running along the strand to assist us when
we should come near. But we made but slow way towards
the shore; nor were we able to reach it till beyond the
light-house at Winterton, where the shore falls oil" to the
westward towards Cromer, and therefore breaks off a little
the violence of the wind. Here we got in ; and, though not
without much difficulty, got all safe on shore. We Walked
afterwards to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we
were used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates
of the town, who assigned us good quarters, as by particular
merchants and owners of ships. We also had money given

us to carry us either to London, or back to Hull, as we
thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and
thence home, I would have been happy, and my father, an
emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable, would even have
killed the fatted calf for me: for although he had heard that
the ship I had gone away in had been cast away in Yarmouth
roads, he was still unfortunately without any assurance of
the fact that I was not drowned.

But my ill fate now pushed'me on with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist; and though I had several times
loud calls from my reason and my more composed judgment
to go home, yet I had no power to comply.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and
who was the master's son, was now less forward than I.
The first time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth,
which was not till two or three days, for we were separated
in the town to several quarters--I say, the first time he
saw me,.it appeared his tone was altered. Looking very
melancholy and shaking his head, asked me how I did;
and telling his father who I was, and how I had come this
voyage only for a trial, in order to go farther abroad, his
father turned to me with a very grave and concerned tone:

'Young man,' says he, 'you ought never to go to sea
any more; you ought to take this for a plain and visible
token, that you are not to be a seafaring man.'

' Why, sir,' said I, 'will you go to sea no more ? '

'That is another case,' said he, 'it is my calling, and
therefore my duty; but, as you made this voyage for a
trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what
you are to expect, if you persist; perhaps all this has
befallen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship of
Tarshish. Pray,' continued he, ' What are you? and on
what account did you go to sea P '

Upon that I told him some of my story; at the end of
which he burst out with a strange kind of passion, ' What
have I done,' says he, 'that such an unhappy wretch should
come into my ship ? I would not set my foot in the same
ship with thee again for a thousand pounds 1'

This, indeed, was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits,
which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was
farther than he could have authority to go. However, he
afterwards talked very gravely to me, exhorting me to go
back to my father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin;
adding, I might see a visible hand of Heaven against me:
' and, young man,' said he, ' depend upon it, if you do not
go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments till your father's words are
fulfilled upon you.'

"We parted soon after; for I'made him little answer, and
I saw him no more: which way he went I know not. As
for me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to
London by land, and there, as well as on the road, had
many struggles with myself what course of life I should
take, and whether I should go home, or go to sea. As to
going home, a sense of shame opposed the best inclinations
I had; and it immediately occurred to me how I should be
laughed at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed
to see, not my father and mother only, but even everybody
else.
In this condition, however, I remained some time, un-
certain what measures to take, and what course of life to
lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going home;
and, as I delayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress I
had been in were off; and as that abated, the little desire
I had to return leaened and at last quite disappeared So
I looked out for a ship.

That evil influence which carried me first away from my
father's house, which hurried me into the wild and absurd
notion of making my fortune, and that impressed those
conceits so forcibly upon me as to make me deaf to all good
advice, and to the entreaties and even the commands of my
father;---I say, the same influence, whatever it was, presented
the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view, and I
went on board a vessel bound on a voyage to the coast of

Africa, or, as our sailors vulgerly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
# # # I" # Y=
CHAPTER II.

I go on board Ship bound for Africa-- Driven out of our Course by a Hur-
ricane -- Find ourselves of! the coast of South America-- Wrecked on a
Sandbank --A.11 hands lost except myself.

I WENT on board in an evil hour again, for, as it happened,
it was the first of September, beingthe same day on which
I deserted my father and mother, in order to act the
rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own interests.
Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried six guns and
fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself. We
had on board no large cargo of goods except such toys as
were fit for our trade with the negroes; such as beads, bits
of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-
glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.

The same dayI went on board we set sail, standing away
to about 10deg or 12deg of northern latitude, which, it seems,
was the manner of their course in those days. We had very
good weather till we lost sight of land. We then steered
as if we were bound for the isle Fernando de Noronha,
holding our course NE. by N., leaving those isles on the
east. In this course we passed the Line in about twelve
, days' time, and were, by our last observation, in 7deg 22'

<<northern latitude, when a violent tornado or hurricane took
us quite out of our reckoning. It began from the SE. came
about to the NW. and then settled into the NE., whence

C
it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days
together we could do nothing but drive; and scudding away
before the wind, we let it carry us wherever fate and' the
fury of the winds directed. During these twelve days, I
need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up,
nor did any in the ship expect to save their lives. .

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm,
one of our men dead of sun-stroke, and one man and the
boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather
abating a little, the master madean observation as well as
he could, and found that he was in about 11deg north latitude,
but that he was 22deg of longitude difference west from Cape
St. Augustino, so that he found he was upon the coast
of Guyana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the
river Amazons, towards the river Orinoco, commonly called
the Great River; and now he began to consult with me
what course he should take, for the ship was leaky and
very much disabled, and he was for going directly home
again.

I was positively against that; and looking over the
charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded
there was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to
till we came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands. We
therefore resolved to stand away for Barbadoes, which by
' keeping 011' at sea, to avoid the indraught of the bay or
gulf of Mexico, we might easily reach, as we hoped, in
about fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not possibly

make our voyage to the coast of Africa. without some
assistance both to our ship and to ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steered
away NW. by W., in order to reach some of our English
islands, where we hoped for relief. But our voyage was
otherwise determined; for, when in the latitude of 12deg 18',
a second storm came upon us, which carried us away with
the same impetuosity 'westWard, and drove us so far out of the
way of all human commerce, that even supposing our lives
to be saved from shipwreck, we had a better chance of being
devoured by savages than of returning to our own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of
our men, early one morning, cried out ltmd ! and we had no
sooner run out of the cabin to look out in hopes of seeing
whereabouts in the world we were, than the ship struck
upon a sandbank, and, in a moment,her motion being thus
stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner that we
expected we should all have perished. We were imme-
diately driven into our close quarters, to shelter ourselves
from the very foam and spray of the sea.

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in a similar
condition, to describe or conceive the consternation of men
in such circumstances. We knew not where we were, or
upon what land it was we had driven, whether an island or
the mainland, whether inhabited or not inhabited! and as the
rage of the wind was still great, though rather less than at
first, we could not so much as hope that the ship would hold
many minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the wind,
by a kind of miracle, should veer immediately about. In
a word, we sat looking upon one another, expecting death
every moment; every man acting as if in preparation

0 2.! '20 nomnson causon.

for another world, for there was little or nothing more for
us to do in this. Our present comfort, and indeed all the
comfort we had, was, that contrary to our expectation, the
ship did not yet break up, and that the master said the wind
began to abate.

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate,
yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking
too fast for us to expect to get her off, we were in a.
dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do but to
think of saving our lives as Well as we could. We had a
boat at our stern just before the storm, but she was first
stared by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in the
next place she broke away, and either sank or was driven
off to sea--so there was no hope from her. \Ve had another
boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a
doubtful thing. However, there was no room for debate,
for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute;
and some said she had broken up already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the
boat, and, with the help of the rest of the men, got her flung
over the ship's side. "We then all leaped into her, let go,
and committed ourselves, eleven in number, to God's mercy,
and the wild sea. For though the storm had abated
considerably, yet the sea ran dreadfully high upon the
shore, and might well be called Die wilde See, as the Dutch
call the sea in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed, for we all saw
plainly that the sea ran so high, that the boat could not
live, and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to
making sail, we had none; nor, if we had, could we have
done anything with it; so we worked at the oar towards
the land, though with heavy hearts, like men going to
execution; for we all knew that when the boat came near
the shore, she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the
breach of the sea. However, we committed ourselves to
God in the most earnest manner, and the wind driving us
towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with our
own hands, pulling, as well as we could, towards land.

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was, if
we might get into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some
river, where, by great chance, we might have rim our boat
in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. But nothing of this appeared; on the con-
trary, as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the land
looked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a, league and
ahalf, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern of
us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de grdce.' In a word,
it overset the boat at once, and separating us as well from
the boat as from one another, gave us hardly time to say,
' O God!' for we were all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which
I felt when 1 sank in the water; for though I swam
very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves
so as to draw my breath, till one wave had carried me,

' Coup de grace (pron. coo deh grass), finishing stroke.
a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent
itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost dry,
but half dead with the water I had taken in. I had so
much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing
myself nearer the mainland than I expected, I got upon my
feet, and endeavoured to go on towards the land, as fast as
I could, before another wave should return and take me up
again. But I soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for
I saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as
furious as an enemy, which I had no means or strength to
contend with. My business was to hold my breath, and-
raise myself upon the water, if I could, and so by swimming
to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the
shore, if possible; my greatest concern now being that the
wave, as it would carry me a great way towards the shore
when it came on, might not carry me back again with it
when it recoiled towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could feel
myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards
the shore a very great way ; but I held my breath, and
made an effort to swim still farther forward with all my
might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath, when,
as I felt myself rising up, to my immediate relief, I found
my head and hands shoot out above the surface of the
water; and though it was not two seconds of time that I
could keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly, giving me
breath and new courage. I was covered again with water
a good while, but not so long but I held out, and finding
the water had spent itself, and had begun to return, I
struck forward to escape the advance of the waves, and felt

ground again with my feet. I stood still a few moments to
recover breath, and till the water went from me, and then

took to my heels, and ran with what strength I had
farther towards the shore. But neither would this deliver
me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after
me again; and twice more was I lifted up by the waves,
and carried forward as before, the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to
me, for the sea having hurried me along as before, landed
me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of rock, and that
with such force as left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as
to my own deliverance; for the blow taking my side and
breast, beat the breath, as it were, quite out of my body,
and, had it returned again immediately, I must have been
strangled in the water. But I recovered a little before the
return of the waves, and seeing I should be covered again
with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of rock,
and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave went
back. Now, as the waves were not so high as at first,
being near land, I kept my hold till the wave abated, and
then made another run, which brought me so near the shore,
that the next wave, though it went over me, did not so
swallow me up as to carry me away. The next run I took
I got to the mainland, where, to my great comfort, I
clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat down upon

the grass, free from danger, and quite out of the reach of
the water.
I was now landed and safe on shore, and began to look up
and thank God that my life was saved from a fate wherein
there was, some minutes before, scarce any room to hope.
I believe it is impossible to express to the life what the
ecstnsies and transports of the soul are when thus, saved,
as I may say, out of the very grave; and I do not wonder
new at that custom -- namely, when a malefactor, who has
the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be
turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him --- I say, I do
not wonder that they bring a surgeon with him, to bleed him
the very moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may
not drive the animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm
him ---

'For sudden joys, like griefis, confound at first.'

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and
my whole being, as I may say, wrapt in the contempla-
tion of my deliverance, making a thousand gestures and
motions which I cannot describe, reflecting upon all my
comrades that were drowned, and that there should not be
one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never saw
them afterwards, or any signs of them, except three of
their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.

I cast my eyes towards the stranded vessel, and seeing
that, the breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could
hardly discern it, it lay so far ofl'-- I considered, Lord!
how was it possible I could have got on shore.

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part
of my condition I began to look around me to see what
kind of place I was in, and what was next to be done, and
I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a. word, I had
had a dreadful deliverance; for I was wet, had no clothes
for a change, nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort
me, neither did I see any prospect before me but that of
perishing of hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts.
But what was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had
no Weapon either to hunt and kill any creature for my
sustenance, or to defend myself against the attacks of any
creature that might desire to kill me for theirs. In a word,
I had nothing about me but a knife, 9. tobacco-pipe, and a
little tobacco in a box; this was all my provision, and this
threw me into terrible agonies of mind, so that for a while I
ran about like a madman. Night coming upon me, Ibegan
with a heavy heart to consider what would be my lot if
there were any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at .
night they always come abroad for their prey.

All the remedy that presented itself to my thoughts at
that time was, to get up into a. thick bushy tree, like a fir,
but thorny, which grew near me: there I resolved to sit
all night, and consider the next day what death I should die,
for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked abouta fur-
long from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to
drink, which I did to my great joy; and having drunk, and
put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went
to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to place
myself so as that, if I should sleep, I might not fall.
Having cut a short stick, like a truncheon, for my
defence, I took up my lodging; and being excessively
fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as I
believe few could have done in my condition; and I found

myself more refreshed by it than I think I ever was on
such an occasion.
CHAPTER III.

Appearance of theWreck and Country next Day--Swim on Board of the
Ship, and by means of a Contrivance get a Quantity of Stores on Shore ----
Shoot a Bird, but it turns out perfect Carrion -- Moralise upon my Situ-
ation- The Ship blown of Land, and totally lost--Set out in search of
a proper Place for a Habitation--See Numbers of Goats--Melancholy
Reflections.

WHEN I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and
the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as
before; but that which surprised me most was, that the
ship had been lifted off from the sand where she lay, by
the swelling of the tide, and driven up almost as far as the
rock which I mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the
sea dashing me against it. This being within about a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship still seeming to
stand upright, I wished myself on board, that at least I
might save some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I
looked about me again; and the first thing I found was
the boat, which lay as the wind and sea had tossed her
up upon the land, about two miles on my right hand. I
walked as far as I could upon the shore to get to her, but
found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat,
which was about half a mile broad; so I came back for the
present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where
I hoped to find something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm; and the
tide ebbed so far out, that I could get within a quarter of
a mile of the ship; and here I found a fresh renewing of
my grief; for I saw that if we had kept on board we would
have all been safe, and I had not been so miserable as to
have been left entirely destitute of all comfort and company
as I now was. This forced tears from my eyes again, but
as there was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to
get to the ship; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather
was intensely hot, and took the water. But when I came to
the ship, my difficulty was still greater to know how to get
on board, for as she lay aground and high out of the water,
there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I espied asmall piece
of rope, whichI wondered I did not see at first, hang down
by the fore chains, so low that without great difficultyI got
hold of it, and by that means got up into the forecastle of
the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had
a great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay so on the
side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern
was lifted up upon the bank, and her head low almost to the
water: thus all her quarter was free, and all that was in
that part was dry; for you may be sure my first work was
to search and to see what was spoiled and what was safe.
And first I found that all the ship's provisions were dry
and untouched by the water; and being very well disposed
to eat I went to the bread room, and filled my pockets with
biscuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I had
no time to lose. I also found some rum in the great cabin,bWIKfllNQ TO THE WRECK
of which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed need
enough of, to spirit me for what was before me. Now I
wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still, and wish for what was not to
be had; and this extremity roused my application. We
had several spare yards, and two or three large spans of
wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the ship; I resolved
to fall to work with these, and flung as many of them over-
board as I could, tying everyone with a rope that they
might not drive away. When this was done, I went down
the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them
fast together at both ends as well as I could, in the form of a
raft; and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon
them crossways, I found that I could walk upon it very
well, but that it was not able to bear any great weight, the
pieces being too light. So I set to work, and with a
carpenter's saw I cut a spare top-mast into three lengths,
and added them to my raft; but the hope of furnishing
myself with necessaries encouraged me to do more than
I should have been able to have done upon an ordinary
occasion. '

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and how
to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea;
but I was not long considering this: I first laid all the
planks or boards upon it that I could get, and having con-
sidered well what I most wanted, I first got three of the
seamen's chests which I had broken open and emptied, and
lowered them down upon my raft. The first of these I
tilled with provisions, namely, bread, rice, three Dutch
cheeses, pieces of dried goat's flesh, which We had lived
much upon, and a little remainder of European corn, which
had been laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea
with us, but which had been killed. There had been some
barley and wheat together, but, to my great disappointment,
I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all.
As for liquors, I found several cases of bottles belonging to
our skipper, in which were some cordial waters, and in all
about five or six gallons of spirits; these I stowed by them-
selves, there being no need to put them into the chest, nor
any room for them. While I was doing this, I found the
tide began to flow, though very gently, and I had the
mortification of seeing my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which
I had left on shore upon the sand, float away; as for my
breaches, which were only linen, and open-knee'd, I swam
on board in them and my stockings. However, this sug-
gested my rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough,
but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
more important things to look after, for example, tools to
work with on shore ; and it was after long searching that I
found out the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very
useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a ship-
load of gold would have been at that time. I got it
down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing time
to look into it, for I knew in geneial what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There
e two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and
two pistols: these I secured first, with some powder-horns,
a small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. Iknew
there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew
not where our gunner had stowed them, but after a long
search I found them, two of them dry and good, the third
had got wet; those two I got to my raft, with the arms.
And now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and
began to think how I should get to shore with them,
having neither sail, oar, nor rudder, while the least capful
of wind Would have capsized everything.

I had three encouragements: first, a smooth and calm
sea; second, the tide rising and setting into the shore; third,
what little wind there was blew towards the land; and
thus, having found two or three broken oars belonging to
the boat, I put to sea with my cargo. For a mile or there-
abouts my raft went very well, only that I found it drive a
little distance from the place where I had landed before,
by which I perceived there was some current landwards,
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or river there,
which I might make use of as a port to get to land with
my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before me a
little opening of the land, and I found a strong current of
the tide setting into it, so I guided my raft as well as I
could, to keep in the middle of the stream. But here I
was on the point of suffering a second shipwreck, which, if
I had, I think verily would have broken my heart; for,
knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground, at one
end of it, upon a shoal, and not being aground at the other,
all my cargo was within a hair's breadth of slipping off
towards that end that was afloat, and so falling into the
water. I did my. utmost, by setting my back against the
chests, to keep them in their places, but with all my strength
I could not thrust off the raft; neither durst I stir from the
posture I was in, but, holding up the chests with all my
might, stood in that manner nearly half an hour, in which
time the rising of the water brought me a little upon a
level, and a little after, the water still rising, my raft
floated again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had, into
the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length found
myself at the mouth of a little river, with land on both
sides, and a strong current of tide running up. I looked
on both sides for a proper place to get ashore, for I was not
willing to be driven too high up the river, hoping in time
to see some ship at sea; and I therefore resolved to place
myself as near the shore as I could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which with great pain and difficulty I guided my
raft, and at last got so near as that, reaching ground with
my oar, I could thrust her directly in; but here I was very
nearly dipping all my cargo into the sea again, for the shore
lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there was no
place to land, but where one end of the raft, if it ran on
shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower as before,
that it would endanger my cargo. All that I could do was
to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft
with my oar, like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to
the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I expected the
water would flow over, and so it did. As soon as I found
water enough (for my raft drew about a foot of water), I
thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and there fastened
or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars into the
ground, one on one side near one end, and one on the other
side near the other end ; and thus I lay till the water ebbed,
and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods to
secure them from whatever might happen. Where I was, I
yet knew not, whether on the continent or on an island;
whether it was inhabited or not inhabited ,whether in danger
of wild beasts or not. There was a hill not above a mile from
me, which rose up very steep and high, and which seemed
to overtop some other hills, which stretched in a ridge from
it northward. I took out one of the fowling-pieces, and
one of the pistols, and a horn of powder, and, thus armed,
I travelled on a tour of discovery up to the top of that hill,
where, after I had with great labor and difficulty got up, I
immediately saw my fate, to my great aflliction, namely,
that I was on an island, environed every way by the sea, no
land to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great way
oil", and two small islands less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as
I saw good reasons to believe, uninhabited, except perhaps,
by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw none; yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds, nor, when
I killed them, could I tell what was fit for food, and what

I)
not. On my return, I shot a large bird, which -I saw
sitting upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. I believe
it was the first gun that had been fired there since the
creation of the world. I had no sooner fired, than from all
parts of the wood there arose an extraordinary number of
fowls, of many sorts, making a confused screaming and
crying, every one according to his usual note; but not one
of them of any kind that I knew. As for that creature I
killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk, its color and beak
resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more than
common; its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft,
and fell to work to bring the rest of my cargo on shore,
which took up the rest of the day. \Vhat to do with my-
self at night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest; for I
was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but
some wild beast might devour me, though I afterwards
found there was really no need for those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore,
and made a kind of but for that night's lodging. As for
food, I still had no means of supplying myself, except that
I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out of the
wood where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship which would be useful to me,
and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such
other things as might be useful; so I resolved to make
another voyage on board the vessel, if possible. Knowing
that the first storm that blew must necessarily break her in
pieces, I resolved to set all other things aside till I got
everything out of the ship that I could get. Then I called
a council (that is to say, in my thoughts), whether I should
take back the raft, but this appeared impracticable; so I
resolved to go as before, when the tide was down, and I did
so, only that I stripped before I went from my hut, having
nothing on but a checkered shirt, 0. pair of linen drawers,
and a pair of pumps on iny feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft; and having had experience of the first, I neither made
this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard. Still Ibrought
away several things very useful to me : for example, in the
carpenter's store I found two or three bags full of nails
and spikes, a great screw jack, a dozen or two of hatchets,
and, above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone.
All these I secured, together with several things belonging
to the gunner, particularly three iron crows, and two
barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets, and another
fowling--piece, with a small quantity of powder, a large
bag full of small shot, and a great roll of sheet lead; but
this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it
over the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that 1
could find, and a spare fore--topsail, hammock, and some

' - bedding, and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought

 

them also safe on shore, to my great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions, during my absence from

the land, that at least my provisions might be devoured on
n 2
shore; but when I came back, I found no sign of any
visitor, only there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one
of the chests, which, when I came towards it, ran away to
a little distance, and then stood still. She sat very com-
posed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if
she had a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented my
gun at her, but, as she did not understand it, she was per-
fectly unconcerned, nor did she offer to stir away; upon
which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though I was not very
free of it, for my stock was not large. However, I gave
her a bit, I say; she smelled at it, ate it, and looked for
more; but I thanked her, and could spare no more, so she
marched off.

Having got my second cargo on shore (though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks), I set
to work to make a little tent with the sail and some poles
which I cut for that purpose. Into this tent I brought
everything that I knew would spoil either with rain or
sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casksdip in a
circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt
either from man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent
with some boards within, and an empty chest, set on end
without. Then spreading one of the beds upon the ground,
and laying my two pistols just at my head, and my gun
alongside of me, I went to bed for the first time, and slept
very quietly all night, for I was very weary and heavy, as
I had slept little the night before, and had labored hard all
day, as well in fetching those things from the ship, as in
getting them on shore.

I had now the largest store of all kinds that ever was
laid up, I believe, for one man 3 but I was not yet satisfied,
for, while the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I
ought to get everything out of her that I could; so every
day at low water, I went on board, and brought away some-
thing or other. But particularly the third time I went, I
brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as also
all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with apiece
of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought
away all the sails first and last, only thatI was fain to cut
them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I could, for
they were no longer useful to me as sails, but merely
as canvas.

But what comforted me more than anything was, that
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages as
these, and thought I had nothing more to expect from the
ship worth my meddling with; I say, after all this, I found
a great hogshead of bread, three large runlets of rum or
spirits, a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour: this was
surprising to me, because I had given up expecting any
more provisions, except what was spoiled by the water. I
soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapt it up
parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails which I cut out;
and, in a word, I got this safe on shore also, though at
different times.

The next day I made another voyage; and now having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand
out, I began with the cables: and cutting the great cable
into pieces such as I could move, I got two cables and a
hawser on shore with all the iron-work I could get; and
having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the mizen-yard,
and everything suited to make a large raft, I loaded it
with all those heavy goods, and came away. But my good
luck began now to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy
and so overloaded, that after I had entered the little cove
where I had landed the rest of my goods, not being able to
guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, and threw
me and all my cargo into the water. As for myself, it
was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to my
cargo, it was in great part lost, especially the iron, which I
expected would have been of great use to me. However,
when the tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable
ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite labor,
for I was obliged to dip for it into the water, a work which
fatigued me very much. After this I went every day, and
brought away what I could.

I had now been thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, in which times I had
brought away all that one pair of hands could well be
supposed capable of bringing, though I verily believe, had
the calm weather held, I should have brought away the
whole ship piece by piece. But on preparing the twelfth '
time to go on board, I found the wind began to rise.
Notwithstanding this I went on board at low water; and
though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so efl'ec-
tually as that nothing more could be found, 'et I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or
three razors and one pair of large scissors, with ten or a dozen
good knives and forks ; in another I found about thirty-six
pounds value in money, some European coin, some Brazil,
some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. ' 0 drug,"
said I aloud, 'What art thou good for? Thou art not
worth to me, no, not the taking off of the ground; one of
those knives is worth all this heap; I have no manner of
use for thee; even remain where thou art, and go to the
bottom as a creature whose life is not worth saving! '
However, upon second thoughts I took it away, and
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think of
making another raft; but while I was preparing this, I
found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in
a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore.
It presently occurred to me that it was in vain to pretend to
make a raft with the wind oll' shore, and that it was my
business to be gone before the flood-tide began, otherwise
I might not be able to reach the shore at all: accordingly, I
let myself down into the water, and swam across the
channel which lay between the ship and the sand, and even
that with difliculty enough, partly through the weight of
the things I had about me, and partly the roughness of the
water; for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was
quite high water it blew a storm.

Now, however, I was safe in my little tent, where I lay
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard
all that night, and in the morning, when I looked out,
behold no more of the ship was to be seen. I was a little
surprised, but recovered myself with this satisfactory reflec--
tion, namely, that I had lost no time, nor abated diligence,
in getting everything out of her that could be useful to me;
and that, indeed, there was little left in her that I was able
to bring away, if I had had more time. I now gave over all
thoughts of the ship, or of anything out of her, except what
might drive on shore from her wreck, as, indeed, various
pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were of little
use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed on securing my-
self . crainst either savages, if any should appear, or wild
beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many thoughts
of the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to
make, whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or a
tent upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both,
the manner and description of which it may not be improper
to describe.

I soon found the place I was in was not fit for a settlement,
particularly because it was upon a low marshy ground near
the sea, which I thought would not be wholesome, and more
particularly because there was no fresh water near it,- so I
resolved to find a more healthy and more convenient spot of
ground.

I considered several things in my situation, which I found
would be proper for me: first, health, and fresh water, as I
just now mentioned; secondly, shelter from the heat of the
sun: thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, either man.
or beast; fourthly, a view of the sea, that if God sent any
ship in sight, I might not lose any chance of deliverance, of
which I was not willing to banish all hopes.

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain
on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little
plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could 'come
down upon me from the top. On the side of this rock
there was a hollow place worn a little way in, like the
entrance or door of a cave, but there was no cave, or way
into the rock.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I
resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above a
hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like
a green before my door, and at the end it descended
irregularly to the low grounds by the sea-side. It was on
the NNXV. side of the hill, so that I was sheltered from the
heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or
thereabouts, which in those countries is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in semi-diameter
from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter from its
beginning and ending. '

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about five
feet and a half, and sharpened at the top; the two rows stood
about six inches from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the
ship, and laid them in rows upon one another, within the
circle between these rows of stakes, up to the top, placing
other stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two
feet and a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence
was so st1ong that neither man nor beast could get into it
or over it: this cost me a great deal of time and labor,
especially to cut the piles in the wood, bring them to the
place, and drive them into the earth

The entrance to this place I made to be, not by a door,
but by a ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I
was in, I lifted over after me, and so I was completely
fenced in, and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and
consequently slept secure in the night, which otherwise I
could not have done, though, as it afterwards appeared,
there was no need of all this caution.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried
all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores;
and I made a large tent also, which, to preserve me from
the rains, that in one part of the year are very violent there,
I made double, namely, one smaller tent within, and one
large tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a large
tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails.

And now I lay no longer in the bed that I had brought
on shore, but in a hammock, which was a very good one,
and which belonged to the mate.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything
that would spoil by the wet, and having thus enclosed all
my goods, I built up the entiance, which till now was left
open, and so passed and repassed, as I said, by a ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the
rock, and bringing all the earth and stones out through my
tent, I laid them up within the fence in the nature of a
terrace, so that it raised the ground within about a foot and
a half, and thus I made me a cave just behind my tent,
which served as a cellar to my house.

It cost me much labor, and many days, before all these
things were brought to perfection; and, therefore, I must
go back to some other things which took up some of my
thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had laid
my scheme for setting up my tent and making the cave,
that a. storm of rain falling from a thick dark cloud, a
sudden flash of lightning occurred, and then a clap of
thunder, which is naturally the efl'ect of it. I was not so
much surprised at the lightning as with the thought which
darted into my mind: --0 my powder! My heart sank
within me, to think that at one blast all my powder might
be destroyed ; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended: I was
not nearly so anxious about my own danger.

Such impression did this make upon me, that after the
storm was over, I gave up all my work, my building and
fortifying, and applied myself to making bags and boxes to
separate my powder, and to keep it a little and a. little in a
parcel in the hope that, whatever might happen, it might
not all take fire at once; and to keep it so apart, that it
should not be possible to make one part fire another. I
finished this work in about a fortnight, and my powder,
which in all was about 2401bs. weight, was divided into
not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had
been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that, so I
placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy I called my
kitchen, and the rest I hid in holes among the rocks, that
no wet might get to it, carefully marking where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was being done, I went
out once every day with my gun, as well to divert myself
as to see if I could kill anything fit for food, and as nearly
as I could, to acquaintmyself with what the island produced.
The first time I went out, I discovered that there were
goats on the island, which was a great satisfaction to me;
but then the circumstance was attended with this misfor-
tune, namely, that they were so shy, so cunning, and so
swift of foot, that it was the most difficult thing in the
world to get at them. But I was not discouraged at this,
not doubting but I might now and then shoot one, as soon
happened; for after I had found their haunts a little, I lay
wait for them in this manner: I observed, if they saw me
in the valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they
would run away in a terrible fright; but if they were
feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took
no notice of me ; whence I concluded, that by the position
of their optics, their sight was so directed downward, that
they did not readily see objects that were above them ; so
I always climbed the rocks first to get above them, and
then had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made
among these creatures I killed a she--goat, which had a
little kid by her, which she was giving suck to. This
grieved me heartily ; but when the old one fell, the kid
stood stock still by her till I came and took her up, and not
only so, but when I carried the old one with me upon my
shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my enclosure; upon
which I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms,
and carried it over my paling, in the hope of having it bred
up tame ; but it would not eat, so I was forced to kill it,
and eat it myself. These two supplied me with flesh a
great while, for I ate sparingly, and saved my provisions,
my bread especially, as much as I possibly could

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to
burn ; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences 1 made, I shall give a full
account of in its place; but I must first give some little
account of myself, and of my thoughts about living, which
were not a few.

I had a dismal prospect before me; for as I was not cast
away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a
violent .storm quite out of the course of our intended
voyage, and a great way, namely, some hundreds of leagues,
out of the ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I had
great reason to consider it as a determination of Heaven,
that in this desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I
should end my life. The tears would run plentifully down
my face when I made these reflections; and sometimes I
would expostulate with myself, why Providence should
thus completely ruin His creatures, and render them so
absolutely miserable, without help, abandoned, and so
entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be
thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly one
day, walking with my gun in my hand by the sea-side, I
was very pensive upon the subject of my present condition,
when Reason, as it were, put in, expostulating with me the
other way, thus: ---Well, you are in a desperate condition,
it is true, but pray remember where are the rest of you ?
Did not you come eleven of you into the boat ? where are
the ten? why were they not saved, and you lost? why
were you singled out? is it better to be here or there?
And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be con-
sidered with the good that is in them, and with what worse
attended them.

Then it occurred to me again, how Well I was provided
with the means of subsistence, and what would have been
my case if it had not happened, which was a hundred
thousand to one, that the ship floated from the place where
she first struck, and was driven so near to the shore, that I
had time to get all these things out of her. i What would
have been my case if I had been forced to have lived in the
condition in which I at first came on shore, without the
necessaries of life, or any means to supply and procure
them? Pm-ticularly, said I (aloud, though to myself),
what would I have done without a gun, without ammuni-
tion, without any tools to make anything, or to work with?
without clothes, bedding, .a tent, or any manner of cover-
ings? And now I had all these in sufficient quantity, and
was'in a fair way to provide myself in such a manner as
to live without my gun when my ammunition was spent;
so that I had a tolerable prospect of subsisting without any
want, as long as I lived, for I considered from the beginning
how I should provide for the accidents that might happen,
and for the time that was to come, even not only after my
ammunition should be spent, but even after my health or
strength should decay.

I confess I had not then entertained any notion of my
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my powder
being blown up by lightning; and this made the thoughts"
of it so surprising to me, when it lightened and thundered,
as I observed just now.

And now, being about to enter into a melancholy relation
of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard
of in the world before, I shall take it. from its beginning,
and continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the
30th of September, when, in the manner above said, I first
set foot upon this horrid island, when the sun being to us
in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head ;

for I reckoned myself by observation to be in the latitude
of 9deg 22' N. of the Line.

After I had been here about ten or twelve days, it came
into my head that I should lose my reckoning of time for
want of books, and pen and ink, and should even forget to
distinguish my Sabbath days from working days; but to pre-
vent this, I cut the reckoning with my knife upon a large post,
in capital letters, and making the post into a great cross, I
set it up on the shore where I first landed, headed, 'I came
on shore here the 80th of Sept, 1659.' Upon the sides of

this square post I out every day a notch with my knife, and
every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as the long one;
and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place, among many things which I brought
off the ship in the several voyages, which, as above
mentioned, I made to it, I got several things of less value,
but not at all less useful to me, which I omitted setting
down before : as in particular, pens, ink, and paper, several
parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's
keeping, three or four compasses, some mathematical in-
struments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navi-
gation, all which I huddled together, careless whether I
might want them or not. Also I found three very good
Bibles, which came to me in my cargo from England, and
which I had packed up among my things, some Portuguese
books also, and among them two or three Popish prayer-
books, and several other books, all which I carefully secured.
And I must not forget that we had in the ship a dog and
two cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to
say something in its place, for I carried both the cats with
me, and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship himself,
and swam on shore to me the day after I went there
with my first cargo, and he was a trusty servant to me for
many years. I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor
any company that he could make up to me, I only wanted
to have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I
observed before, 'I found pens, ink, and paper, and I hus-
banded them to the utmost: and I shall show, that while
my ink lasted, I kept things very exact; but after that was
gone, I could not; for I could not make any ink by any
means that I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things ; and
of these, this of ink was one, as also a spade, pick-axe,
and shovel, to dig or remove the earth; needles, pins, and
thread: as for linen, I soon learned to want that without
much difficulty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily,
and it was nearly a whole year before I had entirely finished
my little paling, or surrounded habitation; the piles, or
stakes, which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long
time in being prepared in the woods, and more by far in
bringing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cut-
ting and bringing home one of these posts, and a third day
in driving it into the ground. For which purpose I got a
heavy piece of wood at first, but at last bethought myself
of one of the iron crows, which, however, though I found
it, yet made driving those posts or palings very laborious and
tedious work.

But what need had I to be concerned at the tedious-
ness of anything I had to do, having time enough to do it
in ? Nor had I any other employment, that I could foresee,
except ranging the island to seek for food, which I did more
or less every day.

I now began to consider my condition seriously, and the
circumstances I was reduced to, and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any
that were to come after me (for I was likely to have but

I:50

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

few heirs), as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring
upon them, and afflicting my mind; and as my reason
began now to master my despondency, I began to comfort
myself as well as I could, and to set the good against the
evil, that I might have something to distinguish my case
from worse; and I stated it very impartially, like debtor
and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed, against the miseries I

suffered, thus :--

EVI L.

I am cast upon a horrible deso-
late island, void of" all hope of de-
liverance.

I am singled out and separated,
as it were. from all the world to
be miserable.

I am divided from mankind, a
solitary one, banished from hu-
man society.

1 have no clothes to cover me.

I am without any defence or
means to resist any violence of
man or beast.

Ihave not a soul to speak to,
or relieve me.

GOOD.

ButI am alive,and notdrowned,
as all my ship's company was.

But I am singled out, too, from
all the ship's crew, to be spared
from death; and He that miracu~
lously saved me from death, can
deliver me from this condition.

But I am not starved and
perishing on a barren place,
affording no sustenance.

But I am in a hot. climate,
where, if I had clothes, I could
hardly wear them.

But I am cast on an island
where I see no wild beasts to hurt
me.

But God wonderfully sent the
ship near enough to the shore,
that I have gotten out so many
necessary things as will either
supply my wants. or enable me to

supply myself, even as long as I
live.
~ Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that
there was scarce a condition in the world so miserable but
there was something negative, or something positive, to be
thankful for in it; and let this stand as a direction from
the experience of the most miserable of all conditions in
this world, that we may always find in it something to
derive comfort from, and to set, under the head of good and
evil, on the credit side of the account.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and given over looking out to sea, to see if I
could spy a ship; I say, having given over these things, I
began to apply myself to arrange my way of living, and to
make things as easy to me as I could.

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent
under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong fence of
posts and cables, but I might rather call it a wall, for I
raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about two feet
thick, on the outside. After some time (I think it was a
year and a half) I raised rafters from it, leaning to the
rock ; and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and
such things as I could get to keep out the rain, which I
found at some times of the year very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
this enclosure, and into the cave which I had made behind;
but I must observe, too, that at first this was a confused
heap of goods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took
up all my space: I had no room toturn myself; so Iset
myself to enlarge my cave, and work farther into the earth.

Thus, when I found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey,
1-: 2
I worked sideways to the right hand into the rock, and then
turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made a
door to come out at on the outside of my fortification. This
gave me not only egress and regress, as it was a. back way to
my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow
away my goods. And now I began to apply myself to
make such necessary things as I found I most wanted, par--
ticularly a chair and a table, for without these I was not
able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world; I could
not write or eat, or do several things, with so much plea-
sure, without a table.

So I went to work; and here I must needs observe, that
as reason is the substance and original of the mathematics,
so by stating and squaring everything by reason, and
by making the most rational judgment of things, every
man may be in time master of every mechanic art. 1 had
never handled a tool in my life, and yet in time, by labor,
application, and contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted
nothing but I could have made it, especially if I had had
tools: however, I made abundance of things, even without
tools, and some with no more tools than an adze and a
hatchet, which, perhaps, were never made in that way
before, and that with infinite labor. For example, if I
wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree,
set it on end before me, and hew it flat on either side
with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank,
and then pare it smooth with my adze. It is true that by
this method I could make but one board out of the whole
tree 5 but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more
than I had for the prodigious deal of time and labor
which it took me to make a plank or board ; but my time
01 labor was little worth, and so it was as well employed
one way as another.

However, I made a table and a cha'n, as I observed
above, in the first place; and this I did out of the short
pieces of board that I brought on my raft from the ship;
but when I had wrought out some boawls, as above, I made
large shelves of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over
another, all along one side of my cave, to lay my tools,
nails, and ironwork on, and, in a word, to separate every-
thing at large in their places. Also, I knocked pegs into
the wall of the rock to hang my guns on, and all things that
would hang up: so that my cave looked like a general
magazine of all necessary things s; and I had everything so
ready to hand, that it was a gleat pleasure to me to see all
my goods in such order, and especially to find my stock of
all necessaries so great.

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in so great
a hurry -- not only hurry as to work, but in so much
discomposure of mind, that my journal would have been
full of many dull things. For example, I must have said
thus :--

' September 30, 1659.--After I got on shore, on this dismal
island, which I called the Island of Despair, and had escaped
drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my deliver-
ance,--having first vomited the great quantity of salt water
which had got into my stomach, and recovering myself a
little, --I ran about the shore, wringing my hands, and
beating my head and face, bewailing my misery, and
crying out, I was undone! undone! till, tired and faint, I
was forced to lie down on the ground to repose, but durst
not sleep for fear of being devoured.

' Some days after this, having been on board the ship, and
got all I could out of her, yet I could not forbear getting
up to the top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea,
in hopes of seeing a ship; then fancy, at a vast distance, I
spied a sail; please myself with the hopes of it, and then,
after looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite,
and sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase my
misery by my folly.'

But having got over these things, in some measure, and
having settled my household stuff and habitation, and
made all as handsome about me as I could, I began to keep
my journal, of which I shall here give you some particulars
over again, as long as it lasted, for at last, having no more
ink, I was forced to leave it off.
CHAPTER IV.

EXTRACTS FROM MY JOURNAL.

Fall upon various Schanes to make Tools, Baskets, In. --My Walks in the
Woods--At a great Loss for an Evening Candle, but full upon an

Expedient to supply the Want. --Strange Discovery of Com. --A terrible
Earthquake and Storm.

Nov. 17.----I MUST not forget to mention, that when I
began to dig behind my tent into the rock, to make
more room, I wanted three things exceedingly for this
work, namely, a pickaxe, a shovel, and awheelbarrow or
basket; so I desisted from my work, and began to consider
how to supply that want, and make some tools. As for
a pick--axe, I made use of the iron crows, which were
suitable enough, though heavy; but the next thing was a
shovel or spade: this was so absolutely necessary, that
indeed I could do nothing effectually without it,--but what
kind of one to make I knew not.

Nov. 18.----The next day, in searching the woods, I found
a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Brazils they
call the iron-tree, for its exceeding hardness; of this with
great labor, and after almost spoiling my axe, I cut a
piece, and brought it home with difficulty, for it was ex-
ceedingly heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood
kept me a long while upon this machine, but I worked it
effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel or
spade, the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only
that the broad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom,
would not last me so long; however, it served well enough
5 "for the uses which I had occasion to put it to.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or a wheel-
barrow. A basket I could not make by any means, having
no such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker-
ware; and, as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all
but the wheel, but that I had no notion of, neither did I
know how to set about it, 501 gave itup ; and so, for carry-
ing away the earth, which I dug out of the cave, I made
a thing like a hod, which the laborers carry mortar in to
serve the bricklayer-s. This was not so difficult to me as
the making of the shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and
the attempt which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow,
took me no less than four days : I mean, always excepting
my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom omitted,
seldom failing also to bring home something fit to eat.

In these walks I made frequent discoveries of something
or other to my advantage; particularly I found a kind of
wild pigeon, which built not as wood-pigeons in a tree, but
rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks, and
taking some young ones I endeavoured to bring them up
tame, and did so. But when they grew older, they all flew
away, which perhaps was at first for want of feeding them,
for I had nothing to give them ; however, I frequently
found their nests, and got their young ones, which were
very good meat.
And now, in managing my household affairs, I found
myself wanting many things which I thought impossible
for me to make. For instance, I could never make a cask,
to be hooped. I had a small runlet or two, as I observed
before, but I could never attain the capacity of making one
by them, though I spent many weeks about it. I could
neither put in the heads, nor join the staves so true to one
another, as to make them hold water; so I gave that
also over. In the next place,_I was at a great loss for
candles, so that when it was dark, which was generally by
seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. The'only remedy
I had was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved the
tallow, and, with alittle dish made of clay, which I baked
in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum, Imade
a lamp; and this gave me light, though not a clear, steady
light like a candle.

In the middle of all my labors it happened that in
rummaging my things, I found a little bag, which had been
filled with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this
voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ship came from
Lisbon; what little remainder of corn had been in the
bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing in the
bag but husks and dust; and, being willing to have the
bag for some other use, I shook the husks of corn out of it,
on one side of the fortification under the rock. It was a
little before the great rains, just now mentioned, that I
threw this stuff away, taking no notice of anything, and
not so much as remembering that I had thrown any there;
when, about a month after, or thereabouts, I saw a few
stalks of something green shooting out of the ground,
which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen ; but
I was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a.
little longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come out,
which were perfect, green barley of the same kind as our
English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and confu-
sion of my thoughts on this occasion: I had hitherto.acted
upon no religious foundation at all; indeed, I had very few
notions of religion in my' head, nor had entertained any
sense of anything that had befallen me, otherwise than as a
chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; without so
much as inquiring into the end of Providence in these
things, or His order in governing events in the world ; but,
after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which I knew
was not proper for corn, and, above all, not knowing how it
came there, it startled me strangely. So I began to think
that God had miraculously caused this grain to grow, with-
out any help of seed sown, and that it was so directed
purely for my sustenance in that wild, miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of
my eyes, and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of
nature should happen on my account; and this was the
more strange to me, because I saw near it, all along by the
side of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved
to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had seen
it grow elsewhere.

I not only thought these the pure productions of Provi-
dence for my support, but, not doubting but that there was
more in the place, I went all over that part of the island
where I had been before, peering in every corner and
under every rock to seek for more of it, but I could not
find any. At last it occurred to me that I had shaken
a bag of chickens' meat out in that place, and then the
wonder began to cease; and I must confess my religious
thankfulness to God's providence began to abate too, upon
my discovering that all this was nothing but what was
common, though I ought to have been as thankful for so
strange and unforeseen a providence as if it had been mi-
raculous. For it was really the work of Providence to me,
that should order that ten or twelve grains of com should
remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest,
as if it had been dropped from heaven; as also that I
should throw it out in that particular place, where, being in
the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas,
if I had thrown it anywhere else at that time, it would
have been burnt up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be sure,
in their season, which was about the end of June; and,
laying up every grain, I resolved to sow them all again,
hoping in time to have some quantity, sufficient to supply
me with bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I
could allow myself the least quantity of this corn to eat, and
even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its
order, for I lost all I sowed the first season by not observ-
ing the proper time, having sowed just before the dry sea-
son, so that it never came up at all--at least, not as it -
would otherwise have done.
Besides this barley, there were twenty or thirty stalks of
rice, which I preserved m'th the same care, and whose use
was of the same kind, or for the same purpose, namely, to
supply me with food ; for I found ways to cool: it without
baking, though I did that also, after some time. But to
return to my jmu'nal.

I worked excessively hard three or four months to get my
wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up, contriving
to get into it, not by a door, but over a wall by a ladder,
that there might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.

April 16.--I finished the ladder, so I went up with it to
the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down
on the inside. This was a complete enclosure to me; for
within I had room enough, and nothing could get at me
from without, unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost had all my labor overthrown at once, and myself
killed. The case was thus : as I was busy in the inside, he-
hind my tent, just at the entrance into my cave, I was ter--
ribly frightened with a most surprising thing indeed, for on
a sudden I found the earth come tumbling down from the
roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my
head, and two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked
in a frightful manner. I was heartily scared, but thought
nothing of what really was the cause, only thinking that
the top of my cave was falling in, as some of it had done
before, and, for fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward
to my ladder; and, not thinking myself safe even there, I
got over my wall, for fear of the pieces of the bill, which I
expected might roll down upon me. I had no sooner stepped
down upon the firm ground, than I plainly saw it was a
terrible earthquake; for the ground I stood on shook three
times, at about eight minutes' distance, with three such-shocks
aswould have overturned the strongest building that couldhe
supposed to have stood upon the earth; and a great piece of
the top of a rock, which stood about half a mile' from me
next the sea, fell down with such a terrific noise as I never
heard in all my life. I perceived also the very sea was put
into violent motion by it, and I believe the shocks were
stronger under the water than on the island.

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never
had a similar experience, or talked with anyone that had,
that I was like one dead or stupified; and the motion of
the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed
at sea. Presently the noise of the falling of the rock awaked
me, as it were, and, reusing me from the stupified condition
I was in, filled me with such horror, that I thought of
nothing but the hill falling upon my tent and all my
household goods, and burying all at once; and this sank
my seal within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take courage, and yet I had not
heart enough to get over my wall again, for fear of being
buried alive, but sat still upon the ground, greatly cast
down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All this
while I had not the least seriously religious thought, nothing
but the common 'Lord, have mercy' upon me !' and when
it was over, that went away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; soon after that, the wind rose
by little and little, so that in less than an hour it blew a most
dreadful hurricane of wind; the sea was all on a. sudden
covered with foam, the shore was covered with the breach
of the water, the trees were torn up by the roots, and a ter-
rible storn'1 it was. This lasted about three hours, and then
began to abate, and in two hours more it was quite calm,
and began to rain very hard.

All this while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified
and dejected ; when, on a sudden, it came into my thoughts
that these winds and rain, being the consequence of the
earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and
I might venture into my cave again. "7ith this thought,
my spirits began to revive, and the rain helping also to per-
suade me, I went in, and sat me down in my tent, but the
rain was so violent that my tent was on the point of being
beaten down by it: I Was forced to go into my cave,
though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall
on my head. This violent rain forced me to a new work,
namely, to cut a hole through my new fortification like a
sink, to let the water go out, which would else have filled
my cave. After I had been in my cave some time, and
found no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began to
be more composed; and now, to support my spirits, which
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store and
took a small cup of rum, very sparingly, knowing I could
have no more when that was gone. It continued raining
all that night, and a great part of the next day, so that I
could not stir abroad ; but, my mind being more composed,
I began to think what I had best do, concluding that, if the
island was subject to these earthquakes, there would be no
possibility of living in a cave; that I must begin building a
little hut, in an open place, which I might surround with a
wall, as I had done here, and so make myself secure from
wild beasts or men : for I concluded, if I stayed where I was,
I should be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to move my tent from
the place where it stood, which was just under the hanging
precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken
. train, would certainly fall upon my tent. And I spent the
two next days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in con-
triving where and how to remove my habitation.

The fear of being swallowed up alive kept me from sleep-
ing in quiet; but still, when I looked about and saw how
everything was put in order, how pleasantly concealed I
was, and how safe from danger, it made me very loath to
remove.

In the mean time, it occurred to me that it would require
a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that I must be
contented to run the risk where I was, till I had formed a
camp for myself, and had secured it so as to remove to it.
So, with this resolution, I composed myself for a time, and
resolved that I would go to work, with all speed, to build
me a wall with piles and cables, &c., in a circle as before,
and set my tent up in it when it was finished; but that I
would venture to stay where I was till it was finished, and
fit to remove to. This was the 2lst.
April 22. --The next morning I began to consider the
means of putting this plan in execution ; but I was at a great
loss about my tools. I had three large axes, and abund-
ance of hatchets (for we had taken hatchets for traffic with
the negroes), but, with much chopping and cutting knotty
Wood, they were all full of notches and dull, and, though I
had a grindstone, I could not turn it, and grind my tools
too. This cost me as much thought as a statesman would
have bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge
upon the life and death of a man. At length I contrived a.
wheel, with a string to turn it with my foot, that I might
have both my hands at liberty. Note. -- I had never seen
any such thing in England, though I understand it is very
common there. Besides that, my grindstone was very large
and heavy. This machine cost me a. full week's work to
bring it to perfection.

April 28, 29.--These two whole days I took up in grind-
ing tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing
very well.

April 30.--Having perceived my bread had been low
a great while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced my--
self to one biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart very
heavy.
CHAPTER V.

EXTRACTS FROM MY JOURNAL (CONTINUED).

Observe the Ship driven farther aground by the late Storm --Procure a vast
quantity of Neoessaries from the Wreck -- Catch a large Turtle -- Ifall ill
of a Fever and Ague -- Terrible Dream, and serious Reflections thereupon

-- Find a Bible in one of the Seaman's Chests thrown ashore, the Reading
whereof gives me great Comfort.

May 1.--IN the morning, looking towards the sea-side,
the tide being low, I saw something lying on the shore,
bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask: when I
came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or three pieces
of the wreck of the ship, that had been driven on shore by
the late hurricane, and looking towards the wreck itself, I
thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used
to do. I examined the barrel which was driven on shore,
and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had
let in water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone.
However, I rolled it farther on shore for the present, and
went further upon the sands, as near as I could to the
wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely re-
moved: the forecastle, which lay before buried in the sand,
was heaved up at least six feet, and the stern, which was
broken to pieces, and parted from the rest by the force of
the sea, soon after I had left off rummaging her, was tossed

F
as it were up, and cast on one side; and the sand was thrown
so high on that side next her stern, that, whereas there was
a great place of water before, so that I could not reach the
wreck without swimming, I could now walk quite up to her
when the tide was out. I was surprised at this at first, but
soon concluded it must have been done by the earthquake,
and as by this violence the ship was more broken open
than formerly, so many things came daily on shore, which
the sea had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled
by degrees to,land.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of re-
moving my habitation. I busied myself mightily, that day
especially, in searching whether I could make any way into
the ship; but I found nothing was to be expected of that
kind, forall the inside of the ship was choked up with sand.
However, as I had learned not to despair of anything, I
resolved to pull everything to pieces, concluding that every-
thing I could get from the ship would be of some use or
other to me.

May 3.--I began with my saw, and cut apiec'e of a beam
though, which I thought held some of the upper part or
quarter-deck together, and when I had cut it through', I
cleared away the sand as well as I could, from the side
which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was obliged to
give over.

May 24.----Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck,
and with hard labor I loosened some things so much with
the crow, that the first flowing tide several casks floated out
and two of the seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from
the shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber
and ahogshead that had some Brazil pork in it, but the salt
water and the sand had spoiled it.

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always ap--
pointed during this part of my employment to be when the
tide was up, that I might be ready when it had ebbed out;
and, by this time, I had got timber and plank and iron work
enough tobuild a. good boat, if I had known how ; and also
I got at several times and in several pieces, nearly one hun-
dredweight of the sheet lead.

June 16.-- Going down to the sea-side, I found a large
tortoise or turtle: this was the first I had seen, which, it
seems, was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place,
or scarcity; for, had I happened to be on the other side of
the island, I might have had hundreds of them every day,
as I found afterwards.

June 17.-- I spent the next day in cooking the turtle; I
found in her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at that
time the most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my
life, having had no flesh but that of goats and fowls since I
landed in this horrid place.

sze 18.--- Rained all day, and I stayed within. The rain
at this time felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly, which I
knew was not usual in that latitude.

June 19.--Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had
been cold.

June 20.---No rest all night; violent pains in my head and
feverish.

June 21.--Very ill ; frightened almost to death with the
F 2
apprehensions of my sad condition--to be sick without help.
Prayed to God for the first time since the storm of Hull;
but scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being all
confused.

June 22.--A little better; but under dreadful apprehen-
sions of sickness.

June 23.--Very bad again ; cold and shivering, and then
a violent headache.

June 24.---Much better.

June 25.-- An ague very violent; the fit held me seven
hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.

J2me 26.--Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my
gun, but found myself very weak ; however, I killedashe-goat,
and, with much difficulty, got it home, and broiled some and
ate it. I would fain have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no pot.

June 27.---The ague again so violent that I lay in bed all
day, and neither ate nor drank. I was all but dying of thirst,
but so weak, I had not strength to stand up, or get myself
any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but was so igno-
rant that I knew not what to say : only I lay, and cried
' Lord, look upon me 1 Lord, pity me ! Lord, have mercy upon
me! ' I suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours,
till the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till
far in the night. When I waked, I found myself much re--
freshed, but weak and exceedingly thirsty; however, as I had
no water in my whole habitation, I was forced to lie till
morning, and went to sleep again. In this second sleep I
had this terrible dream :--
I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside
of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the
earthquake, and that I saw a. man descend from a great
black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and light upon the
ground. He was all over as bright as a flame, so that I
could but just bear to look towards him; his countenance
was most inexpresibly dreadful --impossible for words to
describe; when he stepped upon the ground, I thought the
earth trembled just as it had done before in the earthquake,
and all the air looked to my apprehension as if filled with
flashes of fire.

He had no sooner touched the earth than he moved for-
wards to me, with a long spear or weapon in his hand, to
kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, at some
distance, he spoke to me, forI heard a voice so terrible, that
it is impossible to express the terror of it; all that I can
say I understood was this: 'Seeing all these things have
not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die.' At
these words I thought he lifted up the spear that was in
his hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that
I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this
terrible vision ; nor is it possible to describe the impression
that remained upon my mind when I awaked and found it
was but a. dream.

J2me 28.--Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely over, I got up.
The fright and terror of my disease were very great, yet I
considered that the fit of the ague would return the next

9
day, and now was my time to get something to refresh and
support myself when I should be ill. The first thing I did
was to fill a. large square case-bottle with water, and set it
upon a table near my bed; and, to take off the chill or
aguish effect of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint
of rum into it, and mixed them together; then I got
a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals,
but could eat very little. I walked about, but was very
weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted, under a
sense of my miserable condition, and dreading the return
of my distemper the next day. At night I made my
supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the
ashes, and ate in the shell; and this was the first bit of
meat I ever asked God's blessing to.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so
weak that I could hardly carry the gun, so I went but a.
little way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon
the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and
smooth. I sat there a long while, how long I know not.

At length I rose up, pensive and sad, and walked back to
my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had been
going to bed; but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I
had no inclination-to sleep, so I sat in my chair, and lighted
my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as the apprehen-
sions of the return of my distemper terrified me very much,
it occurred to my thoughts that the Brazilians take no
physio but their tobacco for almost all distempers, and I
had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which
was cured, and some also that was green, and not cured.
I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt, for in this chest I
found a cure for soul and body. I opened the chest,
and found what I looked for, namely, the tobacco; and as
the few books I had saved lay there too, I took out the
Bible, which I mentioned before, and which, up to this time,
I had not found leisure, or not so much as inclination, to look
into; I say I took it out, and brought both that and the
tobacco to the table.

\Vhat use to make of the tobacco, as to my distemper,
I knew not, or Whether it was good for it or not; but I
tried several experiments with it, as if I was resolved it
should succeed one way or another. I first took a piece of
a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which, indeed, at first,
stupified my brains, the tobacco being green and strong,
and my not having been much used to it; then I took some
and steeped it an hour or two in rum, and resolved to take
a dose of it when I lay down; and lastly, I burnt some
upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close over the smoke
of it as long as I could bear it, as well for the heat as for
the virtue of it, and I held it almost to suffocation.

In the intervals of this operation I took up the_Bible, and
began to read; but my head was too much disturbed with
the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time; only _
having opened the book casually, the first words that
occurred to me were these, ' Call upon Me in the day of
trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me.'

The words were very suitable to my case, and made some
impression on me at the time of reading them, though not
so much as they did afterwards : for, as for being delivered,
the word had no sound, as I may say,to me: the thing was
so remote, so impossible 'in my apprehension of things, that
I began to say as the children of Israel did, when they
were promised flesh to eat, ' Can God spread a table in the
wilderness?' So I began to say, can God himself deliver
me from this place ? But, however, the words made a
great impression upon me, and I mused upon them very
often. It now grew late, and the tobacco had, as I said,
dosed my head so much that I felt inclined to sleep.

\Vhen I got up I was stronger than I was the day before,
and my appetite better, for I was hungry, and, in short,
I had no fit the next day, but continued much altered for
the better. This was the 29th. '

The 30th was my day of recovery, and, of course, I went
out with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I
killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a wild goose, and
brought them home, but was not very eager to eat them, so
I ate some more of the turtlo's eggs, which were very good.
This evening I renewed the medicine which I had supposed
did me good the day before, namely, the tobacco steeped in
mm, only I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew
any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke. How-
ever, I was not so well the next day, which was the lst
of July.

July 2--1 renewed the medicine all the three ways, and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity
which I drank.

July 3. -- I missed the fit for good and all, though I did
not recover my full strength for some weeks after. \Vhile
I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceed-
ingly upon this text of Scripture, ' I will deliver thee,' and
the apparent impossibility of my deliverance lay upon my
mind as a bar to my ever expecting it. But as I was dis~
com: <<ing myself with such thoughts, it occurred to my
mind that I pored so much upon my hopes of deliverance
from the main affliction, that I disregarded the deliverance
I had received; and I was, as it were, made to ask myself
such questions as these, namely, Have I not been delivered,
and wonderfully too, from sickness--from the most dis--
tressed condition that could be, and that was so frightful to
me ? And what notice had I taken of it ? Had I done
my part? God had delivered me, but I had not glorified
Him; that is to say, I had not owned and been thankful
for that as a deliverance; and how could I expect greater
deliverance? This touched my heart very much, and im-
mediately I kneeled down and gave God thanks aloud for
my recovery from sickness.

This was the first time thatI could say, in the true sense
of the word, that I prayed in all my life, for now I prayed
from a sense of my condition, and with a true Scripture
view of hope, founded on the encouragement of the Word
of God. From this time, I may say, I began to have hope
that God would hear me.

July 4. -- My condition began to be, though not less
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier to my
mind, and my thoughts being directed by constant reading
of the Scriptures, and praying to God, to things of a higher
nature, I had a great deal of comfort within, which till
' then I knew nothing of. Also, as my health and strength
returned, I began to furnish myself with everything that
I wanted, and make my way of living as regular as I
could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th I was chiefly employed
in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little at a
time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a
fit of sickness; for it is hardly to be imagined how low I
was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The applica-
tion I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what
had never cured an ague before, neither can I recommend
the experiment; and though it did carry 01? the fit,'yet it
rather contributed to weaken me, for I had frequent con-
vulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.

I learned from it also, that being abroad in the rainy
season was most pernicious to my health, especially those
rains which came attended with hurricanes of wind; for as
the rain which came in a dry season was always accom-
panied with storms, so I found this rain was much more
dangerous than the rain which fell in September and
October. .

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months;
all possibility of deliverance from it seemed to be entirely
taken away from me, and I firmly believed that no human
shape had ever set foot upon the place. Having now se-
cured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had
a desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and

see what other productions I might find, which I yet knew
not of.
CHAPTER VI.

sxrracrs FROM MY JOURNAL (CONTINUED).

I

I begin to take a Survey of my Island-- Discover plenty of Tobacco, Grapes,
Lemons, and Sugar-canes, wild, but no human Inhabitants-- Resolve to
lay up a Store of these Articles, to furnish Myself. with against the wet
Sewon -- My Cat, which I supposed lost, returns with Kittens--I regulate
my Diet, and shut Myself up for the wet Season -- Sow my Grain, which
comes to Nothing ; but I discover and remedy my Error -- Take Account
or the Course or the Weather.

II was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more
particular survey of the island. I went up the creek first,
where I had brought my rafts on shore. I found, after
going about two miles up, that the tide did not flow any
higher, and that it was no more than a little brook of
running water, and very fresh and good; but this being
the dry season, there was scarcely any water in some parts
of it.

On the banks of this brook I found many pleasant savan-
nahs, or meadows plain, smooth, and covered with grass,
and on the rising parts of them, next to the higher grounds,
where the water, as it might be supposed, never overflowed,
I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a
large and strong stalk. There were various other plants,
which I had no notion of, and which might, perhaps, have
had virtues of their own, which I could not find out.

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians, in all
that climate, make their bread of, but I could find none. I
saw large plants of aloes, but did not then identify them; I
saw several sugar-canes, but they were wild, and, for want
of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time, and came back, musing with my-
self what course I ought to take to know the virtue and
goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should dis-
cover, but could come to no conclusion; for, in short, I had
made so little observation while I was young, that I knew
very little of the plants of the field.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again;
and, after going something farther than I had done the day
before, I found the broOk and the savannahs began to cease,
and the country became more woody than before. In this
part I found different fruits, and particularly melons upon
the ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees;
the vines had spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters
of grapes were now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This
was a surprising discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of
them ; but I was warned, by my experience, to eat sparingly
of them, remembering that when I was ashore in Barbary,
the eating of grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who
were slaves there, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers.
But I found an excellent use for these grapes; and that
was, to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried
grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would be, as
indeed they were, as wholesome, and as agreeable to eat,
when no grapes might be had.

. I spent all that evening there, and did not go back to my

\
habitation, which was the first night, as I might say, I had
lain from home. In the night I got up into a tree, where I
slept well. and the next morning proceeded upon my dis-
covery, travelling nearly four miles, as I might judge by the
length of the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge
of hills on the south and north side of me.

At the end of this march I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the west, and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the
hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east. All the
country appeared so fresh, so green, and so flourishing, that
it looked like a garden.

I descended a little on the side of that delicious valley,
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed
with other conflicting thoughts), to think that this was all
my own, that I was king and lord of all this country, and,
if I could transmit it, I might have it in inheritance, as
completely as any lord of a manor in England. I saw here
abundance of cocoa-trees, orange, lemon, and citron trees,
but all wild, and few bearing fruit, at least them However,
the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to
eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice after-
wards with water, which made it very wholesome, and very-
cool and refreshing. I resolved to lay up at home a store
of grapes, limes, and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet
season, which I knew was approaching.

In order to do this, I gathemd a great heap of grapes in
one place, and _a lesser heap in another, and a great parcel
of'limes and lemons in another place; and, taking a few of
each with me, I travelled homeward, and resolved to come
again, and bring a bag or sack, to carry the rest home.

Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I
came home (so I must now call my tent and cave); but,
before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled-- the richness
of the fruit and the weight of the juice having broken and
bruised them, they were good for little or nothing; as to
the limes, I could bring but a few.

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made
me two small bags to bring home my harvest; but I was
surprised when, coming to my heap of grapes, I found
them all spread abroad, trod to pieces, and dragged about,
some here, some there, and abundance eaten and devoured.
By this I concluded there were some wild creatures there-
abouts which had done this, but what they were I knew
not.

However, as I found there was no laying them up on
heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but that one
way they would be destroyed, and the other way they
would be crushed with their own weight, I took another
course; for I gathered a large quantity of grapes, and hung
them upon the outer branches of the trees, that they might
dry in the sun ; and as for the limes and lemons, I carried
as many back as I could well bear.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley and the
pleasantness of the situation, the security from stems on
that side of the water, and the wood, and concluded that
I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode, which was byROBINSON causes. 79

far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I
began to consider about removing my habitation, and to
a: look out for a place equally safe, but, if possible, in that
pleasant fruitful part of the island.

This thought ran long in my head, and Iwas exceedingly
fond of it for. some time, the pleasantiiess of the place
tempting me ; but when I came to a nearer view of it, and
to consider that I was now by the seaside, where it was at
least possible that something might happen to my advan--
tage, and that the same ill fate that brought me hither
might bring some unhappy wretches to the same place;
and though it was scarcely probable that any such thing
should ever happen, yet, to enclose myself among the hills
and woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my
bondage, and to render such an affair not only improbable
but impossible, and which, therefore, I ought not by any
means to remove.

However, I was so enamored of this place, that I spent
much of my time there for the whole remaining part of

_ July; and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved not to
remove, yet I built me a little kind of bower, and sur-
rounded it with a strong fence, being a double hedge as
high as I could reach, well staked and filled between with
brushwood ; and here I lay secure, sometimes two or three
nights together, always going over it_,with a ladder, as
before, so that I fancied now I had my country-house and
my sea-coast-house. This work took me up to the begin-
ning of August._

I had but newly finished my fence, and begun to enjoy80 nonmsorr , (meson.

my labor, when the rains came on, and made me stick
close to my first habitation; for though I had made me a
tent, like the other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it
very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me
from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into, when
the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished
my bower, and I began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of
August I found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly
dried, and indeed were excellent raisins; so I began to take
them down, and it was very lucky that I did so, for the
rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I would
have lost the larger part of my winter food; for I had
almost two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had
I taken them all down, and carried them home to my
cave, than it began to rain; and henceforth, which was the
14th of August, it rained more or less every day till the
middle of October, and sometimes so violently that I could
not stir out of my cave for several days.

At this time I was much surprised with the increase of
my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one of
my cats, which ran away from me, or, as I thought, had
been dead; and I heard no more of her, till, to my astonish-
ment, she came home about the end of August, with three
kittens.

From the 14th of August to the 26th incessant rain, so a
that I could not stir, and I was now very careful not to get
wet. In this confinement I began to be straitened for food;
- but venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat; and theROBINSON CRUSOE AND HIS CATS
last day, which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise,
which was a treat to me, and my food was regulated
thus : ----I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast, a piece of
goat's flesh or turtle for my dinner, and two or three of the
turtle's eggs for supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and,
by degrees, worked it 'on towards one side, till I came to
the outside of the hill, and made a door, or way out, which

came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came in and out . I.

that way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so open -,
for, as I had managed before, I was in a perfect enclosure,
whereas now I thought I lay exposed; and yet I could- not
perceive that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest
creature that I had seen upon the island being a goat.

September 30.----I had now come to the unhappy anni-
versary of my landing. I cast up the notches on my post,
and found I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-
five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart
for religious exercise.

I had all this time observed no Sabbath-day ; for as, at
first, I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had for
some time omitted to distinguish the weeks by making a
longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-day, and so did
not know what any of the days were; but now having cast
up the days as above, I found I had been there a year; so I
divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a
Sabbath, though --I found at the end of my account I had
lostba day or two in my reckoning.

9
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I con-
tented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write down
only the most remarkable events of my life, without con-
tinuing a daily memorandum of other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as to
provide for them accordingly. But I bought my expe-
rience before I had it; and this I am going to relate was
one of the most discouraging experiments that I made at
all. I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of
barley and rice, which I had so surprisingly found spring
up, as I thought, of themselves, and I believe there were
about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley;
and nowI thought it a proper time to sow it after the rains,
the sun being in its southern position going from me.
Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground as well as I could
with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts, I
sowed my grain; but as I was sowing it casually occurred
to my thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because
I did not know when was the proper time for it; so I
sowed about two--thirds of the seed, leaving about a hand-
ful of each. It was a great comfort to me afterwards that
I did so, for not one grain of what I sowed that time came
to anything; for the dry months following, the earth
having had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no
moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all, till
the wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it
had been but newly sown.

Finding the first seed did not grow, which I easily ima-
o
gined Was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece of
ground to make another trial in; and I dug up.a. piece of
ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of the seed
in February, a little before the vernal equinox; and this,
having the rainy months of March and April to water it,
sprang up very pleasantly, and yielded a. very good crop;
but having only part of the seed left, and not yet daring to
sow all my stock, I had but a small quantity at last, my
whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of each
kind. But, by this experience, I was made master of my
business, and knew exactly the time to sow, and that I
might expect two seed-times and two harvests every year.
While this corn was growing I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was
about November, I made a visit up the country to my
bower, where, though I had not been for some months, yet I
found all things just as I left them. The circle or double
hedges that I had made was not only firm and entire, but
the stakes, which I had cut off some trees that grew there-
abouts, had all sprouted, and grown with long branches, as
much as a willow tree usually shoots the first year after
lapping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it that
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very
well pleased, to see the young trees grow; and I pruned
them, and trained them to grow as much alike as I could;
and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew
into in three years, so that though the hedge made a circle
of about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, for
G 2
such I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a
shade sufiipient to lodge under all the dry season. This
made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and train a
hedge like this in a. semicircle round my wall, I mean that
of my first dwelling, which I did; and placing the trees or
stakes in a. double row, at about eight yards' distance from'
my first fence, they grew, and were, at first, a fine cover to
my habitation, and afterwards served as a defence also, as I
shall observe in its order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might gene--
rally be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe,
but into rainy seasons and dry seasons, which were gene-
rally thus :--

Half February, March, half April--Rainy, the sun
being then on or near the equinox.

Half April, May, June, July, half August--Dry, the
sun being then to the north of the line.

Half August, September, half October--Rainy, the sun
having then come back.

Half October, November, December, January, half Feb-
ruary--Dry, the sun being to the south of the line.

The rainy seasons sometimes were longer or shorter, as
the winds happened to blow. After I had found, by ex-
perience, the ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, I
took care tofurnish myself with provisions beforehand, that
I might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within doors
as much as possible during the wet months.

At this time I tried many ways to make myself a basket,
but all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so
brittle that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent
advantage to me now, that when I was a boy I used to take
great delight in standing at a basket-maker's in the town
where my father lived, to see them make their wicker
ware; and being, as boys usually are, very oi'n'cious to help,
and a great observer of the manner how they worked those
things, and sometimes lending a hand, I had, by this means,
gained full knowledge of their methods. I now wanted
nothing but the materials, when it came into my mind that
the twigs of that tree, from which I had cut the stakes
that grew, might possibly be as tough as the willows and
osicrs in England, so I resolved to try. Accordingly, the
next day, I went to my country house, as I called it, and
cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them fit for
my purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon I came
the next time with a hatchet to cut down a quantity which
I soon found, for there was plenty of them. These I set
up to dry within my circle or hedge, and when they were
fit for use I carried them to my cave; and here, during the
next season, I employed myself in making, as well as I
could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth, or to hold
or store up anything. After this, I took care never
to be without them; and, as my wicker decayed, I made
more, especially I made strong deep baskets to keep my
com in, instead of sacks, against my coming to have any
quantity of it. '

Having mastered this difficulty, I bestirred myself to see,
if possible, how to supply two wants :-- I had no vessels to
hold anything that was liquid, except two runlets which
were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles, some of the
common size, and others which were case-bottles, square,
for holding water, spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot
to boil anything in, except ag'rent kettle which I saved out
of the ship, and which was too big for such uses as I
desired it for, namely, to make broth. and stew a bit of
meet by itself. The next thing I would fain have had was
a tobacco pipe, but it was impossible for me to make
one; however, I found a contrimnce for that, too. at last.
CHAPTER VII.

Hake a second Tour thmugh the Island----Catch a young Parrot, which I
afterwards teach to speak--My mode or sleeping at Night--Find the
other side or the Island much more pleasant than mine, and covered with
Turtle and Sea-fowl -- Catch a young Kid, which I tame--Betum to my
old Habitution-- Greet Plague with my Harvest.

I MENTIONED before that I had a great mind to see the
whole island, and that I had travelled on to where I had
built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to the
sea, on the other side of the island. I now resolved to
travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side; so, taking
my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of
powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit-cakes, and a
great bunch of raisins in my pouch as food, I began my
journey. "'hen I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, I came in View of the sea, to the west; and it being
a very clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island
or a continent I could not tell; but it lay very high,
extending from the west to the WSW. at a great distance;
by my guess it was fifteen or twenty leagues ofi'. ,

I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America;
and, as I concluded, by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions; and perhaps was all inhabited by
savages, where, if I should have landed, I would have been
in a worse condition than I was now; and therefore I
acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence, who, I began to
own and to believe, ordered everything for the best.

Besides, I considered, that if this land was the Spanish
coast, I should certainly one time oranother see some vessels
pass or repass this way or that; but if not, then it was a
savage country between the Spanish country and Brazils,
where were indeed the worst of savages, for they were
cannibals, or men-eaters, and devour all the human bodies
that fall into their hands.

\Vith these considerations I walked very leisurely forward.
I found the side of the island where I now was much
pleasanter than mine, the open or savannah fields sweet,
adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very fine
woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain would have
caught one, if possible, to have tamed it, and taught it
to speak to me. I did after some painstaking catch a
young parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, and,
having recovered it, I took it home, but it was some years
before I could make him speak to me. However, at last I
taught him to call me by my name very familiarly.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found
in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and
foxes, but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I
had met with; nor could I bring myself to eat them,
though I killed several. But I had no need to be venturous,
for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good too, especially these three sorts--via, goats, pigeons,
and turtle or tortoise--which, added tomy grapes, Leaden-
hall market could not have furnisheda table better than I,
in proportion to the company; and, though my case was '
deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness
that I was not driven to- any extremities for food, but
rather had plenty, even to the extent of dainties.

I never travelled in this journey above two miles a day,
or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and returns, to
see what discoveries I could make, that I came weary
enough to the place where I resolved to sit down for all
night. And then I either climbed a tree, or surrounded
myself with a row of stakes set upright in the ground,
stretching from one tree to another, or in such a way that
no wild creature could get at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worse side of the
island--for here indeed the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles, whereas, on the other side, I had found
but three in a year and a half. Here was also an infinite
number of fowls, of many kinds, some of which I had not
seen before, and many of them very good meat, but I knew
not their names, except those called penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot, and therefore had more
mind to kill a she-goat, which I could better feed on. And
though there were many goats here, more than on my side
of the island, yet it was with much greater difficulty that I

~ could get near them; the country being flat and even, they
saw me much sooner than when Iwas on the hills.

Although this side of the country was much pleasanter
than mine, I had not the least inclination to remove, for as
I was fixed in my habitation it had become natural to me,
and I seemed all the while I was here, to be, as it were, upon
a journey, and from home. lloxvever, I travelled along the
shore of the sea, towards the east, I suppose about twelve
miles ; and then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a
mark, I decided to go home again. The next journey I took
I resolved should be on the other side of the island, east from
my dwelling, and so round till I came to my post again.

I took another way of coming back than that on which
I went, thinking lconld easily keep all the island so much
in my view, that I could not miss finding my first dwelling
by surveying the country; but I found myself mistaken;
for, having gone about two or three miles, I found myself
deseend into a Very large valley, so surrounded with
hills, covered with woods, that I could not see which was
my way by any direction but that of the sun, nor even
then, unless I knew very Well the position of the sun at
that time of the day.

It happened that the weather proved hazy for three or
four days, while I was in this valley; and not being able to
see the sun, I wandered about very um-omfortably, and at
last was obliged to find out the sea-side, look for my post,
and come back the same way I went. And then, by easy
journeys, I returned homeward, the weather being exces-
sively hot; and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other
things, very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized
it; and I, running to take hold of it, caught it, and saved it
alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home,
if possible, for I had often been musing whether it might
not be practicable to raise a breed of tame goats, which
might supply me when my powder and shot should be all
spent. I made a collar for this little creature, and with a
string, which I made of some rope~yam, which I always
carried about me, I led him along, though with some
diflicnlty, till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed
and left him ; for I was very impatient to be at home, from
which I had been absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to
get into my old abode, and lie down in my hammock-bed.
This little wandering journey, without a settled habitation,
had been so unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I
called it, was a perfect settlement to me compared to that,
and it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I
resolved I would never go a great way from it again, while
it should be my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself
after my long journey, during which most of the time was
taken up with the weighty ali'air of making a cage for my
poll, who began now to be a domestic, and to be well
acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the poor
kid, which I had pent in within my little circle, and resolved
to go and fetch it home, or give it some food; accordingly
I went, and found it where I left it, for indeed it could not
get out, but it was almost starved for want of food. I went
and out boughs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I
could find, and threw them over, and having fed it, I tied
it as I did before, to lead it away, but it was so tame from
being hungry, that I need not have tied it, for it followed
me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature
became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it became one
of my domestics also, and would never leave me.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox had now come,
and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn
manner as before, being the second anniversary of my
landing on the island, having now been there two years,
with no more prospect of being delivered than the first day
I came. I spent the whole day in humble and thankful
acknowledgements of the many wonderful mercies which
my solitary condition was attended with, and without
which it might have been infinitely more miserable. I gave
humble and hearty thanks that God had been pleased to
show me, even that it was possible I might be more happy
in this solitary condition than I should have been in the
pleasures of the world ; that He could fully make up tome
the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want of human
society, by His presence, and the commimications of His
grace to my soul; supporting, comforting, and encouraging
me to depend upon His providence here, and hope for His
eternal presence hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
happy the life I now led was, with all its miserable cir-
cumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I had
led all the past part of my days; having changed both my
sorrows and my joys, my desires altered, my affections
changed, and my delights being perfectly new compared
with what they were at my first coming, or indeed for the
two years past.

Before, as I walked about, either with my gun, or in
viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condi-
tion would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very
heart would die within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts I was in, and how I was a pri-
soner, locked by the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in
an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption. In the
midst of the greatest composure of mind, thiswould break
out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands,
and weep like a child. Sometimes the anguish would
seize me in the middle of my work, and I would imme-
diately sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an
hour or two together, and this was still worse to me; for
if I could have burst out into tears, or have vented my grief
in words, it would have gone off, and having exhausted
itself, would have abated.

But now I began to entertain new thoughts. I daily
read the Word of God, and applied all the comforts of it
to my present state. One morning being very sad, I opened
the Bible at these words, ' I will never leave thee, nor for.
sake thee.' Immediately it occurred that these words were
addressed to me; why else should they be directed in such a
manner .just when I was mourning over my condition as
one forsaken of God and man? "Well then,' said I, 'if
God does not forsake me, of what ill consequence can it
be though the world should forsake me; seeing if I had
all the world, and should lose the fear and blessing of God,
there would be no comparison in the loss?' From this
moment I began to conclude that it was possible for me to
be more happy in this solitary condition than it was pro-
bable I should have been in any other state in the world,
and with this thought I was going to give thanks to God
for bringing me to this place. 1 know not what it was, but
something shocked my mind at that thought. ' llow canst
thou be such a h_vpoerit.e,' said I, ' to pretend to be thankful
for a condition which, however thou mayest emleavour to be
contented with it, thou wouldst rather pray to be. delivered
from? ' So I stopped there; but though I could not say I
thanked God for being there, yet I sineerel y gave thanks to
( iod for opening my eyes, by whatever atllicting providences,
to see the present condition of my life and to mourn for my
wickedness and repent.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third
year. I had regularly divided my time according to the
several daily employments that were before me; such as,
first, my duty to God, and reading the Scriptures, which I
constantly set apart for some time thrice every day ;
secondly, the going abroad with my gun for food, which
generally took me up three hours every morning, when it
did not rain ; thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking what I had killed or caught: these took up the
greater part of the day. Also, in the middle of the day,
when the sun was in its zenith, the violence of the heat
was too great to permit of my stirring out, so that about four
hours in the evening was all the time I could work in;
with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours
of hunting and working, and went to work in the morning,
and abroad with my gun in the afternoon.

I was now, in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured or dug up for them was not great, but now my
crop promised very well, when, on a sudden, I found I was
in danger of losing it all again, by enemies, of several sorts,
which it was scarce possible to keep from it ; at first, the
goats and wild creatures which I called hares, tasting the
sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as
it came up, and ate it so close, that it could get no time to
shoot up into stalks. This I saw no remedy for but by
making an enclosure about it with a hedge, which I did
with a great deal of toil, and the more as it required speed,
the creatures daily spoiling my corn. However, as my
arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it well
fenced in about three weeks' time; and shooting some of
the creatures in the day-time, I set my dog to guard it in
the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he
would stand aml bark all night long; so, in alittle time,
the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very
strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts injured me before, while my corn was
in the blade, so the birds were likely to injure me now,
when it was in the ear; for, going along by the place to see
how it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with fowls,
of I know not how many sorts, who stood, as it were,
watching till I should be gone. I immediately let fly
among them; and I had no sooner shot,but there rose up a
little cloud of fowls, which I had not previously seen, from
amongst the corn.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that, in a few
days, they would devour all my hopes; that I should be
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all, and what.
to do I could not tell. In the first place, I went among it
to see what damage we already done, and found they had
spoiled a good deal of it ; but that, as it was yet too green
for them, the loss was not so great, but that the remainder
promised to be a good crop, if it could he saved.

I stayed by it to load my gun, and than coming away, I
could easily see the thieves sitting upon the trees about me,
as if they only waited till I had gone away; and the event
proved it to be so: for as I walked off as if I was gone, I
was no sooner out of their sight than they dropped down,
one by one, into the corn again. I was so provoked that I
had not patience to stay till more came, knowing that every
grain that they ate now was a peek leaf to me in the long
run; but coming up to the hedge I fired again, and killed
three of them. This was what I wished for: so I took
them up, and served them as we serve notorious thieves in
I'lnghuid, namely, hanged them in chains as a terror to
others. It is impossible to imagine almost that this should
have such an ell'ect as it had ; for the fowls would not only
not approach the corn, but, in short, they forsook all that
part of the island, and I could never see a bird near the
place as long as my scarecrows hung there.

This I was very glad of; and, about the latter end of
December, which was our second harvest of the year, I
reaped my crop. I was sadly at a loss for a scythe or sickle
to cut it down, and all I could do was to make one, as well
asI could, out of one of the broadswords or cutlasses, which
I saved among the arms out of the ship. However, as my
crop was but small, I had no great difficulty in cutting it
down. In short, I reaped it in my own way, for I cut
nothing of? but the ears, and carried it away in a. great
basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out with my
hands. At the end of all my harvesting, I found that out
of my half peek of seed I had nearly two bushels of rice,
and above two bushels and a half of barley; that is to
say, by guess, for I had no measure.

However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I
foresaw that in time it would please God to supply me with
bread. And yet here I was perplexed again, for I neither
knew how to grind or make meal of my corn, or, indeed,
how to clean it and part it; nor, if made into meal, how to
make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not
how to bake it. These things being added to my desire to
have a good quantity in store, as Well as to secure a constant
supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to pre-
serve it all for seed against the next season, and, in the
mean time, to employ all my study and hours of working
to accomplish this great work of providing myself with
corn and bread.

It might be truly said that now I worked for my bread.
It is wonderful, and I believe few people have thought

what a strange multitude of little things are necessary in
n

I
the providing, producing, dressing, and finishing this one
article of consumption, bread.

I that was reduced to a more state of nature, found this
to my daily cost, and was made more and more sensible of
it every hour, even after I had got the first handful of
seed corn, which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly,
and to my surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth, without
spade or shovel to dig it. Well, this difficulty I conquered
by making a wooden spade, as I observed before; but this
did my work but in a wooden manner; and though it cost
me a great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it
not only were out the sooner, but made my work the harder,
and made it be performed much worse.

However, this I bore with, and was content to work it
out with patience, and bear with tho badness of the per-
formance. When the corn was sown, I had no barrow, but
was forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy
bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth, as it may be
called, rather than harrow it.

When it was growing or grown, I had observed already
how many things I wanted, to fence it, secure it, mow or
reap it, carry it home, thresh, part it from the chaff, and
store it up. Then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to
dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an oven
to bake it in; and yet these things I did without, as shall
be observed. All this, as I said, made everything laborious
and tedious to me, but that there was no help for: neither
was my time so much less to me, because, as I had divided
it, a certain part of every day was set aside for this kind of
work; and, as I resolved to use none of the corn for bread
till I had a great quantity by me, Ihad the next six months
to apply myself to the invention of utensils proper for per-
forming all the operations necessary for making the corn,
when I had it fit for use.

But first I must prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. I sowed my seed
in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my house as I
could find them to my mind, and fenced them in with a
good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut from that
Wood which I set before, which I knew would grow; so
that in one year's time, I knew I should have a quick or
living hedge that would want but little repair. This work
took me up three months, but part of that time was in the
wet season, when I could not go abroad.

Within doors, while I was at work, I diverted myself
with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and
I quickly taught him to say his own name, at last to speak
it pretty loud, ' Poll; ' which was the first word I ever heard
spoken in the island by any month but my own. This, there-
fore, was not my work, but an assistance to my work; for
now I had a great employment upon my hands, as follows:
namely, I had long studied, by some means or other, to
make myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted
sorely, but knew not where to come at them. However,
considering the heat of the climate I did not doubt but, if
I could find out any such clay, I might botch up some pot

as might, being dried in the sun, be hard enough, and strong
I: 2
enough, to hear handling, and to hold anything that was
dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was necessary
in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was my present occu-
pation, I resolved to make some as large as I could, to
stand like jars to hold what should be put in them.
CHAPTER VIII.

I attempt to mould Earthenware, and succeed -- Description of my Mode
of Baking--BeglnwmakeaBoat--Mter itlsflnlshedamunabletoget
it down to the Water ----Serious Reflections-- My Ink and Biscuits ax-
hausted, and Clothes in a bad State-- Contrlve to make a Dress of Skins.

Ir would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me,
were I to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this
paste: what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not
being stifl' enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the violent heat,of the sun, being set out too
hastily; and how many fell to pieces with only removing,
as well before as after they were dried; and, in a word,
how, after having worked hard to find the clay, to dig it, to
temper it, to bring it home, to work it, I could not make
above two large earthen ugly things, I cannot call them
jars, in about two months' labor.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard,
I lifted them up very gently, and set them down in two
great wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for
them, that they might not break; and these two pots,
having to stand always dry, I thought they would hold my
dry corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design forlarge pots,
yet I made several smaller things with better success; such
as little round pots, tint dishes, and pitchers, and the heat
of the sun baked thom extromoly hard.

lint. all this would not answer my end, which was to get
an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and hear the tire,
whit-h none of those oould do. It once happened, after
making a large tire for cooking my meat, I found a hroluui
piet-o of one of my ourthouw'amx vessels in the tire, burnt.
as hard as a Mono, and rod as a tile. I was agroonhly
surprised to see it, and said to mysoli', that certainly thoy
might be made to burn wholo, it' they would burn hroltou.

This not me to study how to make my fire, so as to make
it burn me some pots. 1 had no notion of a kiln, such as
the pottors use, or of gluziug'r with load, though 1 had some
load to do it with; but I phu-od three large pipkins, and
two or three pots, in a pile upon one another, and placod
my tire-wood all round it, with a grout hoap of omhors
under them. I plied the tire with fresh fuel round the
outsido, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside
rodhot quito through, and ohsorvod that thoy did not amok
at all. \Vhon I saw tluuu (-loar rod,l let them stand in
that hoat tire or six hours, till I found one of them, though
it did not crack, did melt or run ; for tho sand which was
mixed with the clay moltod by the Violence of the heat,
and would have run into glass if I had gone on; so I
Sltlt'ltt'm'tl my tire gradually, till tho pots hogan to lose their
red color; and, watching them all night, that I might
not lot the tire abate too fast, in the morning I had three
vory good, I will not say handsomo, pipkiuo, and two other
earthen pots, as hard burnt as could he desired ; while one
of them was perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I had asnpply
of every sort of earthenware for my use; but as to the
shapes, they were very indiflhrent. No joy at a thing of so
mean a nature was ever equal to mine, when I found I had
made an earthen pet that could bear the fire; and I had
hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before I set one
on the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me some
meat, which it did admirably well ; and with a piece of kid
I made some very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal,
and several other ingredients requisite to make it as good
as I would have it.

My next care was to get a stone mortar to stamp or
boat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no pos-
sibility of arriving at that perfection of art, with one pair
of hands. 'l'o supply this went I was at a great loss; for
I was perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, neither had I
any tools to go about it with. I spent many a day in trying
to (ind a great stone big enough to cut hollow, and make fit
for a mortar, and could find none at all, except what was
in the solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out,
nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness saili-
cient, but were of asandy, crumbling stone, which would
neither hear the weight of-a heavy pestle, nor would break
the corn without filling it with sand. So, after a great deal
of time lost in searching for a stone, I resolved to look out
a great block of hard wood, which I found; and getting
one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed
it on the outside with my axe and hatchet, and then, with
the help of fire, and infinite labor, made a hollow place in
it, as the Indians make their canoes. After this I made. a
great heavy pestle or beater, of the wood called the iron-
wood, and this I prepared and laid by against the time of
my next harvest, when I proposed to myself to grind, or
rather pound, my corn into meal, to make my bread.

My next ditliculty was to make a sieve to dress my meal,
and to part. it from the bran and the hunks, without which
I did not see it possible I eonld have any bread. This was
a most ditlicult task; for I had nothingr like the necessary
thief,' to make it with, -- I mean tine thin eanvas, or stntl' to
sift the meal through. And here I was at a full stop for
many months, nor did I really know what to do; linen I
had none left, but what was mere rags. I had goats' hair,
but knew neither how to weave or spin it; and had I
known how, here were no tools to work it with: all the
remedy that I found for this was, that. at: last I did remem-
ber I had, among the seameu's elothes, which were saved
out of the ship, some neekeleths of calico or muslin; and
with some pieees of these I made three small sieves.

The baking part was the next. thing to be thought of, and
how I should make bread when I came to have corn ; for,
first, I had no yeast. As to that part, as there was no
supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much
about it; but for an even I was indeed in great pain. At
length I found an expedient for that also, which was this:--
I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that
is to say, about two feet in diameter, and not above nine
inehes deep; these I burnt in the tire, as I had done the
other, and laid them by, and when I wanted to bake, I
made a great fire upon my hearth, which I paved with some
tiles, of my own making and burning also.

When the {ire-wood was burnt pretty much into embers,
or live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as
to cover it all over, and there I let them lie, till the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers, I set
down my leaf or leaves, and turning down the earthen
pot upon them, drew the embers all around the outside of
the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and thus, as well
as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley leaves,
and became, in a little time, a pastry-cook into the bargain,
having made myself several cakes and puddings of the
Two.

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took up
most of the third year of my abode here; for it is to be
observed, that in the interval of these things, my new bar--
vest and husbandry had to be managed, for I reaped my
mm in its season, carried it home, and laid it up in the ear,
in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out; having
no floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it with.

And new, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I wanted
to build my barns bigger. I wanted a place to lay it up,
for the increase of corn now yielded me so much, that I had
of barley about twenty bushels, and as much or more of
rice; insomueh that I now resolved to use it freely, for my
bread had been quite gone a great while; also I resolved
to see what quantity would be sufficient for me for a whole
year, and to sow but once a year.

I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice were
much more than I could consume in a year; so I resolved
to sow just the same quantity every year as the last.

All the while these things were being done, my thoughts
ran many times upon the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side, of the island ; and I was not with-
out secret wishes to get there, fimeying that being on the
main land, and in an inhabited eountry, I might find some
way of conveying myself farther, and at last might escape.

llut all this while I made no allowanee for the dangers
of such an mulertahing. and how I might fall into the
hands of savages, and perhaps sneh as would be far worse
than the lions and tigers of Africa; that if I once came
into their poWer, I should run a risk of more than a
thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten;
for I knew that the people of the Caribbean coast were
eannibals, or men-eaters; and I lmew by the latitude that
I could not be far oll' from that shore; that, suppose they
Were not eannibals, yet they might kill me, as many
I'luropeiuis who had fallen into their hands had been served,
even when they had been ten or twenty together; mueh
less was there a ehanee of escape for me that was only one.
All these things I ought to have considered Well, and did
turn over in my thoughts afterwards, yet my head ran
mightily upon the thought of getting over to that shore.

New I went to look at our ship's boat, which had been
blown up upon the shore a great way in the storm, when we
were first cast away. She lay almost where she did at first,
and was turned by the force of the waves and the winds
almost bottom upwards, against a high ridge of beachy
rough sand, but no water about her as before. -

If I had had hands to have refitted, and tohave launched
her into the water, the boat would have done well enough,
and I might have gone to the Brazils; but I might have
easily fin-esevn that I could no more turn her, and set her
upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the island.
llowevur, 1 went to the woods and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolved to try what I could
do, suggesting to myself that," I could but turn her down,
the damage she had received mightyasily be repaired, and
she Would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea in
her very easily.

I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless toil,
and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it; at last,
finding it impossible to heave her up with my little strength,
I fell to digging away the sand to undermine her, and so
to make her fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and
guide her in the fall.

lint when I had done this, I was unable to stir her up
again, or to get under her, much less to move her forward
towards the water, so I was forced to give it up; and yet
my desire to venture over to the main increased, rather then
decreased, as the means of doing it seemed impossible.
This ilt length set me upon thinking whether it was not
possible to make a canoe, or peringua, such as the natives
of those climates make, even without tools, or, as I might
say, without hands, namely, from the trunk of a. great tree.
This I not only thought possible, but easy ; yet without at all
considering the greater inconveniences which I lay under
than the Indians did, namely, want of hands to move it into
the water when it was made -- a dillieulty much harder for
me to surmount than all the consequences of want of tools
could be to them; for what was it to me, that when I had
chosen a vast tree in the woods, I might with great trouble
cut it down, if after I should be able with my tools to how
and (lab the outside into a proper shape of a boat, and burn
or cut out the inside to make it hollow, so as to make a
boat of it--if, after all this, I must leave it where I found
it, and was not able te,lauuch it into the water P

One would have thought I could not have had the least
reflection upon my mind of my circumstances while I was
making this boat, seeing I had not seriously considered
how I should get it into the sea. Still my desires were
so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it, that I never
once thought how I should get it off the land ; and it was
more easy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea
than about forty-five fathoms of land to set it afloat in the
water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a feel that
ever man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased
myself with the design, without determining whetherI was
ever able to undertake it; not but that the difficulty of
launching my boat came often into my head; but I put a
stop to my own inquiries into it by this foolish answer which
I gave myself ---'Let me first make it, I'll warrant I'll
find some way or other to get it along when it is done.'

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness
of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went and felled a
huge tree. I question much whether Solomon ever had
such an one for the building of the temple at Jerusalem: it
was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next the
stamp, and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for awhile and
then parted into branches. It was not without infinite
labor that I felled this tree. I was twenty days hacking
and hewing it at the bottom; I was fourteen more
getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spreading
head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed through with
my axe and hatchet with inexpressible toil. After this, it
cost me a month to shape it and dub it into shape, and
to something like the bottom of a boat, that it might float
upright as it ought to do. It cost me nearly three months
more to clear the inside, and to work it out so as to make
an exact boat of it. This I did indeed without fire, by
mere mallet and chisel, and by dint of hard labor, till I
had brought it to be a very handsome periagua, big enough
to have carried six-and-twenty men, and consequently big
enough to have carried me and all my cargo.

\Vhen I had gone through this work I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really bigger than ever I
saw a canoe, or periagua, that was made of one tree, in my
life; and there remained nothing but to get it into the
water. But all my devices to get it there failed, though
they cost me infinite labor; the boat lay about one hundred
yards from the water; but the first inconvenience was, it
was up-hill towards the creek. \Vell, to take away this
discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the
earth, and so make a declivity. This I began, and it cost
me a prodigious deal of pains, but who grudge pains that
have their deliverance in view? When this was worked
through, I could no more stir the canoe than I could the other
boat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to
cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe,
seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water.
Well, I began this work, and when I began to enter into it,
and calculated how deep it was to be dug, how broad, how
the stutfwas to be thrown out, I found that by the number
of hands I had, being none but my own, it must have been
ten or twelve years before 1 should have gone through
with it; for the shore lay high, so that at the upper end it
must have been at least twenty feet deep: so at length,
though with great reluctance, I gave this attempt over
also.

This grieved me heartily; and new I saw, though too late,
the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and
before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through
with it.

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in
this place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion,
and with as much comfort as ever before; for by a constant
study and serious application of the Word of God, and by
the assistance of His grace, I gained a different knowledge
from what I had before. I looked now upon the world as
a thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no expec--
tation from, and indeed no desires about; so I thought it
looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, namely,
we place I had lived in, but out of which I had come.

In the first place, Iwas removed from all the wickedness
of the world here. I had neither the 'lust of the flesh, the
lust of the eye, nor the pride of life.' I had nothing to
covet, for I had all I was new capable of enjoying; i was
lord of the whole manor, or, if I pleased, I might call my-
self king or emperor over the whole country which I had
possession of. There was no rival. I had no competitor;
none to dispute sovereignty or command with me. I might
have raised ship-loads of corn, but I had no use for it,
so I lot as little grow as I thought enough for my wants.
I had tortoises or turtles enough, but now and then one
was as much as I could put to any use. I had timber
enough to have built a fleet of ships, and I had grapes
enough to have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to
have loaded that fleet when built.

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable.
I had enough to eat and to supply my wants, and what
was all the rest to me P If I killed more flesh than I
could eat, the dog must eat it or the vermin; if I sowed
more corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled. The trees
that I cut down were lying rotten on the ground; I could
make no use of them but for fuel, and that I had no need
of but to dress my food.

I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, gold as well
as silver, about 361. sterling. Alas! there the sorry, use-
less stuil' lay; I had no manner of business for it; and often
thought with myself, that I would have given a handful of
it for a gross of tobacco-pipes; or for a hand-mill to grind
my corn; nay, I would have given it all for a sixpenny-
worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England, or for a
handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was,
I had not the least advantage by it or benefit from it; but
there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp
of the cave in the wet seasons; and if I had had the drawer
full of diamonds, it had been the same case--they had been
of no manner of value to me, because of no use.

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in
itself than it was at first, and much easier to my mind, as
well as to my body. I frequently sat down to meat with
thankfulness, and admired the hand of God's providence,
which had thus spread my table in the wilderness. I
learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed
rather than what I wanted; and this gave me sometimes
such secret comforts, that I cannot express them ; and which
I take notice of here, to put those discontented people
in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God has
given them, because they see and covet something that He
has not given them. All our discontents about what we
want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankful-
ness for what we have.

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless
would be so to any one that should fall into such distress as
mine was; and this was, to compare my present condition
with what at first I expected it would be; nay, with what
it would certainly have been, if the good providence of God
had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer
to the shore, where I not only could come at her, but
could bring what I got out of her to the shore, for my
relief and comfort; without which, I would have been in
want of tools to work with, weapons for defence, and gun-
powder and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in represent-
ing to myself, in the most lively colors, how I must have
acted if I had got nothing out of the ship: how I could
not have so much as got any food, except fish and turtles ;
and that, as it was long before Ifound any of them, I must
have perished first; that I should have lived, if I had not
perished, like a mere savage; that if I had killed a goat or
a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or open it,
or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it
up; but must have had to gnaw it with my teeth, and pull
it with my claws, like a beast.

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness
of Providence to me, and very thankfle for my present
condition, with all its hardships and misfortunes: and this
part also I cannot but recommend to the reflection of those
who are apt in their misery to say, ' Is any affliction like
mine P ' Let them consider how much worse the cases of
some people are, and their case might have been, if Pro-
vidence had thought fit.

The next thing to my ink running short was that of my
bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship;

this I had husbanded most carefully, allowing myself
I
but one cake of bread a day for above a year, and yet I was
quite without bread for nearly a year before I got any corn of_
my own; and great reason I had to be thankful that I had
any at all, the getting it being, as has been already observed,
next to miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay ; as to linen, I had had
none a good while, except some checked shirts which I
found in the chests of the other seamen, and whichl eare~
fully preserved, because many times I could bear no other
clothes on but a shirt; and it was therefore a very great
help to me that I had, among all the men's clothes, almost
three dozen of shirts. There were also sevoral thick watch-
coats of tho seamen's, but they were too hot to wear; and
though it is true that the weather was so violently hot that
there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked--
no, even if I had been inclined to do so, which I was not;
nor could I ahide the thought of it, though I was alone.
One reason why I could not go naked was, I could not hear
the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as with some
clothes on : nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin;
whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion,
and whistling under the shirt, was twufold cooler than
without it. No more could I ever bring myself to go out
in the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat; the heat
of the sun, heating with such violence as it does in that
place, would have given me the headache presently by dart-
ing so directly on my head, without a cap or hat on, so
that I could not have home it; whereas, if I put on my
hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these considerations I began putting the few rage I
had, which I called clothes, into some order: I had worn
out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was now to
try if I could not make jackets out of the great watch-coats
which I had by me, and with such other materials as I
had; so I set to work a-tailoring, or rather, indeed, a-
botching, for I made most piteous Work of it. However, I
made shift to make two or three waistcoats, which I hoped
would serve me a great while: as for breeches or drawers,
I made but a very sorry success indeed till afterwards.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I had
them hung up stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which
means some of them were so dry and hard that they were
fit for little, but others were very useful. The first thing I
made of these was a great cap for my head, with the hair
on the outside to shoot off the rain ; and this I performed so
Well, that I made me a suit of clothes wholly of these skins
-- that is to say, a waistcoat, and breaches open at the
knees, and both loose, for they were rather wanted to keep
me cool than to keep me warm. I must not omit to ac-
knowledge that they were wretchedly made; for if I was
a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However, they were
such as I made very good shift with, and when I was out,
if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap
being outermost, I was kept very dry.

After this, I spent a deal of time and pains in making
an umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and had.

a great wish to have one: the heats of the tropical summers
1 2
I could scarce bear; besides, as I was obliged to be much
abroad, an umbrella would be a most useful thing to
me, as well for the rains as the heat. I took a world of
pains with it, andwas a great while before I could make
anything likely to hold: nay, after I thought I had hit the
way, I spoiled two or three before I made one to my mind:
but at last I made one that answered indifi'erently well.
The main difficulty I found was to make it let down: I
could make it spread, but if it did not let down too, and
draw in, it was not portable for me any way but just over
my head, which would not do. However, at last, as I said,
I made one to answer, and covered it with skins, the hair
upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a thatched-house,
and kept off the sun so efi'ectually, that I could walk out
in the hottest weather with greater advantage than I could
before in the coolest; and when I had no need of it I could
close it, and carry it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely
composed by resigning myself to the will of God, and
throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of His provi-
dence. This made my life better than sociable, for, when I
began to regret_the want of conversation, I would ask
myself, whether thus conversing mutually with my own
thoughts, and, as I hope I may say, with even God himself,
by ejaculations, was not better than the utmost enjoyment
of human society in the world?
CHAPTER 1X.

Imoecedingetting a Canoeafloat,and set out on aVoyage in the slxth
Year of my Reign or Captivity--Blown out to Sea--Beach the Shore
with great Manny--Fall Asleep, and am awakened by a Voice calling
myName--Devisevarlousfich-estotame Goats,andatlastsncoeed.

I CANNOT say that, after this, for five years, any extraordi-
nary thing happened to me, but I lived on in the same
manner as before; the chief things I was employed in,
besides my yearly labor of planting my barley and rice, and
curing my raisins, of both of which I always kept up just
enough to have suflicient stock for one year's provisions
beforehand; I say, besides this yearly occupation, and my
daily business of going out with my gun, I had one labor,
to make a. canoe, which at last I finished; and by digging
a canal to it six feet wide and four feet deep, I brought it
into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, that
was so vastly big, for I made it without considering before-
hand, as I mentioned, how I should be able to launch it;
so, never being able to bring it into the water, or bring the
water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a
memorandum to teach me to be wiser the next time:
indeed, the next time, though I could not get a tree proper
for it, and was in a place where I could not get the waterto
it at any less distance than, as I have said, about half a mile,
yet, as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over ;
and though I was nearly two years about it, yet I never
grudged my labor, in hopes of having a boat to go off to
sea at last.

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the
size of it was not at all answerable to the design which I
had in view when I made the first--I mean of venturing
over to the term firm, where it was about forty miles
broad: accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to
put an end to that design, and nowI thought no more of it.
As I had a boat, my next design was to make a cruise round
the island; for as I had been on the other side in one place,
crossing, as I have already described it, over the land, so the
discoveries I made in that little journey made me very
eager to see other parts of the coast; and now 1 had a
boat, I thought I could accomplish that object very easily.

For this purpose, that I might do everything with discre-
tion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast in my boat,
and made a sail, too, out of some pieces of the ship's sails
which lay in store, and of which I had a great stock by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found
she sailed very well: then I made little lockers, or boxes,
at each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries,
ammunition, &c., into, to he kept dry, either from rain or
the spray of the sea; and a little, long, hollow place I cut
in the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun, making
a flap to hang down over it, to keep it dry.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun
off me, like an awning; and thus I every now and then
took a little voyage upon the sea; but never went far out,
nor far from the little creek. At last, being eager to view
the circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon

"my cruise; and accordingly I victualled my ship for the
voyage, putting in two dozen of loaves of barley bread, an
earthen pot full of rice, a kind of food I ate a great deal
of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot
for killing more, and two large watchcoats, of those which I
had saved out of the seamen's chests: these I took, one to
lie upon, and the other to cover me in the night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this
voyage. I found it much longer than I expected; for
though the island itself was not very large, yet when I
came to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks
stretching out about two leagues into the sea, some above
water, some under it; and beyond that a shoal of sand,
lying dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to go
a. great way out to sea to double the point.

When first I discovered this obstacle, I was going to give
over my enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how
far it might oblige me to go out to sea; and, above all,-
doubting how I should get back again: so I came to an
anchor; for I had made a kind of anchor with a piece of
broken grappling which I got out of the ship. '

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on
shore, and, climbing up a hill which overlooked the sea, I
perceived a strong, indeed, a most furious current, which
ran to the east, and even came close to the point; and I
took the more notice of it, because I saw there might be
some danger, that when I came into it, I might be carried
out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able to make
the island again. Indeed, had I not got first upon this
hill, I believe that event would have happened; for there
was the same current on the other side of the island, only
that it set oliF at a farther distance, and I saw there was a
strong eddy under the shore: so I had nothing to do but to
get out of the first current, and I should presently be in an
eddy.

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing
pretty fresh at ESE, and that being just contrary to the
current, made a great breach of the sea upon the point;
so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the
shore on account of the surf, nor to go too far off, because
of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured: but I am a
warning to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner had
I come to the point, when I was not even my boat's length
from the shore, than I found myself in a great depth of
water, and a current like the sluice of a mill; it carried my
boat along with it with such violence that all I could do
could not keep her so much as on the edge of it; but I
found it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy,
which was on my left hand. There was no wind stirring
to help me, and all I could do with my paddles signified
nothing. Now I began to give myself up for lost; for as
the current was on both sides of the island, I knew in a few
leagues' distance, they must' Join again, and then I would be
irrecoverably lost, nor did I see any possibility of avoiding
it, so that I had no prospect before me but that of perishing,
not by the sea, for that was calm enough, but of hunger.
I had, indeed, found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost
as I could lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a
great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen
pots ; but what was all this to being driven into the vast
ocean, where, to be sure, there was no shore, no main land
or island, for a thousand leagues at least ?

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of
God to make even the most miserable condition of mankind
worse; now I looked back upon my desolate, solitary
island, as the most pleasant place in the world, and all the
happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there
again. I stretched out my hands to it with eager wishes:
' 0 happy desert 1' said I, ' I shall never see thee more. 0
miserable creature l whither am I going ? ' Then I re-
proached myself with my unthankful temper, and that I
had repined at my solitary condition ; and now what would
I give to be on shore there again! It is scarcely possible
to imagine the consternation I was now in, being driven
from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be)
into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost
despair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked
hard till indeed my strength was almost exhausted, and
kept my boat as much to the northward, that is, towards
the side of the current which the eddy lay on, as I possibly
could; when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I
thought I felt a little breeze of wind in my face, springing
up from SSE. This cheered my heart a little, and especially
when, in about half an hour more, it blew a. pretty gentle
gale. By this time I had got at a frightful distance from
the island, and, had the least cloudy or hazy weather inter-
vened, I would have been undone another way, too; for I
had .no compass on board, and should never have known
how to have steered towards the island, if I had once lost
sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I got up my
mast again, and spread my sail, standing away to the north
as much as possible, to get out of the current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water
some alteration of the current was near, for where the
current was so strong the water was foul; but perceiving
the water clear, I found the current abate; and presently I
saw to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea
upon some rocks. These rocks I found caused the current
to part again, and as the main stream of it ran away more
southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other
returned by the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong
eddy, which ran back again to the north-west, very sharply.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them on the scaffold, or to be rescued from thieves just
going to murder them, may guess what my present joy
was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of this
eddy; and, the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread
my sail to it, running cheerfully before the wind, and with
a strong tide or eddy under keel.
This eddy can'ied me about a league in my way back
again, directly towards the island, but about two leagues
more to the northward than the current which carried me
away at first; so that when I came near the island, I found
myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the
other end of the island, opposite to that which I went
out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way
by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent,
and served me no farther. However, I found that being
between two great currents, namely, that on the south side,
which had hurried me away, and that on the north, which
lay about a league on the other side; I say, between these
two, in the wake of the island, I found the water still, and
running no way; and having still a breeze of wind in my
favor, I kept on steering directly for the island, though
not making such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a
league of the island, I found the point of the rocks which
occasioned this disaster, stretching out, as is described
before, to the southward, and casting off the current more
southerly, had, of course, made another eddy to the north; .
and this I found very strong, but not directly setting the
way my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, having a fresh gale, I stretched across
this eddy, slanting north-west; and in about an hour came
within about a mile of the shore, where, it being. smooth
water, I soon got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all
thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself
with such things as I had. I brought my boat close to the
shore, into a little cove that I had spied under some trees,
and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with the
labor and fatigue of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with
my boat; I had run too much risk to think of attempting
it by the way I went out; and what might be at the other
side (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any wish
to run more ventures; so I resolved on the next morning to
make my way westward along the shore, and to see if
there was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in
safety, so as to have her again, if I wanted her. In about
three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came to a
very good inlet or bay, about a mile across, which narrowed
to a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very
convenient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if
she were in a little dock made on purpose for her. Here
having put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I
went on shore to look about me, and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where
I had been before, when I travelled on foot to that shore;
so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella,
for it was exceedingly hot, I began my march. The way
was comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had been
upon, and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I
found everything standing as I left it; for I always kept it
in good order, being, as I said before, my country-house.
I got over the fence, and lay down in the shade to rest
my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep ; but judge,
if you can, you that read my story, what a surprise I must
have been in when I was awakened out of my sleep by a
voice calling me by my name several times, ' Robin, Robin,
Robin Crusoe: poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin
Crusoe ? Where are you? Where have you been 1' '

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing
the first part of the day, and with walking the latter
part, that I did not wake thoroughly; but, dozing between
sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody
spoke to me ; yet as the voice continued to repeat, 'Robin
Crusoe, Robin Crusoe,' at last I began to wake more
perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frightened, and started
up in the utmost consternation. But no sooner were my
eyes open than I saw my poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to
me; for just in such bemoaning language I had been in
the habit of talking to him, and teaching him; and he had
learned his lesson so perfectly that he would sit upon my
finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and cry, 'Poor
Robin Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been ?
How came you here?' and such things as I had taught
him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and
that, indeed, it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed how
the creature came thither; and then how he should just
keep about the place, and nowhere else; but as I was well
satisfied it could be nobody but honest poll, I got over the
fright, and holding out my hand, and calling him by his
name, 'Poll,' the sociable creature came to me, and sat
upon my thumb as he used to do, and continued talln'ng to
me, Poor Robin Crusoe! and how did I come here? and
where had I been ? just as if he had been overjoyed to see
me again; and so I carried him home along with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time,
and had enough to do for many days to sit still and reflect
upon the danger I had been in. I would have been very
glad to have had my boat again on my side of the island,
but I knew not how it was practicable to bring it round.
So I contented myself to be without any boat, though it had
been the product of so many months' labor to make it, and
of so many more to get it into the sea.

In this frame of mind I remained nearly a year, and
lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose:
and my thoughts being very much composed as to my con-
dition, and fully comforted in resigning myself to the
dispositions of Providence, I thought I lived really very
happily in all things except that of society.

Yet even in respect of society I was not so badly off. It
would have made you smile to have seen me and my little
family set down to dinner. There was my majesty, the
prince and lord of the whole island ; I had the lives of all my
subjects at my absolute command ; I could hang, give liberty
and take it away, and had no rebels among all my subjects.
Then, to see how like aking I dined, too, all alone, attended
by my servants ? Poll, as my favorite, was the only person
permitted to tall: to me. My dog, who had now grown
very old and crazy, sat always at my right hand; and two
cats, one on one side of the table, and one on the other,
expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
especial favor.

Now these were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at first, for they were both of them dead, and had been
interred near my habitation by my own hand; but one of
them having multiplied by I know not what kind of crea-
ture, these were two which I had preserved tame. As to the
rest, they ran wild in the woods, and became indeed trouble-
some to me at last, for they would often come into my
house, and plunder me, too, till at last I was obliged to
shoot them, and did kill a great many; and at length they left
me. With this attendance and in this plentiful manner I
lived: neither could I be said to want anything but human
society; and of that, some time after this, I was likely to
have much.
CHAPTER X.

Description of my Figure ; also of my Dwelling and Enclosures--Dreadful
Alarm on seeing the Print of a Man's Foot on the Shore--Take every
Mblc Measure of Preeaution.

I was somewhat impatient, as I have observed, to have the
use of -my boat, though very loath to run any more risks,
and therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her
round the island, and at other times I sat myself down con-
tented enough without her. But I had a strange uneasi-
ness in my mind to go down to the point of the island,
where, as I have said in my last ramble, I went up the hill,
to see how the shore lay, and how the current set, that I
might see what I had to do: this inclination increased upon
me every day, and at length I resolved to travel thither by
land, following the edge of the shore. I did so; but had
any one in England met such a man as I was, it must either
have frightened him, or raised a great deal of laughter; and
as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I could not but
smile at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire,
with such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to
take a sketch of my figure, as follows : --

I had a great, high, shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin,
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun
from me as to shoot the rain from my neck, nothing being
so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon the flesh under
the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down
to about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of breeches of
the same material: the breeches were made of the skin
of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down such a length on
either side, that, like pantaloons, it reached the middle of
my legs. Stockings and shoes I had none, but I had a pair
of something, I scarce know what to call them, like buskins,
to flap over my legs, and lace on either side like spatter-
dashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all
the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same material instead of
buckles, and in a kind of a frog on either side of this,
instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw and
a hatchet, one on one side and one on the other. I had
another belt not so broad, and fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder, and at the end of it, under
my left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin
too, in one of which hung my powder, in the other my
shot. At my back I carried my basket, and on my shoulder
my gun, and over my head a great clumsy, ugly goat's skin
v umbrella, but which, after all, was the most necessary thing
I had about me next to my gun. As fer my face the color
of it was really not so mulatto-like as one might expect
from a man not at all careful of it, and living within nine
or ten degrees of the equinox. My heard I had once
sufi'ered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long:

x
but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it
pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I
had trimmed into a large pair of mustachios, of a length
and shape monstrous enough, and such as in England
would have been thought frightful.

But all this by the by; for, as to my figure, I had so
few to observe me, that it was of no manner of consequence,
so I say no more of that. In this kind of dress I went my
new journey, and was out five or six days. I travelled
first along the sea--shore, directly to the place where I first
brought my boat to an anchor to get upon the rocks; and
having no boat now to take care of, Iwent over the land a
nearer way to the same height that I was upon before,
when, looking forward to the points of the rocks which lay
out, and which I was obliged to double with my boat, as is
said above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and
quiet -- no rippling, no motion, no current, any more there
than in any other places. I was at a loss to understand
this, and resolved to spend some time in observing if
nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it: but I
was presently convinced how it was, namely, that the tide
of ebb setting from the west, and joining with the current
of waters from some great river on the shore, must be the

occasion of this current, and that, according as the wind
blew more forcibly from the west or from the north, this

current came nearer, or went farther from the shore.
Waiting thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock
again, and then the ebb tide having set in, I plainly saw the
current again as before, only that it ran farther off, being
nearly half aleague from the shore, whereas in- my case it
set close upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe along
with it, which at another time it would not have done.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do
but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and
I might very easily bring my boat round the island again;
but when I began to think about putting it in practice, I
had such terror at the remembrance of the danger I had
been in, that I could not think of it again with any patience,
but, on the contrary, I took up another resolution, which
was more safe though more laborious ---and this was, that
I would build another periagua or canoe, and so have one
for one side of the island, and one for the other.

You are to understand that now I had, as I may call
them, two plantations in the island ---one my little forti-
fication or tent, with the wall about it, under the rock, with
the cave behind me, which by this timeI had enlarged into
several apartments, or caves, one within another. One of
these, which was the driest and largest, and had a door
out beyond my wall or fortification -- that is to say, beyond
where my wall joined the rock ----was all filled up with
the large earthen pots, of which I have given an account,
and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, capable of hold-
ing five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of
provisions, especially my corn, some in the ear, cut off short
from the straw, and the rest rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made as before, with long stakes or piles,
the piles all grew like trees, and had by this time grown

so big, and spread so very much, that there was not the
x 2
least appearance, to any one's view, of any habitation
behind them. Near this dwelling of mine, but a little
farther within the land, and upon lower ground, lay my
two pieces of corn land, which I kept duly cultivated and
sowed, and which yielded me their harvest in its season;
and whenever I had occasion for more com, I had more
land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also; for, first, I had my little
bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair-- that is to say,
I kept the hedge, which circled it in, constantly trained up
to its usual height, the ladder standing alwaysin the inside.
I kept the trees, which at first were no more than stakes,
but were now grown very firm and tall, always cut, so that
they might spread and grow thick and wild, and make the
more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to my
mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always standing,
being a piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that
purpose, and which never wanted any repair or renewing;
and under this I had made a squab or couch, with the
skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft
things, the whole covered with a blanket that belonged to
our sea-bedding, which I had saved; and a great watch-
coat to cover me. And here, whenevethad occasion to be
absent from my chief seat, I took up my country habitation.

Adjoining this, I had my enclosures for my cattle, that
is to say, my goats; and I had taken an inconceivable
deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground. I was so
anxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break
through, that I never left off till, with infinite labor, I
had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of. small, stakes,
and so near to one another, that it was rather a paling than
a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through
between them. And this, when those stakes grew, as they
all did in the next rainy season, made the enclosure strong
like a wall, indeed stronger than any wall.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins, and
which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as the best
and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and indeed
they were not only agreeable, but medicinal, wholesome,
nourishing, and refreshing in the highest degree.

As this was also about half-way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat, I
generally stayed and lay here in my way thither, for I used .
frequently to visit my boat; and I kept all things about,
or belonging to her, in very good order. Sometimes I went
out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages
would I go, scarcely ever above a stone's cast or two from
the shore: I was so apprehensive of being hurried out of
my knowledge again by the currents or winds, or anv other
cause. But now I come to a new scene of my life.

It happened one day, about noon, that, while going to-
wards my boat, I was exceedingly surprised on seeing the
print of a man's naked foot, which was very clearly to be
seen on the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or as if
I had seen an apparition. I listened, I looked around me,
but I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to
a rising ground, to look farther; I went up the shore, and
down the shore, but it was all one; I could see no other
impression but that one. I went to it again to see if there
were any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy;
but there was no room for that, for there was exactly the
print of afoot--toes, heel, and every part of a foot. How it
came thither I knew not, nor could I in the least imagine;
but after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man per-
fectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my for-L
tification, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but
terrified in the extreme, looking behind me at every two or
three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying
every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it possible
to describe how many various shapes my afl'righted ima-
gination represented things to me in ; how many wild ideas.
and what strange, unaccountable fancies came into my
thoughts by the way.

When I came to my castle (for so I think I called. it ever -
after this), I fled into it like one pursued. Whether I went
over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole
in the rock which I had called a door, I cannot remember;
for never frightened hare fled to cover, or foxto earth, with
more terror of mind than I to this retreat.

I slept none that night; the farther I was from the occa-
sion of my flight, the greater my apprehensions were, which
is something contrary to the nature of such things, and es-
pecially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear; but I
was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the
thing, that I was long in coming to the conclusion, that it
must be some of the savages of the main land opposite,
who had wandered out to sea in their canoes; and, either
driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had made the
island, and had been on shore, but had gone away again to
sea; being as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate
island as I would have been to have had them.

While revolving these reflections in my mind, I was very
thankful that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts at
the time, and that they had not seen my boat, by which they
would have concluded that some inhabitants were in the
place, and then, perhaps, they would have searched farther
for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my imagination
at the bare idea of their having found out my boat; and
that, if so, I should certainly find them come again in
greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen
that they should not find me, yet they would find my
enclosure, destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock
of tame goats, and I should perish at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that
former confidence in God, which was founded upon such
wonderful experience as I had had of his goodness; as if He
that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve, by
His power, the provision which he had made for me by His
goodness. I reproached myself with my laziness, that
would not sow any more com one year than would just
serve me till the next season, as if no accident could inter--
vene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the
ground; and this I thought so just a reproof, that I resolved
for the future to have two or three years' corn beforehand,
so that, whatever might happen, I might not perish for want
of bread.

How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the life of
man! and by what secret and various springs are the effec-
tions hurried about, as different circumstances direct! To-
day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-day we seek what
tomorrow we shun; to-day we desire what to--morrow we
fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of. This was
exemplified in me, at this time, in the most lively manner
imaginable, for I, whose only affliction was that I seemed
banished from human society; that I, who was alone, cir-
cumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut ofl' from mankind,
and condemned to what I called silent life, now found my-
self trembling at the very apprehensions of seeing a man,
and ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow or
silent appearance of a man having set his foot in the
island.

In the midst of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot
might be the print of my own foot, when I came on shore
from my boat: this cheered me up a little, too, and I began
to persuade myself my fear was all a delusion; that the
footprint was nothing else than my own; and why mightI
not come that way from the boat, just as I went that way
to the boat? Again I considered also, that I could by no
means tell, for certain, where I had trod, and 'where I' had.
not; and that if, at last, this was only the print of my own
foot, I had played the part of these fools who try to make
stories of speetres and apparitions, and then are frightened
at them more than anybody.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again,
for I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and
nights, so that I began to starve for provisions; for I had
little or nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and
water. Then, too, I knew that my goats wanted to be
milked. which usually was my evening diversion. En~
couraging myself, therefore, with the belief that this was
nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and that I
might be truly said to have started at my own shadow, I
began to go abroad again, and went to my country-house
to milk my flock: but to see with what fear I went forward,
how often I looked behind me, how I was ready, every now
and then, to lay down my basket, and run for my life,
would have made any one think I was haunted with an evil
conscience, or that I had been lately most terribly frightened;
and so, indeed, I had. However, I went down thus two or
three days, and having seen nothing, I began to be a little
bolder, and to think there was really nothing in it but my
own imagination; but I could not persuade myself fully of
this till I should go down to the shore again, and see this
print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there
was any likeness, that I might be assured it was my own
foot: but when I came to the place--first, it appeared
clear to me, that when I laid up my boat, I could not'
possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts: secondly,
when I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I
found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these
things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me
the horrors again to the highest degree, so that I shook
with cold like one in an ague; and I went home again,
filled with the belief that some man or men had been on
shore there; or, in short, that the island was inhabited,
and I might be surprised before I was aware, and what
course to take for my security I knew not.

Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed
with fear! It deprives them of the use of those means
which reason offers for their relief. The first thing I
proposed to myself was, to throw down my inclosures, and
turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, lest the enemy
should find them, and then frequent the island in search of
the same or the like booty. Then I thought of digging up
my two com-fields, lest they should find such a grain there,
and still be prompted to frequent the island: then to
demolish my bower and tent, that they might not see any
vestiges of habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in
order to find out the persons inhabiting it.

Time, however, began to wear off my uneasiness; and I
soon found myself living in the same composed manner as
before. Of course, I kept my eyes more about me; and,
particularly, I was more cautious about firing my gun, lest
the report should be heard by any of the savages!aosmson 030502. 139

CHAPTER XI.

My Kingdom is invaded by Savages--Second Invasion--They chase a
Savagetodevourhim--Ireacuehim,andkinhisl'muers.

IT was now my twenty-third year of residence on the
island; and this being the winter--or rather the autumn
of this region, for winter there is none--was the particular
time of my harvest, and required me to be pretty much
abroad in the fields. Going out early one morning, even
befdre it was thorough daylight, I was surprised at seeing
a light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me
of about two miles.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I mightbe
caught. Nevertheless, I had no longer peace within; from
the fears I had that if these savages, in rambling over the
island, should find my corn standing or cut, or any of my
works and buildings, they would immediately conclude that
there were people in the place, and would then never .rest'
till they had found me out. In this extremityI went back
directly to my castle; pulled up the ladder after me, and.
made all things without look as wild and natural as I
could. ' .

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence. I loaded all my cannon, as I calledm seamstress:

them--that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification My pistols, too, were primed
and ready; inshort, Iresolvedto defend myself to the last
gasp,--not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the
Divine protection, and "earnestly'te pray to God to deliver
me out of the hands of the barbarians. .

I continued' in this uncertainty about two hours, and
began to be impatient for news abroad, for I had no spies
to send out. After sitting a little longer, an musing what
Ishoulddoin this jeopardy, Iwasunable to bearfarther
suspense, sosettingmyladder to thesideof thehill,and
then pulling it after me, I set it up again, and thus mounted
tothetopofthehill. Pullingout myspy-glass,which I
hadtaken on purpose, I lay down flat on myhellyonthe
ground, and began to look for the place. I presently found
there were no lea than nine naked savages, sitting round a
small fire they had made--not to warm themselves, for the
weather-was warm enough--but, as I suppM to dress
some of their barbarous diet cf human flesh which they
had brought with them, whether alive or dead I could
not tell.

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled
up upon the shore: and as it was then ebb of tide, they
seemedtcmetobewartmgforthereturnoftheflood to'go
awayagain. It' is not easyto imaginewhat dismay this
sight put me into, especially sinee' theyhad oeme'onmy
smdeofthe 1sland,andbneartome. ButwhaiI'eon-
aideied theiran-ivalmust alwaysbewiththeourrentof
theebb, I beanie: ai'oerv'rards more ealmfieiatine' satisfiedTHE CANNIBAL FEAST
that I might go abroad with safety allthe time of the flood-
tide. Having made this observation, I went abroad about
my harvest work with the more composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for, as soon as the tide set
in to the westward, I saw them all take to their canoes,
and paddle away.

About a year and a half after this, I was surprised one
morning at seeing no less than five canoes all on shore at
one time on my side of the island: the people who be-
longed to them must all have lauded, as they were not in
the boats. The number of them disturbed all my plans;
for, seeing so many, and knowing that there were always
four or six, and sometimes more in a boat, I could not tell
what to think of it, or how, single-handed, to set about an
attack on twenty or thirty men. I therefore lay still in
my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However, I put
myself into the same position for an attack that I had
formerly arranged, and was quite ready for action in case
of need.

Having waited a good while, listening to hear if they
made any noise, I at length became very impatient. I set ,
my guns at the 'foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the
top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual. I stood in such
a position, however, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not notice me. Here I observed,
by means of my glass, that there were no less than thirty
in number; that they had a fire kindled and meat dressed.
How they had cooked it I knew not, neither could I see
what kind it was; but they were all dancing, after their
own fashion, in all sorts of barbarous gestures and atti-
tudes, round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my
glass, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats,
where, it seems, they had been laid by, but were now
brought out for the slaughter. I noticed one of them im-
mediately fall--being knocked down, I suppose, with a
club, or wooden sword, for that was their way of killing.
Two or three others set to work immediately cutting him
open for the purpose of being roasted; while the other
victim was left standing by himself, till they should be
ready for him. At that very moment, this poor wretch,
seeing himself a little at liberty, and being unbound, was
inspired with hopes of life: he started away from them,
and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly
towards that part of the coast where my habitation was.

I was dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when I
saw him rlm my way; and especially when, as I thought, I
saw him pursued by the whole body. I expected that he
would certainly take shelter in my grove: but I could not
tell that the other savages would not pursue him thither,
and find him there. However, I kept my station, and
my spirits began to recover when I found that there were
not above three men that followed him. Still more was
I encouraged, when I found that he outstripped them ex-
ceedingly in running, and gained ground on them; so
that, if he could but hold out for half an hour, I saw easily
he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle, the creek where
Ihadlanded mycargoesfrom the wreck; and this I saw
plainly he must necessarily swim over, otherwise the poor
wretch would there be caught. But when the runaway '
came to the creek, he made nothing of it, though the tide
was then up; but, plunging in,'swam over it in about
thirty strokes, or thereabouts ; landed, and ran with re-
markable strength and swiftness. When the three savages
came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim,
but the third could not. Standing on the other side, he
looked at the others, but went no farther, and soon after
went slowly back again; this, as it happened, was very
lucky for him in the end. I observed that the two who
swam were twice as long swimming over the creek, as the
fellow who had fled from them.

It came very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed
irresistibly, that now was the time to get me a servant,
and perhaps a companion or assistant; and that I was
plainly called by Providence to save this poor creature's
life. I immediately ran down the ladders with all possible
haste; fetching my two guns --for they were both at the
foot of the ladders, as I observed before -- and, getting up .
again speedily to the top of the hill, I-crossed towards the
sea. -

Making a very short cut, and all down hill, I placed
myself in the way between the pursuers and the pursued,
hallooing aloud to him that fled. He, on looking back,
was at first perhaps as much frightened at me as at his
enemies; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come
back. In the mean time I slowly advanced towards the
two that followed; then, rushing at once upon the fore-
most, I knocked him down with the stock of my piece. I
was loathe to fire, because I did not want the rest to hear
the report; though at that distance, it would not have
been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke, too, 4
they would not have known what to make of it. Having .
knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued him, '
stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced
towards him: but as I came nearer, I perceived presently
he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me.
I was, therefore, obliged to shoot at him first--which I did,
and killed him on the spot.

The poor runaway savage, though he saw both his
enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so
frightened with the fire and noise of my piece, that he
stood stock still. He neither came forward nor went back-
ward, though he seemed rather inclined still to flee than to
advance. I hallooed again to him, and beckoned him to
come forward. My signs he easily understood, and he came
a little way. He hesitated, and then 'approached a little
farther, and stopped again. I could then perceive that he
stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and was
about. to be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned
to him again to come 'to me, and gave him all the signs of
encouragement that I could think of. He kept coming
nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve
steps, in token of gratitude for my savinghislife. I smiled
at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to

~CAPTURE OP FRIDAY
come still nearer. At length he came close to me ; and
then he kneeled down again, kissed the earth, and laid his
head upon the ground. Taking me by the foot, he set it
upon his head: this, it seems, was in token of swearing to
be my slave for ever. I took him up and patted him
gently.

But there was yet more work to do; for I perceived
the savage, whom I had knocked down, was not killed, but
merely stunned, and he began to come to himself: so I
pointed to him, and showed that he was not dead. Upon
this my new friend spoke some words to me, and though I
could not understand them, yet they were pleasant to hear;
for they were the first sound of a man's voice that I had
heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-five years. But
there was no time for such reflections now; the savage,
who was knocked down, recovered himself so far as to sit
up upon the ground, and .I observed that my friend began
to be afraid. When I saw this, I presented my other gun
at the man, with the intention of shooting him; upon this,
my companion, for so I called him now, made a motion to
me to lend him my sword, which hung naked in a belt
by my side. He no sooner had it, than he ran to his enemy,
and at one blow cut off his head very cleverly. ,

When he had done this, he comes laughing to me in
sign of triumph, and brings me the sword again, with
abundance of gestures which I did not understand; laying
it down, with the head of the savage that he had killed,
just before me.

But what astonished him most, was the way in which I

L
had killed the other Indian so far off; so pointing tohim,
he made signs to me to let himgo tohim; and Itoldhim,
as well as I could, to go. When he came to him, he stood
amazed--looking at him, turning him first on one side,
then on the other. He examined the wound the bullet had
made, which it seems was just in his breast, where it had
made a hole; and, although no great quantity of blood had
followed, he must have bled inwardly, for he was quite
dead. He took up his bow and arrows, and came back. I
now turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow me,
making signs to him that the other savages might come.
Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them
in the sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they
followed: accordingly I made signs to him to do so. He
fell towork; and in an instant he had scraped a hole in the
sand with his hands, big enough to bury the first in, and then
dragged him into it, and covered him; he then did the same
to the other also.

New, calling my man away, I carried him, not to my castle,
but quite away to my cave, on the farther part of the island.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a
draught of' water, which I found he was indeed in great
need of, as he had had a good race. Having refreshed him,
I niade signs to him to go and lie down to sleep, showing
him a place where I had laid some rice-straw, - with a
blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself some-
times. Accordingly the poor creature lay down, and went
to sleep:
. He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made,
with straight strong limbs, not too large, tall and well
shaped; and as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age.
He had avery good countenance, not a fierce and surly one,
and it seemed to have something very manly in its expres-
sion; and yet it had all the sweetness and softness of an
European's, especially when he smiled. His hair was long
and black, not curled like wool; his forehead very high and
large ; and great liveliness and sparkling sharpness lighted up
his eyes. The color of his skin was not quite black, though
very tawny. Hisface was round and plump ; his nose small,
not flat like the negroes; a very good mouth, thin lips, and
his fine teeth well set, and as white as ivory.

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an
hour, he awoke again, and came out of the cave to me; for
I had been milking my goats, which I had in the inclosure
hard by. When he espied me, he came running to me,
laying himself down again upon the ground, with all the
possible signs of a humble, thankful disposition, making a
great many odd gestures to show it. At last he laid his
head fiat upon the ground, close to my foot, and, set my
other foot upon his head, as he had done before; and after
this, made all signs to me of subjection, servitude and sub-
mission, imaginable, to let me know how he would serve
me so long as he lived. I understood him in many things,
and let him know I was very well pleased with him. In a
little time I began to speak to him, and to teach him to
speak to me; and, first, I let him knowhis name should be

I. 2
FRIDAY, which was the day I saved his life : I called him
so in memory of the day. I likewise taught him to say
'Master; ' and then let him know that was to be my name;
I likewise taught him to say 'Yes' and 'No,' along with
the meaning of them.
CHAPTER XII.

I am at great Pains to instruct Friday respecting my Abhorrenoe of the
Cannibal Practices of the Savages--He is amamdatthe Meets of the
Gun, and considers it an Intelligent Being--Begins to talk English
tolerably--A Dialogue--He describes to me some White Men who had
come to his Country, and still lived there.

I was greatly delighted with my new companion, and made
it my business to teach him everything that was proper to
make him useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to
make him speak, and understand me when I spoke, and he
was the aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was
so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he
could but understand me, or make me understand him, that
it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now my life
began to be so easy that I began to say to myself, that could
I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I
was never to remove from the place where I lived.

After I had been two or three days returned to my castle,
I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid
way of feeding, and from the relish of human flesh, I
ought to let him taste other flesh; so I took him out with
me one morning to the woods. I went, indeed, intending
to kill a. kid out of my own flock, and bring it home and
dress it ;' but as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying down
in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I caught
hold of Friday--' Hold,' said I, ' stand still,' and made
signs to him not to stir: immediately I presented my piece,
shot, and killed one of them. The poor creature, who had at
a distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage his enemy, but
did not know, nor could imagine, how it was done, was
sensibly surprised ; he trembled, and looked so amazed that
I thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the
kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his
waistcoat, to feel whether he was not wounded, and, as I
found presently, thought I was resolved to kill him; for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees,
said a great many things I did not understand; but I could
easily see the meaning was, to beg me not to kill him.

I soon found a. way to convince him that I would do him
no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him,
and pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him
to run and fetch it, which he did; and while he was
wondering, and looking to see how the creature was killed,
I loaded my gun again. By and by, I saw a great bird,
like a hawk, sitting upon a tree within shot; so, to let
Friday understand a little what I would do, I called him to
me again, pointed at the bird, which was indeed a parrot,
though I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to
the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the
parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him
understand that I would shoot and kill that bird ; accord-
ingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, not-
withstanding all I had said to him; and I found he was the
more amazed, because he did not see me put anything into
the gun, but thought that there must be somewonderful fund
of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast,
bird, or anything near or far off: the' astonishment this
created in him could not wear off for along time; and, I
believe, if I would have let him, he would have worshipped me
and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much
as touch it for several days after; but he would speak to it
and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to
desire it not to kill him. Well, after his astonishment was
a little over at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the
bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some time; for
the parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered away a good
distance from the place where she fell. However, he found
her, took her up, and brought her to me; andas I had per-
ceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this
advantage to charge the gun again, and not to let him see
me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark that
might present; but nothing more presented itself at that
time: so I brought home the kid, and the same evening
I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I could; and
having a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of
the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed
very glad of it, and liked it very well ; but that which was
strangest to him was to see me eat salt with it. He made
a sign to me that the salt was not good to eat; and putting
a little into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and
would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh
water after it; on the other hand, I took some meat into
my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter
for want of salt, as much as he had done at the salt. But
it would not do: he would never care for salt with his meat
or in his broth; at least, not for a great while afterwards,
and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day by roasting a. piece of the
kid: this I did by hanging it before the fire on a string, as
I had seen many people do in England, setting two poles up,
one on each side of the fire, and one across on the top, and
tying the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn
continually. This Friday admired very much; but when
he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me
how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him;
and at last he told me, as well as he could, he would never
eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.

The 'next day, I set him to work to beating some corn
out, and sifting it- in the manner I used to do, as I observed
before; and he soon understood how to do it as well as I,
especially after he had seen what the meaning of it was,
and that it was to make bread of : for after that, I let him
see me make my bread, and bake it too ; and in a little time
Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as I
could do it myself.

I began now to consider, that having two months to feed
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do; so I
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in
the same manner as before, in which Friday worked not
only very willingly and very hard, but very cheerfully: and
I told him what it was for; that it was for corn to make
more bread, because he was now with me, and that I might
have enough for him and myself too. He appeared very
sensible of the favor, and let me know that he thought I
had much more labor upon me on his account than I had for
myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if I
would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand
the names of almost everything I had occasion to call for,
and of every place I had to send him to, and talked a great
deal to me; so that, in short, I began now to have some
use for my tongue again, which, indeed, I had very little
occasion for before. Besides the pleasure of talking to him,
I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself: his
simple, unfeigned honesty was more and more apparent to
me every day, and I began really to love the creature; and
on his side, I believe he loved me more than it was possible
for him ever to love anything before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering incli-
nation after his own country again; and having taught him
English so well that he could answer me almost any question,
I asked him whether the nation that he belonged to never
conquered in battle P At which he smiled, and said, 'Yes,
yes, we always fight the better ;' that is, he meant, always
get the better in fight; and so we began the following
dialogue :--

Madam--You always fight the better 5 how came you to
be taken prisoner then, Friday?

M.--My nation beat much for all that.

Master.--How beat ? If your nation beat them, how
came you to be taken ?

Rainy--They more many than my nation, in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my
nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where me no
was; there my nation take one, two, great thousand.

Maiden--But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your enemies then ?

Friday.--They run, one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the.canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.

Master.-----We11, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take? Do they carry them away and
eat them as these did ?

Friday--Yes, my nation eats mans too; eat all up.

Master.--Where do they carry them?

Friday--Go to other place, where they think.

Mada--Do they come hither P

Friday.--Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
place.

Madam--Have you been here with them ?

Why--Yes, I have been here [points to the NW. side
of the island, which, it seems, was their side].

By this, I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages who used to come on shore on the
farther part of the island, on the same man-eating occasions
he was now brought for: and, some time after, when I took
the courage to carry him to that side, being the same I
formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told
me he was there once, when they ate up twenty men, two
women, and one child: he could not say twenty in English,
but he numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row,
and pointing to me to count them over.

I have told this, because it introduces what follows: that
after this conversation I had with him, I asked him how
far it was from our island to the shore, and whether the
canoes were not often lost. He told me there was no dan-
ger, no canoes ever lost; but that after a little way out to
sea, there was a current and wind, always one way in the
morning, the other in the afternoon. This I undersde
to be no other than the sets of the tide, as going out
or coming in ; but I afterwards understood it was occa-
sioned by the great draught and reflux of the mighty river
Orinoco, in the mouth or gulf of which river, as I found
afterwards, our island lay; and that this land which I per-
ceived to the W. and NW. was the great island Trinidad,
on the north point of the mouth of the river. I asked
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the inhabi-
tants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were near; he
told me all he knew, with the greatest openness imaginable.
I asked him the names of the several nations of his sort of
people, but could get no other name than Caribs; whence
I easily understood that these were the Caribbees, which
our maps place on the part of America. which reaches from
the mouth of the river Orinoco to Guyana, and onwards to
St. Martha. He told me, that up a great way beyond the
moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which
must be west from their country, there dwelt white-bearded
men, like me, pointing to my great mnstachios, which I
mentioned before; and that they had killed much 'mans,'
that was his word; by which I understood he meant the
Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had been spread over

the whole country, and were remembered by all the nations
from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this
island, and get among these white men: he told me, ' Yes,
yes, you may go in two canoe.' I could not understand
what he meant, or make him describe to me what he meant
by two canoe, till at last, with great difficulty, I found he
meant it must be in a large boat, as big as two canoes. This
part of Friday's conversation I began to relish very well; and
from this time I entertained some hopes that, one time or
other, I might find an opportlmity to make my escape from

this place, and that this poor savage might be a means to
help me.
CHAPTER XIII.

How Fridayand I mu in with White Savages--They prepare to murder
their Captain and omens--Friday and I come to the Rescue--We seize
the mntinied Ship -- My Deliverance and Return to England.

I was fast asleep in my hammock one morning, when my
man Friday came running in to me, and called aloud,
' Master, master, they have come, they have come! ' I
jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went out as soon as
I could get my clothes on, through my little grove--which,
by the way, was by this time grown to be a very thick
wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went without my fire-
arms, which was not my custom to do. I was surprised,
when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat
about a league and a half distant, standing in for the shore,
with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as we call it; and the wind
was blowing pretty fair to bring it in. I observed, presently,
that they did not come from that side which the shore lay
on, but from the southern end of the island.

Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close,
saying these were not the people we looked for, and that we
could not yet know whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my spy-glass to see
what I could make of them; and having taken the ladder
out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as before, in order
to take my view the plainer, without being discovered. I
had scarcely set my foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly
discovered a ship lying at anchor, at about two leagues and
a half distance from me in a south-easterly direction. By
my observation, it appeared plainly to be an English ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I felt on seeing a ship,
and one that I had reason to believe was manned by my
own countrymen, and consequently friends. I say I can-
not describe the joy I felt; but still I had some secret
doubts hanging about me -- I cannot tell how-- bidding me
keep upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me
to consider What business an English ship could have in
that part of the world, since it was not the way to or from
any part of the world where the English had any traffic.
I knew there had been no storms to drive them in there, in
distress; and that if they were really English, it was most
probable that they were here upon no good design. And.
I thought I had better continue as I was, than fall into the
hands of thieves and murderers.

I had not kept myself long in this anxiety when I saw the
boat draw near the shore, as if the people in it were looking
for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing.
Happily, as they did not come quite far enough, they did
not see my little inlet. They ran their boat on shore upon
the beach, at about half a mile from me. This was very
lucky for me; for otherwise they would have landed just
at my door, as I may say, and would soon have beaten me
out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me'of all I
had. .
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were
Englishmen, at least most of them. One or two I thought
were Dutch, but this did not prove to be the case. There
were, in all, eleven men, three of whom I found were
unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the first four
or five of them had jumped on shore, they took those three
out of the boat, as prisoners. One of the three I observed
using the most passionate gestures of entreaty, distress, and
despair, even to an extravagant degree ; the other two, I
could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and they
appeared greatly concerned, though not to such a degree as
the first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and
knew not what the meaning of it might be. Friday called
out to me in English, as well as he could, ' 0 master! you
see English mans eats prisoner as well as savage mans.' --
'Why, Friday,' said I , ' do you think they are going to eat
them then? '--' Yes,' said Friday, ' they will eat them.' --
' N o, no,' said I, 'Friday; I am only afraid they will
murder them, but you may be sure they will not eat them.'

It was just at high water when these people came on shore;
and while they rambled about to see what kind of a place
they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide 'was
spent, and the water had ebbed considerably away, leaving
their boat aground. They had left two men in the boat,
who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too much
brandy, had fallen asleep. However, one of them waking
a little sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest, who
were straggling about; upon which they all soon came to
the boat. But it was past all their strength to launch her,
the boat being very heavy, and the shore on that side being
a soft oozy sand, almost 'like quicksand.

In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps,
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave
up the attempt, and away they strolled about the country
again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another,
calling them off from the boat, ' Why, let her alone, Jack,
can't you? she'll float next tide.' By this I was fully
confirmed in the main question, as to what countrymen
they were.

All this while I kept myself very quiet, not once daring
to stir out of my castle any farther than to my place of
observation, near the top of the hill; and very glad I was
to think how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less
than ten hours before the boat could float again, aud'by
that time it would be dark, and I might be at more liberty
to see their motions, and to hear their conversation In the
mean time, I equipped myself for a battle, as before, though
with more caution, knowing I had to do with another
kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday also,
whom I had made an excellent marksman with his gun, to
load himself with arms. I myself took two fowling--pieees,
and I gave him three muskets. My figure, indeed, was very

- fierce; I had my formidable goat-skin on, with a huge cap,
a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a
gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design, as I add above, not to have made any
ottompt till it was dark; but about two o'clock, being theTHE DELIVERANCE
heat of the day, I found that the sailors had all gone strag-
gling into the. woods, and, as I thought, lain down to sleep.
_ The three poor distressed men, too anxious about their con-
. dition to get any sleep, had, however, sat down under the
shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me,
and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon
this, I resolved to show myself to them, and to learn some-
thing of their condition. Immediately, I marched as above,
my man Friday at a good distance behind me, "terrible
in regard to his arms as I.

I came as near them as I could conveniently do, and
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud in Spanish,
'What are ye, gentlemen?' They started up at the sound,
but were ten times more confounded when they saw me,
and the uncouth figure that I made. They made no answer
at all, but I thought I perceived them just going to flee
from me. When I spoke to them in English: ' Gentlemen,'
said I, ' do not be surprised at me ; perhaps you may have
a friend near, when you least expected it.' 'He must be
sent directly from Heaven, then,' said one of them very
gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to
me, ' for our condition is past the help of man.' ' All help
is from Heaven, sir,' said I; 'but can you put a stranger
in the way to help you, for you seem to be in some great
distress P I saw you when you landed; and when you
seemed to make supplicat'ion to the brutes that came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword'to kill you.'

The poor man, with tears running down his face and
trembling, looked like one astonished, and replied, 'Am I

M
talking to a real man or an angel?' 'Be in no fear about
that, sir,' said I, 'if God had sent an angel to relieve you,
he would have come better clothed, and armed after another
manner than you see me. Pray, lay aside your fears; I am
a man, an Englishman, and ready to assist you. You see I
have one servant only; but we have arms and ammunition :
tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your case?'
' Our case, sir,' said he, 'is too long to tell you while our
murderers are so near us; but in short, sir, I was com-
mander of that ship ; my men have mutinied against me;
they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me,
and at last have set me on shore in this lonely place with
these two men with me--one my mate, the other a. pas--
senger. "('9 expected to perish, believing the place to be
uninhabited, and knew not yet what to think of it.'
' 'Where are these brutes, your enemies?' said I, ' do
you know where they have gone I" 'There they lie, sir,'
Said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; ' my heart trembles
for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if they
have, they will certainly murder us all.' ' Have they any
fire-arms ? ' said I. He answered, ' They had only two
pieces, one of which they left in the boat.' "Well, then,'
said I, 'leave the rest to me; I see they are all"asleep; it
is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we rather take
them prisoners ? '

He told me there were two desperate villains among them,
whom it was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but if they
were secured, he believed all the rest would return to their
duty. I asked him which they were ? He told me he could
not at that distance distinguish them, but he would obey my
orders in anything I would direct. 'Well,' said I, 'let
us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will consult further.'

They went back with me, till the woods covered us from
them; and I showed a clear plan of attack. He said, very
modestly, that he was loth to kill them if he could help it;
but that the two he had mentioned were villains, and had
been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship; that if they
escaped we should be undone still, for they would go on
board and bring the whole ship's company, and destroy us
all. ' Well then,' said I, ' necessity compels us to kill
them, for it is the only way to save our own lives.' How-
ever, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told
him they should go themselves and manage as they thought
fit. _'

In the middle of this conversation we heard some of the
sailors awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their
feet. I asked him if either of' them were the heads of the
mutiny? He said, 'No.' 'Well, then,' said I, 'you
may let them escape; and Providence seems to have awa-
kened them on purpose to save their lives. Now,' said I,
"if the rest escape you, it is your fault.' Animated with
this, he took the musket I had given him in his hand, and
a pistol in his belt, and was joined by his two comrades,
each with a piece in his hand. The two men who were with
him made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who
was awake, turned about, and seeing them coming, cried
out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the moment

M 2
he cried out they fired--I mean the two men, for the
captain wisely reserved his own fire. They had so well
aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them
was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded;
but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called
eagerly for help to the other. The captain, stepping to him,
told him it was too late to cry for help; he should call
upon God to forgive his villany, and with that word knocked
him down with the stock of his musket, so that he never
spoke more. There were three more in the company, and
one of them was slightly wounded.

By this time I had approached ; and when they saw their
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy. The captain told them he would spare their lives
if they would give him an assurance of their hatred
of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear
to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards
in carrying her back to Jamaica, whence they came. They
gave him the most solemn and sincere promises that could
be desired; and he was willing to believe them, and spare
their lives--which I was. not against--on the condition
that they were kept bound hand and foot while they were
on the island.

While this was being done, I sent Friday with the
captain' s mate to the boat with orders to secure her, and
bring away the oars and sails, which they did, and by and
by three men, who had been--happily for them--strag-
gling from the rest, came back upon hearing the muskets
fired. Seeing the captain, who was before their prisoner,
now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and
so our victory was complete.

Our business was to consider the necessity of recovering
the ship. He agreed with me as to that, but told me he
was perfectly at a. loss what measures to take, for that there
Were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who, having
entered into a. conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited
their lives to the law, would be hardened enough now by
desperation. They would know that if they were subdued
they would be brought to the gallows as soon as they came
to England, or to any of the English colonies. It was,
therefore, useless attacking them with so small a number as
we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found
it was a very rational conclusion, and that therefore some-
thing must be resolved on, and that speedily. The difficulty
was how to draw the men, on board ship, into some snare,
in order to prevent their landing and destroying us.

When we had carried away all the contents of the boat,
we knocked a great hole in her, so that if they came in
strong enough force to master us, they might not carry 011'
the boat. Indeed, I was very far from entertaining the
hope that we should manage to recover the ship ; but my
view was, that if they went away without the boat, I did
not much doubt my ability to make her fit to carry us to
the Leeward Islands, and so homewards.

Having heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that
the tide would not float her 011' at high-water mark, we
heard the ship's gun fire, and saw a waft with her ensign
as a signal for the boat to come on board; but as no boat
stirred, they fired several times, making other signals for
the boat. At last, when all their signals and firing proved
fruitless, we saw them, by the help of my glass, hoist
another boat out, and row towards the shore; and we found,
as they approached, that there Were no less than ten men in
her, and that they had fire-arms with them.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boat coming
from the ship, decided to separate our prisoners; and we
had, indeed, secured them effectually. Two of them, in
whom the captain had but little confidence, I sent with

Friday, along with one of the three delivered men, to my
cave. Here we left them bound, but gave them provisions;
and promised, if they continued there quietly, to grant
them liberty in a day or two. We declared, however,
that, if they attempted to escape, they should be put to
death without mercy.

The other prisoners had better treatment: two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not
able to trust them, but the other two were taken into my
service, upon the captain's recommendation, and upon their
solemnly engaging to live and die with us. Accordingly with
these and the three honest ones we amounted to seven men,
well armed. I had no doubt we should be able to deal
well enough with the ten that were coming, considering
what the captain said, namely, that there were three or
four honest men among them also.

As soon as they got to the place where the other boat lay,
they ran their boat into the beach and all came on shore.
Presently they all made for their other boat; and it was
easy to see they were very greatly surprised to find her
stripped of all her contents, and a great hole in her bottom.
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or
three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if
they could make their companions hear; but all was to no
purpose. Then they all came close in a ring, and fired a
volley of their small arms. The echoes of the reports
made the woods ring ; but without any result. Those in
the cave, we were sure, could not hear; and those in our
keeping, though they heard it Well enough, yet dared give
no answer to them. The men were so astonished at this,
that they resolved to leave three in the boat, while the rest
went up into the country to look for their fellows. This
was a great disappointment to us, for now we were at a
loss what to do. Our seizing those seven men on shore
would be of no advantage to us if we let the boat slip;
because they would row away to the ship, and then the
remainder would be sure to weigh anchor and set sail, and
so our recovery of the ship would be impossible. However,
we had no remedy but to wait and see what events would
bring forth.

The seven men set off in their search, and the three, who
remained in the boat, put her off to a good distance from'
the shore, and came to anchor to wait for them; so that it
was impossible for us to get at those in the boat. The
seven men kept close together, marching towards the top of
. the little hill under which my habitation lay; and we
could see them plainly, though they could not notice us.
We should have been very glad had they come nearer to
us, for then we might have fired at them; or had they
gone farther ofl' to allow of our coming forth. But when
they had reached the brow of the hill, where they could
see a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay
towards the north-east part, and where the island lay
lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they were weary.
Not caring, it seems, to venture far from the shore, nor far
from one another, they sat down together under a tree to
consult. Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there,
as the other part of them had done, it would all have been
plain sailing for us; but they were too fill] of fears to
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell what the
danger was they had to fear.

\Ve waited a great while, though very impatient for their
stirring; and were very uneasy, when, after long consulta-
tion, we saw them all start up, and march down towards the
sea. It seems they had such dreadful apprehensions of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on board the
ship again, give their companions over for lost, and so go
on with their intended voyage with the ship.

I now ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek westward, and so soon as they came to a.
little rising ground, about half a mile distant, they were to
halloo out as loud as they could, and wait till they found the
semen heard them; also, as soon as the seamen gave an
answer, they were to return it again. I ordered them then,
while keeping out of sight, to take a round, always answer- -
ing when the others hallooed to draw them as far into the
island, and among the woods as possible; and then to wheel
about again towards me.

The men were just going into the boat when Friday
and the mate hallooed. They presently heard them, and
answering, ran along the shore westward, towards the voice
they heard. There they were stopped by the creek; and,
the water being up, they could not get over: so they called
for the boat to come up and set them over. This, indeed, I
expected. When they had crossed over, after having taken
the boat a good way into the creek, and being, as it were,
in a harbor within the land, I observed that they took one
of the three men out of her. He went along with them,
so that only two were left in the boat, which was now
fastened to the stump of a little tree on the shore.

This was what I wished for; so immediately leaving
Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I took the
others with me, and, crossing the creek out of their eight,
we came suddenly on the two men. One of them, who
was lying on the shore between sleeping and waking, on
hearing our approach started up. The captain, who was
foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and
then called out to the man in the boat to yield, or he Was
a dead man. He at once gave in. In the meantime,
Friday and the captain's mate so well managed their
business with the others, that they drew them by halloo-
ing and answering, from one hill to another, and from one
wood to another, till they not only heartily tired them, but
left them at a spot from which they were very sure they
could not return before it was dark.
We had nothing now to do butto watch for the returning
sailors, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work
with them. It was several hours after Friday had returned,
that they came back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling
to those behind to come along. We could also hear the
latter answer, and complain how lame and tired they were,
and unable to come any faster: this was very welcome
news to us. At length they came up to the boat : but it is
impossible to express their confusion when they found it
fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two
comrades gone. We could hear them call to one another in
a most lamentable manner, telling one another they had got
into an enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants
in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there were
devils and spirits in it, and they should all be carried away
and devoured. They hallooed again, and called their two
comrades by their names a great many times -- but no
answer.

After some time, we could see them, by the little light
there was, running about, wringing their hands like men.in
despair: sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat
to rest themselves ; then come on shore again, and walk
about again, and do the same thing over again. My men
would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon them
at once in the dark; but I was willing to take them at some
advantage, so as to spare them, and kill as few of them as I
could. I was unwilling, too, to hazard the killing of any of
our own men, knowing the others were very well armed. I
resolved to wait, to see if they did not separate; and there-
fore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer,
and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their
hands and feet, as close to the ground as they could, that
they might not be discovered; and to get as near them as
they possibly could, before they offered to fire.

Having approached in the manner described, the captain
and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The
boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot
in the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till
an hour or two after; and the third ran for it. At the
report of the guns I immediately advanced with my whole
army, which was now eight men, namely, myself, com-
mander-in-chief ; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the cap-
tain and his two men, and three prisoners of war whom he
had trusted with arms. We came upon them, indeed, in
the dark, so that they could not see our number; and I
ordered the man they had left in the boat, who was now
one of our party, to call them by name, as I wanted to
' bring them to terms. So he called out as loud as he could
to one of them, ' Tom Smith! Tom Smith! ' Tom Smith
answered immediately, 'Is that Robinson P ' for it seems
he knew the voice. The other answered, 'Ay, ay; throw
down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men this
moment.' ' Whom must we yield to P Where are they? '
said Smith again.' Here they are,' said Robinson; " here's
our captain with his men, who have been hunting you these
two hours. The boatswain is killed; Will Fry is wounded,
and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are all
lost.' ' \Vill they give us quarter, then ? ' said Tom Smith,
' and we will yield.' ' I'll go and ask,' said Robinson. He
asked the captain ; and the captain himself then sung out,
'You, Smith, you know my voice; if you lay down your
arms immediately and submit, you shall have your lives.'

At the word they all laid down their arms, and begged
for their lives; then I sent the man who had spoken to
them, with two others, to bind them all; and then my
great army came up and seized them and their boat. I
kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of
State.

It now dawned upon me that the time of our deliverance
had come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the
ship. But I retired in the dark from them, that they might
not see what kind of a governor they had. I called the
captain to me; when I called, at a good distance, one of the
men was ordered to speak again, and say to the captain,
' Captain, the commander calls for you; ' and presently the
captain replied, 'Tell his Excellency I am just coming.'
This more completely amazed them, and they all believed
the commander was just by, with his army.

On the captain coming to me, I proposed a plan for
seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well; and we
resolved to put it in execution the next morning. Mean--
while, some of the prisoners were conveyed to the cave, as
to a prison ; and it was indeed a dismal place, especially to
men in their condition. The others I ordered to my bower,

and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was
secure enough.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them; in other words, to try
them, whether he thought they might be trusted or not to
go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of
the injury done him, of the condition they were brought
to; that if they were sent to England, they would all be
hanged in chains, but, if they would join in so just an
attempt as to recover the ship, he would get them the
governor's promise of pardon.

Anyone may guess how readily such a proposal would
be accepted by men in their condition. They fell down .
on their knees before the captain, and promised they would
be faithful to him to the last drop of their blood; that
they would own him as their father as long as they lived.
' Well,' said the captain, ' I must go and tell the governor
what you say, and see what I can do to bring him to con-
sent to it.' So he brought me an account of the temper he
found them in, adding that he truly believed they would be
faithful.

Our forces were now ordered for the expedition thus :--
First, the captain, his mate, and passenger. Second, the
two prisoners of the first gang, whom, having had their
character from the captain, I had granted pardon to, and
trusted with arms; Third, the other two that I had
hitherto kept pinioned in my bower, but, on the captain's
motion, now released. Fourth, the five last released: so
that there were twelve in all, besides a reserve of five,
whom we still. kept prisoners in the cave.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship ; but as for me and my man
Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir, having
seven men left behind. It was employment enough for us
to keep them asunder, and provide them with victuals. As
to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them confined;
but Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them
with necessaries.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with
the captain, who told them I was the person the governor
had ordered to look after them; and that it was the governor's
pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my direction ;
that if they did, they would be fetched into the castle, and
laid in irons. As we never sufl'ered them to see me as
governor, I appeared as another person, and spoke of the
governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, on all oc-
casions.

The captain now had no difficulty before him but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, over four
other men; and himself and his mate, and five more, went
in the other. And they contrived their business very well,
for they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as
they came within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail
them, and tell them he had brought 0!? the men and the
boat; but that it was a long time before they had found
them, and the like. He held them in chat till they came
to the ship's side, when the captain and the mate, entering
first, with their arms, immediately knocked down the
second mate and the carpenter with the 'butt of their
muskets; and they were faithfully seconded by their men.
They secured all the rest that were upon the main and

quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep
those down who were below.

Meanwhile our men of the other boat, entering by the
fore chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, making three
men, whom they found there, prisoners. When this was
done, and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate,
with three men, to break into the round-house where the
new rebel captain lay, He, having taken the alarm, got
up along with two men and a boy, all with fire-arms in their
hands. When the mate with a crow-bar split open the door,
the rebel captain and his men fired boldly among them,
wounding the mate with a musket-ball, which broke his
arm, and wounded two more of our men, but killed no-
body.

The mate, calling for help, now rushed into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the
rebel captain in the head. The bullet entering at his
mOuth, came out again behind one of his ears; so he never
spoke another word: upon this, the rest yielded, and the
ship was taken effectually, without any more lives being
lost. -

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon
with me, to give me notice of his success. This, you may
be sure, I was glad to hear, having sat watching upon the,
shore for it till two o'clock in the morning.

Having heard the signal plainly, I lay down, and, being
very much fatigued, fell sound asleep, when shortly I was
roused by the noise of a gun. Starting up, I heard a man
call me by the name of ' Governor.' It was the captain's
voice. There he stood, and, pointing to the ship, he
clasped me in his arms. 'My dear friend and deliverer,'
said he, ' there's your ship; for she is all yours, and so are
we, and all that belongs to her.' I cast my eyes to the
ship, and there she rode about half a mile off the shore, for
they had weighed anchor as soon as they were masters of
her; and, the weather being fair, had brought her to just
against the mouth of my little creek, just at my door.

I was, at first, ready to sink down with surprise; for I
saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands, all
things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away
whither I pleased to go. For some time I was unable to
utter one word; but, as the captain was holding me in
embrace, I held fast by him, otherwise I should have fallen
to the ground. He perceived my situation, and immediately
pulled a bottle out of his pocket and gave me a dram of
cordial, which he had brought with him on purpose for me.
After I drank it, I sat down upon the ground, and it was a.
good while before I could speak to him.

After some time I came to myself, andthen I embraced
him in my turn as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together.
I told him that I looked upon him as a man sent from Heaven
- to deliver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to
be a chain of wonders; that such things as these were the
testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence govern-
ing the world, and an evidence that the eyes of an Infinite
Power could search in the remotest corner of the world and
send help to the miserable whenever He pleased; and I
forgot not to return thanks to God for all His mercies.

When we had talked awhile, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship af-
forded, and such as the wretches that had been so long his
masters had not plundered him of. Upon this, he called
aloud to the men in the boat, and bade them bring the
things ashore that were for the governor; and, indeed, it was
a present as if it had been for one that was not to be carried
away with them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the
island still. First, he had brought me a case of bottles full
of excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira
wine (the bottles held two quarts a-piece), two pounds of
excellent tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and
six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hundred-
weight of biscuit. He brought me also a box of sugar, a
box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime--
juice, and abundance of other things. But besides these,
and what was a thousand times more useful to me, he
brought me six new clean shirts, six very good neckcloths,
two pairs of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair .of
stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of his own,
which had been worn but very little: in a word, he clothed
me from head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable
present, as any one may imagine, to one in my circum-
stances; but never was anything in the world so un-
pleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear
such clothes at their first putting on.

N

\
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good
things had been brought into my little apartment, we began
to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had;
for it was worth considering whether we might venture to
take them away with us or not. This was the case especi-
ally with reference to two of them, whom the captain knew
to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree; and he
said he knew they were such rogues that if he did carry
them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be de-
livered over to justice at the first English colony he should
come to; and I found that the captain himself was very
anxious about it. Upon this, I told him that, if he desired
it, I would undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to
make it their own request that he should leave them upon
the island. 'I should be very glad of that,' said the cap-
tain, 'with all my heart.' ' Well,' said I, ' I will send for
them, and talk with them for you.'

So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were
now discharged, their comrades having performed their
promise; I say, I caused them to go to the cave, and bring
up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and
keep them there till I came. After some time, I came
thither dressed in my new costume; and now I was called
governor again. Being all met, and the captain with me, I
caused the men to be brought before me, and I told them I
had got a full account of their villanous behaviour to the
captain, and how they had run away with the ship, and
were preparing to commit further robberies, but that Provi-
dence had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they
had fallen into the pit which they had dug for others. I
let them know that by my direction the ship had been '
seized; that she lay now in the harbour ; and they might
see by-and-by that their new captain had received the re-
ward of his villany, hanging at the yard-arm; that, as to
them, I wanted to know what they had to say why I
should not execute them as pirates, taken in the fact, as by
my commission they could not doubt but I had authority so
to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they
had nothing to say but this, that when they were taken,
the captain promised them their lives, and they humbly im-
plored my mercy. But I told them I knew not what mercy
to show them; for as to myself, I had resolved to quit the
island with all my men, and had taken passage with the
captain for England; and as to the captain, he could not
carry them to England, other than as prisoners in irons, to
be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship: the
consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the
gallows; so that I could not tell what was best for them,
unless they had a mind to take their fate in the island. If
they desired that, as I had liberty to leave the island, I had
some inclination to give them their lives, provided they
thought they could make shift on shore. They seemed
very thankful for the offer, and said they would much
rather venture to stay there than be carried to England to be .
hanged. So I left it on that issue.

However, the captain pretended to make some difficulty
about it, as if he diu'st not leave them there. Upon this, I
feigned to be a little angry with the captain, and told him
that they were my prisoners, not his; and that seeing I
had offered them so much favor, I would be as good as
my word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it,
I would set them at liberty, as I found them; and if he did
not like it, he might take them again, if he could catch
them. Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I ac-
cordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the
woods, to the place whence they came, adding that I would
leave them some firearms, some ammunition, and some
directions how they should live very well, if they thought
fit. Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship; but
told the captain I would stay that night to prepare my
things, and desired him to go on board in the meantime,
and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore
next day for me; ordering him, at all events, to cause
the new captain, who was killed, to be hung on the yard-
arm, that these men might see him.

When the captain had gone, I sent for the men to come
to my apartment, and entered seriously into conversation
with them on their circumstances. I told them I thought
they had made a right choice; that if the captain had car-
ried them away, they would certainly be hanged. I showed
them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship,
and told them they had nothing else to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I
then told them I would tell them the story of my living
there, and put them into the way of making it easy to
them. Accordingly, I gave them the whole history of the
place, and of my coming to it; shOWed them my fortifica-
tions, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured
my grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy.

I left them my fire--arms, viz. five muskets, three fowl-
ing-pieces, and three swords. I had about a barrel of
powder left ,- for after the first year or two I used but
little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of the
way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
fatten them, and to make both butter and cheese. In a
word, I gave them all the details of my own story; and
told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them
two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden-seeds,
which I told them I would have been very glad of. Lastly,
I gave them the bags of peas which the captain had
brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and increase
them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went
on board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but
did not weigh that night. The next morning early, two of
the five men came swimming to the ship's side, and, making
the most lamentable complaint of the other three, begged
to be taken into the ship for God's sake, for they should be
murdered, and begged the captain to take them on board,
though he hanged them immediately. Upon this, the
captain pretended to have no power without me; but after
some difficulty, and after receiving their solemn promises
of amendment, they were taken on board, and were, some _
time after, soundly whipped and pickled; after which they
proved very honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore, the
tide being up, with the things I promised to the men; to
which the captain, at my intercession,'caused their chests
and clothes to be added, which they took, and were very
thankful for. I also encouraged them, by telling them, that
if it lay in my power to send any vessel to take them, I
would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, as
relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella,
and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to take the money
I formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless
that it had grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass
for silver till it had been alittle rubbed and handled. And
thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found by
the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon
it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England the
11th of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five
years absent.

When I came to England, I wasas perfect a stranger to all
the world as if I had never been known there. I went down
immediately to Yorkshire; but my father was dead, and
my mother, and all the family extinct, except that I found
two of the children of one of my brothers; and as I had
been long ago given up for dead, there had been no provision
made for me.

____----_------------------
PRINTED B! BPOTTLBWOODB All) 00-. HIW-STKBBI BQUABI, LONDON.Adapted to the Requirements of School Libraries, Families,
and Working Men.

 

In course of publication, in Quarterly Vols., from January 1863,
THE

SHILLING ENTERTAINING LIBRARY

Edited by J. S. LAURIE,
Editor of 'The Graduated Series of Reading-Lesson Books.' 8w.

Three Volumes, viz. :-

GULLIVER'S TRAVELS,
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
CHRISTMAS TALES,

each with 6 full-page Illustrations, in square 18mo. price 1:.
cloth, or 9:1. sewed, are now ready. To be followed by--

m PILGRIM'S PROGRESS,
SANDFOBD AND .TON,
HISTORY OF THE PLAGUE,

EVENINGS AT HOME,
CHRISTMAS TALES. Second Series.

 

Tins object of this Library is which will be to some exte'nt

to provide the young, and. gene-

abridged by the exclusion of ob-

rnlly speaking, the less educated jectionable and uninteresting

sections of the community with a
set of readable books. The collec-
tion will be distinguished in va-
rious respects from others that
have a simiIsr aim. The volumes
will, first of all, be uniformly en-
tertaining; since the Library is de.
aimed precisely for a class- of
readers who demand, above all an
inducement to take a book_ into
their hands. The Library will in-
clude adaptations oi works of time-
honoured celebrity, such so Robin-
son Crusoe, Gulliver's Travels, &c.,

sages. It will also comprise reprints
of more modern works which have
equally received the stamp of po-
pular approbation. These will be
varied with newly-translated and
orizmsl works. The books will be
printed in a large, distinct type.
and strongly bound; and they will
be illustrated by a first-rate artist.
The price--One Shilling per volume
--will place the Librar within the
reach of the rest amilies and
the smallest e ementary schools.GRADUATED SERIES OF ENGLISH
READING-BOOKS.

 

W

In 5 vols. fcp. 8vo. price 10:. cloth, each of which Volumes
may be had separately as below,

THE GRADUATED SERIES

FIVE READINGiiESSON BOOKS

WITH EXPLANATORY NOTES ;

Adapted, as a Progre

ssive Course of Reading

, for all classes

of English Schools and Families.

Edited by J. S. LAURIE, Editor of 'Fancy Tales,' 'De
Viris Illustribus--a Latin Reader,' 6w.

Fms'r 13001:, 192 Pages, Sixth Edition 1 0
Snconn Boon, 256 Pages, Efllz Edition 1 6
Tnmn Boox, 312 Pages, Sixth Edition ....... 2 0
FOURTH Boox, 4-40 Pages, Sixth Edition ...... 2 6
FIFTH BOOK, 496 Pages, Second Edition ...... 3 0

THIS is an entirely new series

of Reading Books, carefully adapted
throughout to the requirements of
modern education. The Five Books
are arranged, each in corresponding
sections, on a serial and uniform
scheme of progressive, yet con-
stantly varied selections. Boots 1.
consists of rhymes and fireside
stories, fables and parables, and
short simple tales, all within the
comprehension of children who
have mastered the first steps in
reading. Boo: 11. contains mis-
cellanies, tales of adventure, ima-
ginative and real, anecdotes in
natural history, and ballad poetry,
--all- preliminary to the Third

Book. Boon III. comprises

literary selections in rose and
verse, descriptive trave, natural
history (With reference to the pre-
vious section), and narratives of
English history. 8001: IV. to which
the Third Book is introductory, is
a further extension of the same
general plan, with the addition of
a division on the more popular
branches of Natural Science and
Physics. sequentially arranged.
Boo: V. which completes the
course, forms a further advance
and a completion of the general
plan, and aims at answering the
practical purposes of a Class-book
of later English Literature.

in 0! this series of Reading-Lesson Books, upwards of 40,000 Volumes
have already been sold. .Now ready, in Two Parts, fep. Bro. Pan's I. price 311., Paar H.
price 6d. sewed 3 or complete, price 10d. cloth.

Or the whole cons icuously printed in bold type for Class

Teaching on a

t of Broadside Sheets, price 4:. 6d. or

price 7:. the Set of Bnoansmns mounted as 15
Oardboards, or 9:. 64!. with convenient IRON
Firm; the Inox Faun separately,
price 2:. 6d.

FIRST STEPS TO READING:

BEING

AN INTRODUCTION

TO THE
GRADUATED SERIES OF ENGLISH READING-BOOKS.

BY

J. S. LAURIE,

Editor of "The Graduated Series of English Readln

' De Viris lllnstribus--a La

ks.' ' Fancy Tales,'

tin Reader,' ' Rhyni , Jingles, and

Songs for Infant Schools: the.

 

THE present work, believed to
be the simplest and most ele-
mentary introduction to read-
ing hitherto prepared for the
use of children, is framed on
the Look-and-Say-system, but
it is, of course, equally applic-
able to the more usual method
of teaching reading. The
short and long vowels respec-
tively are treated as distinct.
The first section is devoted to
short vowels, in combination
with the consonants in the
order of their cognate sounds.
The second section treats of long

vowels and their respective
homogeneous sounds. Next
follow exercises on words
containing silent consonants
and the more prominent excep'
tional sounds. The conclud-
ing portion consists of short
and easy stories of smiscella~
neous description. Actual
words and sentences are in-
troduced in the very earliest
exercises, and the whole is
varied with tales, nursery
rhymes, and jingles, adapted
to the special head under

which they are placed.Nearly ready,
A COMPENDIUM~ OF MATHEMATICAL
.GEOGRAPHY,

For the use of Students and Candidate: for the Civil Service. By A.
H. DICK, M.A., Lecturer on Geography, Bree Church Normal College,
Glasgow. With a Preface b J. s. Lanna, Editor of the Graduated
Sofia "Reading-Lawn Boo .

 

1!! now be had in re at mu. . 64 "cc 1:. 641. that
"y ' org. clofltlefzred,' p" P'

RHYMES, JINGiLES, AND SONGS,

With Music for Voice and Piano, for Nureeriea and Infant Schools,
being a Musical Com union to ' First Steps' to the Graduated Series
of Reading Books. ited by J. S. LAURIE, Editor of the ' Graduated
8eriee,'-and of 'Fancy Talee,'&c., and Tuonaa Manny, Author of
the ' Musical Student'a Manual,' ' New Tunes to Choice Worde,' &c.

.l_._._______.

In Jammy adapted to the Re cutout: of the Booked Coda fit Si:
VOW, at price: oaryirugqft-'gtt Threepmc to Eighteenpcnlzc,

THE STANDARD SERIES OF CHEAP
READERS

FOR VILLAGE AND NIGHT SCHOOLS.

Edited b J. s. LAURIE, Editor of the ' Graduated Sarita a Readutg' -
y Leno: Booh,' &c. f

Tnpwedm SerleIofReadlu attractiveneea the information lu-
Booh heanattem toeupplyPoog tendedto he ganv ed will he intelli-
Sehoola with coneapuugluufi Ebb and exp in that
m)"- .2" "m "my '33"... m." gmwmguw
nor . a

lacedlnmonhvo dummatauoea. of all thevolnmea will be
Monawlflbeprwlvelygd: bodan clear, and the bindinxofa

ated: the Meet/- mandlaaflusducrlptiou.
a combing; <<13.111:va with

London: LONGMAN, GREEN, and 00., 14 Ludgato Bill.