, '.' born at York, in the year
I 1632, of a. good family. My
father's name was Kreutznaer, a
native of Bremen, who, by trading
:11. Hull, gained a very plentiful
fortune. He married my mother at;
York, and as her maiden name was
Robinson, 1 was called Robinson

SHED A SHUKE.

 

Ki'eutznuor, which not being easily

pronmmced in the English mngnc, we _

are now called, and, indeed, call: our-
selves, and write our name--Crusoe.

No pains or charge was spared in
my ediioalion, my father designing
me for the law; yet nothing would
sen-"e me, but I must go to sea; both

 

"warn-m.IKORln-'iS'()N 01: User, 011-" IIIS 1.2411 1'.

' against the will of my father, the roving desires, he assured me of a
tears of my mother, and the on- free passage. Without imploring a
treaties of friends. blessing, or taking farewell of my
I was then,l think, nineteen years parents, I took shipping on the 1st
old, when one time, being at Hull, 1 l of September, 1651, for London.
met a school-fellow, going with his After making several voyages from
father, who was master of a. ship to l thence to the Coast of Guinea, I
London; and telling him of my l finally sailed for the Brazils, and then4 Roh'mon C msoe.

northward upon the coast till our
ship made Cape Augustine, in order
to gain Africa, from whence, going
further into the ocean, we met with
a terrible tempest.

When the weather cleared up a
little, we found ourselves upon the

Coast of Guinea. We then laid our
course for the Leeward Islands; but
a second storm succeeding, drove us
to the westward ; so we were afraid
of falling into the hands of cruel sav-
ages, or the paws of beasts of prey.

In this distress, one of our men
cried out, "Land! Land !" which he
had no sooner said, than our ship
struck upon asand-bank, and the
sea. breaking over her, we expected
all to have perished immediately,

While we stood looking at one
another, expecting death every mo-
ment, the mate laid hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest, flung
it over the ship's side, and all getting
in, we committed ourselves to God's
mercy! When we had been driven
about a league and a half, a large
wave came rolling "astern of us, and
overset the boat.

I was overwhelmed with water,
goingl knew not whither, but, as I
thought, into a dismal gulf unknown!
While all my companions were over-
powered and entombed in the deep,
Iwas, at length, dashed against a
piece of rock, in such a manner as
left me senseless; but recovering a
little, before the return of the wave,
I pushed forward, and reached the
main land Tired and almost spent,

I sank down on the grass by the
cliffs of the shore, free from the
dangers of the foaming ocean.

I cast my eyes around, to behold
what place I was in. I could see no
house nor people; Iwas wet, yet had
no clothes; hungry and thirsty, yet
had nothing to eat or drink. The
darksome night coming upon me, I
got up into a thick, bushy tree, and
seating myself so that I could not
fall, a deep sleep overtook me.

It was broad day, the next morn-
ing, before I awoke, and came down
from the tree. The tempest had
ceased, and the ship lay about a mile
from the place where I was. I re-
solved to swim to the ship, and leaped
into the water. After I reached it,
I found great difficulty in getting on
board. Finding the provisions in
good order, I crammed my pockets,
and losing no time, ate while [was
doing other things.

I fell to work, and flung overboard
several spare yards, a spare topmast
or two, and two or three large spars
of wood, tying every one of them
with. a rope, that they might not
driftaway. Then I went down to
the 'ship's side, and tied the spars
fast together in the form of a raft,
and crossed them with plank, until I
found it would carry a considerable
burden. I then considered What'I
should load it with.

I first lowered down all the plank
and boards I could get, then three
seamen's chests; which I filled with
bread, rice, Dutch cheese, dried goat'sA;

Robinson Crusoe. g 5

flesh, and corn, some clothes, and
some bottles of wine; next the car-
penter's chest, some fowling-pieces,

weapons.

I then put to sea, and after many
trials, landed in a cave on the bank
of a little river. N 0t far off, I espied

a hill of great height, and there I

resolved to go and View the country,

that I mightsce what part of it was
1 found I -

best to fix my abode in.
was on an island, a place inhabited,
probably, only by wild beasts.

When I went back to my ratt, I

brought my efiects on shore, and ,
made a kind of hut with my chests
and boards, piling the empty chests

and casks in a circle to fortify it
against any sudden attack.

I had been twelve times on board
the ship, bringing away all that was
possible, including ship-stores, car-
penter's tools, ammunition, weapons,
etc., a compass and spy--glass, a large
amount of gold and silver, and when
I looked out the next morning the
ship was no more to be seen. I now
began to think how I should secure
myself from savages and wild beasts.
At one time I thought of digging a
cave; at another-I thought of erect-
ing a tent; and finally I resolved to
do both. I found a steep rock by
the side of a hill, and there I re-
solved my tent should stand. I drove
in two rows of stakes, inolosing a
space of some ten yards, in a half
circle; then with my boards and
plank I built me a little castle. I

 

had no door, but went in and out by
a ladder which I made. Here was

, 'my fortress, into which I carried all
powder and shot, beside several other >>,

my riches, ammunition and stores.
After this, I added accllar, thatched
the roof, and made many other im-
provements, which cost me many a
day's labor and pains. ,

r-During all this time I yearned for
some companion to whom I could talk.
I. had taken from the ship two cats
and a dog, and these often accompa<<
nied me in my rambles. On one of
those, coming upon some parrots, I
knocked one down, and took it home
with me. After a While, I taught it
to talk, and it did much to relieve the
dullness of my home.

At another time, I carried home a
kid, that my dog would have killed,
hadI not stopped him. I had been
often thinking of getting a kid or two,
and so raising a breed of tame goats,
and I thought this a good time to
make a beginning.

One day I found some barley and
rice springing up near my castle. I
had emptied an old sack at this place,
little thinking that the thoughtless
act would point out to me a way of
getting an amplesupply of food. But
so it happened; for it taught me to
raise crops; but it was a long time
before I learned to grind or sift my
grain, and to make it into bread.

During all my stay on the island,1
had kept a record of time, by cutting

, a notch each day upon a square post;

making the notches longer for Sun-
days than for other days, and longs"for the first day of each month than
for Sundays; and as each Sundav
came round: I made it a, day of 11
reading my Bible, and giving Lhnnks
to God, that He had been so merciful
to me, and made my solitary life so
comfortable.

A year had now passed, and every

 

11' UIHA'SON (3'11' USOE 3 LIL-J!)

     

 

INC HIS NET 07" L-'rlb'l'LI-I.

day I watched and prayed for some
means of deliverance from this place;
and than I began to think if it. was
not possible to make :1 canoe, such
as Indians make out of the trunk of a.
tree. At lastI selected. a tree. Twenty
days was I hacking; and hewing this
tree, fourteen in cutting; oll' the limbs,ltOb'INSON CRL _,

and a. month in shaping it like the
bottom of :1: boa-t. When it was com-
pleted, I found it was so large, that I
was unable to get it to the water,
and sadly gave up my undertaking.
In the height of this work. I found I

had lived four years upon the island. :

' The next year passed very quietly,

()l'! KEEPING THE SABBAT" DAY.

  

and although I was disappointed in
my first canoe, 1 made a. second one,
of much smaller size, but it was two
yen-1's before Illad finished it, and got
it to the water.

I now resolved to make a tour of
the island. T set out on the (3th of
November, in the seventh year of my8 . Roeimoiz Crusoe.

captivity. After awhile I brought my
boat safe to a little cove, and laid
down to take a welcome repose.
When I awoke,l left the boat, and
made a trip into the island. 1 found
plenty of delicious fruits, and brought
many back with me. '1 saw many
goats, with their kids, and I conceived
the id ea. 01' capturing them, by making
pitfalls and traps, baited with barley
and rice. I knew, that if I wanted
to furnish myself with goat's flesh, the
breeding them up, like a flock of

sheep, about my hut, was the only

method I could take.

On my return from my tour, I set
some traps, and one morning I found
in one of them an old lie--goat, and in
the other, one male and two female
kids. It was some time before they
would food; but after throwing them
some sweet corn, they began to be
tamer. I incloscd a piece of ground
to keep them in, and in about a. year-
and-a-hall's time, I had a flock of
twelve goats. I often gave them ears
of barley, or a. handful of rice, by
which means they grew very tame. In
two years more, I liadfOrt-yv.tlix-ee,1)c-
side what I had killed for my living.

One day, it happened, that going
to my boat, 1 saw the print of a man's
naked foot on the shore. Had I seen
a demon ol' the most frightful shape,
1 could not have been more con-
founded. I listened, and cast my
eyes around, but could hear nor see
anything. I returned to my castle,
frightened at every bush and tree,
taking everything for men, and my

 

mind filled with the wildest ideas.
That night my eyes never closed. In.
the morning I ventured out of my hut,
and milked my goats, but I was con-
stantly thinking of means to provide
me with greater security. I even
thought of pulling down my inclos--
ures, turning my cattle wild into the
woods, and digging up my corn-fields,
that the enemy might not find them,
and learn that I lived upon the island.

Some fifteen months afterward, in
the morning, before it was light, there
appeared from the sea-shore, a. flaming
light, about two miles from me, but
upon my side of the island. I was
struck with a terrible surprise, and
went at once to my castle, and pulled
the ladder after me. I loaded my
muskets and pistols, and resolved to
defend myself until my last breath.
Anxious to see what was going on, I
went to the top of a. hill, and there
saw nine naked savages, eating, as 1
Supposed, human flesh, with two
canoes hauled 11p, waiting for the
tide to carry them 011' again. After
they had gone,I went to the spot,

' and saw the blood, bones, and parts

of the flesh of the human bodies whom
they had eaten. I was so fired with
anger, that I was resolved to be re-
venged on the next who came there.

The chance came about a. year
later; but instead of two, there were
five, canoe--loads, containing over
thirty of the savages. Seeing so
great a number, my heart sunk with--
in mc. I saw their horrible orgies,
and I saw them drag two poor creat-19052525071 Crusoe. 9

ures from the boats. Soon, one of
them fell upon the ground, knocked
down, as I supposed, with a club,
or wooden sword. The other poor

creature looked around him with a .

wistful eye, but seeing himself a little
at liberty, nature, as it were, inspired
him with hopes of life. He started
from them, and ran swiftly along the
sands toward my castle. Two of the
savages pursued him, but he ran so
nimbly, that he gained on them every
moment. As he drew near my castle,

I seized my guns, and taking a short ,

cut down the hill, threw myself be-
tween the fugitive and his pursuers,
hallooing loudly, and beckoning him
to turn back, at the same time ad-
vancing on the two who followed
him, and rushing; on the foremost,I
knocked him down with the steak of
my gun. I was loth to fire, lest the
rest should hear. The other sayage,
seeing his fellow fall, took his bow

from his back, and was fixing his-

arrow to shoot me, when I was forced
to fire, and kill him. After I had killed
the two savages, the one pursued was
induced to come to me, but he did so

with fear and trembling, and kneeled ,

down and kissed the ground, and
placing my foot upon his head, gave

me to understand that he was my .
slave. I took him up, and made ,

much of him, in the best way I could.
He was a handsome fellow, well made,
with straight, long limbs, and seemed
about twenty-six years of age.

This happened on Friday, and I
gave him to understand that FRIDAY

 

' would be his name, because it was

upon that day I saved his life; then
I taught him to say Master, which, I
made him sensible, was to be my
name. I took him home with me,
and fed him, I also gave him a suit
of clothes, such as I had made for
myself from the skins of goats, and
other-animals, and, after awhile, I
taught him to do all the kind of
work that I had heretofore had to
perform, not forgetting to instruct
him in the Bible, and to cease all
werk on the Sabbath-day. Friday
proved himself a very sincere, loving,
and faithful servant: and, in a short
time, could understand nearly all that
I said to him, and I. began to love
him, and spared no pains to instruct
him. 1, too, learned many things
from him; not the least oi which was
bout-building; for by his aid. and
judgment, I was enabled to build
and launch a large boat, which I styled
my man-otlwar, and which I designed
to take me to land where Friday said
there were white men living.

One morning, while getting ready
for this expedition, Friday came run-
ning in to me, as though pursued
for life, crying, "O, dear Master! 0,
sorrow! 0, sorrow! Bad! O,bad!"

"' Why, What's the matter, Friday ?"
said I. "0, yonder! yonder!" said
he, " be one, two, three canoes! one,
two, three!" Surely, thought I, there
must be six, by my man's way of
reckoning, but on stricter inquiry, I
found there were but three.

"Well, Friday," said I, "don't beROBINSON (113015115 .SZEES FOOQ'I'A'INTS IN THE SAND.

terrified; 1 War'ant we will not
only defend ourselves, but kill most
of these savages." But though .I
comlbrlcd him in the best way
I could, the poor creature trembled
so, I scarce knew what to do with
him.

" 0, Master!" said he; "they cumel

; 1001;, F riday !

danger is as great as yours.

cut pieces, Friday!
cut-a-mc-up l"

"Why, Friday, said 1, "they will
eat me up as well as you; and my
But
since it is so, we must resolve to.
fight for our lives. What say you?
Can you fight, Friday ? "FRIDAY .KNHHLS T0 URL-'80!!! TO SHOW THAT {If} IS IIIS $11.4 l-"L'.

" Yes," said he, fainLly, " me shoot,
me kill what I can!"

"That's no matter," said I, again;
" our guns will terrify those we do not
Eiill. I am very Willing'to stand by
you 1.9 the last drop of my blood.
Now, tell me if you will do the like
by me, and obey my orders."

Friday answered, "0,. Master! me
lose life for you! me (lie when you
bid dic l"

We loaded two fowling-picccs, four
iunskcts, and two pistols, and divided
Lliem betwixt; us, hung my sword to
my side, and gave Friday a hatchet,
a fine weapon for defence; and then,
under this heavy load of armor, which
was increased by our extra powder
and shot, we marched in single file,
to a thick wood, that stood between
them and us. We found them all
about their fires, eating the flesh
of one of their prisoners, and that
another lay bound upon the sand.
1 ascended a tree, and saw by my
glass, that a white man lay upon the
beach, with his hands and feet tied
with things like rushes. v

Turning to Friday, I said: "New,
Friday, mind what I say; fail in

nothing, but do exactly as you see
' me do. Are you ready?" said I.
" Yes, Master," said he. "Then
fire at them," said I; and the same
moment I fired also.

We fired two or three rounds, and
then rushed upon them. The savages
were thrown into confusion, and so

bewildered, they knew not what to .

do. Cutting loose the white man,
who proved to be a Spaniard, I gave
him a sword and pistol, and he soon
out two of the savages to pieces.
Before our work of slaughter was
done, we had killed all but four of
the savages, and these had fled to
one of the canoes.

I jumped into one of the canoes,
and bid Friday fOIIOW me. But here
Ifound another creature, bollnd hand
and foot, with very little life in him.
I bid Friday speak to him, and tell
him hewas safe, and gave him a dram
from my flask. As soon as Friday
heard him speak, he went into trans-
ports. He kissed, embraced, and

 

hugged him; cried, laughed, danced,
sung, and wrung his hands like one

. distracted; and it was a great while

before I could make him speak; but
at last he told me he was his father!
We rubbed the limbs of. the two men
whom we had saved, and took them
to our castle, where we gave them
plenty to eat and drink.

A few days afterward, in talking
with the Spaniard, I learned that he
had been shipwrecked, with sixteen
of his fellow coimtrymen, and that
they were then dragging a pitiful
existence on the main land.

" If I should invite them here," said
I, "Would they make me a, prisoner,
or would they obey me, and work
with me in my little kingdom?"

"They are honest and true men,"
he replied, "and would scorn to act
so basely to their deliver-en". And
then he said, that if I pleased. he
and the old savage would go over
and talk with them about it, and
bring me an answer. That they
should all swear fidelity to me, and
he would do the same, and stand to
me with the last drop of his blood.

So, finally, I sent them over to the
main land with full power to carry
out this agreement.

Scarce a fortnight had passed,
when, impatient for their return, I
laid down to sleep one morning, but
was awakened by Friday, who called,
" Master! Masterl they are come."
I jumped from my bed, and seizing
my glass, looked toward the sea.
About half a league ofl', I saw a
boat. Climbing the mountain at the
back of my castle, .l plainly saw, in
the distance, an English ship. As
the boat drew near the shore, I per-
ceived that three within it were
prisoners, and .l was concerned to
know what was the object of their

visit to the island. I was glad when '

I saw they were set at liberty, while
the rascally seamen, leaving three in
the boat, scattered about. as though
they wished to see the place. The
three poor distressed creatures, too
anxious to get any repose, were seated
under the shade of a great tree.

I approached them, and asked,
" What are you, gentlemen '3" They
all started up. "Don't be afraid,"
said I', '4 perhaps you have a friend
nearer than you expect."
be from heaven," said one of them,
gravely, "for we are past the help of
man!" "Tell me your condition,"
I replied; "perhaps I can save you."
" The story," said he "is too long,
but, sir, {was master of that ship;
my men mutinied, and, as a favor,
they have put these two men, one
my mate,'the other a passenger, with
me, on shore without murdering us."

I then made conditions that they
should obey me while on the island,
and if I recovered their ship, they
should afford Friday and myself a
free passage to England. To which
they gave a cheerful assent.

Then I gave each a gun, with
powder and ball sufficient, and as
the mutinecrs returned, they fired
upon them. and killed one of the

" He must -

 

captain's chief enemies, and wounded
the other, who Called loudly i'oi' help.
"Sir-rah," said the captain, going up
to him, "'tis too late to call for
assistance; you should rather cry to
God to pardon yom' villainy," and
so he knocked him down with the
stock of his gun. Three others were
wounded also, and cried out for par-
don. The eaptain granted this, if
they would swear to be true to him
in recovering the ship; which they
solemnly promised to do. The other
three were easily made prisoners.

So far, all worked very well, but
still there were twenty-six hands on
board the ship, and they were sig-
nalizing for their comrades to return.
We made a small hole in the boat in
which they had come on shore. This
obliged them to send another boat,
with ten armed men, among whom
were three lads, who had been forced
into the mutiny. Leaving three men
to look after the boat, the other seven
started in quest of their companions.

One of our party led them a wild
chase, constantly answering their
calls, and in the meantime we sur-
prised and captured the men in the
bent. 0n the return of the other
seven, we fired at them, killing the
boatswain, and wounding two others,
while the rest ran about, wringing
their hands; but were glad enough

, to surrender, and submit to be bound.

The captain then expostulnted with
them, saying the Governor of the
island was an Englishman, who might
execute them here, but he thoughtthey would all be senl. to England.
'l'hejy' begged piteouslv to be spared,
and after awhile the captain, in the
,lovernor's name, agreed to pardon
them if they would aid him in
getting back the ship, telling them
they would be hanged in chains if
they acted in bad faith.

 

CRIISOb' AND FIE/DA Y REST-'0' '1} THE SPA .-\7I.4 RI).

We set out for the ship in two par-
ties, and eumpletely surprised these
on board. in the scuflle that ensued
the Pll'il.l.0 chief was shot. thmugh the
head, and a. few nthens were injured.

Nothing new remained but; to dis-
pose (Sf the prisoners. Consulting
with the captain, 1 dressed myselfBOBJA'ZS'ON (
in one of his suits, and sending For
them, told them 1' was going to leave
the ixland, with all my people= and
promised that their Jivcs should be
spared if they would eta-y there.
rI'hey agreed to stay. Then ,I. Lold
them my story, and giving; them every
information necessary for their sub-

.\

.-'I;'l NOE TAKING I.-

       
 

rr; .61" Tm." IS {NIL

 

| sistence, and bidding them farewell,

went on board the ship. The next
[morning we Weighed anchor, and
Friday and I bade adieu to the island;
and after an absence of twenty eight

 

| years, two months", and nineteen days,
' landed in my own country, hoping to

curl my days in peace.u mailing! ~
iwslmoi and {mm while 4' dug plenum, AM
in in dewbuping my Mun! they may haw in: 31mm

' ing- in warm colon;

PAINTING BOOK No

ART HOUR '
altos: Kane (xv-emviway.

,

IPAINTING BOOK: No.3.
sum-195' 1'0 AR'L',
H.114>> Kate: (:rcennway.
'mmrmc BOOK. No. 3. V
'?'x':>'U1\'c~.--Au-rrarn. -
[Rice 10 acuty: each

In": PIC-IIIRES 'J.'0 PAIK'I

'o wows. 1mm "(index the Wimlow.' dw'
. axially {Amuse t 'lxhen 'ny afqnling them
"qu18 (of mu iixtixeg. 4.; pictuie can in: yul.

11" mix IN I 1 "mm;

M
31! Mom: tha J"flunk, gmug 1111 I
my. (issuable mnnwm Sixiytiwo ifluslm .

Royal'

1)), {with o 111an in <<Mora {or cup)

Pdca 18 came each.

filv and sin, but wit-)1
liummons I'LL?" with

man :11: cam: a'ixch

Air-M11301>> mm.

w. 0de RNA hanks find. uuvzh's please If!
11111110113 mu>> films pnrtmy chs M 11
11mm, but: "my 'uuuceplin
' . :11'1'11' m6]; that own vac-11111113 "mm in film".
3 . "11135131110111: Plain. Ruyul Rm 5i" vagw Fin-
' Lingo? fumhmuu' picmvm cover.

Price 18 cents oach.

him: the 'Gormxm. (.-:111Iniuiug " 'I)1< R-n- 111x! . .
Bil? 'L'lm Children and Lh..PS.)p(1as "11 c
'15:: and To'm and the: B]! '1'; a
31m Iauglmble. am. the "lawn nmx mu (11;. siul
plaiu' 1.; film words Ruy'nl Svu .31) nnges. Ninety-
Imeiiius'meious. Plain. Pifloml xmcr 1n mam

. 3 ' Priag; .15 cents each

for childxun

my liouk b>> 1:!1iln'1e11.oaumim
Mist, 11131 . fibnmfwinm
fixiuiug 3.11me dcsxm'ilmx the 111m--
.1151 111 axlvcuhnm 1 {1. li a bu) MM gill Who nailed
u'i'onud Um WM. 111 11 \'l :11": 3111111 Bizn_1mu.az
3 mes
Price 1.8 cents 93gb.

HANS 'I'HLTJIBLING. AN U OTHER STORIES)

1531131111111 I'lnm "1'13 Gcnuwv. xvii-Ix Infly five: musical
illumlnfiom.

This odd mid en' <<mining 'houk iR full of pictures
1.11.1: ovetfio" with lmflglmble emu, 1:11-51!) 1113161610011,
112111 char In the 31111111351 mulch: that

l (IVER. BILL

I men design>>. hv. Alias Ida Wang
childM-xiintmgdr-g) -.SS jyfinbaxl
33nd <<113311113 mutenfcksefip
flfly hm PS1235>> inn-36mm! pages,
{1M 41,."- '15: 3:9: (mt!

FUN 17111111 161'

" is add. and 111111:

ads. with Fighters: [11)!- 1mg
: 11ml n1 colds. I her imI-IA chin
31mm. on fine papa: c wbuhje
elegant 11ml 11.2mm: nooks of 1]:
In: "11:1 in hum. bmm'ls' '

{PS12111 Rah: .
mvaymlracdve, -.
duct mm Hrs-.113
Bomul' m fancy baud cumin

1 x1111.
Prion, Slzicach.

WONDERFUL Tumsrolwm'rums. on -
I-flwanmm TOY BOOK-S.

Each Imok contains the 141- wane-s. 11nd nine trick '
(11-1111ng nuxkiizg lmn-reau ummmnons in 1d) will!
1,211 pane" of :11>> mi - -1 m- n; m sev1'\.1'hzym'a
elegantly 3113 10:>>, an $111: transit-1" '
'51qu 2'. h rth 1! 1m].

. Fix-u Runs---
no "Aladdin,
31'33"I"-'"'1; :
~- n cam
Biuepseim. y'
--Puss in Boots

rung 35 09:01:: each;
5:111:61! haw IAn-r (main.

1.
'Pantumi:

 

McLOUG-HLIN BROS" PUBLISHERSW-- NEW YORK;