x
SR
eon Tami"

' "1 \<< '- \ \
\\\\\ \\\\' \

,X\ .

\ ~\ xxx

"mm

.} K \W1m mum many
mumm-

9171193 "2:...THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
(W

ROBINSON CRUSOE.THE LIFE

AND

STRAIVGE S URPRISIN G AD VENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

0f Y 0136, fllmimr.

AS RELATED BY HIMSELF.

BY

DANIEL DEFOE.

PVit/z upward; of One Handred [llmtmlians

 

CASSELL & COMPANY, LIMITED:

ZONDOM PARIS, A'EPV YORK e" MELBOURNE.

[ALL wants xzzsxnvxm]LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

   

     

     

"on"...

YAGB
ansox: 0: 1m: 15mm... . . 1
Cannon ADVISED HY HIS FILTER" ... ... ... ... ... u. u. .A. ... 5
Tm: suuwnms m Yuma-m Roma 9
Tu Annex m' m1: Sums Box-ml . . 12
CKIISOK A Shun" .. 13
Carson mums wrrn Xumr 17
('HL'SOE "cm I)? 11" TH]! PORTUGUW'R SHIV .:. '11
Cnuson mm mm Pmnnmu . u . 2"
Tm: Smrwnscx .. A 29
(mason Lemma ma RM'I' 33
Cannon mums A mum TKNT WITK .\ Em, A. 37
Cum: wnmyc. ma JOURNAL .. 41

Cnnson mscoums Gone oxmlswn. 45

     

3mm"! msmvuus THE 1-!"an 49
Tux W350: . . .. 58
CRCSOR mum .\ Tum": - 57
Gilliam: um, 31;;an m Bun-s GI,
cause): mum": 353mm 55
Ckuam'. m Hm anml .. 69

030303 manna; m3 YOUNG Kn) . .. fl 73
Cnuson somccoxm ,. 77

   

 

 

0::th mam-ms nus PARROT m 'r.u . . 81
Cnuson was A Bo." ' 85
Cnusoz "mo A Con . 89
Cnusm: mm; our or ms ()nmx .. 9:1
lumen n Dmxxx .. '4?!
0mm: was A 1'00"an m flu: 8mm 101
human mnmm ('mus u. 105
Gamma mxozs A PAumux you ms Gum's 109
0110301: ox nu: Loon-om on war: mu. 113

him-1m: EINDH A DHXG GOAT". 117

     

Cnuso}: m ms Fom' .. . 121
Cannon mus rm: Smmxxr smr 125
(mum): sumrmu IN ms Bo." .. 12'.)
Damn AND Fawn 133
l'mmn' mnu'mu Tm: Dun .. 137

Owson AX!) FRIDAY our Snoomw . . 1-H
. Onusan msmucmm Emmy . 146
Carson Mm mer ox TH; Hun 149

 

Cnuaonn>>1?nnmr mum's Woo>> 153
(mason rmscum m1: Smswm 157

CBUBOP. (:om-wmxr. mm mm Smxuw 161

     

(mnspn 31:35 a" Exozmx Sum '. .. 165
01mm>> stcovzns unusual 10 1mm Exams}! (2511mm 159
THE 31:. "Kama n. . . 1'53
TEE Hummus ovzxrmmunn 1'37

Dunn mt TH): Rum. (Lu-mm

.. 181
Tm: Onnux Mum: AT nu: YARD-ABM
<<mason "mum AT Lmox
C'sunos's TEMP ox rm: MARCH
FRIDAY mm 1-1"! Emu ' '

Tun wou'm muvxm on
Oxumm Human."

Cncsox'a Farm .vr Bum/mm
Tau anwn Sun: 0\ Fm U .,
Tun chunn CREW ox Dncx on 03:50>>! 5m?
stnusnm "mm. AT SEA
Fawn up 1am FA-mu'n
On '50); wmcoxzn m- mx Srmnn
Tin: Pmnx mum 1m: Hm
Tum Yuma!>> xx mu Wonus

Smxunn rnmcmc wax SAVAGR

'1'>>): Pndvrls mums m ISLAM)

Bums>>! "mum

Samara! or Suzanna Sumo>>;
Tux Enomsmx 913m nu: Sum}: To A Tum;

A RAFFLE ..

Wm. A1ms' Ins-L.
Canaan AS!) um Sputum comnsxss 'IOGLTHHR
Osvsoxs anxwmm Inmm:

Gaom- on EU" wmm ma Hm.
CRHNDR CHNVRMIXH WITH 'I'KK PRIEHI' ...
Cncsox .ma ms rams:

Wm. A'mnm AND ms "Wm

Wm. A'rxnm, Guano>>, AND mesr
Panza AND NEGRO WOMAN

Carson GIVES AYKINS A 15an
FARKWHIIL 70 THE "LAND ...

I'm-.m- ow muons".

Tm: Bum. or FRIDAY

Tm; Can. an Gum) Home

vasow [mum's AT Hammscw
Bummm rm: Vmeu
Tm: Mun-my ~-

Snmm momm m Smut or' Nuacm

Crumm m! Roars .
S-mpmxc LEAK?! [N Tm: SHIP...

     

   

 

   

 

   

TARMKGTID} BLACKS

0mm>>.- xN-mxmx: A (35(1me Pmu' . . '
Cxuuon INTRODUCED TO A 0312mm MERCHANT
TH}: 0m or Nam
C'nuson mm mex
Tm: GKKAT WALL or CHINA ..
Tux Tnmn Anny
Fuel" 05>> nu: TARTAH}!
Cnmn AX!) m3 Tum-.1 10m.
CRUSOR AND 1mm! m Tuna!
Oxusux (moms); I'm: D53": 1: TAnum'
Causal: 3.1mm: AT 'L'onoxsx

Gavan): AND_"'HX Rustin)! EXILE ..

Sm mama Ana-mm"

     
 

 

viii

 

 

no:
.. 18:!

193

ESSSSESSSSSS

-r

'22!)
233
23?
2-11
2-55
249
263
2'37
261

 

 

273

 

316INTRODUCTION.

J'WW

E FOE published "Robinson Crusoe" in 1719, under the
{OHOWiug quaint title: " The Life and Strange Surpris-
ing Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, 01' York, Mariner:

 
   
 

who lived eiglib-and-twenty years all alone in an unin-
habited island on the coast of Aixierica, near the mouth
of the great River Oroonoque; having been cast on share
by shipwreck, wherein all the men perished but. himself.
_ i '. "'ith an amount. how he ivas at last strangely delivered by Pirates.
3"; Written by himself." '

Like " Paradise Lost," this romance, destined to so immediate and
lasting a popularity, is said to have been ntliercd to "the whole circle
of the trade" before any publisher could be found willing to incur

v

the risk of producing it. William Taylor, of the Ship, in Paternoster Row,
finally agreed to purchase it, for, it is believed, a very moderate sum of
money. He is said to have realised PS1,000 profit. Its success was so great.
that four editions were printed in as many months. It appeared, in the first.
instance, with the following preface :--

If ever the story of any private man's adventures in the world were worth making
public, and were acceptable when published, the Editor cf this account thinks this will
be so' -

The wondeis of this man's life exceed all Lint (he thinks) is to he found exbmt; the
life of one man being ammo capable of a greater variety.

The story is told with modesty, with seriousness, and with a ruliginus application of
events to the uses to which wise men always upgly them; via, to tho inst-rmfion of others,
by this example, and to justify and honour the wisdom of Providence in all the variety of
circumstances, let them happen how they will.

The Editor believes the thing to be 9. just hislory of fact; neither is there any
npyennmce of fiction in it: and however thinks, because all snub. things are disputed, that
the improvement of it, as well to the diversion n: to tho instruction of the reader, will be the
some; and as such, he thinks, without farther compliment to the world, he does them a.
great service in the publication.

There is no truth in the story, so often repeated, that "Robinson Crusoe"

was the first tale published inn serial form. That it did appear in a journal called
ix
" The Original London Post, or Heathcoie's Intelligence," is a. fact beyond
dispute. We have, however, (:arofillly compared the tale as it there appears with
the original edition. It is manifestly a pirated copy. J ust so much of the work
is printed as contains the story, with all the reflections omitted. Besides, the date
of publication is subsequent, by a few months, to the time when we know the
complete work appeared.

The great success of the first part induced De Foo to write a second, which
was published in August, 1719 ; Part I. having appeared in the previous April.
A map of the world accompanied it, to give a greater appearance of truth to the
tale, on which the travels of Crusoe were indicated, and its proper place assigned
to the island.

In the following preface to it the author lashes with deserved severity the
conduct of those who had published pirated and abridged editions of his work :--

Tha success the former part of this work has met with in the world has yet been no
other than is acknowledged to be due to the surprising variety of the subject, and to the
agreeable manner of the performance.

All the endeavours of envious people to reproach it with being a. romance, to Heard: it
for mom in geography, inconsistency in the relation, and contradictions in the fact, have
proved abortive, and as impotent cs mulicimu.

The just application of every incident, the religious and useful inferences drawn from
:vary poi-t. one so many testimonies to the good design of making it public, and must
legitimate all. the ynrt that may be called invention or parable in the story.

The second part, if the Editor's opinion may puns, is (contrary to the usage of second
puts) every way as entertaining as the first; contains as strange and surprising incidents,
and as great a variety of them 1 nor is the application loco serious or suitable; and doubtless
will, to the sober as well as ingenious reader, be every way as profitable and diverting ; and
this makes the abridging this work as scandalous as it is knavish and ridiculous ; seeing, to
slmricn the book, that they may seem to reduce the value, they strip it of all these re-
floetions, us well religious no moral, which are not only the greatest beauties of the work,
but are calculated for the infinite advantage of the reader.

By this, they leave the work naked of its brightest ornaments; and yet they would
(at the some time they pretend that the Author has supplied the story on: of his in-
vention) take from it the improvement, which alone recommends that invention to wish and
good men.

The injury those men do to the proprietors of works is a practice all honest man
abhor; and they holievo they may challenge them to show the difl'cronco between that and
robbing on the highway or hmuking open (t house.

If they can't show any difl'erenoe in the crime, they will find it hard to show why
there should'bo any difl'cmnco in the mmishmeni'.

A few words on the source whence the author derived the idea of his romance
will be appropriate in this place. We can hardly doubt that De Foe conceived
the idea. of " Robinson Crusoe " from the story of Alexander Selkirk. This
man's adventures had been made public, and excited wusidernble attention, seven

years before the publication of " Robinson Crusoe." Wilson, the biographer of
x A
De Foe, says, "His real name was Selemig, which he changed to that of Selkirk
when he went to son. He was born at Largo, in the county of Fife, in 1676,
and, after a common school education, was put to his father's business, which
was that of a shoemaker. Being a spoiled child, he soon discovered a wayward-
nosa of temper that. gave much uneasiness to his parents; whilst an early pro:
pensity to the sen. rendered his empioyment irksome. At length'an incident
occurred that put him upon indulging his humour; for, being brought under
church-censure for irregular conduct when he was eighteen years of age, rather
than submit, he suddenly left home, and was never heard of for six years. It
is supposed that he was with the buccaueers in the South Seas. In 1701 we find
him again at Largo, but the same intractable pemon as ever, being engaged in
constant broils with his family. As the sea was his favourite element, he did not.
continue long in Saitland, but, going {7: London, engaged with Captain Dampier
upon a cruising expedition to the South Seas. This was the voyage that rendered
his subsequent history so interesting to the lovers of romance.

" Being appointed sailing-master .of the Cinque Ports galley, a companion
to the St. George, commanded by Dampier, he left England in the spring of
1703, and, after various adventures, both vessels reached the island of Juan
Fernandez in the following February. After staying some time to ro--fit, they
sailed again in quest of booty; but a violent quarrel arising between Selkirk and
his commander, Strndliug, which scttlcd into a rooted animosity, the former
resolved to take the first opportunity of leaving the vessel. This occurred at the
beginning of September, 1704, when her crazy state obliged Stradling to return
to J nan Fernandez for fresh repairs ; which being completed, Selkirk bid a final
adieu to his comrades at the end of the same month. Upon this island he lived
by himself four years and four months, until he was released by Captain Woodcs
Rogers, in the month of February, 170.9. He was then engaged as a male on
board of Rogers' ship, the Duke, and accompanied him during the remainder of
the expedition, conducting himself much to the satisfaction: of his employer. At

'Iength, after a long and fatiguing cruise, Selkirk arrived in England, in the
month at October, 1711, with e booty of PS800, after an absence of rather more
than eight years." "

Like Cmsoe, Selkirk could not settle to a quiet life on shore; his not
less nature drove him again to sea ; and he is said to have died on beard shin in
1723. On his first appearance in London he'attracted a good deal of attention,
and Sir Richard Steele gave an account of his residence on the island, and his

' Wilson's " De Foe," vol. iii, 1). M8.
xi
 

feelings while there, in a paper published in a. journal called " The English-
man." ,

We do not attach the slightest importance to a story dictated by the male-
volence of De Fee's political enemies, that Selkirk placed a manuscript, detailing
his adventures, in De Fee's hands for publication; but that, instead of doing
justice to him, he applied the materinls so obtained to his own use. The host
authorities have deliberately rejected this idle tale.

In so far as Selkirk passed :1 certain number of years on an uninhabited
island, he may he truly said to have furnished the idea. of Crusoe; but if we are
compelled to admit that he is the central figure in the picture, the subordinate
figures, the grouping, and the scenery are altogether due to the genius of
De Foe. Herein he nfi'ords an exact parallel to Shakespeare, who derived the
plots of his immortal dramas, now from an Italian romance, now from passing
events.

Whatever may have been the origin of the tale, however virulent may have
been the attacks made against its author, as he himself says, by political enemies
and senseless critics, the judgment of the moat enlightened men of all nations
has placed " Robinson Crusoe" upon a. height which no sounds of' animosity can
now reach. What pleasure has this wonderful tale given, and still gives, to all
readers l Young and old, rich and poor, find in its pages an unfailing source of
pure delight.

It blends instruction with amusement in a way no other production of human
intellect has ever succeeded in doing. While depicting a. solitary individual
struggling against misfortune, it indicates the justice and the mercy of Providence ;
and while inculcating the duty of self-help, asserts the complete dependence of
mm upon a. higher power for all he stands in need of.

If we consider novels in their relation to life, " Robinson Crusoe" must win
the prize for truthfulness and reality. How naturally the incidents occur!
There is no deference shown by the author to the exigencies of his story, nor
to dramatic eli'eot. The characters appear as they do in real life~exereise some
influence for good or evil on the principal figure in the tale--~and then disappear,
to he seen no more. Take, for instance, Xury. Would not a. novelist of less
power have brought him forward, over and over gain, after he had once introduced
him as the faithful friend. of the here? But De Foe saw fit to do otherwise.
Xury is brought upon the stage ; assists the eseupe m" the chief personage in the
drama. ; and is seen no more. Is not this the way of real life? I

Nor does the effect of reality stop here. So natural are all the characters,

XII
that we scorn to know them personally--to he ourselves assisting at the Scenes
recorded in it.

For these excellencies the learned and the good have uniformly permstorl in
singling out " Robinson Crusoe " for special commendation. To mention only
two--Rousseau held that. it was the book a boy should read first. and read longest.
Dr. Johnson remarked,- " Was there ever anyflihig written by more man film. was
wished longer by its readers, excepting ' Don Quixote; ' Robinson Crusoe,' and
the ' Pilgrim's Progress '1' ' "

In conclusion, we present. to our readers the touching lines in which C(nV'PM'
suyposos Alexander Selkirk to record his feelings :--

I am monarch of all I survey,
My right; there is nmm to dispute ;
From the centre all round to the sea,
.1 am lord-of the fowl and the brute.
O Solitude! whom are the charms
That sages have seen in thy I'm .9
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,
Thaw. mign in this horrible glace.

I am out of humanity's reach.
I must finish my journey alone,

Never hear the sweat music of speech>> --
I start at the sound of my own.

Tho beam, 11ml; zoom over the plain,
My form with indifl'erenoa sea;

They are so umcgua-and wiLh mnn,
Their {amenees is shocking to me.

Snuiuty, friendship, and. love,
Divinely heslow'd upon mnn,
Ohl had I the wings of n dove,
How soon would I taste you gain!
My sorrows I fhen might assungo
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might loam from the wisdom of ago,
And be ohsm-'d by the unifies of youth.

Religion) what treasure untold
Besides in that heavenly word!

More pmcious than silver and gold,
0: all. that this earth can word.

But the sound of the (hutch--going boll
Those valleys and rocks never heard,

Never nigh'd at the sound of n knell,
Or smiled. when a. Sahbnfh uppeen'd.

Yo winds, that have made me your sport.
Convey to this desolate shore
Some cordial, ondoaring report
Of a land I shall visit no more.
xiii
My friends, do they now animal: and
A wish or a. thought other ma 2'

0h! tell me I yet have a. friend, . _
Though a friend I am never to see.

How fleet is a glanoe of the mind!
Campy-ml with the Hpeed of its flight,
The tax/upset itaelf lags behind,
And the swifL-wing'd arrows of light.
'Vhen I think of my own native land,
In amoment I seem to be there;
But, ulna! recollection at hand
Soon hurries me back to despair.

But the sea fowl is gone to he: heat,
The beastis laid. dawn in his lair;
liken here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There'u mercy in every place,
. And mercy, cumin-aging thought!
Gives even. affliction a. grace,
And reconciles man to his lot.WAS born in the your 1632, in the city

of York, of a good killily, though not
of that country, my father being a foreigner,
of Bremen, 'who settled first at. Hull : he got;
a good estate by merchandise, and leaving 01'?
his mule, lived afterwswds at York; from
whence he haul married my mother, whose
; relations were named Robinson, a very good
family in than: country, and from whom I
was called Robinson Krcntznncr ; but, by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are
now called, my, we cull ourselves, and mlw
our name, Crusoe; and no my companions
always called me.
 

I had two older brothers, one oi'whom was lieutenant-colonel to on English regiment
of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous Colonel Locklxa-rt, and was killed
at the bottle near Dunkirk against; the Spaniards. What became of my vol-mid brother
I never knew, any more than my Either or mother did know what was become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my hood begun
to be filled very early with raunlfling thoughts: my fizbher, who was very ancient,
1m) giwu me a. compehmli shore of learning,-ns hit as housoeduoation and a. country
free-school generally gem, and designed me for the law; but I would be satisfied
with nothing but going to sea; and my inclination to this led me so strongly
against; the will, nay, the commands, of my father, and against- :Ill the entreoties
and persuasion of my mother and other fi'iends, that there seemed to be something
fainl in that. propension of nature, tending directly to the life of misery which was to
befall me. i

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent; counsel against
what he foresuw was my design. He called me one mourning into his chamber, where
he was confined by the gout, and ciqsostulawl very warmly with me upon this subject:
he asked me what reasons more than n more wandering inclination, T had for leaving
my father's house and my native country, where I might be well introduced, and had a.
prospect of rnisiug'my fortune by application and indush'y, with a. life of ease and
pleasure. He told me it was man of desperate fortune: on one hand, or of aspiring,
superior foituneos on the other, who went abroad upon aulventurts> to rise by enterprise,
and make themselves famous in undmakings of a. nnturc out of the common road;
that these things were all either too rm above me or too far below me ; that. mine was
the middle state, or what might he called the upper station of low life, which he had
found by long espeiienoc was the best state in the world, the most suited. to human
happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labour and sufferings of the
mechanic port of mankind, and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and
envy of line upper part of mankind. He told me, I might judge of the happiness of
this state by this one thing, viz, that. this was the state of life which all other people
envied ; that kings have frequently lamented the miserable consequence of being born
to great. things, and wished t-heylind been placed in the middle of the two extremes,
hetweonhho mean and the great. 3 that the wise man gave his testimony to this, as the
just. standard of true felidby, when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches

lie bode me observe it, and 1 should always find, that; the calamities of life
were sham] among who upper and lower pun of mankind 3 but leb the middle station
hall (he fewest; disasters, and was not exposed to so many viomicudes as the higher or
lower part of mankind 3 nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
unensiness either of body or mind, as those were who, by vicious living, luxury, and
exfn'nvugnncrs on' one hand, or by hard labour, wont- ot necessaries, and mean or
insufficient, diet- on the other hand, bring distempors upon themselves by the nsburnl
consequences of their Way of living ; that the middle slmhion of life was calculated for
all kind of virtues and all kind of enjoyments ; that peace ond plenty were the haml-
maids of n middle fortune ; that tempemuoe, moderation, quietness, healuli, society, all
agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were the blessings "bending the middle
station of life 5 that this way men wcnr; silently and smoothly through the world, and
cmmbrtslnly out of it, not. embarrassed wich the labours. of the hands or of the head, nor.
smd to 9. life of slavery for daily bread, nor harassed wibh perplexed circumstances,
which rob the soul of peace, and the body of rest; nor aimed with the passion of

2CRUSOE AT HOME VV'l'l'H HIS EATHER.

 

envy, or the secret burning lust of ambition for great things ; but, in easy circum.
stances, sliding gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of living)
without the bitter ; feeling that they are happy, and learning by every day's experience
to know it mom sensibly.

After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most afl'eobionem manner, not to play
tho young man, nor to precipitate myself into miseries which Nature, and the station of
life 1 was born in, seemed to have provided agrinsl. ; that I was under no necessity of
seeking my bread; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly
into the stellar} of life which he had just; been mwxnumndmg to me ; and (Jim. if I was
not very easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere fate or fuult that must
hinder if. ; and that he should hen-v0 nothing (0 answer for, having thusdischm'god hie
duty in warning me against measures which he knew would he to my hurt ; in a word,
that us he would do very kind things for me, if 1 would stay and settle of. home as he
directed, so he would not have so much hand in my misfortunes as to give me any
encouragement to go away ; and lo close ull, he Lold me I had my older brother for an
cxmnple, to whom he had used the name earnest persuasious to keep him from going
into the Low Country wars, bul- uould not prevail, his young desires prompting him to
run into the army, where he was killed; and though he said he would not cease to
prey for me, yet he would venture to my to me, that if I did. take Lhis foolish step, God
would not bless me, and I should have leisure hereafterto reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when lhom mighs be none r10 assist in my recovery.

I observed in this last purl: of his discourse, which was truly prophetic, though I
suppose my father dill not know it to be so 'lrimself; I say, I observed the term; run
down his face very plentifully, especially when he spoke of my brother who was killed;
and that when he spoke of my having leisure in repenti and none to assist mo, hr: was
.so moved that he broke off the discourse, and told me his heart was so full he could say
no more to me. .

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed who could be otherwise? and
I resolved not. to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at home Moording to my
lhi-hcr's desire. But, alas I n; few days wore it all off 5 and, in short, to prevent any of my
iii-that's further import-unifies, in u few weeks: after I resolved to run guild) away from
him. However, I did not not quite so hastily neither as the first heat of my resolution
prompted, but I tool: my mother at a time when I thought her a little more pleasant
than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the
world, that I should never settle to anything with resolution enough to go through with
in, and my {other had better give me his consent than force me to go without it. 3 that I
was now eighteen years old, which we>> too late to go apprentice to a turtle, or clerk to
an attorney ; than I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out my time, but I slmuld
certainly run away from my nmulm' before my time was out, and go to sea; and if she
would speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and
did not like it, I would go no more, and I would promise, by u double diligence, to
recover the time that. I had lost.

This put my mother into a. great passion ; she told me she knew it would be to no
purpose to Hpoak to my {other upon any such subjeob ; that he know too well what. was _
my interest to give his consent to anything go much for my hurt; and that she
wondered how I could think of any such thing after the discourse I had hncl with my
fut-her, and such kind and Lender exprmions as she knew my father lmd used to me;
and that, in short, if 1 would ruin myself, there was no help for me; but 1 might

3
 

depend I should never have their consont to it; that for hor port, she would not have
so much hand in my destruction ; and I should never have it to say that. my mother
was willing "hon my father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet I heard afterwards that she
reported all the discourse to him, and that my father, afiter thawing n grout. concern
at it, said to her with a sigh : "That boy might be happy if he would stay at home ;
but if he goes shroud, hr: will be the most miserable wrctch that ever was hum 5 I can
give no consent to it."

It was nnl; Lill almost a your after this that T broke loose, thoughhin the mean time,
I continued obstinately denf to all proposals of settling to business, and frequently
oxpostulaled wilh my father and mother about; their lming so positively dismounted-
against what they knew my inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at Hull,
whither I went casually, and without any purpose of making an elopoment at that
time 3 but I say, being there, and one of my companions being going by sea to London
in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with Lhmn, with the common alluromcnt of
a. smfiiriug man, that it should cast me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither
'i'nthcr nor mother any mom, nor so much assent them word of it ; hut leaving them.
to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing, or my foflicr's, without any
cunnidemtion of circumstances or, consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on tho-
lst of September, 1651, I went on board a. ship bound for London. Never any young
adventurer'u minim-tunes, I believe, begin aooner or continual longer than mino. The-
ship was no sooner got out of the Humbcr than the wind begun to blow, and the
sm to rise in a most frightful manner ; and, as I had never been at sea before, I was
most inexprmihly sick in body, and terrified in mind. I began now seriously to
reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of
Heaven for my wicked leaving my father's house, and abandoning my duty. All
the good counsels of my parents, my father'a foam and my mother's entreaties, come
now fresh into my mind ; and my conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of
hardness to which it has came since, rcpronchcd me with the contempt of advice, and
the breach of my duty to God and my father. _

All this while the storm increased, and the sea. went very high, though nothing. like-
whiit 1 have seen many times since 3 no, nor what I saw 9. few days after; but it was
enough to affect me then, who was but 0. young sailor, and had never known anything
of the matter. I expected every wave would hn-ve swallowed us up, and that every
time the ship fell down, as I thought it did, in the trough or hollow of the son, we.
should never rise more : in this agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions, that
if it would please God to spare my life in this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot
upon dry land again, I would go directly home to my father, and never set it into a.
ship again while I lived; that 1' would take his Advice, and never run myself into such
miseries as these any more. New I new plainly the goodness of his observations about
the middle station of life, how easy, how comfortable he hud lived all his days, and
nm-'or had been exposed to tempesis at sea, or troubles on shore ; and, in short, I
resolved that I would, like a. true reprinting prodigal, go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the. while the storm lasted, and indeed
sometime afier; but the next day the wind was abated, and the sea cnlmcr, und I began
to he a little inured to it: however, I was very grave for all that day, being also a.
little seasick still ; but towards night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over,
and a charming fine evening followed ; the sun went down perfectly clear, and rose 50-

4
 

 

the next morning 5 and having little or no wind, and a smooth sea the sun shining upon
it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.

1, lmd slept well in the nfght, and was now no more sen-sick, hut very cheerful,
looking with wonder upon the son that was. so rough and terrible the day before, and
could be so calm and so pleasant in so little 3 time after. Ami now, least my gOOd
resolutiom should continue, my compnnion who had enticed me away comes to me.

"life", Bob," $3.32! he, clapping me upon the shoulder, "how do you do alter it? I
warrant you were frighted, war'n'o you, last night, when it blew but a enpl'ul of
wiml 'l "

"A mph] (l'you call it?" said I ; "'twns a. terrible storm."

" A storm, you fool, you 2" replies he; "do you call that a. storm? why, it was
nothing at all 3 give us huta good ship and sen-mom, and we think nothing of such a.
I squall of Wind as that ; but. you're lml. a Fresh-water sailor, Bah. Come, let us make a
howl of punch, and we'll forget all that ,- d'ye see what charming weather 'tis now?"

To make short this sad part of my <<Lory, we went the sty of all sailors 5 the punch
was malls and T was iii-Mia half-driuak with it; and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my i'epcnbnmn, all my reflections upon my past conduct, all my rmnlutions-
for the future In a word, as the sea. was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled eelmnm by the abatement of lel: astorm, no the hurry of my thoughts being
over, my fears and npprehensinns of being swallowed up by the sen being (in-gotten, and
the current>> of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that
I made in my distress I found, indeed, some intervals of reflection ; and the serious.
thoughts (llll, as it were, endeavour to return main sometimes ; but I shook them all;
and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper, and applying myself to drink-
ing and company, soon mssterexl the return of those fits, for so T called them 5 and T
had, in five or a'x days, got as complete a victory over my conscience as any young
fellow that resolved nut-to be troubled with it could desire. But- 1 was to have another
trial for it still 3 and Providence, as in such cases generally it dons, resolved to leave me
entirely wibln-ut'excuse ,- for if T would not take this! for a clelircmneo, the next. was to
be such a one as the worst and most liardanecl'wreteh among us would confess both
the daingei: and the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sex we came into Yam-mouth Roads ; the wind having-
heen contrary, and the weather eslm, we had mmle but little way since- the storm.
Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and hero we lay, the windeontinuing
contrary, viz, zit south-west, for seven or eight days, during which time 0, great many
ships from Newcastle came into the some RO'KlS, us the common harbour where the ships
might wait for a wind for the River. '

We hml not, however, rid here so long-but we should have tided it up the river,
but that the wind blew too fresh, and, after we had lain four or five days, blow very
hard. However, the Roads being reckoned as good as an harbour, the anchorage good,
and our ground-tackle very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least. .
apprehensive of danger, hut spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the
sen. ; but the eighth day, in the morning, the wind increased, and we had nil hands at
work to strike our top-masts, and make everything sung and close, that the ship might
ride as easy as possible. By norm the gen went very high indeed, mid our ship rode
forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor luul come
home 3 upon which our master ordered out the shoot-anchor, so that we rode with two-
enuhors ahead, and the cables veered out to the better end.

6Tl'lE STORM IN VARMOUTH ROADS.

By this lime it. blew a terrible storm indeed; and now 1 began to see termr and
amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in
the busiHGS of preserving the ship, yet am he went in and out of his cabin by me, I
could hear him softly to himself gay, several Limes, " Lord, be merciful to us! we shall
be all lust ! we shall be all undone!" and the like. During these first hurries I was
stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the stowage, and cannot describe
my temper. 1 could ill resume the first penitence which I had so apparently trampled
upon, and hardened myself against : I thought the bitterness of death had been past,
and that this would be, nothing too, like the first ; but when the master himself came by
me, as I said just now, and said we should be all losli, I was dreadfully frighted. I got
up out of m}- milnn, and looked out ; but such a dismal sight. I never sew 3 the sea rxm
mountains high, and hrolce upon us every three or four minutes. When I could look
about, T could see nothing but diam-ass round. us ; two uhips that rode near us, we found,
had cut>> their masts by the board, being deep laden 5 and our men cried out, that a ship
which rode about 21. mile ahead of us was thundered. Two more ships, being driven
from their anchors, were run out of the Roads to sea, at all adventures, and that not
withn mast standing. The light ships I'm-(ail the best; as not so much labouring in the
seen; but two or three of them drove, and come close by us, running away with only
their spritsail out before the wind.

Towards evening the mate and boatswoin begged the master of our ship to let them
cut away the fore-mast, which he was very unwilling to do ; but the bootswain protest--
ing to him that if he did not, the ship would founder, he consented ,' and when they had
cut away the fore-mash, the main-moat stood so loose, and shook the (<<hip so much, they
were obliged to out that away also, and make a clan- dcek.

And one mustjndgo what a condition I must be in at all this, who was but a young
sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at but a, little. But if I can express at
this distance the thoughts I had about me at. that tinm, I was in tenfold more horror of
mind upon account of my former convictions, and the having returned fmm them to
the resolutions T had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itself; and these, ndded
to the terror of the storm, put me into such a. condition, that I can by no words describe
it. But the worst was not come yet 5 the storm continued with such fury, that the
seamen themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse. We had a good ship,
but slu': was deep lnrlnn, and wollowod in the sen, so that the seamen every now and
then cried out the would founder. It was my advantage, in one respect, that I did not
know what they meant byfmmler, till 1 inquired. However, the storm was to violent,
that I saw, what is not often seen, the master, the hostswuin, and some others more
sensible than the rest, at their pmycm, :uid exyecting every moment when the ship
umuld go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of our
distrex'ms, one of the men that had been down to see, cried out we lnul sprung a leak ;
another said, there was four feet water in the hold. Then All. hands were called to the
pump. Al; that word, my heart, as I thought, died within me 5 and I fell backwards
upon the ltlc of my bed, where I set, into the cabin. However, the men roused me,
and told mes that I, that was able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as
another; at which I stirred up, and went to the pump, and worked very heartily.
While this was doing, the master easing some light colliers, who, not able to ride out
the WW": were obliged to slip, and run away to the sea, and would come near us
ordercd to fire a. gun as a. signal of distress. T, who. knew nothing what they meal-lit,
thought the ship haul broken, or some dreadful thing lwppened. In A word. I was so

7
 

surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time when everybody had his own
life to think of,_nobody minded me, or what. was become of me ; but another man
stepped up to "no pump, and thrusting me aside with hi>> foot, let me lie, thinking l had
been dead 5 and it was a great, while before I mine to myself.

We worked on; but. the water increasing in the hold, it was apparent that the ship
would founder 5 and though the storm bgan to abate a little, yet as it was not pmihlo
she could swim till we might) run into any purl, so the master continued firing guns for
help ,- and a light. ship, who had rid it out. j nst ahead of uzs, ventured a boat out to help
us. It was. with the utmost hazard the huah came num- us ,' but it was impossible for 118
to gel; o_n board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's side, till at last the men rowing
very heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the .
Intern with a buoy to it) and then veered it. out a groan length, which they, after much
labour and hazard took hold of, and we hauled them close under our stern, and got all
into their boat It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the bout, to
wink of reaching to their own ship ;' so all agreed to let her drive, and only Lo pull her
in towards shore as much nswe could ; and our master promised them, that if the boot
.wus shaved upon shun-x, he would make 1!. goml In Limir "mater : an partly rowing, and
partly driving, our boat went away- ro the northward, sloping towards the shore almost
us far as Winterton News. I

'Wo were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship till we saw her
sink, and them I understood for Lhc first Lime what was meant. by a. ship hindering in
the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me
elm was sinking; for from the moment that they rather put me info the boat, than that
I might. be said to go in, my heart. wage, as it were, (lend within me, partly with fright,
partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet, labouring at the oar to bring the
boat, near the shore, we could use (when, our boat mounting le waves We were able to
see fihe shore) a. great many people running along the strand, to assist us when we
should come near 3 but we made Ibut slow way towards the shore ; nor were we able
to reach tho shore till, being past the lighthouse at Vi'iulorlou= the shore falls off to the
weshwanl, fmvardsCromer, and so the land broke off a little tho violenm) of the wind.
Here we got- in, and, though not without- muoh difficulty, got all safe on shore, and
walked afiel'wards on foot to Yarmonlh, whom1 as uufinrt-unate men. we were used wish
great; humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who nssigmed us good quarters,
as by part-lull" merchants and owner>> of xhipu, and had money given no sufficient to
carry us either to London or back to Hull, as we thought. fit

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have gone home; I had
been happy, and my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's pumble, had even killorl
_Lhe failed. calf for me ; for hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in
Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he had any nsmrances thaw I was not
drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinouy that. nothing could resist>> ; and
though I had sereml times loud calls from my reason, and my more compostxljudgmene, '
to go home, yet, I had no power to do it. I know not. what to call this, nor will I
urge that it is a worst overruling decree that. hurries us on to he the instruments of

our own destruction, awn though it be before us, and that we rush upon it with our
eyes open. Certainly, nothing but some such decreed unavoidable misegr attending,

and which it was impossible [or me to escape, could have pushed me fox-wand against
81'le. SHI?\\'I'EL'L .x hum-3mm xxuns'nomxsbx causon.

the calm reasonings and pemuusiona of my most retired thoughts, and against two
such visible olmtructimm as I had met- with in my first nttmnpt.

My coxnmlq'who had helped to harden me before, and who was the master's son,
was now lens forward than I. The first time he spoke to me after we won; at
Yarmouth. which was not till hm or three days, for we were separated in the town in
several quarters; T any, the first time he saw inn, it uppem'cd his tone was altered;
and looking very melancholy, and shaking his head, he asked me how I did, and
tulling his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only for 9. trial, in order
to go farther abroad: his father turning to me with a. very grave and concerned tone,
" Young man," says he, "you ought never to go to son any more 3 you ought to take
this; for a. plain and visible token that you are not to be a sanfaring mun." " thv', sir,"
said I, "will you go to sea no more?" " Tlmt is another Casi-9," said he; "it. is my'
calling, and therefore my duty ; but as you made this voyage for a trial, you see what
a. taste Hmvcn has given you of what you are to expect if you pensiut. Perhaps this
has all bef'allen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Fwy," con-
tinnes he, "What are you ; and on what account did you go ('0 sun?" Upon than I
told him some of my story ; at the end of which he blush out into a. strange kind of
passion : " What had I done," says he, " that such an unhappy wretch should come into
my ship? I would not set my t'o'ot in the same ship with thee again for a thousand
pounds." This indeed was, as I said, nu excursion of his Spirits which were yet
agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have authority to go.
However, he nfterwunls talked very gravely to me, exhorting me to go hack to my
father, and not tempt Pmfidencs to my ruin ; telling um I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me>> "And, young man," said he, " depend upon it, if you do not go
back wherever you go, von will moot with nothing but disasters and dimppointmcnts,
till your i'ather' n words am fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him no more , which
way ne went I know not. As ('01 mo, having some money in my pocket, I tmvellotl to
London. by land 5 and there, as well as on the road, hail many slnigglcs wit-h myself
what course of life 1 should take, and Whether I should go homo or go to sea.

As to going home, almme opposed the bash motions that offered to my thoughts;
and it immediately occurred to me how I should he laughed at among the maiglibonmy
and should be ashamed ('0 see, not my father and nwtlmr only: but even everybody glee ;
from whence I have often since olmervml, how incongruous and irrational the common
temper of mnnkiml is, ospmi'ully of youth, to that reason which u' hi. to guide them in
such cases, viz, that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent ; not
ashamed of the action for which they ouglil. justly to he cstcomcd fools, but are ashamed
of the returning, which only can minke them be esteemed Wise men.

To this state or" life, however, I remain-'6. some time, nncartain what measures to
take, and what course of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going
home 5 imam-1 I stayed awhile, the relnmnlu'nnce of the distress I had been in wore
OH; and as that abated, the little motion I had in my desires to a return wore 011' with
it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.

That evil influence which carried me first away from my father's house, which
hurried me into the wild and imllgestctl notion of raising my fortune ; and that
impressed those conceiin 50 forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf to all good advice,
and to the anti-antics and even Llle commands of my l'uLhar: .T guy, Lhu sauna influence,
whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my View; and 1

IDA VOYAGE TO THE GUINEA COAST.

 

went on homd 11 vessel bound to the coast of Africa ,- oi', as our sailors vulgarly Gill
it, a. voyage l.o Guinea." I

It W115; my great 11:: i'al'nitunc that- in all "1111' adventures I did not ship immelf 1111 :1
anilo1 , \111911,1;hongl1 I might indeed have woxked 11 little hauler than 01111111113 yel. 111.
the same Lime I should have lem-nl. the duty and ofilw ol' :1. (amount man, and in time
might have qualified ixlyself for o. mnte or lieutenant, if not. for nmaster. But as it
wns always my fate. to 1,4100% for the worst, so .I. did here ; for having inane}r in my
pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always go on board in the habit of 11
ganiilmnan ,' and so I neither had (my business in Llic ship nor lwnt w do any.

It was my lot first of all to fell into pretty good company in London, which doa
not always happen to such loose and 111isgnided young fellows we T than was ; the devil
generally not omitting to lay some snare for them very early ; but it- was not so with
me. I first got acquxinLed with the master of a. ship who had been on the coast of'
Guinea ; and who, having had very good success (here, was resolved to go again 3 this
<<2111mm lnking 11 funny to my conversation, which was not at all disagreeable 211'. that
time, hearing me say 1 had 11 mind to see the world, told me if I would go the voyage
with him, I should be at no 9x11111138 ; I should be his 111esa1nato and his companion ;,
and if I could carry anything with me, I should have 11.11 the advantage of it that tho-
lnulo would admit 5 and perhaps I might mesh with some encouragement

I embraced the 0391'; and entering into a shriCt firiemlehip with this captuin, who
was 9.11 honest, plain--dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a smell.
adventure with me, which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I
increased very mnsirlnmhly; for I carried about PS40 in such. toya and hides 2119 the:
captain directed 11110 to buy, This PS40 I 11ml mustered together by the assistance of
some of my relations whom I corresponded with, and who; I believe, got my father, or
:11 least my mother, to contribute so 11111th as that. to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which T may say was successful in sll my adventures, 11nd
which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain; under whom also 1
got a competent knowledge of the mathematics, :1 ml the rules of navigation, learned how-
to keep on account of the ship's comm, Lake an observation, and, in short, to under-
stand some things that were needl'nl lo be understood by 51 Miller 5 for, as he took delight
to instruct me, I took delight- lo learn; 11nd, in 211 word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and :1. merchant 5 for I brought home fiw: Pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my
adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return, almost PS300; and this filled me
with these aspiring dionghls which ha 111', since so completed my ruin.

Yet. even in this voyage I had my misforbuncs too ; particularly, that I was con-
1't-in11nlly sick, being nhrown into 11 violent cadeuhnm by the excessive heat of the climate ;
"our principal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude of fifteen degrees north,
even to file line itself.

I was now sol. up for 9. Guinea trader, 21nd my friend, to myb "rent misfortune,
dying soon aflcr'his arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again,s, and T oinhmkml' in
1-111) same vosscl with one who was ill}! mate in the former voyage, and had now got>> the
command of le 1111i 1). This was the unlinppiesb voyage that ever man made ; for
though 1 did not carry quite PS100 of my new--gained wealth, so that I had .5200 left,
which I had lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just lo me, yet I fell. into

' (11115111111 ~--A dim-1c: of that purl. of the West Cons: of Ahionwhero the land runs 111:an 41:1: em and
west Tim six ea:- .r1trins into which i: is divided are known to sullen; under the names of Siam Leone,
Grain Coast, Ivor} Cwsl Gold Coast, Slnro Coast, and Benin.
1 I
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ATTACK )i'i THE SAL'LEE ROVER.

terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was this viz, our ship making her
<<misc, towards the Canary Islands, or rat-her between those Islands and the African
sham, was surprised in the grey of the morning by a Moorish lover of Smiles, who gave
<<aims: to us with all the sail she could make. We mwded also as much mun-aw N-s our
yards would spremi, or our mash; carry, to have got clear 3 but- finding the pirate gained
upon. us, and would certainly come up \viLh us in 3 (<<winning we prapated to fight 5 our
ship having twelve guns, and the rogue eighteen. About. three in the afternoon he came
up with us, and bringing to, by mistake, jusl at-hm our quarter, insmml ol'allimu't our
stem: as he intended, we brought eighi. of our guns to bear on that side, and pom-ml in a
broadside upon him, which made him ghmr ofl' again, uflsr returning our fire, and pour--
ing in also his small shot from near two hundred men which he had on box) rd. However,
we had nota man touched, all our men keeping close. lie prepared to attack us again,
and we to defend oumlvm; but. laying us on board the next time upon our other
quarte'r, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who ixnuxcdigmly {all in cutting and
hacking the sails and rigging. We plied them with small shot, half-pikcs, powder-
chcng and such like, and cleared our deck of them twica However, to cut short this
melancholy part of our story, our Elllp being disabled, mid three of our men killer], and
night wounded, we wa'e obliged to yield, and were carried n11 prisoners into Who, 5!.
port>> belonging to the Moon}.
12CRUSOE A PRISONER AT SALLEE.

 

 

CKUSOE A SHVE.

The mange I had there was not so dreadful as ah finst I apprehended; nor was
I carried up the country to the hhn}1c1'm"s com-t, as the rmh of our men were, but
was kept by the captain of the rover as his: proper prize, and made his slave,
being young and nimble, and fit for his busines. At this surprising change of
my circumstances, from a merchant to a, miserable slave, I was perfectly ovar-
whclmml; and now I looked back upon my father's prophol-ic xliuoume to me,
that I should he miserable and have none to relieve me; which I thought. was
now so effectually brought to pass, that I could not be worm; for now the
hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and 1' was undone withouf. redemph'on. But,
alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the
sequel of this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home #0 his house, so I was in
hopes that he 'would take me with him when he went to sea again, believing
that it would some (hm; or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese
man--011w>>; and that then I should he sat at liberty. But, this hope of mint!
was soon taken away; for when he wont to sea, he left: me on shore in look aflcr
his little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house; and

when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin to
look after the ship.

'3
 

Here I incilituted nothing but my escape, and what method I might take to
affect it; but found no my that. had the least probability in it; nothing presented
to make the supposition of it rational ; for I hsd nobody to communicate it to that would
embark with me; no fellow~slnve, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman there but
"lyflelfj so that for two years; though I often pleased myself with the imagination, yet
1 never had the leash encourging pmspecl: of putting it in practice. '

Aftm' about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself, which put the old
'thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in my howl. My patron lying M5
home longer than. usual without fitting out his ship, which, as i heard, was for want of
money, he used, constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oiteuer, if the weather was
'fsir, to take the ship's pinnnce, and go out into the road arfishing; mu] 2>>: he always
took. me and a young Morrison with him to row the bani, we made him very merry, and
I proved very dexiemux in catching fish ; insomuch that sometimes he would send me
with s. Moor, one of his hinsmen, and the youth the Morcsco, as they called him, to
catch a. dish of hell for him.

It happened one time, that going a-fishing with him in 9. calm moming, a fog rose
so thick, that though we were noli half a. league from the shore, we lost sight of it ; and
rowing we knew not whither or which way, we laboured all clay, and all the next night ;
and when the morning exam we found we had pulled out to Sea iusterul of pulling in for
Lhe shore ; and that we were at limb two leagues from the hind. However, we got
Well in again, though with a grant (lml of labour, and some (hangar; for the wind
begun to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but particularly we were all very hmigry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, risolvcrl to take more care of himself
for the future ; and having lying by him the long-boat of our English ship which he
had taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing any more without a compass and
some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who also was an English
slave, L0 huild a little state-mam, or cabin, in the middle of the long--hoot, like
that of n hm'gq with a. place to stand behind it to steer, and haul home themaiu--
sheet 5 and room before for n lmnd or two to stand .nnd work the sails. She sailed
with what we cull n. shoulder-oilinutlon sail; and the boom jihhetl over the top of
the cabin, which lay very mug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a
slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles
of such liquor as he thought fit to drink ; and particularly his bread, rice, and cofl'oc.

We went fioqucntly out with this boat a~fi25hiug 5 and as 1 was most dexterous
to catch fish for him, he never went without me. It happened that he had up
pointed to go out in this bent, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or three
Moors of nome distinction in that place, and for whom he hm] provided extraordi-
narily, and had therefore sent on [)0an t-ho boat over-night n larger store of pro-
visions than usuml ; and hnd ordered me to get ready three fusils' with powder
and shot, which were on board his ship, for that they designed some sport of fowling
as well as fishing.

I got allihiugx ready as. he had directed; and waited the next morning with
the boat wanhed claim, her ancient? and pendants out, and everything to nocommw
date his guests; when hy'mirl-by my patron came on board alone, and told me his
guests had put oll' going, from some busim'aia that fell out, and ordered me, with
the man and boy, an usual, to go out with the boat and catch them some fish, for

  
  

' mil, 3 French word, meat}

.1 __:ht musket or fn'elooh.
+ Aneiem, the old word, do 4..

.o..i the French eimiyiw, for a flag, or the man who carrius it
14CRUSOE MAKES HIS ESCAPE.

that his friends were to sup at his; house ; he commanded me too, that as soon as I had
got. some fish, I should bring it home to his house : all \vlziCh I prepared to (lol

This moment, my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts, for now
1 found I was likely to have a little Ellip at my command; and my mailer being
gone, I prepared to furnish myself, no!- for fishing business, but for a regime; though
I knew not, neither did I so much us consider, whither I would shear ; for anywhere
to gen our, of that place was my desire.

My final. comm-mice was tn make :1. pretence ,to speak to rhis floor, to gob some-
thing for our subsistence on bonnl ; for I told him we must ML presume to eat of our
patron's brmd. He said, that was true 3 so he lmmghcn large basket of rush or biscuit
of their kind, and three jars will: fresh water, into the boat. I knew whom my patron's
case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the mnkc, were taken out of some
English prize, and I conveyed i-hem into film limb while the Moor was on shore,
as if they had been where before for our master. I conveyed also :1 great. lump of bees-
wax into the boat, which weighed nhout half an humlrerlwciglxt, with a panel of (wine
or thread, a. lmbclmt, a. saw, and a hammer, all of which were of great use to us after.
wards, cspociallytbe wax to make wndlus. Another trick I tried upon him. which
he innocent-1y came into alsn : his name was lsmael, which they cnl'; Muley, or Meal}; 3
so I willed to him :--"lliocly," said I, " our patron's guns are all on board the boat; '
can you not get a. little powder and shot? It may be we may kill SOHIG ale-amiss (a.
fowl like our mildews) for ourselves, for 1 know he keeps the gunner's 5mm: in the
ship." " Yes," says he, "1'11 bring some :" accordingly, he brought a great leather pouch,
which held about 21- poxuid and a half of pmwler, or rather more ; and another with
shot, that had five or six pounds with some bullets, and pub all info the boat>> At
the sum: time, I had found some powder of my master's in the great cabin, wiuh which
I filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty, pouring what
was in it. into another; and thus furnished with everything needful, we sailed out of
the purl. lo lislui Tlm castle, which is at. lee entrance (if the port, know who we were,
and Look no notice of us; nnd we were not above a. mile out. of the port before we
hauled in our sail, and sat us down to fish. The wind blow from the N $1.15., which
was contrary to my derina 3 fur had it blown souhhudy, I had been sure to have mad.)
the coast of Spain, and at least reached to the bay of Cadiz ,- bul, my rewolubions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone from that lnoi-rid place where I was, and
leave the rest to fate. '

After we had fished some time and caught: nothing, for when I had fish on my hool>>:
1 would not pull them up, that he might, not see (hem, I said to the Moor, "This will
not do 5 our master will not be thus served 3 we must stand farther oil'." He, think-
ing no harm, agreed, and, being in the head of the boat, set the sails ; .and, as I had
Llic helm, 1 mn the boat out near a league farther, and then broughtlmr to as if I
would fish ; when, giving the boy the helm, I slapped fonmrd to where the Moor was,
and making as if I stooped for sonmlhing behind him, I took him by surprise with my
arm under 'lxlfl \vnisr, mid tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose im-
medifzufly, for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken in, telling me
he would go all over the world with ma He swam .90 rat-rang after the boat, that he
would have reached me very quickly, there being line liblle wind ; upon which I stepped
into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowlingqaieccs, I Ilruwuted it at him, and told
him I had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none: ".But,"
said I, "you mim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is calm; make the

'5
has!) of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm ; but if you come near the
boat, I'l'~ shoot you through the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty." So he
turned himself nbouk, and swam for the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it
with one, for he was nn excellent; swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and have drowned the
boy, but there was no venturing to trust him. Vthn he was gone, I turned. to the
boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I'll
make you a great man ; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me," that
is, swear by Mahomet and his father's heard, "I mush Llurow you into the sen too."
Tho boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I could nob miabrusl: him, and
swore to be faithful to nus and go all over the world with me.

\Vhilc I was in the view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out directly
to sea, with the boat rather stretching to windward, that they might think me gone
towards the Straits" mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their wile muxb
have been supposed to do): for who would have supposed we were sailing on to the
southward to the truly barbarian count, where whole nations; of negroes were sure
to surrmuid us with their canoes, and destroy us ; where we could never once go on
share but we should he devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages of
human kind '2 .

But as soon as it grew dusk in Lln! evening, I changed my course, and steered
directly south and by cash, bending my course a. little towards the east, thnbl' might
hoop in with the shore : and having a flair, fresh gale of wind, and a uxnoolgh, quiet sea,
I made such sail that. I believe by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when
I first nnule the land, I could not be less than one hundred and fifty miles south of
Selle: : quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other king
tlnereubouts, for we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright, I had taken at. the Moors, and the dreadful approliensions
1 land of falling into their hands, that 1 would not stop, or go on xhore, or come to an
anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in that manner five days ; and then,
the Mini shitting to the southward, I concluded also that if my of our vessels were in
chase of me, they also would now give over ; so I ventured to make to the coast, and
came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river, I know not, wlml. nor where ; neither
what latitude, what country, wlmt nation, or what river. I neither saw, nor desire-l
to sine any people; tlm principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into
this creek in the evening, resolving t3 swim on shore as soon as it. was dark, and
discover the country; but us soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful
noises of the bin-king, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what.
kinds, that the poor boy was really to (lie with fear, and begged of me not to go
on shore till day. "Well, Kin-)3." said I, " then I won't; but it my be we may
sue men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions." "Then we give them the
shoot gun," says Xury, laughing, "make them run way." Such English Xury spoke
by conversing among "8 slaves. However, 1 was glad to See the boy so cheerful,
and I gave him a drum (out of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer him up. After
all, Xury'a advice was good, and I took it: we dropped our little anchor, and lay
still all night; I mgr still, for we slept noun; for in two or three hours we suw
vast great creatures (we knew not what to call them), of many sorts, come down to
Lin: sea-shore, nud run into the wast/er, wallowing and washing themselves for the

' SIMS". the Straits ol' Gilnrultnn
16CRUSI}! ESCAPXS "WT" KL'RY.

pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such hideou>> howliugs and yellings
than T never indeed heard the like.

Xur}r was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was 1 too ; but we were both more
frighimi whom we heard em: mighty creature mine wrimming towards our boat;
we could not see him, but we might hear him by his blowing to he a. monstrous, huge,
and furious beazst. Xury said it was a lion, and it- might be so for Night T know ;
but poor Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away. "No," says 1, "Xury;
we can slip our cable, with the buoy lo il, mid go to am 5 they cannot thllow us flat."
I had no sooner said so, but 1 perceived the creature, whatever it was, within two
mm' length, which something surprised me ; however, I immediately stepped to the
cabin-door, and taking up my gun, fired at him 3 upon which he immediately turned
about, and swam towards the shore again. -

But it- is impossible to describe the horrid noises, and hideous cries and howling:
+.h.~>.t were "deed, as well upon the edge of the show as higher within the country, upon
Lhc'noisc or report of a. gun, a thing I have some reason to believe those creature-s
hacl never heard before. This convinced me that there was no going on shore for us
in the night upon that- oonst; and how to \venihrc on shore in the (lay ms another
question too ; for to have fallen into the hahds of any of the savages, had been as bad
as to have fallen into the paws of lions and tigers; at least we were equally apprl'>>

hensive 2f the danger of it. 17
Bu: that as if, would, we were olnliged to go on show; somewhere or other for water,
for we haul not a. pint left in the bout 5 when ,or where to get it was the point. Xury
'said, ii'I would let him go on. shore with one of the jars he would find if there was any
Water, and luring some to me. I asked him wh}r he would go? why 1 should not go,
and he may in the. built? The boy answered with so much allhcniox1.that made me love
him ever nfier. Says he, "If wild mans come, they eat. me, you go way." " Well,
X31137," said I, " we will both go, and if the wild mums come: we will 1:121 them, they
shall ant neither of my." 80 I gave Xury n. piece of rusbbread to eat, and a dram out.
of our patron's case of beetles which I mentioned before ; and we lmulml the boat in as
near the allure as we thought was proper, and wzuled on shore, carrying not-hing but.
our arms: and two jars for water. _ '
I did not care to go out of sigh. of the boat, fearing the coming of games with
savages down the river; but the boy, seeing a low place about a mile up the country,
rambled to it, and brood--by I saw him come running towards me I thought he wast
puisuecl by some semge, or frighlmul with some wild beast, and 1' ram ibrwa-rd towards
him to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his
shouldeix, which was a creature that he had shot, like A here, but difl'erent'in colour,
"and longer lugs; however, we were very glad of it, and it Wu: very good meal: 3 but the
great. joy that poor Xury came with, "'3st tell me he haul found good water. and seen
no wild mans.
But. we found afterwards that we need not fake such pain>> for Waller, for a little
higher up the creel: where we were we found the water fresh when the tide wail Out.
which flows but u lil-Lle way up ; so we filled our jam, and feasted on the inn-e we hml
killed, and prepared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human creature
in that. part of the comitry.
As I had hem: one voyage to this comb before, I knew very well that. the islands of '
the Gamer-inn, and the Cape do Vex-d Islands also, lay not far of from the 0035i. Bus as
I lnul no instruments to take an observation to know what latitude we were in, and
did not exactly know, or at least not remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not.
where [:0 look for them, or when to stand off to sea. towards them 3 otherwise T might
now easily have found some of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along
this: coast till. I came to that part where the English traded, I should find some of their
vessels upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.
By blue heal; of my calcidntien, that place where I now was must be that. cannery
whie i, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's dominion: and the negroeig lies waste -
and uninlmbitexl, except by wild beasls 5 {he nogroes having abandoned it, and gone
faroher south, for fear of the Moors 5 and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting,
- by rmwon of its barrenmm ; and indeed both fumaking it because of the prodigious
numbers: of tigers lions, leopards, and other furious creatures which harbour there ; so

- that the Moon; use in for their hunting only, where they go like an army, two or three
thousand men nl: n time: and, indeed, for near a hundred miles together upon this
boast, we saw not-hing but. a. waste uninhabited country by day, and henml nof-hing
but howling: and roarings of wild beasts by night.

Once' or mice in the daytime, I thought; I saw the Plan of Tenerilh; being
the high top of the mountain Tenerifi'c in the Canaries; and haul a great mind
to venture out, in hopes of ranching thither; but having tried twine, I was {breed in
again by contrary Winds, the sen also going too high for my little vessel ; so I resolved
to pursue my first design, and keep along the shore.

18CRUSOE SHOOTS A LION.

 

Several times 1 was ohligezl L'o hind for freshwater, after we had left. this place 5 and
once in particular, being early in the morning, we came to an anchor under n little point
of land, which was pretty high; and the tide hginning to flow, we lay still to go
Farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were, calls
softly ionic, and tells me that we hml hast go farther oil' the shore; "for,"says he, "IOJk,
yonder lies a. dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep." I looked where
he pointed, and saw n dreadful monster indeed, for it. was a terrible great lion thnt In};
on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung us it were a.
little over him. "Xury," snys I, "you shall go on share and kill him." Kory lot-hud
frighten], and said, "Me kill! he not me at one month ;" one mouthful he meant.

However, I said no more to the boy, but bode him. be still, and took our biggest gun, .

which was almost musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with
two sings, and lnidit down ; then I landed another gun with two bullets; and the third
(for we had three piixm) I loaded with five smnller bulletin I hook the best aim I
could with the first, piece to have shot him in the head, but lm lay so, with his leg raised.
a. little above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and broke the bone.
He started up, growling at first, but>> finding his leg broke, fell down again ; and then
got up upon three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a
little eurprised that. 1 had not hit him. on the head 5 however, I took up the second
piece immediately, and though he began to move oil', fired again, and shot him in
the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop; and mnking but little nuisv, he laj
struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me let him. go on shore.
"Well, go," said I 5 so the boy jumped into the water, and taking the little gun in
one hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and coming close to the creature,
put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him in the head again, which
despntclied him quite.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food; and I was very sorry to lose
three chm-gen of powder and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
However, Xury said he would hnve some of him ; so he comes on board, and asked me
to give him the hatchet. "For what, Xury'l" said I " Me cut oil his head," said he,
However, Xury couhl not cut off his head, but he cut oil' a foot, nnd brought it with
him, and it was :1 monstmus great one.

I bethought. myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him might, one way or
other, he of some value to us ,- and I resolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury
and I went to work with him; bl"; Xui'y wns much the better workman at it, for I
knew very ill how to do it, indeed, it took us up both the whole clay, but at last we
got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually
dried it in two days' time, and it afterwards served me to lie upon.

A-ftorthis stop, we made on to the southward continually for ten or twelve days, living
vary sparingly on our provisions, which beg-nu to olmte Tory much, and going no oftener
into the shore than we were obliged to for fresh water. My design in this was, to make
the River Gambia. or Senegal; thnt is to say, anywhere About the Cape de Vet-d, where
'[ won in hopes to meet with some European ship ; and if I did not, I knew not who:
courfle 1 had to'take, but to seek for the islands, or polish there among the negroes. I

' knew that all the ships from him-ope, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to
Email, or to tho. Ensl. Indies, made this cape, or those island>> ; and, in a word, I put
the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either that I must most with some
ship, or must perish.

'9
"i hen I had pursued this resolution about. ten days longer, as I have said, I began
to see that the land was inhabited ; and in two or three places, as we sailed by, We saw
people stand upon the xhorc to look at. ua; we could also perceive they were quite black,
and shark naked, I was once inclined to have gone on ashore to them 3 but. any was
my hatter counsellor, and uni-l to me, "No go, no go." However, I hauled in nearer
the shore that I might talk to them, and i found they ram along the shore by me it
good way : I observed they had no weapon" in their hands, except one, who had a, long~
slender stick, which Xury said was a 13.nov, and that they could throw them a. great
way with good aim : so I kept. at a distance, but talked with them liy signs as Well as I
could; and IntrLicnlm'ly nimle signa for something to eat : they beckoned to me to stop
my boat, and they would fetch me some meat. Upon this, I lowered the top of my $131,
and lay by, and two of them run up into the country, and in lean: than half un- hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and ammo corn, such an: is the
produce of their country 3 but we neither knew what the one or the other was : how--
ever, we were willing to accept. it, but how to come at it. was our next dispute, for I
would not venture on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us: but they
tool: a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore and laid it- down, and wont
find stood a great. "my 011' till we feldxcd it on board, and then came close to us again.

\Ve made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make them amends ; but
an opportunity offered that very instant in) oblige them wonderfully: for while we ware
lying on the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we tool: it)
with gram fury from the mountains towards the sen ; whether it was the male pur-
suing the female, or whether they were in sport or in mg!!, we could not tell, any more
than we could tell whether it was usual or strange: but I believe it was the latter ;
because, in the find place, those ravenous creatures; seldom appear but in the night ;
and, in the second place, we found the people terribly frightud, especially the Women.
Tho man that had the lance m- dnrt did not. fly from them, but. the rest did; however,
as the two creatures ran directly int/u the water, they did not offer to fall upon any of
the negrmzs, but pinged themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they had come
for their diversion: at. last. one of them began to come nearer our hunt than at first I
expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all possible expe-
dition, and bade Xury load both the other>>. As soon as he came fairly within my
reach, I fired, and shot. him directly in the hand: immediately he sank down into the
water, hut rose inumutly, and plunged up and clown, as if he was struggling for life, and
so indeed he was: he immediately made to the share 3 but' between the wound, which
was his morn-.1 hurt, and tho strangling of the water, he died just before he reached le6
shore.

It is impossible to cxprcs the astonishment of "11:84: poor creatures at the noise and
fire of my gun ; some of them were ready even to die for fear, and fell down as dead
with the very terror. Bui- whcn they saw the mature dead, and sunk into the water, and
than I made signs to them to come to the show, they took heart and csune to the shore, and -
begun to search for the creature. I found him by his blood mining the wann- : and by
the help of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged
him on shore, and found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to an
admirable degree 3 and the negrom held up their hands with admiration, to think what
it. was I killed him with.

The other creature, frighted'with the flush of tire and the noise of the gun, sworn to
the shore and mu up directly to the: mountains from whence. they Came 5 nor could i

20:1"
->>

'1
i
-.
I
I

 

- ~_ 1' . .
-5..m1>>";% r>>

vasuu "mum U? BY THE rum-noun" Slur.
 

at that diaiatws know what it was T found quickly the negroes were for eating the
flesh of this creature, so'T was willing to have them. take in as a. favour from me;
which, 'when I made signs to them that they might take it, they were very thankful
fur. Immediately they fell to work with him ; and though they hml no knife, yet, with
a sharpened piece bf wood, they took of his akin as readily, and much more readily,
than. we would have dune with a knife ' They ofl'ered me some of the flesh, which I
declined, making as if 1 would give in them; but made signs for the skin, which
they gave me very freely, and brought. me a great deal "1deg." of their provision, which,
though 1 did not understand, yet 1 accepted. Then I imido signs to them for some
mm," and held out- one of my jars to them, turning its. bottom upward, to show that it
was empty, and that I wanted'.to hare it filled. They called immediately to some of
their friends, and them came two women, and brought a. great vessel made of earth,
and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun ; this they set down for me, as before, and T Sent
Kin-y on shore with my jars, and filled them all three. The women were as stark
naked as the men '

T was now furnished with roots and mm, such as it was, and water ,' and leaving
my friendly negroeh, I made forward for about eleven days more, without offering to
go near rhe shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea, at about- the
distance of four or five leagues before me ; and the sea. being very calm, 1 kept a. large
ulfing comake this point -At length, doubling the point at about two league>>; from the
hind, I saw plainly land on the other side, to seaward ; then T <<included, as it was
most oertuin indeed that this was the Cape (la Void, and those the islands called, from.
thence, Cape (l0 Tend islands However, they were at a grant distance, and I could
not well tell what I had hast do; for if I should be taken with a fresh gale of \viml, I
might neither reach (me or other.

In this dilemma, (is I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin, and sat me down, Xury
having the helm ; when, on a sudden, the hay cried out, " Master, master, a ship with 2;
mil S" and the foolish boy m frightcd out of his wing thinking it must needs be some
of hismaeter's ships sent to plu'elll! us, when I knew we were gotten far elmuglx out or their
reach. I jumped out of the cabin. and immediately saw, uni. only the ship, but that it
\ms 3 Pomgneee ship ;- and, ms I thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea, for
nagmcs. But, when I observed the course she stool-0x1, I was soon convinced they were
bound some other way, and did not design to go any nearer tho lem : upon which
I stretched out- io the sea as much as T. could, resolving to speak with them if possible.

\Vith all the will I could malm, I found 1 should not he alole to come in their way,
but that they would be gone by before I coult'l make any signal to them -. but after I
had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of
their perspective glasses, and that ii. was some European boat, which they supposed must
belong to mung ship that We" lost; so they shortened sail to let me come up. I was
ancmimgcd with this, and as I had my pntmn's ancient on board, I made a. wait of in to
them for a. signal of dlslmasg and fired a gun, hath which they x:i.\\' ; fur "my mid me they
saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun. Upon those signals they very kindly
hmught to, and lay by for me ; and in abode three hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what. I was, in I'oxtuguesn, and in Spanish, and in French, but I'
understood none of them ; but at last a fir/duh sailor, who wax on board, called to me:
and I answered him. and told him I was an Englishman, that had made my escape
mm of alzivery from the Minn-x uh Sallm: , they then baule me come on board, and very
kindly (ml: me in, and all my goodik

2:CRUSOE ARRIVES AT THE BRAZILS.

 

It. was an inoxyrwsible joy to me, which any one will believe, that I was thus
delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as I
was in ; and T. immediately offered all I had Lo the mplniu of the ship, as a return for
my delivemnco; but he generously told me, he would take nothing from me, but that
all 1. had should be delivered safe to me, when I came to the Brazila " For," says he,
" I have saved your life on no other terms than as I would be glad to he saved myself;
and it "my, one time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition.
Besides," said he, "when I carry you to the Emails so great a way from your own
country, if I should take from you what. you have, you will be shun-cc] Umm, and then
I Only take away that; life I have given. No, no," snvs he , "Scignor Inglcse" (Mi.
Englishman), "1 will cuiyyon thither" in charity. and these things will help x-ou to buy-

' your subsistence there, and your passage home again." -

As he mos charitable in this proposal, so he nus just in the perfinnmncc to a Little 5
for he ordered the women, that none should offer to touch anything I had : then he took
everything into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that
I might have them, even to my three earthen jars.

As to my bout, it. was a very good one; and that he saw, and told me he would buy
it of me for the ship's use; and asked me what I would have for it>> I told him, he
haul been so generous to me in everything, that 1 could not aim to make any price of
the heal, but left it entirely to him: upon which, he told me he would give me a note
ofhis hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil ; and when it came there, if
any one ofl'ered to give more, he would make it. up. He offered me also sixty pieces of
eight- more for my boy Xury, which I was lath to take 3 not that. I was unwilling to
let the captain hire him, but I was very loch to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had
assisted me 80 faithfully in procuring my own. However, when I let him know my
reason, he owned it. to ho just, and offered me this nipdium, that he would give the boy
.nn obligation to set him free in Len years, if he turned Christian: upon this, and Xury
sngring he was willing to go to him, I lei: the captain have him.

We had a. very good voyage to the Emails, and I arrived in the Bay do. Todos los-
Saul-0S, or All Saints Buy, in about twenty-two days after. And now 1 was once mom
delivered from the. mast- miserable of all conditions of life ; and what to do next with
myself I was to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can nevm' enough remember :
he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me. twenty ducat's for the leopard's
skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused everything I
had in the ship to be punctunlly delivered to me; and what I was willing ('0 sell, he
bought of me: such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of
bees'-wax, for 1 had made candles of the rest : in a word, I Ina/dc about two hundred
rand twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo ; and with this shack, I went on shore in the
Bmzils. '

I had not been long here, but being rmommmnlml to the house of a good, honest
man, like himself, who had an ingeniu, as they call it (that is, n plantation and a sugar.
houso, I lived will: him some time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with the
manner of their planting and making ofmgar ; and seeing how well the planters lived, and
how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a licence to settle there, I would
*luru planter among them ; resolving, in the meantime, to find out some way to get my
money, which I had left in London, remit-ted to me. To this purpose, getting 9. kind of
letter of natuialisntion, 1 purchased as much land that was uncured as my )Imnuy would

23
reach, and formed a. plan for my plantation and entitlement; such a one as might be
suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.

I had n neighbour, a, Portuguese, of Lisbon, but horn of English parents, whose
name was "falls, and in much such circumstances as I was. I call him neighbour,
because his planiation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably together. My
stock was but low, as well an his ; and we rather planted for food than anything else,
for about two years. However, we began .to increase, and our land began to come into
order; so that the third year we planted some tobacco, and made each of us a large
piece of ground ready for planting canes iu the your to come; but we both wanted
help ; and now I found,.more than before, Iliad done wrong in parting with my boy
Xurv.

But, alas! for me to do wrong that never did right, was no grant wonder. I had
no remedy but to go on: I had got into an employment quite remote to my genius
and directly eonLrui-y to the life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my father's
house, and broke through all his good advice; nay, I was coming into the very middle
station, or upper degree of low life, which my father advised me to before, and which, if
I resolved to go on. with, I might as well have atayed at home, und'never fittignell
myself in the world, as I have done ; and I used ollon to say to myself, "I could have
done this as well in England, among my friends, as have gone five thousand miles off to
do it among strangers and ravages, in a wilderness, and at such a. distance as never to
hear from any part of the world that had the leash knowledge of me."

In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the utmost mgret-. I had
nobody to converse with, l-ul. now and' then this neighbour; no work to be done, but.
by the labour of my hands ,- nnd I used to say, I lived just like a. man cast away upon
some desolate island, that had nobody there lnrl.' himsolf. But lm'wjurk has it been ;
and how should all men reflect, that when they compare their present conditions with
other>> that are worse, lleoven may oblige them to make the exchange, and be convinced
of their former felicity by their experience: I my, hour just has it been, that the truly
solitary life I refloclml on, in an island, or more desolation, should be my lot, who had so
ofien unjustly compared it with t-he life which I then led, in which, had I continued, I
had, in all pmbabilily, been exceeding prosperous and rich.

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying on the plantation, before
my kind friend, the captain of the "hip that took mo up at sea, went back ; for the ship
remained there, in providing her hiding, and preparing for her voyage, near three
months , when, telling him what little stock T had lefi behind me in London, he gave
me this friendly and uinoero advice :---"Seignor Ingleso," says -he (for so he always
<<riled me), "ifyon will give me letters, and a procnmtion hero in form to me, with orders
to the person who has your money in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such
persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this country, I will bring'
you the produce of them, God'willing, at my return ; hut, eince human afl'hirs are all
subject to changes and disasters, I would have you give onlem but for one hundred
pounds sterling, which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first ; so that, if it come safe, you may order the rest the some way ; and if if, mismrry,
you may have the other half to have recourse to for your supply."

This we so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could not but be
convinced it was the best course I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the
gontlewoman With Whom I had left my money, and a proeumtion tothe Portuguese
captain, as he desired.

24CRUSOE BECOMES A PLANTER.

 

 

 

 

cnusou AND rm: PLAN'I'KKS.

I wroie the English captain's widow a full account: of all my adventures, my
alavery, escape, and how I had met, with the Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity
of his behaviour, and when}; condition I was now in, with all other necessary direcl'dons
for my supply ; and when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by
some of the English merchants there, to sand ovcr uni, the order only, but a. full account
of my story, to a merchant at London, who represented it efl'mtually to hcr ; wlmrcuyon
she not- only dcliverod the money, but out of her own pocket, sent the Portugal captain
0. very handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London vested this hundred pounds in English goods, such as the
captain had written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and ho brought them all.
safe to me to the Bmils ; among which, without. my direction (flit I was too young in
my business to think of them), he had talmn care to have all sorts of tools, iron work,
and utensils necessary for my plantation, and which were of greet use to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made ; for I was surprised with the
joy of is; and my gnarl steward the captain, had laid oub the five pounds, which
my friend had sent him for a present for himself, to purchase and bring me over a.
servant, under bond for six years' service, and would not accept of any consideration,

except. a. little tobacco, which I would have him accept, being of my own produce.
25
Neither was thin all 5 for my goods being all English xnunufiwtum, such as cloth,
Slums hnize, and things purticulurly valuable and desirable in the country, I found
means to sell Lhexu at a. very great advantage; so that I may my, I had more than
{our fimes the value of my [hat cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour
----I mean in the advancement of my plantation ; for the first thing I did, I height me
a negro slave, and an European servant also: I mean another besides that which
the captain brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is ofleulinms made the very means of our greatest
MVBfl'ElW, S0 was it with me. I went on the next year with great success in my phmv
"mfion: I mixed fifly great rolls: of tobacco on my own ground, more than I haul disposed
of for necessaries among my neighbours 5 and these filly rollfl, being each of shove a
hundred weight, were well cured, and laid by against, the return of the fleet from
Lisbon. And now increasing in bniuess and wealth, myheml began to he full of
projects and undertakinga beyond my reach ; such as are indeed often the ruin of the
best hands in business. Had I continued in the fiation I was new in, I had room for
all the happy things to have yet beihllen me, for which my father so earnestly recom-
mended a quiet, retired life, and which he haul so sensibly described the middle
station of life to be full of; but. other things attended me, and I was still to be
the wilful agent of all my own miseries ; and lm'tieularly, to increase my fault, and
double the l'eflecfions upon myself, which in my future sorrows 'I should have leisure to
make, {111 these mincarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering Lo my
foolish inclination of wandering abroad, and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction
to the clearest- views of doing myself good in a. fair and plain pursuit of those prospecia
and those meusma of life, which nature and Providence concurred to present me with,
and to make my duty,

As I had once done thus in breaking away from my parents, so I could not be
content now, huh I must g0 and have the happy View I hail of lining a. rial) and Lhriving
man in my new ylnntntion, only to pursue it rash and immoclemte desire of rising foster
than the nature ol' the thing admit-led 5 and final T._ cast myself down again into the
(leepat gulf of human misery that ever mun fell into, or perhaps c0uld be consistent
with life, and a state of health in the world.

To come then by just degrees to the particulars of this port of my story :--
You ins-y enppose, that having now lived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning
to thrive and proslner very well upon my plantation, 1 had not only learned the
language, but had contracted acquaintance and fx-ienclshiy among my fellow-planters, as
well 3.5 among the merchants at St. Snlvndorc, which was our port 5 and that, in
my discomse among them, I haul frequently given them an amount of my two voyages
to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with the negroes there, and how easy it
was to purchase upon the count for trilles ~such us heads to." knives, scissors, hatcheis,
bits of glass and the like--not only gold-dust, Guinea. grains clephunts' teeth, &e., hut
megroes, for the service of the Iii-wile, in great numbers

They listened always vex-5" attentively to my discourses on those howls, but especially
'to that port which related (0 the buying negrotfi; which was a. tunic, an that time, not
only not PS11- enmied into but, ans {Bar :13 it was had been carried on by the Assiento,
4,. Per mission of the King of Spain and Portugal, and cugx'wsed 1n the public stock; so
that few negroos \vcxc hrouvrht, and those cxcmivelr d<:.nr

It happSSnerl, heingin company one day with some merchants and planters ot my nc~
q': mnmncn, and talking of those things ven earnestlv three of them came to me ti. u next

26TI-IE PLANTATION [N THE BRAZILS.

 

morning, and told me they had boon musing very much upon wins}. I had discoursmi
of with them the last night, and they came to make a. secret proposal to me ; and, after
enjoining me sen-55y, they told me that they had a mind (.1) GI; 01le a ship f0 go to
Gui non; [hell they had all phntafiions as wall as I, and were straitened for nothing so
much 9.5 servants; that as it was a trade that could not be carried on, because they
could not publicly sell the negmes when they came home, so they desired to make but
one voyage, to hrlng the names on shore privately, and divide them among their own
plantations ; and, in a word, the question was, whether I would go their snperonrgo in
the ship, to manage the trading part upon the cone: of Guinea ; and "my oil'ared me that
I should have my equal share of the negroes, without providing any part of the stock.

Th'n was a fair proposal, it must, he confessed, had 5'. been made. to any one that had
not. had a settlement, and plantation of his own to look afiei', which was in a. fair way
of coming to he very considerable, and with a. good stock upon it. But for me, that
was thus enterml and established, und had nothing to do but go on as I hadbegun,
for three or four yems more, and in hare sent for the other hundred pounds from
England ; and who in that. time, and with that little addition, could scarce have foiled
of being worth three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that inn-musing too--for me
to think of such a voyage was the most preposterous thing that ever nun in such
circumstances could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the Offer,
than T could restrain my first. rambling (longing when my father's good counsel was
lost upon mo. In award, I told them I would go with all my heart, if they would
undertake to look nl'l-or my plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it. an I
should direct, if I miscarried This they all. engaged to do, and entered into writings.
or cow-emits to do so 5 and I made a formal will, dinOSing of my plantation and effects
in case of my death, marking the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as
before, my universal lmix', but ohliging him to dispose. of my effects as I had
directed in my will ; one-half of the produce being to hiumelf, and the other to be
shipped to England. _

Iii-short, I took all possible caution to preserve my ofl'ects, and to keep up my
plmmeion. Had I used half as much prudence to hem looked into my own interest,
and have made a judgment of what I ought to have done, and not. to_hnve done,
I had oorloixfly never gone away from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all
the probable views of a thriving oircumsionoc,and gone upon a. voyage to sea,
.Mtendod with all its common hazard>>, to say nothing of the reasons I had to ex-
pect, particular misfortunes to myself.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the diatoms of my fancy mther than
'my reason; and, ancordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo finished,
and all things done as by agreement, by my portners in the voyage, I went on
board in an evil hour again, the lat of September 1659, being the same day eighty 11's
that} I went from my father and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel to their
.nuthority, end the fool to my own interest.

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty ions burden, curried six guns. and
fourteen men, besides the master, his: boy, and myself; we had on board no large
cargo of goods, eicept of such toys as were fit for our trade with 'tho negroes,
such :13 bands, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-glek'sefi
knives, sciasm'a, butchers, and the like

The same day I went- on board we set sail, standing away to the northward

27
 

upon our own coasts, with design to stretch over for the African coast, when they came
into about ten or twelve degrees of norlecrn latitude ; which, it 880mg, was the manner
of their 00lll$6 in those days We had very good weather, only excessively hot, all the
way upon our own coast, till we came to the height of Cape Sh Augustino ; 'from
whence, keeping farther oil' at sea, we lost sight, of kind, and steered an if we were
bound for the' isle Fernando de Noronhn, holding our counwe N.E. by N., and leav>>
ing those islcs on the east. In this murse we passed the line in about twelve days
time, and were, by our inst observation, in seven degrees hveuty-two minutes
northern latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of Our
knowledge. It began from the southeast; come about. to the norihm'oih and then
settled into the northeast; from whence it. blew in such a. terrible manner, that for
twelve days together we could do noLl-iug bub drive, and, scudding any before i0.
let it carry us wherever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and during these
twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up; nor
did any in the shin expect to save their lives.

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of our men died of
the colcnburc, and 0. men and a. boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day,
the weather nhoting 8. little, the muster made an observation as well as he could, and
found that he was in about eleven degrees of north latitude, but that he was twenty--two
degrees of longitude difference west: from Cope St. Augnsfino ; so that he found he was
gallon upon the ccnst of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazones,
towards that ofthe river Omonoque, commonly called the Great River; and now he hogan
to mnsnlt with me what can run he should tske 5 for the ship was leaky, and very much
disabled, rind he was for going directly book in the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of the searecsst of
America. with him, we concluded there was no inhahited country for us to have
recourse in Lil] we came within the circle of the Carribhee Islands, and therefore resolved
to stand away for Barbarians 3 which, by keeping of at sea, to avoid the imdmft, of the
hay or gulf of Mexico, we might, (madly perform, as we hoped, in. about fifteen days sail ;
whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast of ell'rics. without; some
assistance both to our ship and to ourselves. .

With this design we changed our course, and steered away KW. by W., in order to
reach some of our English islands, where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was other--
wise determined 3 for, being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes, n
second storm came upon us, which carried us awaywith the some impecuosity westwanl,
and drove ins so out of the way of all human commence, that had all our lives been saved
as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being devoured by savages, than ever
returning to our own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men early one
morning cried out, '~' Lind !" and wc hurl no sooner run out of the (shin to look out, in
hopes ofseeing whereabouts in the world we were, than the ship struck upon a sand,
and in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the see broke over her in such a.
manner, that we expected we should nll have perished immediately ; and we were
even driven into our close quarters, to shelter us PSrom the very foam and spray
of the sea. '

It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condition to describe
or conceive the consternation of men in such circnmsiances. We knew nothing when:
We were, or upon what hurl it was we were drivan ; whether an isisnd or the main,

28Tm: xmrwxmm
 

whether inhabited or: not inhabited. As the rage of who wind was still great, though
lather less than at first>>, we could nol. so much as hope to have the ship held many
minutes witlmut brmking in pieceu, unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, should
turn immediately about. In a word, we eat; looking one upon another, and expecting
death every moment, and every man acting :vmordingly, as preparing lbr another world ;,
for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this ,- that which was our present.
comfort, and all the comfort; we had, was that, oontmrym our expectation, the ship did
uni: break yet, and that the master fluid the wind began to abate.

N ow, thogh we thought that the wind did a little abate, yer. the ship having thus
struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting ofl', we were in
u drmdful condition indeed, and had nothing to do but to think of sewing our lives as
well as we could. We had a, bent at our stern just before the shown, but she was first
xiewed by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in the next place she broke away, and
either sunk, or was driven off to sea ; so there was no hope from her. "We hnd another
boat on board, but how to get her ofi'into the flea was a doubtful thing ; however, the"
was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute, and
some told us. she wan actually broken already. '

In this dist-res the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boot, and with the help of
the rust of the men, they got. her flung over the ship's side ; and getting all into her, let go,
and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy and the wild sea : for
thongh the storm was abated considembly, yet the sea went dmudfully high upon the
shore, and might be well celled den. am'ld we, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm

And now our case was very dismal indeed ; for we all new plainly, that the non,
went so high, that the boot could not escape, and that we should be inevitably drowned.
As. to making sail, we had none, nor, if we had, could we have done anything with it ;
so we worked at the our towards the land, though with heavy hearts, like men going to
execution ; for we all knew that. when the boat came near the shore, she would
be dashed in a thounuud pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we committed
uur sank to God in the most <<earnest manner; and the wind driving on towards the
share, We hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as well as we could
inwards land.

_ What the shore ms, whether rock or Sand, whether steep or shoal, we knew not 5
film only hope that could rationally give us the leaxt shadow of expectation, was, if we
night happen into nome buy or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by great chance
we might, have run our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. But there wns nothing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and.
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a. league and an half, as we reckoned it,
a. raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling <<atom of us, and plainly bade us expect the
coup de grace. In a word, it book us with such nfury, that it overeat the boat at once ;
and separating us as well from the boat as from one another, gave us not time hardly
w my, " 0 God i" for we were all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt. when I sank into the
water: for though I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so
as to dmw breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on
towards the shore, and. having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost
dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as well
as breath lefg that seeing myself nearer the main land than I expected, I got; upon my

30CRUSOF. IS SllIPW'RECKED.

 

feet. and endeavoured to make an mwu-ds the land as fast as I could, before another
wave should rat-urn and take me up again ; but I soon foiind it wnx imposrible to avoid
it. ; for I saw the sen come after me as high as n great hill, and as furious as an enemy,
which I had no means or strength to contend with: my business was to hold my
breath, and raise myoelfnpmi the water, if I could ; and so by swimming to preserve
my breathing, and pilot. myaelf towards the shore if pofiible, my greatest concern now
being, that- thc wave, as it would carry me a, great. way toxvards the eliore when it- came
on, might; not carry mo back again wiih it. when it gave back towards the sea.

'l'lm wave that came upon me again buried nm at once twenty or thirty feet deep
in it's own body, and I could feel myself carried with a mighty force and awiftnees
W'Vfll'dfl the shore "4 Very great way ; but. T hold my breath, and assisted myself to
swim still forward with all my might. I was ready to burst. with holding my breath,
when 331 felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and
hands shoot out above the surface of the water ; and though it was not two seconds
of time that I could keep myself 30, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and
new courage. l was covered agnin with water a good while, but not so long but I
held it out; and finding the water had 51mm itself, and began to return, T struck
Forward against the mlnrn of the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood
still a few moments lio recover breath, and till the waters went from me, and then
took to my heels, and ran with what strength I had, farther towards thoshore. But
neither would this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after
me again 5 and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and carried forwards as
before, the short: being very flat.

The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me ; for the sea having
hurried me along, nshefore, landed me, or rather dashed me, against. a. piece ofs. rock,
and that with such fol-co, as it La mo senseless, and indem'l holplms, as to my own
deliverance 3 for the blow taking my side and breast, heat the branch :13 it were quite
out of my body 5 and bad it returned again immediately, 1 must have been strangled in
the water 3 but. I recovered a little before the return of the waves, and seeing I should
he covered again with the water, I resolved to hold find; by a piece of the rock find 5deg to-
hold my breath, if poesible, till the wave went back. Now, as the waves were not so
high as M. first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the wave abated, and then fetched
another run, which brought me so near the shore, that the next wave, though it went
over me, yet. did not so swallow me up as to carry me away ; and the next run T took,
I gov} to the main land ; where, to my great comfoxf, I clnmbered up the clifls of the
sham, and eat me down upon the grass, free from danger, dud quite out of the reach of
the water. .

I was now landed, and mfe on shore, and began to look up and thank God that my
life was saved, in a case wherein there was some minutes before scarce any room to
- hope. T believe it is impossible to express to tho life, what the armies and tmnsporls
' of the soul are, when it is so saved, an I may say, out, of the very grave: and 1 do not
Wonder now a}. limb custom, when n malefmzbor, who has the halter about- his neck, is
tied up, and just going to be turned off, and has a. reprieve brought to him--I any, I do
not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, in let him blood that very moment they
tell him of it, that tho surprise may not drive the animal spirits {mm the heart, and
"Wilhelm him. For Sudden joys, like grieln, confound at first.

I walked about on Lhe shore, lifting up my hands, and my whole being, as I may my,

31
 

\vmpt up in n connemplaciou of my deliver-mes; making a thousand gestures and
motions, which I cannot describe ; reflecting upon all my comrades that were drowned,
and that there should not ho one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never saw!
them nfterwards, or any Sign of thorn, oxcuph three of their hats, one cup, and two shoes
that were not follow.

I cast my eyes to the nh'nntled vensel, when, the branch and froth of the sea. being so
big, I could hardly see it, it lay so Ear oil"; and considered, 10rd: how was it possible I
could get on shore?

After I had solacecl my mind with the comfortable part of 'my condition, I began Lu
look round me, to soc What kind of place I was in, and what was next to be done : and
I soon found my comforts abate, mid than, in a word, I had o dreadful deliverance : for
I was wet, had no clothes to shift. me, nor anything either to eat or drink, to comfort.
um; neither did I see any prospect beforc me, hut that or" perishing with hunger, or
being devoured by wild beams: and that which was Imrlicularly afliet-ing to me was,
that I had no weapon, either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, 01:
to defend myself against. any other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs. In
a worcl, I had nothing about me but a. knife, 3 tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a
box. This was all my provision; and thisthrcw me into terrible cgonics of mind, that
for :1 while 1 mo about like a marlumu. Night coming upon me, T began. with o lllzm'y
heart, to consider what. would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night. they always come abroad for their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that time, was to get up into a thick
bushy tree, like a. fir, but thorny, which grow near me, and where I resolved to sit all
night, and consider the noxl. day what death I should die, for as yet I sow no prospect
of life. I walked about u fin-long from the shore, to see if 1 could find any fresh water
to drink, which I did to my great joy ; xmd having drunk, and pub 25 little tobacco in
my mouth to prevent. hunger, I wont. to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to
plans myself so that if I should sleep I might not fall. And having cut me a short
ssiek, like a. trunnheou, for my defence, I took up my lodging ; and being exces-
nively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept ns comfortably as, I believe, few could
have done in my condition, and found myself more refmehed with it than]. think
I ever was on such an occasion.

"When I waited it was brood (lay, the weather clear, and the storm abated, so that
the sen did not. rage and swell as before 3 but that which surprised me most. was, that
the "hi p was lifted off in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of Lhe
tide, and was driven up almost as for as the rock which I at first mentioned where I
lmd been so bruised by the wave dashing me gating: it. This being within about a
mih: from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished
myself on board, that at least I might save some necessary things for my use.

When I'catne down from my apartment. in the tree, I looked about me again, and
the first thing I found was the boat, which lay, as the wind and ms. had tossed her up,
upon the land, about two miles on my right. hand. I walked as far as I could upon the
shore to hove got to her; but found. a nock, or inlet, of water between mo and the boat
which was about half a mile broad ; no I came back for the present, being more intent
upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find something for my present subsistence.

A little after noon 1 found. the sea very culm, and the tide cbbcd so far out, that I
could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship. And here I found a. fresh renewing

of my grief; for I saw evidently, that if we had kept on boawl, we had been all safe:
32AFTER THE STORM.

 

 

 

UKUSUS LOADING HIS RA

that is w say, we had all got safe on shore, and T had not been so miserable as to
be left cntixely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was This forcad
teams to my eyes again ,- but as there was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible,
to get. to the ship ; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hob to extremity,
and tool: the water. But when I came to the ship, my difiiculty was still greater
to know how to get on board 5 for, as she lay aground, and high out of the water,
there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of: I swam round hm' bwice, and the
second time I eepied a small piece of tape, which I wondered I did not see at. first,
3 33 '
 

 

hanging down by the fore-chains so low, that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and
by the help of that. mp9 got up inio the forces-silo of the ship. Here I found that the:
ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold; but that she lay so on the-
siclo of a hunk of hard sand, or rather earth, that her stem lay lifted up upon the bank,
and her head low, almost to the water. By this means all her quarter WM free, and all
that was. in that parl- was dry ; for you may hn sure my first work was to search, and to
a. see what was spoiled and wlwans free. And, first, I found that all the ship's provisions

were dry and untouched by the umber, and being very well disposed to eat, I went to
the bread--room, and filled my pockets with biscuit, and am if; as I went about other
things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some rum in the great cabin, of which
I took a large drum, and which I had, indeed, need enough of to spirit me fox'whal was
bofine me. Now I wanted nothing but a bout, to furnish myself with many things
which I foresaw would be very necessary to me. .

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had 5 and this extremity
roused my application. We had several spare yards, and two or three large spars
of wood, and n spam top-most or two in the ship: I resolved to fall to work with these,
and I flung as many of them overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every
one with a rope, that they might not drive away. When this was done, I went down
the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them together at both ends, as
well as I could, in the form of a rah, and laying two or three short pieces of pink upon
them, mgways, I found I could well: upon it: very well, but that it was not able to
bear any great weight, the pieces being too light. So I went. to work, and with
the canientei's saw I out a spare top-mast into three lengths, and added them to my
raft, with n. great- deol of labour and pains>> But. the hope of furninhing myself with
necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have done
upon another occasion.

My m9. was now strong enough to hem- any reasonable weight. My next care was
what to load it with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea :
but I was not. long wnsidering this. I first; laid all the planks or boon-(ls upon it that: I
could get, and having considered well what I most wanted, I first got three of the
scmnen's chaste, which I had bmken open and emptied, and lowered them down upon
my raft; the first of these I filled with provisiom--viz, bread, rice, three Dutch cheeseg
five pieces of dried goat's flesh (which we lived much upon), and 9. lich remainder of
European corn, which had been laid by for some fowls which we brought to see with us,
but the fowls were killed. There had been some lmI'le and wheat together ; but, to
my great disappointment, I found afterwards that the nuts had eaten or spoiled it all.
As i'or liquors, I found sovoinl cases of bottloe belonging to our skipper, in which won:
some cordial writers ; and, in all, about five or six gallons of attack. These I stowed by
them/whoa, there being no need to put them into the chest, nor any room for them.
While I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though very cnlm ,' and I had.
the morbificntion to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had loll; on shore
upon the sand, swim away. As for my brceehes, which were onlyr linen, and open--
k'leEd. I 5mm on board in them and my stockings. However, this put me. upon
rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, but. took no more than I wanted for
prescnl. use, for I had other things which my eye was more upon; no, rust, bools
to work with on shore 1 and it was after long searching that I found out the
carpenter's chest, which was indoml a very useful prize to me, and much more valuable
than a. ship'lnding of gold would have been at that time. I got ii: down in my may
34HE PAYS A VISIT TO THE W'RECK.

 

whole as it was without losing time to look into it, for I knew in general what
it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two very good
fuwling--pieces in the grant cabin, and two pistols. These T secured limb, with some
powdcnhorna, a small hang of shot, and two old rusty swank I knew there were
three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed them ;
hit. with much much I found them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken
wawr. Those t-wo I got bonny raft, with the arms. And now I thought myself pretty
wull freighbvxl, and began to think how I should get to shore with them, having neither
sail, our, nor rudder; and the least capful of wind would have overset all my navigation.

I had Lhme encouragmenta : first, a smooth, calm sea; secondly the tide rising, and
sewing in to the shore ,- thirdly, what little wind there was blew me towards the land.
Ami thus, having found two or three broken can; belonging to the boat, and besides the
tools which were in the chest, two saw>>, an axe, and a hammer: with this cargo I put
to sea. For a mils; or whereabouts, my mft- went very well, only (hat 1 found it drive
a. little distant from the place where I had landed before ; by which I perceived that
there was some indraft of the water, and consequently, l hoped to find some creek or
river there, which 1' might make use of as a port to gel to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so ii. wan There appeared before me a little opening of the land.
I fouml a strong (mi-pent of the tide set into it; so I guided my rm as well as I
could, to keep in tho middle of the stream.

But here I had liked to have suffered a. second shipwreck, which, it" I had, I think
vnrily would have broken my heart ; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft mu
aground at one end of it upon a. shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it
warned but a. little thm: all my cargo had slipped off townnln file and that was afloat,
mid so fallen into the water. I (lid my utmost, by setting my back gaim't the chests,
to keep them in their places, bun could not thrust of the raft. with all my shrengnh ;
neislier dust I stir from the posture l was in ; but holding up the chest; with all my
miglnl., T stood in that manner near lliLlfml hour, in which hime the rising of the winter
brought mo 3. libtle more upon a. level; and, a little after, the water still rising, my mil,
floated again, and T thrust. her 011' with the car I had into the channel, and then driving
up higher, 1 at length found myself in the mouth of a. little river, with land on
both sidws, and. a strong Current- or tide running up. I looked on both sides for s. propul-
place to get. to shore, for l was not willing to be driven too high up the river; hoping,
in lime to see some fillip at sea, and therefore unsolved to place myself as near the coast
as 1 Could.

At length T. spied a. little core on the right shore of the crock, to which, with grca'o
pain and difficulty, I guided my unit, and at last got so near, thm; reaching ground with.
my car, I could thrust her directly in. But} here I had like to have 'lippcil all my
cargo into the sen. again; for that shore lying pretty s'vsep--Zlmt is to any, sloping----
there was no place to land, but. where one end of my final, if it ran on shore, would lie
so high, and the other sink lower, as before, that if. would endanger my cargo again.
All that I could (in was. to wait till the tide was as the highesh kmping the mm with
my oar like an anchor, to hold the sizle of it list to the shore, nem- a flat piece of
ground, which T expected the water would flow over ,- and so it did. As won 85 I
found water enough, for my in"; drew about, a fool; of water, I thruat her upon that
flu: pica-fl of ground, and there fiisieuurl or moored her, by sticking my two broken cars
into the gmuml-om) on one side, near one end, and one on the other side, near the

35other end ; and thus I lay till the water ehbal "my, and left my raft and all my cargo
safe on shore.

My next work was to VlG'W the country, and seek a. proper place for my habitation,
and where to stow my goods, to secure them from whatever might happen. Where I
was, I yet knew not; whether on the continent or on island; whether inhabited or
not inhabited ; whether in (longer of wild beasts or not. There was a hill not above a.
mile from me, which rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some other
hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fowling pieces,
and one of the pistols, and o. horn of powder 5 and thus armed, I travelled for discovery
up to the top of that hill, where, alter I had with great labour and dificulty got to the
top, I saw my fate, to my great affliction--viz, that l. was in an island environod
every way with the see; no hind to be seen except some rocks, which lay a great way
off, and two small islands, lam than this, which lay about three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in wn barren, and, as 1 saw good reason to
believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw none. Yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds ; neither, when I killed them, could I tell
what was fit for food, and what not. At-my coming back, I shot at a greet bird, which
I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of it great wond. I believe it was the first gun
that had been fired there since the creation of the world. I had no sooner fired, but
from all the putts of the wood there arose an innumorehlc number of {owls of many
norm, making a confused screaming and crying, every one accordixig to his usual note,
but not one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I took it to
he a. kind of a. hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but it had no Mons or claws
more than common. Its ill-sh was carrion, and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I come back to my raft, and fell to work to bring my
cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of the den-y : what to do with myself at night
1 knew not, nor indeed where to mst, for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not
knowing but some wild beast might devour me; though, as I afterwards found, there was
really no need for those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with the chests and bonds
that I had brought on shore, and mode a kind of hut for that night's lodging. As for
food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
crmituros, like hares, run cut of the wood where I shot the fowl.

I nowbegnn to consider that I might yet get a great many things out of the ship,
which would be useful to me, and particularly some of tho rigging and soils, and such
other things us might come to hand g. and I resolved to make another voyage on board
the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that the first storm that blow must necessarily
break her all in pieces, I resolved to set ull other things spurt, till I got everything

out of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council--that is to say, in my
thoughts--whether I should take back the raft; but this appeared impracticable : so I
resolved to go as before, when the tide wu down; and T did so, only that I striPPCd
before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a. chequered shirt, 3. pair of linen
drawers, and 2. pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second rm't ; and, having had
experience of the first, I neither made this so unwieldy, not loaded it so lisrd, but yet I
brought away several things very useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores I
found two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a grout screw--jock, a. dozen or two of
hatchets, and, above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone. All these I secured.

36CRUSOE MAKES A LITTLE TENT WITH A SA'IL,
 

together with several things belonging to the gunner, particularly two or three iron
crows, and two barrels of musket bullets, seven munkets, and another fowling piece,
with some small quantity ofpowdcr more ,2 n large bnanll ofsinnll shot, and a. great roll of _
sheet land 3 but this last was so heavy I could not hoist it up ('0 gel. itovm' the ship's side.

Besides these things, I look all Lho. men's clothes that 1 could find, and a spare fore-
top mil, .1 lmmmonlc, and some bedding; and with this I landed my second raft, and
brough: them all safe on shore, to my very grout comfort.

I was under some apprehension during my absence from the hind, that at least my
provisions might, be deroumd on shore; bul. when I came back, 1' found no sign of any
visitor; only there sat. a. creature like a. wild cat, upon one of the chants, which, when I
come towards it, run away n little distance, and then stood still. She sat very composed
and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to he acquainted with
me. I presented my gun to her, but, as she did not understand it, she was perfectly
unconcerned at it, nor did "he ofTer to ntir away ; upon which I tossed her a. bit of
biscuit, though, by the way, I. was not very free of it, for my store was not great 5 how-
ever, I spared her 9. bit, I soy, and she went to it, smelled at it, and ate it, and
looked (as plvaswl) for more; but I'thnnkcd her, mid could spare no more: so she
marched 03'.

Having got my second mrgo on shore--Lliongh I was obliged to open the barrels of
powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks--I went
to work to make me a little tool, with the soil, and some poles which I cut for that
purpose ; and into this tent I brought everything that I knew would spoil either with
min or sun ; nncl I piled all the empty clients and cash up in n ciinlc round the tent, to
fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from mun or beast,

Vthn I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with some hoards within,
and an empty client. sat up on end without; and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistol>> just M. my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to
bed for the first time, and slept very quietly all night. I was very weary and heavy ;
for the night before I had slept little, and hid laboured very hard all (law, as well to
to fetch those things from the ship, as to get them on shore.

T had the biggest. magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up, I believe, for one
man; but still I was not satisfied, for while thc ship sat upright in that posture, I
thought I ought to get everything out. of her that I could ; so every day, at low water,
1 went on board, and brought away something or other ; but. particularly the third time
I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes
and rope twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvas, which was to mend the soils
upon onwion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought (may all the
sails, first and Inst; only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a
time as I could, for they were no more useful to me for sails but {is mere canvas only.

But that which comforted rue more still, was, that at last of all, after I had made five
or six such voyages as these, and thnngho I had nothing more to expect from the ship
that was worth my meddling with--I say, nfier all this, I found a great liogshead of
bread, three large runlets of rum, or spirits, n box of fine sugar, and a. barrel of fine
flour: this was surprising to me, because I had given over expecting any more provisions
except what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogshesd of the bread, and
wrapped it up. parcel by pains], in pieces of the soils, which I cut out ; and, in a word, I
got all this safe on shore also, though at several times,

The next day 1 made another voyage, and now, having plundered the ship of what

35 .ROBINSON MAKES PROVISION FOR THE FUTURE.

: was portable and fit. to hand out, I began with the cable; cutting the great. cable inbn

' 'picccs such as I could more, I got two cable and a hnwser on shore, with all the iron.
work I could get ,- and having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the mizen-ya-nl, and
everything I could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy goods and
name away; but my good luck began to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy,
.and so overlnden, than after I waa entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest
of my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overact, and
'threvr me and all my cargo into the water 3 as for myself; it was no great harm, for I
was near the shore; but, an to my cargo, it was great part of it lost, especially the
iron, which I expected would have been of great use to me 3 however, when the tide
was out, I got most; of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with infi.
nite labour; for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work which fatigued me very
much. After this, I went ovary day on board, and brought away What I could get.

I had now been thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times on board the
ship, in which time I had brought away all that one pair of hands could well be sup-
posed capable of bringing ; though 1 verily believe, had the calm weather held, I should
have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece; but preparing the twelfth time to go
on baud, I found the wind began to rise : however, at low water I went on board, and.
though I thought I haul mnnnaged the cabin no effectually that nothing more could be
faund, yet I discovered a. locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or
three razors, and one pair of lar go scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good knives and
forks; in another I found about 111111)"an pounds value" in money--sonic European coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, and some silv er.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. " 0h, ding 3" said I aloud, " what art.
thou good for? Thou. art not worth to mo--no, not the taking off the ground 3 one of
those knives is worth all this heap , I how no manner of use for thee: e'en remain
where thou an, and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth )lle'ing."
However, upon second thoughts, I took it away- , and wrapping all' m a piece of canvas,
I began to think of making another raft; but while I was preparing this, I found the
sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh
gale from the shore. 1t prcsnntly occurred to me, that it was in vain to pretend to
make a raft with the wind ofl' shore ; and that it wan my business to be gone before
the tide of flood hogan, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at all.
Accordingly, I let myself down into the water, and sworn across the channel which lay
between tho ship and the sands, and even that with dilficulty enough, partly with the
weight of the things I had about me, and partly from the roughness of the water ; for
the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a. storm.

But 1' was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my wealth about me
very necure. It blew very hard all that night, and in the morning, when I looked out,
behold, no more ship was to be neon. I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with

this satisfactory reflection, that I had lost no time, nor abated any diligence, to get
everything out of her that could be useful to me 5 and that, indeed, there was little left
in her that I was able to bring away, if I had hurl more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything out of her, except
what might drive on shore from her wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her after words
did; but those things were of small use to me

My thoughts were now whollyr employed about securing myself against either savages,
if any should appear, or wild heart; if any were in the island ; and I had many thoughts

39
 

of the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling Lo make--whether I should
make me a. cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth 3 and, in short, I resolved upon
both 3 the manner and description of which it may not be improper to give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not fit for my settlement, particularly because
it was upon it low moorish ground near the sea, and I believed would not be whole>>
some, and more particularly because there was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to
find a. more healthy and more convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situntion, which I found Would be proper for me ._
flirt, health and fresh water, I just now mentioned; secondly, shelter from the heat of
the sun 5. thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, whether man or beset ,' fourfillly, a.
view to the son, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for
my deliverance, of which I was not willing to banish my expectation yet.

In Search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain on the side of a rising hill,
whoSe fmnt towards thin little plain was sleep as :1 house side, so that nothing could
come down upon me from the top. 0n the aide of the rock there was a hollow plane,
worn a little my in, like the entrance or door of u care,- but there was not really any
care, or way imo the rock, at all.

On the flat oi" the green, just below this hollow place, I racked to pitch my tent.
This plain was not ahove a hundred yards brand, and about twice as long, and lay like
a green before my door , and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every way down
into the low ground by the see-side It was on the N.N.W'. side of the hill ; so that i t
was sheltered from the hent every day, till it came to the W. and by S. sun, or there-
nbouts, which, in those countriea, is near the set-Ling.

Before I set up my tent, I drew n half-circle before the hollow place, which took in
about ten yards-in its semi-diameter, (win the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter
from its beginning and ending. _

In this haliecix-cle I pitched two rows of strong stakag dr'un'ng them into the ground
till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest and being out of the ground above five
feet and n half, and sharpened on the top. The two rows did not stand above six. inches
from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and laid them in rows,
upon one another, within the circle, between these two rows of stakes, up to the top,
placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two feet and a half high
like a spur to u post ; and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could
get- into it or over it. This cont me a. great deal of time and labour, especially to cut
the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and drive them into the earth.

The entmnce into this plane 1'. math: to be, not by a door, but by a short ladder to
go over the top ; which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over nfter me ; and so I
was completely fenced in and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and con--
sequently slept secure in the night, which otherwise I could not have done; though, as
it appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this caution from the enemies that
I apprehended danger from. _

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my riches, all my
provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have the account above ; and I
made me a large tent also, to preserve me from the ruins, thotin one part of the your
are very violent there. I made it double--vim, one smaller tent within, and one larger
tent above it; and covered the uppermost part of it with a large terpaulin, which I lied
snvetl among the sails.

4o
 

 

CRUSOE \VRlTlNG HIS JOURNAL.

And now I lay no more {or awhiie in the bed which I had brought on shore, but
in a hammock, which was indeed every good one, and belonged to the nmln of the ship.

Into this tent I brought. mil my provisions, mid everything that would spoil by the
wet. ; and having thus enclosed all my goods, 1 made up (he entrance, which till now T.
hncl lull; open. and so paged and ropassed, as I said, by 9. short lmider.

\thu I had done this, I began to work my way into the xwk, and bringing all
the earth and stones thal- I dug down ontihrough my tent, I laid them up wit-him
my fence, in the nature of a lei-lace, so that; il: raised the ground within about. a
foot and a half; and thus I made me a. cave, just behind my tent, which served me
like a cellar w my house.

It cost me much labour and many days before all these things were brought to per--
fection ; and wherefore I must; go back in some ozhar things which took up wine of my
thoughts. At the same time it occurred, after 1 had laid my scheme for the setting
up the tent, and making the cave, that; a. storm of min falling from a, thick, dark
cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that, a grraal. clap of thunder,
as is naturally the (fleet of it; I was not so much mrpn'snd with the lightning,
as I was with theihought which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself, " Oh, my powder I" My very heart sank wishiu me when I thought that, at one

4.1
 

hlaefi, all my powder might be destroyed; on which not my defense only, but the
providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended. I was nothing near so anxious
about my own danger; though, had the powder took fire, 1 haul never lmoxvn who had
hurt me.

Sueh impression did this make upon me, that, after the storm was over, I luid aside
all my work, my building and fortifying. and flppllcd myself to make bags and hoxus
to separate my powder, and to keep in a little and a, little in a, parcel, in hopes,
that whet-ever might come, it might not all take fire no one ; and to keep it; so sport,
that it should not be possible to make one port fire another. I finished this work,
in about a fortnight ,- and I think my powder, which in all was about one hundrml and
forty pounds weight, was divided into no loss than a hundred parcels. A>> to the barrel
that had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that ; so I placed it in my
new cave, which, in my fimcy, I called my kitchen ; and (he rest I hid up and down in
holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking very carefully where
I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out. at least once every
day with my gun, as well to divert". myself, as to see if I could kill anything fit for
food; and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with what the island produced.
The first time I went. out, I presently discovered that. there were goats in the island,
which was a great satisfaclion to me ; but then it. was ottencled with this misfortune
to me, win, that, they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of font, that it was the most
difiicult lbing in the world to come at them; but I was not discouraged ut this not
dmxhting but I might now and then shoot. one, as it soon happened ,' for otter 1 had
found _their hmmts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed if they
saw me in. the valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they would run away, as in a.
terrible fright ; but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they
took no notice of me ; from whence I concluded, that by the position of their optics,
their sight was so directed downward, that. they did not readily new objects that were
.alJore them ; so afterwards I Look this method~--I always climbed the rocks first, to
get above them, and then hard {requently a fair mark.

The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a. she-gout, which had a lit-tie
kid by her, which she gave suck. to, which grieved me heartily ; for, when the old one
fell, the kid stood steel: shill by her, till I came and took her up 5 and not only 80, but
when I carried fihe old one with me upon my shoulders, the lcid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which, I laid down the dam, and took the kid in myarnis and
curried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame ; but it would not eat ; so I
was forced to kill it. and out it myself. Those two supplied me with flesh a great
while, for I eat sparingly, and saved my provisions, my bread especially, as much as
I possibly could.

Having now fixed my habitation, I found ii; absolutely necessary to provide a place
to make a fire in, and fuel to hum. ; and What I (lid for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what. conveniences I made, I shall give a full account of in its place ; but 1
must now give some little immune of myself, and of my thoughts about living, which, it
may well be supposed, were not a few.

I had 0. dismal prospect of my mndilion, for as I was not. (me away upon that. Maud
without being driven, as is said, by a violent storm quire out of the course of our
inlendcd voyage, and a great way, viz, some hundreds of leagues, out of the ordinary
course of the "axle of mankind, I had great reason to consider it as a determination of

42CRUSOE'S CALENDAR.

 

Heaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I should and my life.
The years v'rould run plentifully down my face when I made these reflections 3 and somea
times 1 would expostulnte with myself why Providence should thus completely ruin its
creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable, so without help abandoned, and so
entirely depressed, that it could hardly he rational to he thankful for such a. life.

But something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts, and to
rcprove me ,- and particularly one day walking with my gun in my hand by tho sca-
side, I was very pensive upon the subject of my present condition, when Reason, as it
mam, put in expostnlnting with me the other Waty, thus : "Well, you are in o. desolate
condition, it is true ; but, pmy remember, where are the rat of you 1 Did not you come
eleven of you into the bout? Where are the ten ? Why were run"; they saved, and you
103" Why are you singled outl Is it; hatter to be here or there ?" And then I
pointed to the ties. All evils are to be considcrcd with the good that is in them and
with what worse attended them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my subsistence, and
what would have been my case if it had not. happened (which was a. hundred thousand
to one) that the ship floated from the place where first she struck, and was driven so
near to the shore, that I had time to get nllthue things out of her-2 What would have
heeu my case, if I had hcon forced to have lived in the condition in which I at first
came on shore, without necasazu'ies of life, or any menus to supply and procure them?
" Pnrticnlurly," said I aloud (though to myself), "What should I have done without. a
gun, without ammunition, without any tools to make anything, or to work with 3 with-
out clothdr, bedding, a tent, or any manner of coverings?" and that now I had nil those
to a sufficient quantity, and was in it fair way to provide myself in such a. mnner us to
live without my gun, when my ammunition was spent : so that I had a tolerable View
of subsisting without an y want as long as I lived ; for I considered from the beginning
how I wmihl provide for the accidents that might. happen, and for the time that was to
come, even not Only ather my ammunition should be spent, but, even after my health
and strength should decay.

I confess I had not then entertained any notion of my ammunition being destroyed
at one blast--~11 mean, my powder being blown up by lightning; and this made the
thoughts of it surprising to me, when it lightened m1 'thundered, as I observed just
now.

And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of silent life, such,
perhaps, as was never heard of in the world hefom, I shall taka it from its hegixming,
and continue it in its order. It "we, by my account, the 30th of September, when, in
the manner as above mid, I first set foot upon this horrid island ,- when the sun being
to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head: for I reckoned myself,
by observation, to he in the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of
the line.

After I had been thnre about ten or twelve days, it came into my thoughts that I
should lose my reckoning of time for want of books, and pen, and ink, and should even
forget the Sabbath-day from the worldng--days ; but to prevent this, I out it with my
knife upon a large post, in capital letters; and making it into 9. great cross, I set it up
nu the shore where I first landed, viz, " I came on shore here on the 30th of Sep-
tember, 1659."

Upon the sides of this square post I out every day a notch with my knife, and erery
seventh nowh was as long again as the rest, and every first. day of the month as long

43again as that long one ; and. thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly
reckoning of time.

In the next place, we are to observe, choc among the many things which I brought
_ from the ship in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got
several things of less mine, but not at all less useful to me, which I omitlcd setting
down before; as, in pm'ticular, pens, ink, and paper ; several parcels in the captain's
mate's, guuncr's, and carpenter's keeping ,- three or four comIMseu, some mathemnciml
instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation; all which I huddled
together, whether I mght want; them or no: also I found thine very good Bibles,
which came to me in my cargo from England, and which 1 had packed up among my
things ; some Portuguese books also ; and, among them, two or three Popish prayer-
boohs', and severnl other books ; nil which I carefully secured. And I must not; forget:
that we had in the ship a clog and two cats, of whose eminent history I must have won-
sion to say something in its place, for I carried both the can; with me ; and as for the
dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore to me the day nil-er I
went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many years ; I wanted
nothing that he could fetch me, nor any company that he could make up to me ; I only
wanted to hove him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed before, I found
pens, ink, and paperysnd I husbmded them it!) tho utmost 5 and I shall show that. while
my ink lasted, I kept things very exact; but after that was gone I could not, for I could
not make any ink by any menus that I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstanding all that I M
amassed together 5 and of these, ink was one : as also a spade, pick-axe, and shovel, to
<ng or remove the earth ; needles, pins, and. thread : as for linen, I soon learned to want
that without. much difficulty.

This want- of tools made every work I did go on heavily ; and it was near a whole
year before I had entirely finished my little pole, or surrounded habitation. The
piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I could well life, were a longtime in cutting and
propnring in the woods, and more, by far, in bringing home 5 so that I spent sometimes
two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in driving it
into the ground ; for which purpose, I got a heavy piece of wood of. first, but. at. last
berhought myself of one of the iron crows ; which, however, though I found it, yell mode
driving those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what need I have
been concerned at the taliousness of anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough to
do it in? nor had I any other employment, if that had been over, at least that I could
foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for food, which I did, more or less, every
day.

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circumstances I was reduced
to ; and I drew up the state of my affairs in writing, not so nruchfo leave them to any
that were to come after me, for I was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver my
thoughts from daily poring upon them, and oillicbiug my mind : and as my reason began
now to mnstcr my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to set
the good against- ihe evil, that I might have something to distinguish my case from worse,
and I suited it very impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comfort I enjoyed, against:
the miseries I suffered, thus :--

EVH>> GOOD.
l mu cost, upon a horriblu, desolate island; But I am olive ; and not drowned, as ell my ship's can>>
void of all hope oi recovery. puny was.

4+CRUSOE DISCOVERS GOATS ON THE ISLAND.
EVIL GOOD.
I um singled out and sopumlaxl,as ltwero, But I am sing'oll out, true, from all the ship's crew, to be
from all tho world, to be miscruhlel spared from deal-h ; and 116 that mix-.xauluusly saved me
from tlmth can deliver mu iron". :'nla condition
I um lili'idod from mankind, a solitary; But I um not flawed, and purisliing on a barren plow,
one banished horn human society. aficrding no susvcunnuu.
I have no clothes to cover me, But I am in a hot. clinuxte,w'nore ii I had clothes, I could
hardly won: them.
I run without any defence, or means to Hm I m oust on an island where I. you no wild boasts to
resist any violence of nun or beast. hurt mo, as I saw on the coastal Africa; and whul, ll' 1 hurl.
keen shipwreckod than!
I have no soul to spunk lo or relieve no. But God wonderfully sent the ship in near enough to [lie

shore, um I huve gut out so nanny uocaszsry tbiugu as will
either supply my wants or unable no to supply myself, uvuu
as Iong as I. live.

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that there was scarce any con-
dition in the world so miserable, but there was something negative, or something positive,
to be thankful for in it: : and let this stand as n direct-ion, from the experience of the
most miserable of all conditions in this world--that we may always find in it something
he comfort ourselves from, and to set, in the description of good and evil, ou the credit.
side of the account.

llawiug now brought my mind ulihlle Lorelish my condition, and giving overlooking
out, to sea, to see if I could Spy a ship; I my, givingover these things, I begmx to apply
myuelfto acconnnodate my way of living, and to make things 3.21 easy to me as 1 could.

I have nh-caezy described my lmbitntion, which was a tent under the side of a. rock,
surrounded with a strong pole of posit: and cables ; but I might now lather call il. a
wall, for I raised a kind of wall up ugAinst it of turfs, aboun two feet thick on the out
side : and after some Lime. (I think it. was a your and a. hall) I raised rnfbens from it,
leaning to the rock, and thatched or oovcmdit with boughs of trees, and such things as I
could get to keep out the min, which I found at. some Limes of the year very violent.

I have already observed how I brought, all my goods into this pale, and into the-
eavo which I had made behind ms). But I must observe, Loo, that no first this was a,
confused heap of good>>, which, as they lay in no order, so they took up all my place ;

'1' had no room to turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cure, and worked further
into the earth 3 for it, was a loose, sandy rock, which yielded easily to blue labour 1
bestowed on ii;- : and so when I found I was pmlty safe as. to beasts of prey, I worked.
sideways, to the right hand, into the rock 3 and then turning to the right gain, worked
quite out, and mantle mos. dam- to come out on the outside of my pale or fortification.

Thin gave me not, only egress and regress as it: was u back way to my tent, and to
my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as I found 1 most
wanted, particularly a. chair and 2), table ; for without} these I was not. alulu to enjoy the
few comforts I had in the world 5 I could not write, or eat, or do several things with.
so much pleasure without a. table.

So I went to work ; and here I must needs observe that as reason is the substance
and original of the mathematiw, so by slaving and squaring overyllllug by reuse",
and by making the most rational judgment of things, every man may be, in time,
master of every mechanic art. I hurl never handled a. tool in my life; and yet,
in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted
nothing but I could have made if, especially-if I. had had (0015. However, I maul"
abundance of things, even without tools 3 mid some with no more tools than an who

46 'HE COMMENCES HIS JOURNAL.

 

 

and a hatchet, which, perlmps, were never made that way betbre, and that with infinite
labour. For eitample, if T wanwd a been], I had no other Way but to cut down a. tree,
set it on an edge before me, and how it flat on either side with my axe, till I had brought
it to be as thin as a. plank, and then dub it smooth with my ndze Tt ias true, by this
method I could make but one hoard out. of it whole tree; but this 1 had no remedy for
but patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal of time and labour which it
took me up to make a plank or hoard : but my time or labour was little worth, and so
it was as well employed one way as another.

However, T. made me 'u. table and a. chair, as J. observed above, in the first place ;
and this I did out of the short pieces of hoards that I brought on my mil; from the
ship. But when I had wrought out some boards as above, I made large shelves, of the
breadth of a fool; and an half, one over another, all along one side of my cave. to lay all
my tools, mils, and iron-work on; and, in a word, to Helm-ale everything at large into
their places, that I might come easily at- thom : also I knocked piecm into the wall of the
rock, to lmug my guns and all things that would hang up : so that had my cave been to
be seen, it looked like a. general magazine of all necmauy things ,' and I had everything
so really at myhnnd, that it was 2>> great- pleasure to me tosee all my goods in such order,
and especially to find my stool: of all neceeeeries so great.

And now it was when I began to keep a journal of every day's employment; for,
indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and not only an hurry as to labour, but in too
much discomposure of mind ; and my journal would have been full of many dull things ::
for example, I must. have said thus : "Sept the 3OUe--Afterl had got to shore, and had
escaped drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my delivemnce, having first
vomited, with the great quantity of salt water which was gotten into my stomach, and
recovering unwell a little, I mu about the ebony "Tinging my hands and beating my
head and face, exelniming at my misery, and crying out I was undone, undone} till,
(imd and faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground to' repose, hut dnrst not sleep,
for fear of being devoured,"

Some days after this, end aflor I had been on hoerd the ship, and had got all I
could out of her, yet I could not forbeur getting up to the top of a little mountain, and
looking out Le sea, in hupee of seeing a. ship: then fancy at a vast distance I spied
a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and then, after looking steadily, till I was
almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a. child, and thus iuermso my
misery by my folly. _

But. lowing gotten over theae things in some measure, and having settled my house-
hold stuff and habitation, made we a table and a chair, and all as handsome about me
as I could, I begun I say to keep my journal 5 of which I shall here give you the copy
(though in it will he told all these particulars over again), as lens as it lasted, for at
last, having no more ink, I ma; lbrced to leave it off.

rm: JOL'RKAL.

September 30, 1659.--I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during
a dreadful storm, in the oiling, came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island, which
I called "The Island of Despair 5" all the rest of the ship's company being drowned,
and myself almost dead.

All the rest of the day I spent in nlllieting myself at the dismal circumstances I was
brought to; fin, I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, not place to fly to 5 and, in
despair ofvany relief, saw nothing but death before me: either that I should be devoured

47ROBINSON cnuson

by wild beasts murdered by savages, or <<larval to death for want of food. At the
approach of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures ,' but slept soundly, though
it rained all night. '

October l.~--Tn the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the ship had floated with
the high tide, and ms driven on shore again, much nearer the island ; which, as it was
Some comfort, on one lmml (for seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces I hoped,
if the wind abated, I might get on board, and got some food and necessaries out of her
for my mlief), sq on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades,
who, I imagined, if we had all stayed on board, might have saved the ship, or, at least,
that they would not have been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the men been
saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have
carried us to flnme other part of the world. I spent great part of this day in perplexing
myself on those things ,- but', at length, seeing the ship almost dry, 1' went upon the sum]
as near as I could, and thou swam on board. This daynlso it continued raining, though
with no wind at all.

From the lat of October 20 the flak--All these days entirely spent in many several
voyages to get all I could out of the ship, which I brought>> on shore, every tide of flood,
upon mite. Much min also, in these days, thogh with some intervals; of fair weather ;
but it seems this was the rainy season. __

Oct. 24.--I oversct my rail, and all the goods I had got upon it. ; but being in ohoul
water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide
ms out

Oct iii--It mined all night and all day, with some gusts of wind; during which
.bime the ship broke in piece; the wind blowing a little harder than before, and was no
more to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this day
in covering and securing the goods which I saved, that the rain might not spoil them.

Oct 264--1' walked about the shore almost all any, to find out a. place to fix my
habitat-ion, greatly concerned to secure myself from any attack in the night, either from
wild haunts or men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper place, under a rock, and
marked out a. semicircle for my enmmpment, which I resolved to atrengthen with 9.
work, wall, or forfificntion, made of double piles, lined within with cables, and without
with turf.

Thom the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my goods to my new
habitation, though some part of the time it mined exceeding hard

The 315i, in the morning, I went out. into the island with my gun, to see 'Tor some
food, and discover the country; when I killed a she-gout, and her kid followed me home,
which I mm'unls killed also, hcceuso it would not feed.

November l.--l set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for the first night;
making it as large at I could, with stokes driven in to swing my hammock upon.

No>>. 24--1 set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces of timber which made
my rafts, and with them formed a fence round me, a little within the place I had marked
out for my fortification.

Nov. 3.--I went out with my gun, and killed two {owls like ducks, which were very
good food. In the afternoon wont to work to make me a table.

Non. 4.--'I'his morning I began to order my times of work, of going out with my
gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion 5 viz" every morning I walked out with my
gun for two or three hours, if it did not min ; then employed myself to work till about
eleven o'clock _; then etc what I had to live on 5 and hem twelve to two I lay down to

48CRUSOE'S JOURNAL

 

 

CRUSOF. L'lfiCOVERS TUE KARLBY.

sleep, the weather being excnssive hot ; and the'n, in the evening, to work again.
The working part of this day and the next were wholly employed in making this table,
for I' was yel. but a very sorry workman, though time and necessity made me a com--
plete natural mechanic soon alter, as I believe they would do any one else.

Nov. 5.--Thjs day I went nhmml with my gun and my dog, and killed a wild cat ;
her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for nothing; every creature I killed, I took ofi'
the skins and preserved them. Coming back by the sewshorc, I saw many saris of
sew-fowls, which I did not understand; but was surprised, and almost frighted, with
two or three seals, which, while T was m at, not well knowing what they were, got
inlio the sea, and escaped me for that time.

Now. 6.-----IAfter my morning walk, T went to work with my liable again, and
finished it, though not to my liking ; nor was it long before I learned to mend it>>

Nov. 7.----Now it hogan L0 be svttled flair weather. The 74-h, 8th, 9th, 10th, and
pen-l. of the 12th (for the llth was Sunday according to my reckoning), I took wholly
up to mahe me a>> chair, and with much ado lu-oughl- it to n, tolerable shape, but never
to please me ; and even in the making I pulled it to pieces several times.

Nomi--4 soon naglected keeping Sundays; for,'nmitting my marl: for them on my
post, I forgot which was which.

Nov. Iii--This day it mined, which refreshed me exceedingly, and cooled the
earth ; but it was necempnniechvith lemible thunder and lightning, which fright-ed me

4 49
dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As soon as it was (Ivor, I resolved to separate my
stock of powder info us many liLtle parcels ns possililn, that it might not be in danger.

Nov. 14, [5, Ill--Thom three days I spent; in making little square chests, or boxea.
which might hohl about. a, pound, or two pomids at. most, of' powder; and so, putting
the powder in, I showed it. in plums as secure and remote from one another as possible.
'm one of these three days T killed :1. large bin). that was good to eat, hnl. I knew not
what in) Call iii. .

NW. li'.---'.l'his day I began to dig behind my tent into the rock, to make room for
my further conveniency.

Nam--Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work ; vii", n picknxe, a. shorel,
and s. wheelbarrow, or lmakct; so I dosisteul from my work, and hogan to consider how
Ito supply that want, and 11min: me some tools. As for the pickmxe, I made use of {he
iron crown, which were proper eilough, though heavy ; but the nexl: thing was a shovel,
or spade ; this was so almlutely nemmnry, that, indeed, I could do nothing effectually
without it ; but. wind. kind of one to mil-kn I knew 00h

Non. IS,--The next, day, in searching the woods I found a tree of that wood, or
like it, which, in the Brnziis, filmy call the iron--tree, for its <<imam hardness ; of this,
with great labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I out n piece, and brought it home,
with diflimxlby enough, for if, was exceeding heavy. The excessive hardness of the wnml,
and, having no other way, made me a long while upon this machine, for I worked in-
efl'eetnnlly by little and little into the form of a. shovel or spade ; the handle exactly
shaped like ours in England, only that the board part having no iron shod upon it. at
bottom, it would not last me .30 long ; however, il. smrvcd well. enough for the uses which
I had occasion to put. it- in ; but never was a. shovel, I believe, made after that fashion,
or so long making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or n wheelbarrow. A basket I conid
not make by any nit-urns, having no such things a>> twigs blunt would bend to make-
wickenwnre~al loom, none yet found out ; and as to the wheelbarrow, I fancied I could
make all but the wheel ; hut that I had no notion of ; neither did I know how to go
nbout it; besides I hwd no pmaible way to make iron guclgeons for the spindle or
axis of the wheel to run in; so I gave it over, and so, for worrying away the earth which
I dug out of the cure, I made me a thing like u had, which the labourers carry mortar
in, when they serve the ln-ioldnycrs. This was not so diificulh to me as the making llu:
shovel ; and yet this and the shovel, and the attempt which I made in Vain to make a.
wheelbarrow, Look me up no loss than four days, I mean always excepting my morning's
walk with my gun, which I seldom failed, and very seldom failed also of bringing home
something iii. to eat.

Nov. 23--th other work hnvingebuod skill, because of my making these tools,
when they were finished I went on, and working every day, as my strength and time
allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it
might hold. my goods cammorlionsly.

Nate.----Dlu'ing all this time I worked to mnke this room, or cave, spacious enough
to ammmmoclate nm as a warehouse, or magazine, a kitchen, a. (lining--room, and a collar.
As for a lodging, I kept (o the Loni. 3 except that. sometimes, in the wet season of the
year, it mined so hard, that I could not keep myself dry, whihh (mused mo afterwards
to cover all my place within my pole with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.

December 10.--I begin now to think my cove or vault finished, when on a, sudden
50(RUSOE FURNISHING HIS HOUSE.

 

(it seems I had made it (no lm'gv) a. great quantity of earth fell down from the top and.
one side; so much that, in short, it fiighted me, and not without mason. for); f)!' if I
had been under ili, I had never wanted a grave digger. Upon this disnsbcr I had a
grant. deal of work to do over again, for I had the loose earth to carry out 3 and, which
was of more ixuporlezmw, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no more
would come down.

0w. ll.----This day I went {:0 work with it accordingly, and got two alums or posts
pitched upright in the top: with two pieces of board across over Mich post- ; this I
finished the next day, and setting more posts up with boards, in about :1. weal: more
I had the roof secured 3 and the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions (.0
pawl: 011' my house.

Dec. "1--me this day to the 20th I place] shelves, and knocked up nails on the
posts Ln hang everything up that could be hung up ; and now I bgan to be in some
order within doors.

Dec. 20.--Now I carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish my house,
and set up some pit-ca: of hoard like a <<heaven to order my victnnls upon; but: hoard
hogan to be very scarce with me : also I made me another table.

Dec. 24.----~.\'Iuch rain all night and all day 5 no stirring out.

Dan 251~.l;'min nll day.

Dec. 26.--No rain, and the mirth much coolecr than before, and pleasmxtei'.

Dec. "ii--Killed a young goat, and lsnmd smother 130 that- I catched it, and lml it
home in a "ring ; when I haul if. at home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which was
hioke.

KB. --I took such care of it that it lived, and the legb "row well and as strong as
ever ; lmL by nursing in so long if. gmw tame, and fed upon. the little green at my
door, and would not go away. This was the first time shat I entertained a. thought of
breeding up some tame creatures, tin-l. I might have food when my powder and shot
were all spent;

Dre. 28, 29 30 31. --G1eat heats, and no break, so that them was no stirring
nbxoad, except 111 the evening, for food; this time I spent in putting all my things' In
order within doom

er>> ll--Very hot still: but. I went abroad early and late with my gun, and
lay still in the middle of (ho day. This evening, going further in to 1.110 valleys which
lav towards the centle of the island, I found (here was plenty of goats, though exp
cmdiugly sh), nnd had to come at; however, T insolved to try if I could not bring
my dog to hunt. them do" n.

Jan. 2.---Acconlingly, the next day I went. out. with my dog, and set, him upon the
goats; but I was n1Lstaken,fo1- they all faced about upon the dog, and he knew his
(longer too well for he would not. name nem them.

Jan. 3. _--I began my fence, or wall , \\ hie-l1, being still jealous of my being nttackul
by snmnhnrly, I lN)lVltd to make ver}Y think and stating.

NIL--This wall being described before, I purposely omit what was said in the
Journal ; it is'suflicienb to observe that I was no hm time than {from the 3rd. of January
to the 14th of April wax-king finishing, and perfecting this wall, though it. was no more
than about. twenty-four yards in length. king 11 halfvcircle, from one place in the rock
to another place, about eight yards from in, the door of the cave being in the centre
behind it.

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many days, nay, sometimes

5' '

 

c
 

weeks together; but I thought I should never be perfectly aeouro till this wall was
finished ; and it; is ammo credible what. incxprcssible lnbour everything was done Wit-h,
espocially the bringing piles out of the woods, and drin'ng them into the ground 3 for
I made them much bigger than I needed to have done.

"Vixen this wall was finished, and the outside doublofencod, with a. turf wall raised
up close to it, I persuaded myself that if 'nny people were to come on chore there, they
would not perceive anything like a. habitation ; and it was very well I did so, as may
be observed hereafter, upon it very remarkable occasion.

During this time I made rounds in the woods for game every day, when the
min permitted me, and made frequent discoveries in these walks of something or other
to my advantage ; particularly I found a. kind of Wild pigeons, which build, not as
wood pigeons in a tree, but rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks ; and taking
sumo young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so ; but when they
gnaw older they flew all away, which perhaps was at first for want. of feeding them, for I
hml nothing to give them ; however, I frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which were very good meat.

And now, in the managing my household nfihirs, I found myself wanting
in many things, which I thought at final: it was impossible for me to make ;
<<:4, indeed, an to some of them it. was; for instance, I could never make a cask
to be hooped. I had a. small runlet or two, as I observed before ; but. I could
harm arrive to the capnoiby of making one by them, though I spent many weeks about
it; I could neither put. in the heads, nor join the stoves so true to one another as to
make. ill/mm hold water ; so T gave that also over.

In the next place, I was at n. great loss for candles; so that as soon as it
was dark, which was genendly by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I
remembered the lump of bees'-wnx with which I made candles in my African
ndventnu'c ; but I had none of that now ; the only remedy I had was, that
when I hnd killed a goat I saved the (allow, and with a little dish mode of clay,
which I lmkml in the sun, to which I added a wick of some onknm, I made mea
lamp; and this gave me light, though not a. clear steady light like a. candle. In the
middle of all my labours it. happened that, rummaging my thing I found n, little bug,
Which, as I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the feeding of poultry--not; for
this Voyage, but before, nsI suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon. Wlmt little rc-
niainder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing in
the bug but hunks and dust ,' and being willing to have the bag for some other use (I
think it "-5 "deg 1"" WWW" in, when I divided it {or four of the lightning, or some
such use), I shook the husks of corn out of it on one aide of my fortification, under the
rock.

It was n little lmfore the great mins just now mentioned that I throw this atufl
away, taking no notice of anything, and not so much as remembering that I hall thrown
anything there, when, about a. month after, or themshcnt>>, I saw 2'10"") few stalks of some- 9
thing green shooting upon the ground, which I flincied might be some plant. I had not seen ;
but I was ourprised, and perfectly astonished when, after a. little longer time, I saw
about. ten or twelve can; come out, which were perfect. groan Barley, of the same kind
as our European--nay, as our English barley.

It i: impoSSible to express the astonishment and confusion of my thoughts on this
occasion ; I had hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all ; indoed, I had very
few notions of religion in my head, nor had entertained any sense of anything that had

52
befiillen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as we lighbly my, what pleases God, Without.

so much as inquiring into the end of Providence in those things, or his order in
governing events in the world. But after I saw barley grow there in :1 climate which
I knew was not proper for corn, and especially that I knew not how it came there, it
startled mo strangely, and I began to suggest that God had miraculously caused this
grain to grow without any help of seed gown, and that; it was so directed purely for my
sustenance in that wild, miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes, and I began to

bless myself that such a prodigy of Nature should happen upon my account; and this
:- because I saw near it still, all along by the side of the

was the more strange to m , . '
rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and which I know,

because I had seen if. grow in Africa, when I was ashore there
I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence for my support, but not

doubting but that there was more in the place, I went all over that port of the island where
I had been before, peering in every corner and under every rock, to see for more of it,
but I could 1108 find any. At, last it occurred to my thoughts, that I had shaken the
bag of chickens' moat out. in that place ; and the Wonder began to cease ; and I must
confem, my religious thankfuhless to God's providence began to abate 1500, upon the
discovering that all this was nothing but what was common ; though I ought to have
been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen providence, as if it had been
miraculous ; for it was really the work of Providence as to me, that should order or
appoint rtheb ten or twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled, when the rats had
destroyed all the rest, as if it, had been dropped from heaven ; as also that I should
throw io-cut into that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it
-sprang up immediately ,' whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else at that. time, it had
been burnt. up and deatroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in thcir season, which was
about the end of J nne ; and laying up every com, I resolved to sow them all again,
hoping in fime to have some quantity, euil'icicnt to Supply me with bread. But it was
not till the fourth year that I would allow myself the least grain of this corn to out, and
even then but. sparingly, as I shall say afterwards, in its order; for I lost all the"
sowed the first season, by not observing the proner time 5 for I sowed it just before the
dry season, so that it never come up at all, at least not as it would have done : of which
in its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks of rice, which I
preserved with the same care, and whose use was of the some kind, or to the same
purpose, rim, to make me bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without
baking, tlmugh I did that also after some time

But to intern to my Journal :--
I worked excessive herd these three or four months, to get my well done; and

the'14eh of April, I closed it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over a
wall, by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.

April 16.--I finished the ladder ; so I_went up the ladder to the top, and then
pulled it. up after me, and let it down on the inside: this was a complete enclosure to
me ,- for within 1 had room enough, and nothing could come at me from without,
unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this well was finished, I had almost- bud all my lubour
overthrown at once, and myself killed. The case was thus:--As-I was busy in the

54AN EARTHQUAKE IN THE lSIAND.

inside of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into my cove, I wss horribly firightened
with a. most drewlfill surprising thing indeed: for, all on a. sudden, I found the earth
came tumbling clown from the roof of my cave, and from tho edge of the hill over my head,
and two of the posts 1 had set up in the cove cmckod in a frightful manner. 1 was '
heartily scared; hut thought nothing of what really was tho cause, only thinking that
the top of my cove was falling in, as some of it had done before : and for fear I should
be buried in it, I ran forwardstp my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there neither,
1 got over my wnll for four of the pieces of the hill, which 1 expected might roll down
upon me. I was no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground, than 1 plainly saw it
was a terrible earthquake ; for the ground I stood on shook three times at about eight
minutes' distance, with three such shocks as would have overturned the rtroug<st
building that could be supposed to have stood upon the earth ; and a great piece of the
top of tho rook, which stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell down with
such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. I perceived also the very son
was put into a violent motion by it 3 and I believe the shocks were stronger under the
water than on the island.

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never foil; the like, or dis-
Coursed with nuy one that had, that I was like one dead or stupefied ; and the motion
of the earth made my stomach sick like one that was tossed at sea ; but the noble of the
falling of the rock awnked mo us it were, and rousing me from the stupefiod condition
1 was in, tilled me with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the hill falling
upon my tent and all my household goods, and burying all at once 5 and this sunk my
very soul within me. 9. second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I began to take
cmxage ; and yet I hit/J not heart enough to get over my wall again, for fear of being
buried ali\'e,'l)ut still sot upon the grouuth greatly cast clown and disoonsolote, not
knowing what to do. All this while, I had not the least serious religious thought;
nothing but the common "Lord, have mercy upon me l" and when it won over, that
<<vent away too.

While I sat tuna, I found the nix overcast, uud it grew cloudy, as if it would rain ;
soon after that, the wind arose by little and little, so that in less than half an hour it
blew a most dreadful hurricane of wind: the sea was, all on a sudden, covered with
foam and froth 5 the shore was covered with the breach of the. water; the trees were
torn up by the roots 3 and a terrible storm it "no This held about three hours, and
then began to abate; and than in two hours more itwas (mini, and began to min very
hard. All this while I out upon the ground very much terrified and dojocted ;. when
on a sudden it came into my thoughts, that those winds and rain being the consequences
of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might venture into
my owe again. W'ith this thought, my spirits begun to revive 5 and the rain also
helping to persuade me, I Went in and sat down in my tent; but the rain was so
violent, that". my tent was ready to be beaten down with it; and I was forced to go
into my cave, though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head.
"l'hls violent rain rowed me to it new work, it'll>>, to cuta hole through my new fortifi-
-ca.tions like a sink, to let the water go out, which would also have dmwneul my
cave. After I had been in my cave some time, and Found still no more shacks of the
earthquake follow, I begun to be more composed. And now to support my spirits,
which indeed wanted it very much, I wont to my little store, and tool: 0. smell sup of
rum ; which, however, I did then and always very spuringly, knowing I could have no'
55
more when chin; wus gone. It continued mining all that night, and great part of the
next day, so that I could not stir abmad ; bur. my mind being more composed, I
.bcgau to Lhink' of what I had best to do ; concluding, that. if the island was subjgcn
in these earthquakes, there would he no living for me in a cave, but I must consider of
building me some lime hub in an open place which T. might surround with a. wall, as,
I haul done here, and so make myself secure from wild boasts or men 5 for I concluded
if I stayed where I was, I should certainly, onetime or other, be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to move my tent from the place where it now
stood, which wasjusi under the hanging precipice of the hill; and which, it it should
be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent: mid I upent the two next days,
being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriring where nml how to remove my
habitation. The four of being swallowed up alive made me that I never slept in quiet ;.
and yet the apprehensions of lying abroad withoul. any {cum were almost equal to ix) :
but still, when I looked about, and saw how everything was put in order, how pleasantly
concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it>> made me 10th, to remove. In the mean--
hiuie, ii; occurred lo me that. it would rnq uii'o a. vast deal of time for me to do this, and
that. i' must be contented to run the venture where I was, till I had formed 3 amp for
myself, and luul secured it so as to remove to it. So with this resolution I composed
myself for a timc, and resolved that I would go to work wish all speed to huiid me a
wall wii-h piles and cables, (in, in a. circle, as before, and set; my tent up in it, when it.
was fiuithl 5 but, than I would vcnture to stay where J. was till it, was finished, and
{it to remove to. This was the 2lst.

Apn'l Eli--Thu noxl.' morning I hogan to consider of means to put this resolve in
execution; but. i was at n great. loss about; my tools. I had three large axes, and
abundance of hairlxets (for we canied the hatchets for traffic with the Indium) ; hut,
with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all lidl of notches, and
dull 5 and ilmugh I had a grinds--lone, I could not turn it and grind my tools; too. This
cox-it me as much thought- aa a, statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point of
politics, or a. judge upon the life and death of a mun. At length, T contrived a. wheel
witha string, to turn it with my foot, that I might. have both my hands at liberty.

Nola--I had not seen any such thing in England, or ot- lcasd. nob to take notice
how ii; was <<lame, though since I have observed it was very common there ; besides that,
my grindetonc was very large and heavy. This machine cost me a full week's work to
bring it to perfection.

April 28, 29.--Tliese two whole days I took up in grinding my tools my machine
for turning my grindstone performing very well.

April 30.---Huviug perceived my bread had been low a. grout. while, I now took a.
survey of ii, and reduced myself to one biscuit-mire a. day, which made my helm. very
heavy.

Mary l..----ln the morning, looking toward: the sear-side, the title being low, I saw
something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary, and it; looked like a cask ; when
1 came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or three piocm of the wreck of the ship,
which were driven on shore by the into hurricane; and looking towards the wreck
itself, I thought it floemell to lie higher out of." the water than ii. "and to do. I examined
the burial which was driven on shore, and soon found it was a linrrel of gunpowder ;
but} it had taken water, and the-powder was united as hard as a stone: however, Irollcrl
it further on shore {or the present, and went on upon the sands as near as I could to
tho wreck of the ship, to look for more.

56CRUSOE VISITS THE VVRECK.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CKUSOE FIXDS A TURTLE

When I came down lo the ship, I found in strangely removed. The forecastle,
which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up at least six fuel, and the stern, which
was broken in pieces and parted from the rest by the force of the sea. soon after 1 bad
lefi rummaging of her, was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side 5 and (-118 sand
was thrown so high on tlml. side next the stern, that whereas there was a gram; place
of water before, so chat 1 could not come within a quarter of a mile of the monk
wit-hunt swimming, 1 could now walk quile up to her when the tide was out. I was
surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it musl- be done by the earthquake;
and as by nhis violence the ship was more broken open than formerly, so many things
came daily on show, which tho son. had loosened, and which the winds and water
rolled by degrees to the land.

This wholly diverted my thonghle from the design of removing my habitation,
and I busied myself mightily, that day especially; in searching \vhefher I could molar
any way into the ship ; but 1 found nothing was In be expected of that kind, for
that. all the inside of the ship was choked up with sand. However, as I had learned
ml; [0 deepnir of anything, I resolved to pull eveiything to pieces thaL I could of
the ship, concluding that everything I could get from her would be of some use
or other to me

May 3.----I began with my my. and cut a. piece of a beam through, which I
thought held some of tho upper purl: or quarter deck together,- and when I had one

57
it, through, I cleared away the sand as well as I could from the side which lay highest;
but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for that, time

May 4.-----I went mfishing, but caught not one fish that I durs-t eat of, till I was
weary of my sport ; when, just going to leave ell, T caught a young dolphin. I had
made me a long lino of some ropeyarn, but 1 had no hooks; yet I frt'quently caught
fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all Which I dried in the sun, and ate them dry,

May5.--Worked on the wreck; cut mother beam asunder, and brought three great
fir plank>> ofi' from the (locks, which _I tied together, and made swim on shore when
the tide of flood come on. _

May 6.-----Wurked on the wreck ,- got several iron bolts out of her, and other pieces
of iron-work; worked very hard, and came home very much tired,.a.nd had thoughts of
giving it over.

33:31 7.----W'cnt to the wreck again, with an intent not to work, but found the
weight of the wreck had broken itself down, the beams being out ; that several pieces of
the ship ueeined to lie loose, and the ineide of the hold lay so open that I could see into
it 5 but it was almost full of water and sand.

May 8A~Weub to the meek, and corricd an iron crow to wrench up the deck
which lay now quite clear of the water or sand I wrenched open two planks, and
brought them on ashore also with (who tide. T. left the iron crow in the wreck for next
day.

Mpg 9.---\Ven$ to the wreck, and wioh the crow made way into the body of the
wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them with the crow, but could not break
them up. T felt also a roll of English lead, and could stir it, but, it wars too heavy to
more.

May 10, ll, 12, 18, 14.'---Wellll every day to the wreck; and got a great deal of
pieces of timber, and boards, or plmxks, and two or three hundredweighb of iron.

Moog; 15..--I carried two hatchets, to try if 1 could not cut; a. piece off the roll of
lead, by placing the edgovof one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as il
lay about a foot and a. half in the water, I could not make any blow to drive the
hatchet

Jl'fay 16.---lt 11nd blown hard in the night, and the wreck appeared more broken by
the force of the Water ; but I stayed so long in the woods, to get pigeons for food, that
the tide prevented me going to the wreck that M)"

May 171--]. saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a great distance, near
two miles off me, but resolved to see whaL they were, and found they were pieces of
the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.

May 24.--Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck 5 and with hard labour I
loosened some things so much with the crow, that the {inst flowing tide several mks
floaietl out, and two of the seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from the shore
nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which lmd some
Brazil pork in it; but. the salt water and the send had spoiled it. I continued this
work every dry to the 15th of June, except the time necesm'y to get food. which I

always appointed, during this parl. of my employment, 60 be when the tide was up, that
1 might be ready when it was ebbcd out; and by this time I had gotten ohnber, and plank,
and iron-work enough to have built a. good boat~ if T had know how; and also I got,
at several Limos and in several pieoes, nem- one hund-mclwcighl of the shoot-load.

June 16.--Going down to the searside, I foxuld a large tortoise, or turtle. This was
the final I had seen. which, it seems, was only my mi'afomine, not. nnydefect of the place:

58HE SUFFERS FROM AGUE.

 

or the scarcity ; for lmd I happened to be on the other side of the Maud, I might have
had hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards ; but perhaps had paid clear
enough for them.

June 17 I spentin cooking the turtle. I found in her threesome eggs; and her
nah was to me, at that time, the most savoury and pleaswit that ever] mun in my life'
having had no flesh, but of goats and fowh', since I landed in this horrible place.

J1me lS.--~1<oined all the day, and I stayed within. I thought, at this time, the min
felt cold, and I was something chilly, which I knew wan not usual in that latitude.

J we 19.---Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather 11ml been oth

Jame 211--210 rest all night ; violent pains in my head, and feverish.

J1me 21.---\'ery ill 3 frighted almost to death with the npprehensions of my and
condition--to be sick, and no help : prayed to God, for the first time since the storm,
off of Hull, but scarce know what I slid or why ; my thoughts. being all confused.

June 22.----A little better; but under dread ful apprehensions of sickness .

June 23.--~Very bod again ; cold and nhiroring, and then a violent headache.

J was 24.----Much better.

June 25.-----.An aguo very violent: the {it hold me seven hauls; cold fit, and hot
with faint sweets after it.

Jim>> 26.--~Better 5 and having no victunls to em, took my gun;bul. found myueif
very weak ; however, 1 killed 9. she-goat, and with much difficulty got. it home, and
broiled some of it, and ale. 1 would fain have stewed it, and made eome broth, but 1m
no pot.

J2me 27.->>The ugue again so violent. that I lay whorl all day, and neither ate nor
drank. I was ready to perish for thirst; but so weak I had no strength to stand up,
or to get myself any water to drink. Played to God again, but was light-headed ,- and
when I was not, I was so ignomnt that I knew not what to any ; only I lay and cried,
"lord, look upon me! Lord pity me ! Lord have mercy upon me I" I suppose I did
nothing else for two or three houm 3 till the fit wearing 05, I fell asleep, and (lid not awake
till far in the night When I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and
exceeding thirsty ; however, as I had. no water in my whole habitation, I was famed to lie
Lill morning, and went to sleep agein. In this second sloop, I had this terrible dream:
I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside of my wall, where I sat when
the storm blew after the earthquake, and that I row a. man descend from a great black
cloud, in a. bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground : ho was all over as bright as
a flame, so that I could but just hear to look towards him : h's countenance was most
inexpreesibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe 3 when he stepped upon the ground
with his.feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as it had done before in the earthquake,
and all the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with flashes of fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved forwards towards me, with a long
spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, at some
distance, he spoke to me-or I heard a. voice so terrible that it is impossible to oxprtm
the terror of it. All that I can say I understood was this :--~" Seeing all these things
have not bwughl; thee to repentance, now thou shalt die ;"-nt which words, I thought
he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should benble to dtscrlbe
the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision. I mean, that even while it was a dream,
I even dreamed of those horrors. Nor is it any more possible to desoribethe impression
that remained upon my mind when I awnked, and found it was but a dream.

59
 

I had, alas! no divine lmuwlodgo. \tht I had reoeivell by the good instruction of
my father was then worn out by an uninterruplcd series, for eight years, of seafaring
wickedness, and a cox-Maul; uuuvm-sntion with none but such as were, like myself; wicked
and profane to the lust degree. I do not. remember that I had, in all that time, ouo
thought that so much as tended either to looking upward>> towards God, or inwards
towards a, reflection upon my own ways ,- but a. cox-lain stupidity of soul, \villiout desire
of good, or <<:unrcience of evil, had eulimly overwhelmed me ,- und I was all that the mast
hardened, unthinkiug, wicked creature among our common sailors can lie supposed to
bra--not having the least sense, either of the [car of God in dangers, or of thankfulmm
to Gad in delivemnces.

In the reluln'ng who: is already past of my story, this will be the more easily believed
when I shall add, that through all the variety of miseries that had to this day hefullcn
me, I never had so much us one thought ofits being the hand of God, or that. it was a.
just punishment for my sins--my rebellious behaviour againsn my father--~0r my
present sins, which were great--m- so much :12) a punishment for the general course of
my wicked life. When I was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of
Africa, I never had so much as one thought of what would become of me, or one wish
to God to clith me whither I should go, or to keep me from the danger which
apparently surrounded me, :5 well from voracious creatures an cruel suvugeu; but. I
was merely choughlloss of God or a Providence--I acted like a more brute, from the
principles of nature, and by the dictates of common sense only, and indeed hardly that.
When 1' was delivered and when up at sea by the Portugal captain, well used, and dealt
justly and honourably with, as well-us charilahly, 1 had not the least thankfulness in
my thoughts. Who", again, I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning on
this island, I was as far from remaisc, or looking on it as a judgment. I only said to
myself often, that. I was an unfonunnte dog, and born to be always miserable.

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and Found all my ship's cmw drowned, and
myself spewed, I was surprised with a kind of ecstaey, and some transports of soul, which,
had the grace of God assisted, might have come up to true thankfulnoes ; but it ended
where it began, in o more common flight of joy, or, as I may my, being gladl was
alive, without the least reflection upon the distinguishing gundnrs: of rho Hand which had
{unnerved me, mid had singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed,
or an inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to me. Even just the same
common sort ofjoy which seamen generally have, after they have got safe whore from a
shipwreck, all which whey drown in the next bowl of punch, and forget nlmont as soon
wait is over ; and all the rest. of my life was like it. Even when l was afterwards, on due
comiderntion, made sensible of my condition, how I was cast on this dreadful plncc, out
of the reach ofhumnu kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemption, us soon
as Isuw a probability of living, and that I should not. starve and perish for hunger,
all the sense of my ull'licfion were 013'; and I began to be very easy, applied myself
to the works proper for my prmrvaliou and supply, and was for enough from being
amid/ed at my condition, as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God against
me 2 these were thoughts which very seldom entered into my head,

The growing up of the corn, an is hinted in my jourml, had, at fir-sf, some little
influence upon me, and hogan to affect me with seriousness, as long as I thought it had
something miraculous in it ; but as soon as ever that part of the thought was removed,
all the impression which was raised from it wore all also, as I have noted already. Even
the earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more immo~

60G THE BIBLE.

ADIN

CRUSOE ILL, RF.
din-tely directing to the invisible I'owcr which alone directs such things, yet no sooner
was the first fright: over, but the impression it had made went ofl'alsn. I had no more
sense of God, or iii: judgments--1mm!) less of the present infliction of my circumstances
being from His hand--than if I had been in the most prosperous condition of lift;
But now, when I began to be sick, and n. leisurely view of the miseries of death came
to plane itself before me ; when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a strong
distemper, and nature was exhausted with the violence of the fever, conscience, that
had slept so long, began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with my pnst'. life, in
which I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, provoked the justice of God to hwy
me under uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so vindictive n manner. Time
reflect-ions oppressed me from the second or third (lsyoi' my distemper; and in the
violence, as well of the fever as of the drcndful reproaches of my conscience, extortcd
some words from me like praying to God, though I cannot my they were either a. prayer
attended with desires or with hopes : it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress.
My thoughi's were confused, the convictions great upon my mind, and the horror ol'
dying in such a xnieemhle condition raised vapours into my head with the more appre--
hcnxi-ms ; and in these hurries of my scul, I knew not what my tongue might cxprosx.
But it. was rather exclamation, such as, " Lord, what a miserable creature am I! If I
should be sick, I shall certainly die jim- want of help, and what will become of me?"
'l'hen, the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more for it good while. In thie
inner-val, the gnml advice of my father mine to my mind, and presently his prediction,
which I mentioned at the beginning of this story, viz., that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me, and I would have leisure. hereafter to reflect>> upon having
neglected his counsel, when there might; be none to assist mo in my recovery. " N ow,"
said I aloud, "my dear fobher's words are come to pass ; God's justice has overtaken
mo, and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice of Providence, which had
mercifully put: me in :1 pasta"! or station of life wherein. I might have-hum happy and
easy; but I would neither see it myself; nor learn to know the blessing of it from my
[:nmnts. I lefi: them to mourn over my folly; and now I am left to mourn under the
consequences of it. I refused their help and assistance, who would have lifted me into
the world, and would have made everything my to me ; and now I have iliilicultios
to struggle with 100 great for even nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help,
no comfort, no advice." Then I cried out, "Lord, be my help, for I am in great,
distress." This was the first: prayer, if I might call it so, that I haul made for many
years. But I return to my Journal 2----

June 28.~--II:rving been somewhat refreshed with the sloop I had had, and the fit.
being entirely oil, I got up; and though the fright and terror of my drown was very
grain, yet I considered that the fit of the flue would return again the next day, and
now was my time to gct something to refresh mud support myself when I should he ill:
said the first thing I did, I filled a. large aquurc case-bottle with water, and set it upon
my table, in reach of my bed; and to take off the chill or uguiah disposition of the
water, I put- about a quarter of a pint of rum into in and mixed them bogethor. Then
I got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals hut could eat very little
I walked nhout, but was Very weak, and withal very sad and hem'y-hearted in the
sense of my miserable condition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day,
At night, I made my supper of three of tho turtlc's eggs, which I muted in the asheg
and out, as we cull it, in the "hell, and this was the tint bit of meat I haul ever asked
God's hleosmg to, even. as I could remember, in my whole life.

6: 'A CURE ~FOR BODY AND MlND.

AllorI hnd eaten, 1 fried to walk, but found myscll' so weak, that I could hardly
wrry the gun, for I never went out without that; so I went out but A little way, and
set down upon the ground, looking out upon the sen, which was just before mo and very
calm and smooth. As I set. herc, some thoughts ouch as these occurred to me 1--Whac-
is the eamh and sea, of which I have wen <<0 much? Whenco is it produced? And
what am I, end all the oelicr creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal '1 Whenco
are we? Sure we are ell mode by some sound Power, who formed the earth and sea,
the air and sky And who is that? Then it followed most naturally, It is God that
has made it. all. \Vell, bul. then, it came on strongly, if God has made all those things,
he guides and governs them all, and all things that concern them; for the Being that
could make all things must uni-lainly have power to guide and direct them. If so,
nothing can happen in the great circuit of his works, cipher without his knowledge or
appointment. , _

And if nothing lmppens without his knowledge, he knows that I am here, and
am in this dreadful condition; and if not-hing happens without his appointment, he
has appointed all this to befall me. Kothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any
of these conclusions, and therefore it rooted upon me with the greater force, that it must.
needs be that God had appointed all this to befall me; that. I was brought to this
miserable (:imumstnnco by his direction, be having the sole power,-not of me only, but
of everything that lmppened in the world. Immediately it followed--Why hes God
done this to me'l What have I done to be thus used? My eonsdence presently checked
me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed, and mechought it spoke to me like a. voice, .
" Wrcfch l dosi- Uwu. ask what. thou has: done? Look hack upon a. dreadful misspent
life, and ask thyself, what thou hast not done? Auk, why is it that thou wort not.
long ago destroyed? Why wart than not. drowned in Yormouth Roads? killml in the
fight, when the ship was taken by the Sellee man-of-wari devoured by the wild beasts.
off the coast of Africa? or drowned here, when all the crew perished but thyself l Dost
tiwu ask, What have .I done?" I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had hat a word to saga--no, not to answer to myself, but rose up-
pensive and sad, walked back Lo my retreat, and went; up over my wall, a! if I had been,
going to bed, but my thoughts were anally disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep 3
so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. N ow, as the
apprehensions of the return of my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my
thought, that the Bram'lians take no physio bur. their tobacco for :dinogl. all distempers,
and I had 2) piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite cured, and.
some also that was green, and not; quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt ; for in this chest I found a cure both {or soul
and body. I opened the chest, and found what I looked for, viz, the tobacco ; and as she
few books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned
before, and which to this time 1 had not found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look
into. I say, I took it out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table.
What. use (0 make of the tobacco I knew not, us to my dietempm, or whether it was good
for it or no ; but. I tried several experiments with it, as if I was resolved it should hcnl
one way or other. I fl'DSl: look a piece of leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which, indeed.
at first, almost stupefiod my brain, the tobacco being green and strong and that I had
not been much used to it. Then I took smnn and swayed it an hour or two in some rum,
and resolved to take a. dose of it. when I lay down; and, lastly, I hurnt some upon 11
pan of coals, and held my nose class over the smoke of it as long as I could hear it, as,

63well for the heat as the virtue of it, and I held it almost to suffocation. in the interval of
this operation, I took up the Bible, and begun to road; but my head was too much dis-
turbed with the iohaceo to hear reading, at least at that time ,' only, lowing opened the
book casually, the words first. that occurred to me were these, " Cull upon me in the day
of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt. glorify me." These words were very
opt to my case, and made some impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them,
though not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no
sound, as I may say, to me ; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my apprehension
of things, that I began to say, as the children of Israel did wlnrn they were promiaod
flesh to eat, " Can God spread a. table in the wilderness ? " so I bgan to say, " Can God
himself deliver inc from this place 2 " And as it was not for man)- yenrx Limb any hopes
appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts ; but, however, the words made
a great impression upon me, and .l mused upon them vor'}r often. It grow now late, and
the tobacco hard, as I said, dazed my head so much that I inclined to sleep 5 so I left
my lump burning in the olive, lest- I should want. anything in the night, and went to
bed. _But before I lay down, I (lid what I never had done in all my life ; I kneeled
down, and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me,that if I called upon him in the
"day of trouble, he would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over,
I drunk the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which was so strong and rank of
the tobacco, that indeed I could scdroely get it down 5 immediately upon this I went to
bed ; and I found presently it [low up into my head. violently; but I fell into in sound
sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the
afternoon the next dny : nay, to this hour T am partly of opinion thai- T slept all the
next. day and night, and till almost three the clay after ; for otherwise, I know not how
I should lose a day out. of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared some
years mar I had done ; for if I had lost it hycrossiug and re<crossing the line, I should
have lost more than one day 3 but in my swoount it was lost, and I never knew
which way. Bo that, however, one way or other, when I awaited I found myself
exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful ; when I got up T was
stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach better, for I was hungry ; and, in
short, I had no fit the next. day, bul- mntinuml much altered for the better. This was
the 29th. _

The 30th was my well (lay, of course, and I went abroad with my gun, but-did not
cure to travel too fln'. I killed a sen-fowl or two, something like a. brand goose, and
brought them home; but was not. vary fox-word to eat them; so 1 eat some more of
the turtle's eggs, which were vol";v good. This evening I renewed the medicine, which
I had supposed did me good the day before, vim, (he tobacco steeped in rum ; only I
(lid not, take so much as before, nor did I chew any of cholonf, or hold my head over him
smoke; however, I was not so well the next day, which was the list of July, as
I hoped T should have been; for] head a liullo spice of the cold fit, but it was not
much. .

July 2.--I renewed the medicine all the threevmys 5 nnd dosed myself with it as
at first, and doubled the quantity which T drank.

July 3.---I missed the fit. for good and all, though I did not recover my full strength
for some weeks after. While I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts 11in exceed:
ingly upon this Scripture, " I will deliver- thee ; " and the impossibility 'of my
deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever expectng in; but as I was

discouraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I porod so much
6:)
 

 

CRHSOR M AK! NU BASKEI'S.

upon my deliverance from the main affliction, that; I dismgzirded the deliverance 1 hml
received. and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such questions as these, viz,
Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness? from the most dia-
trcssed condition that could be, and that was so frightful to me? am] what notice had
I token of it? Had I done niy part? God had delivered me, but I had not glorified
him ; that. is to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance; and
how could I expect gram-er deliverance? This touched my heart very much; and
immediately I kneeled down, and gave Gml thanks ziloud for my recwery fi'om my
sickness

July =L.---l'u the morning, I took the Bible; and beginning at the New Testament,
1 began variously to read it, and imposed upon myself 10 read awhile every morning
and every night; not Lying myself (0 the number of chapters, but. ns long as my
thoughts should engage me. It was not long alter I set seriously to this work, till
I found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past
life. The imprefiion of my dream revived; and the wordr,' "All these things have
not brought thee to repentance," mu seriously in my thoughts. I was earnest-1y
bogging of God 10 give me repentance, when it. happened pmvideutially, the very clay,

s 65
that, reading 6118 'Scripivure, I came to these words: f'Ho in eralled :1 Prince and It
Saviour, to give repentance and to give remission. I throw down the book 5 and
with my heart; as well as my hands lifievl up to heaven, in a kind of oasis/3y of joy,
I criegl out aloud, " Jesus, thou Son of David ! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour .'
give rim-'x'apmnance l" This was the first time 1 could any, in the true sense of the-
'VOl'dS. that I prayed in all my life; for now I prayed with a. sense of my condition,
and with a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the encouragement of the word of
God ; and from this time, T inn}: say, I began to have hope that God would hear me.

Now 1 hogan .lo construe the words mentionerl above, " Call on me, and 1 will
deliver thee," in a. difl'erenl; sense from what; 1' liml ever done before ; for then I lmd'
no notion army-thing being called daliwra/nce, but my being delivered from the captivity
I was in: for though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was ceriaiuly
a prison in me, and that in the worst sense in the world. BuL now I loin-1m! Lo take
ii: in another sense : now I looked back upon my past. life with such horror, and my
sins approved Mr dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but deliverance from the-
lond of guilt that bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing ;
I did not so much as pmy to be delivered from it, or think of' iii; in was all of no-
consideration, in comparison of this. And I added this part. here, to hint to whoever
shall read it, .that. whenever filmy come to a true sense of things. nliey will find deliver-
ance from sin a. much greater blessing than delivomnce from affliction.

But, laxving this park, T return lo my Journal :--

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my way of living,
yet much easier to my mind : sml my thoughts being directed, by a constant reading
tho Script-ore and praying to God, to things of a. higher nature, I had a grew deal of'
comfort within, which, till now, I knew nothing of; also, my lio'liln and strangle]:
returned. I besfirrctl myself ho furnish myself with everything that I wnntcd, and make
my way of living as regular as I could.

From the All of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in walking about with my
gun in my hand, n little and a little at otime, as 9. man that was glit'ncring up his.
strength tiller 3 {it of sickness : for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to
what weakness I was rcduml. The application which I made use of was perfectly new,
and perhaps what had never cared 3m agile before; neither can I ramminend it to any
one to practise, by this experiment: and though it did can-y ofl' the fit, yet- it rather
contributed to weaken me; for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs
for some time ; I learned from it also this, in particular, that being abroad in the rainy
season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could be, especially in those unins-
which crime attended with storms and hurricanes of wind ; for as the rain which came
in a dry season was always most accompanied with such storms, so I found this rain
was much more dangerous than I"!!! rain which fell in September and October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months; all possibility of do-
liverance from this condl'lion seemed to be entirely inken from me; and I firmly believed
that; no human slmpo had ever rel: foot upon that plsce. Having now aecmerl my
habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great. desire to make :1. more perfect
dimwery of the island, and to see what other productions I might find, which yet I
knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of July that I began to tnlm a more pm-Licnlnr survey of the
island ieself. I went up the crack that, where, as I hinted,l brought my mm on shore.
I found, after I more about- two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and

66A SURVEY OF THE ISLAND.

that it was no more than a little brook of running water, and very fresh and good : but
this being the dry season, there was hardly any'wafer in some pm'o of it ; at least no:
enough to run in any stream, no as it could be perceived. 0n the banks of this brook,
T l'ound' many plea'mnt sovmmas of meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with gross ;
and on the rising ports of them, next to the higher grounds, where the wafer, nsit might
be supposed, never overflowod, I found a. great deal of tobacco, green, and glowing to a.
great and Very strong stalk; there were (livers other plants, which I had no notion of
or undemlanding about, and might, perhaps, lnwe virtues of their own, which I could
not find out. I searched for the cassava. root, which the Indians in all that climate
make their bread oi; but I could find none. I sow large plants of nloes, but did not the!)
understand them. 1 sow several sugar-canes but wild, and for want of cultivation, im-
perfect. I contented myself with theso discoveries for this time, and come: back, musing
with myself what oounic 1 might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits
of plants which I should discover; but: could luring it. to no conclusion : for, in short, I
had made so little observation while I was in the Braids, that _I knew little of the plants
of the field ; at lenst, very little that might serve me to any purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the Mill, I went up the some way again 5 and aft/er going something
further than I had. gone the day before, I found the brook and savanna cease, and
the country become more woody than before. To this. purl, T. found dill'eront fruits, and
particularly I found melons upon the ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the
trees : the vines had spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were just-
uow in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was n surprising discovery, and I was;
exceeding glad of them 5 but I was warned by my experience to mt sparingly of them,
remembering that, when T was ashore in Barbary, the eating ofgrapcs killed several of our
Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them into fluxes and feversl But I
found an excellent use for those grapes ; and that was, to cure or dry them in the sun,
and keep Lhcm as dried gmpcs or raisins are kept, which I thoght would be, as
indeed they were, as wholesome and as agreeable to out, when no grapes might he had.
I spent all that evening there, and went noL hack to my habitation, which, by the
way, was the first night, as I might. say, I had lain from home. In the night, I took
my first conti-ivnncc, and got up into a tree, where I slept well ; and the next morning
prooeeded upon my discovery, tmvelliug nearly four miles, as I might judge by the length
of the valley, keeping still rlne north, with a. ridge of hills on tho south and north side
of me. At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the country seemed to
descend to the west ; and a. little spring of fresh water, which iasuod out of the side ofthe
hiil by me, ran the other way, that is, due east 3 and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that it
looked like 9. planted garden. I descended a- little on the side of that delicious volley,
surveying it with 9. secret kind of pleasure, though mixed with other addicting
thoughts, to think that this was all my own 5 that I was king and lord of all this
country indefeusihly, and had it right of possession ; and, if I could convey it, I might
have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of a manor in England. 1 saw here
abundance of cocoa. trees, mange and lemon, and citron trees ; but all wild, and
few bearing any fruit, at least not then. However, the green limes that I gathered
were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards
with water, which mode it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing. I found new
, I had business enough to gather and carry home ,- and I rmlved to lay up a store, as

well of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which I lmcw
67
 

 

was approaching. In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place,
a lesserheap-in another place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in another place;
and taking a few of Bach with me, I tnwelled homeward, and resolved to come again,
and bring a. bog'or seek, or wlmt I could make to carry the rust home. Accordingly,
having spent three days in this jom-uey,'I came home (so 1 'must now call "xylene and
my cave) ; but-before I got thither, the. grapes were spoiled ,2 the richness of the fruit.
and the weight of the juice, having broken them and hruised'thexu, they were' good for
little or nothing : as to the limos, they were good, but I could bring but a few.

The next- day, being the 19th, I went back, having made me two small bags to bring
home my luirrest ; but I was surprised when1 coming to my heap of grapes, which were
so rich and fine when I gathered them, I found them All spread abroad, trodden to pieces,
and dragged about, some here, some there, and abundance euten and devoured. By
this I concluded there were some wild creatures thcrcnhouts, which had done this ,' him
what they were I knew not. However, as I found there was no laying'them up on
heaps, and no mrrying them away in a suck, but that one way they would be do'stroyod,
and the other way they would be crushed udth their own weight, I took another course ;
for l' gathcrod a. large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon the out branches of
the trees, that they might cum and dry in the sun 3 and as for tho limes and lemons, I
carried as many back as I could well stand under.

When I come home from this journey, I contemplated with great pleasure the limit-
fulnosa of that valley, and tho plousnntness of the situation ; the security from storm
on that side of tho water, and the wood : and concluded that I had pitched upon a. piace
to fix my abode, which wsss by far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole,
I begs-n to consider of removing my habitation, and to look out for 9. place equally
Hafe as where now I was situate, if possible, in that plsusanh, fruitfiil part of the
island.

This thought- ran long in my hand, and I was cxuwding fond of it for some Limo,
tho pleasautness of the place tempting me ; but when 1 came to a. nearer view of it,
I cansidcml that I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least} pousible that sumo-
thiug might happen to my admnmga ; and that the same ill fate that brought me hither,
might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same place ; and though it was scarce
probable that any such ting should ever happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills
and woods in the centre of the island, was to nnticipnte my bondage, and to render
such an affair not. only improbable, but impossible ; and that therefore I ought not by
any means to mmm'e. However, I was so enamoured with this plum, that I spent much
of my time there for the whole remaining part of the month of July 3 und though,
upon second thoughts, I mmlved as above not to remove, yet I built me a little kind
of a bower, and amouncled it- at. a distance with a strong fence, being a double hedge,
as high as I could reach, well staked, and filled between with brushwood ; and hove T
lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always going over it with :1.
Ladder as before; so that I fancied now 1 had my country house and my sea-coast '
house 3 and this work tool: me up to the beginning of August.

I had but newly finishod my (coco, and hogan to enjoy my labour, but- the ruins
cums on, and undo me stick close to my first habitation ; for though I had made me a
taut like the other, with a piece of' at sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the
shelter of a. hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me Lo rem-out into when
the ruins were oxtimrdinary. I

About the beginning of August, as J, said, I had finished my bower, and began to

(:8CRUSOE IN HIS BOWER.
 

enjoy myaelf. The 3rd of August, I found the grapes I hind hung up were perfectly dried,
and indeed were excellent good raisins of His Bun ; so I began to rake them down from
the trees, and it was very happy that I did 50, for the ruins which followed would have
spoilnd them, and I had lost the best part of my winter food ,- fnr T. had above two
hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had 1 taken then: all down, and carried
most of them home to my care, but it began to min; and from hence, which wan the
Nth of Augusl, it rained, more or less over}T dny Lil] the middle of October, and
smnrziimes so violently, that I could not- st'vir our of my cam for several days.

in this sermon I was much surprised with the increase of my family; I had been
concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who run away from me, or, as I thought, had
been dam], and I heard no' more tidings of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home
about the and of August, with three kittens. This was the more strange to me, bearish,
though I had Iriilcd a wild cat, as I called it, wilh my gun, yet I thought in was a quite
different kind from our European cats; but the young cats were the some kind of
house-breed as the old one ; and hath my cats being females, I thought i: very strange.
But from theBB three cats I aftcnvnrda came to be so pestercd with cuts, that I was
fol-oml to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my house as
much as possible.

From the l-lth of August. to the 26th, incessant rain, so that I could not stir, and
was now very careful not to be much web. In this confinement, I began to bu
shtaitenui (or food: but venturing out twice, I one day killed n goat; and tho inst. day,
which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my food
was rogulubed' thus:--I ate a bunch of raisins for my bmnkfim; a piece of the goat's
flash, or of? the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for, to my great misfortune, 1 lmd no
Vessel to boil or stew anything), and two 01' three of the turtle's eggs for supper-

Dnring r'his confinement in my cover by the min, I worked daily two or three
hours at enlarging my cave, and by degrees worked it on towards one side, (will I came
to the outside of the hill, and made a door or way out, which came bcyoml my fence 01'
wall ; and so I came in find out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so
open; for, as I had managed myself before, I was in a perfect. inclosure; whereas
now, I thought, I lay exposed, and yes I cnuld nob perceive that, there was any living
thing to fear 5 the biggest creature that I had yet, seen upon the inland being a
goat.

Sept 30.----I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my landing. 1' cast up
the notches on my post, and found I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five
days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting if. apart for religious exercise, pros-
tmting myself on the ground with film most serious; hnmiliniion, confessing my sins to
God, acknowledging his righteous judgment upon me, and pmying to him to have
mercy on me through Jesus Christ ,' and having not tested the least refreshment for
twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun, I then ate a hiacuiocnko and a bunch
of grapmg and wont to bad, finishing the any as I bgan it. T had all (his time
observed no Sabbaflr-dny; for as at. [inst I had no sense of religion upon my mind,
I had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making a, longer notch than
ordinary for _tho Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the days were;
but now, having (mt up the days as above, I found I had been where a your ; so I
divided it into weeks and sub apart. over}~ seventh day for n. Sabbath ; thowh I found
at the end of my account I haul lost, a day or two in my reckoning. A-liir'le alter this,

my ink begun to fail mo, and so I contentul myself to use it more sparingly, and to
:POTHE FIRST CROP OF CORN.
write down only the most. remarkable events of my life, without>> continuing a. daily
memorandum of other things.

The rainy season and. the dry reason began now to appear regular to me, and I
learned to divide them so 25 to provide for them accordingly; but; I bought all my
experience before I had it, and this I mu going to relate was one of the most dis-
wuraging experiments than. I made at- all.

I have memioned that I had saved the few ems of barley and rice which I hurl so
surprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of themselves; and I believe them were
about>> thirtSSr stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley ; and now I thought it a. proper
time Lo saw it, after the rains the sun being in his southern position, going from me.
Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground as well as 1 could with my wooden spade, and
dividing ii. incontwo parts, I sowed my grain ; but as 1' was sowing, in casually occurred
to my thoughts that I would not saw it all at find, becuuflc .I. did not know when was
Lho proper time for it, so I sowed about two>>tliinls of rho seed, leaving about a handful
of each. It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not, one grain of
that I sowed this time came to anything: for the dry months following, the earth
having had no rain after the seed was <<own, it had no moisLure to assist: iie growrh, and
never came up at all till the web amen had come again, and then it grew as if it had
been newly gown. Finding my that seed did not gmw, which I easily imagined
was by the droughfi, I sought, for s. moisi'rer piece of ground to make another trial inl
:and I dug up u piecc of ground near my new bower, u-ml sowed tin; rent of my seed in
February, a little before the vernal equinox; and this having the miny months of
March and April to water it, sprang up vary pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop 5
hut. having part. of the seed left. only, and not. daring to sow all that. I had got, I had hut.
an small quantity at lasi, my whole crop not amounting to above half a puck of each kind.
But by this experiment I was made master of my business, and knew exactly when the
proper sewn": was to sow, and that; I might expmt two seed times and. two harvests
every year. W'hile this corn was growing I made a little discovery, which was of use to me
afterwards. As soon a}; the min: were over, and the weather begun to settle, which
wss about the month of November, I made a visie up the country to my bower,
Where. though 1 had not-been some months, 1 found all things just an I lefi whom.
The circle or double hedge that I had made was not only firm and entire, but the stakes
which I had cut elf of some trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out and grown
with long branches, as. much as a. willmv-trco usually shoots the first year after loppirg
its hewl. I could not tell who-t tree to 69.". it- t'hsu these stukm were min from. I was
surprised, and yet. very well pleased, to see the young trees grow : and I pruned them,
and. led (-hum up to grow as much alike as 1 could ; and it is scnmoly credible how
hesutiful a. figure they grew into, in three years; so that though the hedge made ncircle
ofabouu twenty-five ynrds in diameter, yet the bums, for anch I mighb now call them, soon
covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufiicienl. 00 lodge under all the dry season.
This made me resolve to out some more ism-ken, and umkc me a. hedge like this, in s.
semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my firsv dwelling), which I did 5 and planing
the 05825 or stakes in a. double row, at ahout eight yards distance from my first, fence,
they grew presently, and were at, first. a. fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards
served for a defence also, as I shall observe in in; order.

I found new that the seasons of the year might. generally be divided, not into 3
summer and winter, as in Europe, but inw the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which
more generally thus :--

3"
 

The halfol' February, the whole of March, and the halfof April--rainy, the sun being
then on or near the equinox.

The half of April, the whole of May, June, and July, and the half of Angled--dry,
the sun being then to the north of the line. -

. The half ol'August, the whole of September, and the half of October--rainy, thesun
being then come back.

The lmli'of October, the whole of November, December, and January, and the half
ofFebrum'y--dry, the sun being then to the south of the line,

The rainy seasons-sometimes held longer or shorter as the winds happened to blow,
but this was the general observation I. made. After I haul found, by experience, the ill.
consequence of being abroad in film min, I tool: cum to furnish myself with provisions:
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out, and I sat within door: as much as
possible during the Wet month>>. In this time I found much employment, and very
suitable also to the time, for I found great occasion of many Lhings which I had no.
way to-furnish myself with but by hard labour and comtunb application ,- particularly, I
tried many ways to make myself a. basket, but all the twigs I could gel. for the purpose
pmvcgl so brittle that. they would do nothing. Ii. proved of excellent advantage to me
now that when. I wasa. boy I used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
maker's, in (he fawn where my father lived, to see (hem minke their wicker-ware ; and
being, as boys usually are, very ofieious to help, and 9. greab observer of blue manner
how they worked there things, and sometimrs lent ahnnd, 1 had by this means so
full knowledge of the methods of it, tlm I wanted nothing but the materials ; when it.
came into my mind that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stokes that grew
might possibly be as tough as the gallows willows, and osiers in England, and I resolved.
to try, Accordingly, the) next rlay I went. to my country-house, m I called it, and
cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could.
desire; whereupon I came the next Lime impaired with a. hat-chat to cut down a
quantity, which I soon. found, for there was a great. plenty of them. These I set up to
dry within my circle or hedges, and when they were tit for use, I carried them to my
cave; and here, during the next season, I employed myself in making, as well as I
could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth or to carry or lay up anything, as I
had occasion; and though I did not. (finish them very handsomely, yet I nude them
sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus, afterwards, I book care Imi'er to be
without them 3 and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made more, especially strong, deep
baskets-to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of Hz ' . -

Hmdngimnslmed this difficulty, and employed a world of time about it, I hestirred
myself to see, if possible, how to supply two wants.- I had no vessel to hold nnything
that; was liquid, except tbwo roulets, which wcre almost full of rum, and some glass
bottles-some of the common size, and others which were case-bottles, square, for the
holding'of water, spirits, <<in>> 1 had not so much 3,5. a pot to hull anything in, except a.
gi-eafi'helble, which I saved out of the ship, and which was too big for such uses as I
desired-it for--viz, to make broth, and stew a. bit of meet by itself. The second thing I
Iain would .liarc llM'. was a. tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible for me to make one;
howevur, I found a wni-rivunce' for char, too, a.>> last, I employed myself in planting-
my second row of stakes or piles, and in this-wicker-work all the summer or dry

sessmi, when noel-her business took me up more time than ila could be imagined I could
Spam.

 

72CRUSOE EXL'LORES THE ISLAND.

 

 

 

CKUSOY. LEADING THE YOUNG Ru).

I mentioned before, than]: 'nad n great mind to sea the whole island, and that I had
travelled up the brook, and 'souon to whx-ne I built my bhwm', and whom T had in)
opening, quite m the mm,- on the other side of the island. .I. now resolved to tr'm-el
quite "mg, to the sewshore on that side; so, (aking my gun, a hatchet, and my
dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two biscuib-cnkee and
n grmbbunch'of raisins in my pouch for my store, I began my journey. When
I had pusssd l'th'J-'Ble where my bower stood, as above, 1 came within View of the
sea to Lhe west, and it; being a very clear day, I fairly descried land--whether "island-
or a continent I could not tell ; but in lay very high, extending frdm the W. to
the W.S.W.. at. a. very great distance; by my guess. it could not; beias' than fifteen or
twenty Leagues ofi'. - .

I could not. tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise than that. I knew it
must. be pan-(5 of Anmrica, and, m I' concluded, by all my observations, must be nem- the
Spanish dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have
landed, I had been in a. worse condition than I was now; and therefore I acquiesced in the

73dispositions of Providenco, which I begun now to own and to helieve ordered everything
for the heat; I say I quieted my mind with this, and left amicting myself with
Yvnitlews wishes of hazing thorn.

Besides, after some pause upon this oflhir, T considered that if Lhiu. hind was the
Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or other, soc some vessel pass or room;
one way or other 5 but if not, than it was the savage coast hot-ween the Spanish
country and tho Brazils, which were indeed the womb of SLV'deS 3 for they are omni-
bsle, and on not to murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into their hands.

W'ith (limes considerations, I walked very leisurely forward. 1 found that side of
the island when: I now was much pleasanter than mine--film open or savannah fields
Sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, anll full of very fine woods. I saw ahundzmce
of parrots, and faiu would I have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to he tame,
and taught it to spool: to run. I <<lid, after some painstnldng, catch a. young parrot, for
I knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home ; but it was
.some years before I could Insko hixn sprmh ; however, at lost, 1' taught him to call me
by my mum) very familiarly. But the accident that followed, though it he a trifle, will
be very diverting in its pleas.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in the low grounds hares
(as l. thoughb them in) be) and foxes; but they difl'ored greatly from all the other kinds
I had met with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed several. But I
had no need to be ventin'oug for I haul no want of food, and of film. which was very
good, too, especially these three sorts, vizr, goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise, which,
added to my grapes, Leadmflmll Market (:01le not how: furnishml a, table better than T,
in proportion to the company; and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I hail
great. cause for Lhmxkfulness that I was not driven to any extremities for food, but had
rather plenty, even to doinuics.

I never tmwzllud in this journey above two miles outright in a day, or thereohmds 3
but I tool: so umny tux-us and returns to see what discoveries 1 could make, that I cmne
weary enough to the place where I resolved to sit. down for all night 5 and then I either
reposed myself in a, tree, or surrounded myself with {L row of stakes set- upright in the
:'gmuml, either from one tree to another, or so as no wild orient-me could 6011": mi; me
without waiting me. As soon as 1 came to tho son-shore I was surprised to see that I had
taken up my lot on. the worsl. side of the island, for here, indeed, the: shore was
covered with innumombla turtles, whomas on the other side I had found but Lhreu in
a your and a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowl; of may kinds, some of
which 1 had not seen before, and many of them very good moat, bu: such as I knew
not the names of, except those called penguins

i could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of my powder and
shot, and therefore had more mind to kill a she--gout, if I could, which I could homer
feed on ; and though there were many gents here, more than on the other side of the
island, yet it was with numh more difficult-y that I could come new: them, the country
being flat and oven, and they saw me much sooner than when I was on the hills.

I confex this side of the country was much plosiiunlmr than mine; but yet I had
not the least inclination to remove, for as I was fixed in my habitation it become
natural to mo, and I seemed oil the while 1 was lntre to be as it". were upon n journey,
and from home. However, .I. travelled along the shore of the sen. towards the cast, I
suppose uhout twelve miles, and then setting up a, great polo upon the shone for a. mark,
I concluded I would go home again, and that tho next journey I Look should he on the

7-1>>CRUSOE AT HOME AGAIN.

 

othei aide of lee island east from my dwelling, and so round till T came to my post
again, of which in its place.

1 tool: another we) to come back than (Lat. I wont, thinking 1 could easily keep nil
the island so 1111: ch in 111) View, that I could not. miss finding my first dwelling by
viewing the country 5 but I found 111ysolf mistaken, for, being come about two or three
miles, I found myself descended into 9. very large valley, but so surrounded with hills,
and those hills covered with wood, that I could not see which was my way by any
direction but that ol' the sun, nor even than, unless I knew very well tlxe position ol
the sun at that time of (lie (lay. It happened, to my further mizslbrhme, that the
weather proved '11;ny for three or four days while I mm in this valley, and not being able
to see the min, I wondered about very uncomfortabl , and at last was obliged to find out
the sewside, look for my post, and come back the same wuy I went: and then, by ensy
_ journeys, 1 turned homewzu-d, lec weather being exceoxling hot, and my gun, ammu-
nition, lmtclact, and other things very heavy.

111 this journey my dog surprised at young kid, and seized upon it, and I running in
to take hold of it, caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to
bring it home if I could, for I 11:11.1 often been musing wLether it iniglxl. not be possible
to get a kid or two, and so mise a. breed of mm goat's, which might supply me when
my powdei and shot should be spo11t.l made a. oolim to this little creutmo, and
with a string, which I mule of some rope-yum, which 1 always carried about 1110, I led
him along, though with some (fitficnl'uy, till 1 came to my llowor, and there I incloxed
him and left. him, for I was very impatient to he at home, iom whence I had been
absent above a. month.

I cannot expxmfi what a. satisfaction it was to me to come into my old hutch, and
lie down in my lmmmocbbed. This little wondering journcy, without settled place of
abode, had been so unpleaau-nt to me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was (1
perfect settlement to ma, compared to that; and it rendered everything about me so
comfortable, than}; I mmhred I would never go :1 great way from it again, while it should
be mv lot to stay on the island.

I 1eposed myself here a weck, to rest and 1ogn.le mmll' aftei my long journev;
during which most of the time 1739 taken up in the weighlg; nfi'nir of making a. unite
for my Poll, who began now to be a more domestic, and to be mighty well usuualnbid
with me. Then J. began to think of the poor kid which I boil pent in \' Ethin my little
circle, and resolved to go and fetch it home, or give it some food ; accordingly I went, and
found it where T. loft. in, for indoor] it could not get out, but was almoull niurvcd for want
of food. I went and out bouglm of trees, $111.. branches of such shrubs as I could find,
.anil threw them over, and having fed it, I tied it 85 I (lid before, to load it away ; but
it was so name with being hungry, than I had no need to have tied it,er i followed me
like. a dog; and as l. continually feel it, the creature became so loving, so geullo, and so
fond, that it beenmc from that time one of my domestics also, and would never leave
me afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and I. kept the 30th 0.
Sepiemher in the some solemn manner as before, being the mmivorsm'y of my landing
on the island, having- now been there two years, and no more prospect of lming
delivered than the first day I came there. I spent. the whole doyin humble and thankful
ankxwwledgments of the many wonderful mercics which my solitary condition was
attended wit-11, and without which it, might have been infinitely more miscmhlc. I gave
humble and hearty thanks that God had been pleased to discover to me that it was

' 75
 

poasible I might be more happy in this solitary condition than I should have been in
alum--1:)" of society, and in all the pleasures of the world: that He could fully make
up to me tho deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want of human society, by his:
presence, and the communication of his grace to my soul; supporting, comforting, and
encouraging me to depend upon his providence hem, and hope for his eternal presence
hereafter.

It. was now that I hogan sensibly to feel how much more happy the life I. now led
was with all its miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led
all the pant part of my days; and now hu-viug chmxged hath my sorrows and my joys ;
my very desires altered, my afl'ections changed their goats, and my delights were per-
fectly new from when they wore at first coming, or, indeed, for the two years past.

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for viewing the country, the
anguish of my soul at my condition would break out upon me on :a. sudden, and my very
heme would die within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the dmercs I was in,
and how 1 was a pi-isoncr,'loekod up with the eternal bars and lw'iia of the ocean, in an
uninhabited wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of the greatest composures
of my mind, this: would ideal: out upon me like 'a storm, and make mo wring my
hands, and Weep like 9. child: sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work,
and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour or
two together 3 and this was still worse to me, for if I could burst out into tears, or went
myself by words, iL would go MT, and the grief having exhausted itself would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts. I daily read the Word of
God, mid applied all the comforts of it to my present state. One morning, being very
and, 1 opened the Bible upon these words " I will never leave thee, nor forka
thee." Immediately it- oceurrod that these would were to me ; why else should they
be directed in such a. manner, just at the moment when I was mourning o'ver my con-

't-ion, as Ono forsaken of God and man? "Well, then," said 1, "if God does not.
forsake-me, of what ill consequence can it be, or what matters it, though the world
should all forsake me, seeing, on the other hand, if I had all the world, and should lose
the hvour nnd Meaning of God, there would be no comparison in the loss "I"

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was possible for me to
he inore' happy in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I should ever
we harm in imy otherparticulax state in the world; nnd'with this thought I was going
to give thanks to God for bringing me to this place. I know not what it was, but
something shocked my mind at that thought, and T duvet not speak the words. " How
omist thou 'beoomo such a. hypocrite," said I, even nudibly, " to pretend to be thankful
for a condition, which, however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with, thou
wouldstr'nther pray heartily to be delivered from i " So I stopped there; but though I
could not any I thanked God for being there, yol, 1' sincerely gave thanks to God for
opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting providencos to see the former condition of my
life, and to mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never opened rho Bible, or shut
ii, but my very soul within me blessed God for directing my friend in Engirmd, without
any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and for assisting mo mfwrwards to
save it out of the wreck of the ship. -

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year ; and though 1' have
not given the reader the trouble of so particular an account of my works this your as
the 5156; yet in general it may be observed that I was very seldom idle. but having
regularly divided my flow according to several daily employmans that were before

76,mmmwvxrwwfiufiw \ms
\ ..

 

Ruson somxc com:

C
me, such as, first, my duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which 1 constantly
set aparfi some time for, thrice every day 3 secondly, the going abroad with my gnu for
food, which generally took up three hours in ovary morning, when it did not rain ;
thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what 1 had killed or caught for
my supply : those look up great part of tho day 5 also, it is to be considered, that in the
middle of the day, when the sun was in the zcnibli, the violence of the heat wag too-
grent to stir out ; so that. about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be:
supposed to work in, with this oxmplion, that sometimes T changed my hours of
hunting and working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad with my gun in
tho afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire maybe added the exceeding laborious-
uass of my work ; (Sn; Illa-U)" hours which for want, of tools, want. or help, and wauL of
skill, everything I did took up out of my time: for example, 1 was full two-surl-
forty days in making a board for a long shelf; which I "'31)le in my cave; whereas
two sou-yew, with their tools and a saw-pit, would have out. six of them out of the some
tree in half 9. day.

My case was unis: it was to be a large tree which was to be out down, because my
board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three days a cutting down, and two
more cutting oi? the baughs, sml reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With incx~
preesible hacking and hewing, I reduoeil both the sides of it into chips till it began to
be light enough to more 3 (When I turned it, 11an made one side of it smooth and flat as
a board from end to end 5 then turning that. side downward, cut the other side till T
brought the plank Lo be about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one
may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece of work; buk'lahour and patience
carried me through that, and many other things ; T only observe this in particular; to
show the reason why so much of my time went away with so little work, viz, that what-
might be a Iii/Ho l-o be done with help and tools, was a was labour and required 3. pro-
digious time to do alone, and by hand. But notwithstanding this, with patience and
labour, T went: through many things, and indoryl everything that my circumstances made
memory to me to do, as will appear by what follows

I was now in the months of November and Dcomnber, expecting my crop of barley
and rice. The ground I haul mnnured or dug up for them was not great 5 for, as I
observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of halfa peck, for I had lost one
whole crop by sowing in the dry mason : but now my crop promised very well, when on
a. sudden T found 1 was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of several sorln,
which it} was scarcely possible to keep from it; as, first, the goats, <<ml wild creatures
which I called hares, which, tasting the xweetncm of the blade, lay in ii; night and (lay,
assoon as it came up, and eat it so close that it could get no time to shoot up into
stalk.

This I saw no remedy for, but; by making an inclosure about it with a hedge, which
I did \rii-h a great deal of toil, and the more, because it required a great (lead of speed;
the creatures daily-spoiling my con-n. However, as my arable land was but small, suited
to my crop, I got. it totally well fenced in about three \Veelrs' time 5 and shooting some
of the creatures in the daytime, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to
a stake at the gate, Where he would stand and bark all night long ; no in a little time
the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grow very strong and well, and began to
ripen space.

But as the boasts ruined me before, while my com was in the blade, so the birds were
78HIS CORN EATEN BY Bl'RDS.

as likely [.0 min me now, when il- was in the ear ; for going along by the place to sea-
[low it. ehvove, I saw my likhle crop sut'n'mm'letl wish fowls, of I know no: how many
sorts, who email, 9:: il. were, wail-chins; till I should be gone. I immediately let. :le

among them, for 1 always hall my gun with me. I haul no sooner 31ml, lull: Lhero rose
I up a little cloud of fowls, which I lmnl mo seen of, all, from among the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days they would devour all
my hopes 3 tlmt- 1 should, lie starve'l, and never ho able to raise a. crop at. all 5 and what
to [lo I coulll not tell 5 however, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
should watch it night, and (lay. In the first place, T wont mining it, to see what, damage
was ali'eaxlgr done, and found they haul spoiled a good deal of it ; but. that as it was yet
000 green For them, the loss was uol. so grant, but the remainder was likely to be a good
crop: if in could he saved.

I stayed by in to lcml my gun, and film: coming any, I could easily soc the thieves
sitting upon all the trees about. me, as if they only waited till I was gone away, and
the eveni- proved il. [a be so; for as I walked off, as if J. was gonna, T was no sooner out.
of their sight, but they dropped down one by one into the corn again. I was so
provoked that I couldncb have patience ('0 etay till mom came on, knowing that every
grain that they out now was, as it might be snnh n peek-loaf to me in the consequence ;
lml: coming up to the hedge, T fired again, and killed 'llllfifl of them. This was what I
wished for ; so I tool: them up, and served them as we serve notorious thieves in
England, viz, lmugnd them in chains, for a Lox-mt- mothers. It is impossible to imagine
almost that this should have him] such an effect as it had, for the {owls would not only-
not come at the mm, lmL, in short, they fm'sook sill. that part of the island, and I could
never see a bird near the place ns long as my scarrm'ows hung there. This I was very
glad of, you may he sure, and abonl. the latter end of December, which was our second
harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.

1 was sadly put to it: {or n scythe 0): sickle to cut it dowry and all I could (lo we>>: to-
make One, as; well as I could, out of one of the blond-swordsgpr cublzmaes, which 1' saved
among the arms out of the ship' However, as my crop was hut small, I had no-
gi'eat difilcully lo cut it>> down; in short, I reaped it in my way, for I cut nothing off

_ but. the aura, and carried it away in u. great basket which I had made, and 5m rubbed if,-
0116 with my hands ; and at the owl oe'nll my harvesting, I found that out of my hull"
peek ofseed I hfill nom- two bushels of rice, and almve two bushels and a, half of barley 5.
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure all that time.

However, this ms (1 great encouragmncnt to me, and I fiirosow that in time it
would please God to supply me with bread: and yet here I was perplexed again, for
I neither knew how to grind or make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it mid
part it; nor, if made into meal, how '10 make brand of it; and if how to make it, yet.
I knew not how to bake it; them things being added up my desire of having a. good
quantity for store, and to secure 9. constant oupply, I resolved not to taste any of this.
crop, but to preserve it All for seed againsh (.ho next season; and, in the mean timtg to
employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish this great work of providing
myself with corn and bread.

It might be kmly said that now 1 workml for my bread. It is a little wonderful,
and whzw I believe few people have thought much upon, Via, the strange multitude of
little things memory in the providm. producing, curing, drawing, making, and finish-
ing this one article of bread.

I, that was reduced to a more state of nature, found this to my daily discourage-

79
 

ment mu] was mania more and more sensible of it every hour, oven afLer I had got the
first. handful of need-corn, which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed
to a surprise.

Firsl, I had no ylongh to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel to dig in. W'ell,
this I conquered by making me a. wooden spade, as I observed before; but this did my
work but in a wooden manner; and filming]: it. cost me a grant many days to make it,
yet for want of iron, it not only wore can the soonu, but made my work the hamlet, and
made it be performed much worse. However, this I. bore wiih too, and was content to
work it out with patience, nnd bear with the bnducss of the l)5|'i0i'llizu11Y=(:. "'hen the
corn was sown, I had no barrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and cling n great
heavy bong]: of'a Linc Over it,'to senile}. iL, as it may be called, rather dun rake or har>>
row it. When it was growing, or grown, I have observed already how many things
I wanted r'o fence it, secure it, mow or may it, cure and carry it homo, thrush, part in
from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a mill (.0 grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
mid salt. to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it in; and all Lhasa "ring; I did
without, as shall be observed; and yoi. the (worn was an inestimnble comfort and
adviuliugs to me too. But; thin as 1 said, made everything lnimrioua and tedious to
me ; but that there was no help for ; neither wan my time so much loss to me, because,
as 1 had divided it, a certain part of it wax>> every (la-y appointed to these works 5 and
as I had re'srolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater quantity by me,
1 had the. next six months to apply myself wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish
myself with utensils proper for the performing all the opemkions necusary for making
the corn, when T lnul it, fit for my use.

But; final; I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed enough to sow above an
acre of ground. Before 1 did this, 1 had in weeks work at least to make me a spade,
which, when it was done, was but 1!. sorry one indeed, amid very heavy, and required
double labour to work with H. However, I went. through that, and sowed my seed in
two large flat pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find them to my mind, and
fenced them in with 11- good hedge, the stake>>: of which were nll cut- of that wood
which I haul sen before, which I knew would grow; so that, in one year's time, I knew I
should have a. qoick or living hodgo, that would want but little repair. This work was
not so little as fio take me up less than three months, because great part, of that time
was of the wet season, when I could not: go abroad. Withhidoor, that is when it mined,
and 1 could not go our, 1 found employment in the following occupation--always
observing that all the while I was at work I diverted myself with talking to my parrot,
and teaching him to speak ,- and I quickly lcnrnl; him to know his own name, and at last-
to speak it out pretty loud, " Poll," which was the first. word I ever hem-d spoken in the
island byaugr msufili but my own. This, therefore, was not my Work, but- an assistant ho
my work; for now, as I said, I had a great employment. upon my iimuh, as follows: viz ,
I had long studied, by some means or other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which,
indeed, I wanted sorely, but- knew not. where to come at. them However, considering
the hen-t of the climate, I did nor; doubt but il' I could find out any clay, I might
batch up some such pot as might, being dried by the son, be hard enough and strong
enough to bear handling, and to hold mything [hat- was dry, and required to be kept
so ,1 and as this was narrow-gr in preparing corn, meal, 610, which was the thing J was
upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and {it only la) island like jars, to hold
what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or mLher laugh at me, to tell low many awkward
8-3CRUSOE MAKING EARTHEN VESSELS.

 

 

 

 

CRUSOE 'L'EACHKS HIS PARROT TO TALK.

ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, misahapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fall in, and how many fell oub--Lhc clay not being sLirT cnoqh to
bem- ita own weight; how many mmlsed by the over-violent. heat. of the sun, being
see out too hastily ; and how many fall to piccw with only removing, as well bafnvc
as after they were dried; and, in a. word, how, after having laboured hard to find
the clay--w dig it, {o tompm- it, to bring it home, mid work it I could not make
above two large earthen ugly things (I munch cull them jars) in about two months
labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I fill-ed them very
gently up, and set. them down again in Lwo great wicker baskets which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break ; and as between the pot and the
basket there was a 'licrle room to spam, 1' stuffed it.- full of the rice and barley
straw; and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought, would hold my '

dry corn, and yerlxupfi the meal, when le (mm was bruised.
K 8'
- .
Though I miscarriixl so much in my design for large pom yet I made several
smaller things with better success ,' such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers;
and pipldns, and anything my hand turned to ; and the hem of the aim baked chem
amngely hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was to gel: an earthen pot to holn'
what was liquid, and bear the fire; which none of them: could do. It happened after
some time, making 2| pretty large fire for cooking my meat, when I wont to put- it ouo
after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in
the fire, burnt as hard us :1 stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see
it, and said to myself that certainly they might be mndo to burn whole, if they would.
burn broken

This set me to study how to order myfire so as to make it burn me some pots. ,I haul
no notion of a kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I
hail some lead to do it with; but T placed three large pipldns, and two or three pots, in
a pile, one upon another, and placed my firewood all roixnd it, u'iLh a great heap of
embers under them I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon the
top, till I saw the pots in the inside red hot qiute through, and observed that they (lid
not crack at all ; when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five-
or six hours, till I found one of them, though it did not crock, did melt or run ; for the
sand which was mixed with the' clay melted by the violence of the heat, and would
have run into glass if I land gone on ; so I slaekod my fire gradually till the pots began
to abate of the red colour, and watching them all night, that I night not let the fire
abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good (I will not say handsome) pipki-w,
and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt>> as could be desired, and one of them.
perfectly glazed with the running of the sand. ,

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of earthenware for my-
usc 3 but 1 must needs soy as to the shap85 of them they were very indill'erent, as any
one may suppose, when I had no way of making them but as the childron make dirt
plug, or as a. woman would make pies that never learned to raise paste.

No joy at a thing of so mean a. nature was ever equal to mine, when I found I
had made an earthen put: that would hour the fire 5 and I hurl hardly patience to stay-
till they were cold before I set one on the fire again, Wit-h some water in it, to boil me-
sorne meat, which it (lid admirably well 5 and with a piece of a, kid I made some very
good broth, though I wanted oatmeal and several other ingredients requisite to make it,
as good as 1 would have had it.

My next concern was to get me n. stone mortar to stamp or beat some corn in ; for
as lo the mill, there was no thought of arriving to that perfection of m'L with one pair
of hands. 'l'o supply this want I was at a great loss; for, of all the trades in the world,
I was as perfectly unqualified for a shine-cutter us for any whatever; neither had J,
any tools to go about it with. I spent many a. (lay tufind onto grout stone big enough.
to cut hollow, and mnkn m; for a mortar, and could find none 2d: all. except what was in
the solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or out out 5 nor indeed were the rocks in
the island of hm'dneso sufficient, but were all of a sandy, crumbling alone, which would.
neither bear the weight of 9. heavy pestle, nor would break the corn without filling it with
semi. So, am>> a g: eat deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gm. 4) i Lover, and resolved
to look out a great block oi hard wood, which I found inneed much misioi; and getting
one as big as I had strength to at: IV, I. rounded it and formed it on the oulgzdo with mv
one and hatchet, and then, with the help of fire and infinite labour, made a hollow place

82CRUSOE SUCCEEDS AS A BAKER.

 

in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. Afcer $1113. I made 9. great heavy
pestle, or beater, of the wood called the imn-wood; and this I prepared anal laid by
against I had my next crop of mm, which I proposed (.0 myself to grind, or lather
Immd my corn or meal, to make my bread.

My next diflEculty was {'0 make a. aim-c, or aim-cc, to dzjess my meal, and in part it
from the bran and the hush ,1 without which I did not see it possible 1 (mild. have any
bread. This "'21:; a. most- dit'iicnlnhiug, so much as but I'm think on, for to he sure I hzul
nothing like the necessary things no make it with ; I mean fine thin canvas, or stuff,
w aim-e the meal thraugh. And. here l was at a full stop fm: uniny months 3 "or did I
really know what to do. Linen I had none 1th but what was mere rags ; I. had gonts'-
hair, but neither knew I how to weave or spin it ; and had I known how, here were no
tuola (to work it with. All the remedy that I lound for this was, that at last I did
remember I had, among the Seaman's clothes which were saved out of the ship, some
nechcloths of calico or muslin; and with some pieces of these I nmiu Lhree small sieves,
but proper enough for the work ; and thus I made shill for some years: how I did after-
wards, I shall show in its place.

The baking part was the nexh thing Ln he considered, and how I should make bread
when I came to have corn 5 for, first, i had no yeast ; as to thaL pnrb, as there was no
supplying the want, so I (lid not concern myself much about it. But. for an oven, I was
indeed in great. pain. At, length I found our, (in experiment for that also, which was
this : 1 made some earthen vessels very'hmml, but not deep, that is ta my, about two
feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I burned in the fire, as T land
done the oLher, and laid them by ; and when I wanted to bake, I made n grant. fire upon
the hearth, which I had paved with some square silos of my own making and burning
also; but I should not call them square.

When the firewood was burned pretty much into embers, or live eonls, I. draw them
forward upon this heart-h, so we to carer it 8-11 over, and there I let them he till the
lieu-rub was very hot; than sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf or loaves,
and whelming down the earl-hen pot upon them, drew the embers all round the outside
of the pot, to keep in and 94h] to the heat ,- and thus, as well as in the best- oven in the
world, I linked my l>>irlcy~loa.x-'es, and became, in little time, a good pastry-cool: into the
harm for 1 made myself an "eml cakes. and puddings of the rice: indeed I made no
pies, neither haul I anything to put into them, supposing 1 had, except the flesh either
of fowls ox gems

It need nor. be wondered at if all these things fool: me up most part of the third yen:
of my <<bode here; for, ili is to 12:) observed that, in the intervals of they: fillings, 1 had
my new lush-vest. and husbandry to manage ; for I reaped my corn in its season, and
carried it} home as well has I could, and lniel it up in the car, in in)>> huge baskets, till I
had time to rub it out, for I had no floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash
it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn harming, I really wnnted to build my barns
bigger 5 I wanted a place to lay it up in, for the increase ol'the corn new yielded me so
much, that l. lmrl of the lmrley about tyrant}r bushels, and of filie rice as much, or more;
insomnch tlmt I now mach-ed to begin to use it, freely 5 {or my bread had been quite
gone e grant while; also I resell-ed to see what quantity would be sufficient for me a
Whole year, and w sow but Once, a year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and riec were much more
than I could consume in a year 3 no I rmlvcil to sow just the same quantity every year

33
that I rowed the last, in hopes that such a. (insanity would fully provide me with
bread, Jae. I

All the While these things were doing, you may he sure my thoughts ran many times
upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the obhcr side of the island ; and I
was not. without secret wishes phat I was on Show there, fimoyirg that, seeing the
mam-laud, and an inhubited country, I mighi find some way or other to convey myself
farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape.

But all chi: while I mdc no allowance for the dangem of such 0. condition, and
how I might PS3.11 into the hands of Savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to
think far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa : that if I once come into their power
I nhould mm a hazard more than athouxand to one of being killed, and perhaps of
being eaten ; for I had heard tho: the people of the Caribbean coasts were cannibals, or
memmtorfl, and I knew by the latitude than, I could not be far 0:? from film! shore : that
suppose they were not cannibals, yet. they might kill me, as many Europeans who had
fallen into their hands haul boon served, even when they had bmn ban or twenty
together--much more 1, that ms but one, and could make little or no defence; all these
bhi%s, I say, which I ought, to hnvo considered well of, and I did oust up in my thoughts
afterwards, yet tool: up none of my apprehensions at first, and my head 11m mightily
upon the thought of getting over to that. shore.

Now, I wished for my boy "Katy, and the long-bout. wich the shoulderef--mution
sail, with which I soled <<horn o thonseuul miles on the coast of A frico ; but this Was in
vain: then I thought I would go and look M. our ship's boat, which, as I have said,
was blown up upon the short; a great way, in the storm, when we wore first cast. away.
She lay almost where she did ab first, but nor quite, and was turned, by the force of the
waves and the winds, nlmos; bottom x11)wni'<l,agaixml.tlm high ridge of beachy, rough sand,
but no water about her as before. If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have
launched her-into Lho water, the boat would have done well enough, and I. might has-e
gone baa]: into the Brazils with her easily enough 5 but; I might have easily foreseen that
I could no more turn her and set. her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove
the island 3 however, I went to the wood, and cut levers and rollers, and brought them
to the boot, resolved to try what: I could do; suggesting to myself, that if T 00"" but
turn her down, I might easily repair the damage she had received, and she would be
a very good boat, and I might go Lo sea in her very easily.

I spared no pains, indoccl, in this piece of fruihless toil, and spent, I thinlg three or
fonr weeks shout it; at. last, finding it impossible to houvc it up with my little strength,
I fell to digging away the 81nd, to undermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting
pieces of wood to thrust: and guide it right in the full. .

But when 1 had done this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to get under it, much
less to more it forward towards the water; so I was forced to give it over; and yet,
though I gave over the hopes of {he bout, my desire to venture over for the main in-
creased, rather than decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible,

This at length mt me upon thinking whether it was not. possible to make myself 3.
ounce, er periagua, ouch as the nu Lives of those climates make, even without tools, or, as
I might any, \vizliont hands--viz, of the trunk of a great tree. This I not. only thought,
possible, but easy, and pleased myself extremely wivh my thoughts of making it, and
with my having much mom convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians;
but not at all considering the particular inconveniences which I lay under more than
the Indians did, viz., want. of hands to move it into the water when it was made--a

84
clifiiculty much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of want of tools
could be to ilmn. For What was if. to me, that when I had chosen A vast firm: in the
wood, I might with great trouble out it down, if after I might be able with my tools to
how and dub tho unfeide into the proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut; <<ml; the inside
to make it hollow, so as Lo make a boat of ib--if, after all this, I must lerwe it just
there where I found it, and was not able to hunch it; into Lho water?

One would have chaught I could not have had the least reflection upon my mind of
my circumstances while I was nmlcing this hunt, but I should have immediately Lhoughe.
how I should get it into the sec. ; but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over
the sea in it, that I never once considered how I shmzhl get it of? the land: and it wrs
really, in its own nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-fire miles of so>>, film-n
about forty-live fat-horns of land, where ilz lay, to set. it afloat in the voter.

I went to work "you this boat the most- lilm a fool that ever man (lid, who had any
of his senses: awake I plmmml myself with the design, wither}: determining whether I
was ever able to under-lake it ; not but that the difficulty of launching my boot come
ofirn into my head; but I put n stop to my inquiries into it, by this foolish answer
which 1 gave mysnif' : " Let. me first make it; I m-rant I shall find some Why or other
to get it along when it. is done." I

This was: a. most. preposterous method ,' but the eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and
to work I went, and felled a. "(lair--tree. I question mud) whether Solomon ever haul
such a one for the building the Temple at Jerusalem; it was five fuel: ten inches
diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four fez-2h eleven inches diameter at the '
end of twenty-two focl ; after which in les'somul for A while, and their parted iuLn
branches. It was not without infinite labour that. I felled this; tree. I was twenty
days hacking and hcwing as it at the bottom; T was fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs and the vast spreading head of it- cut. all; which I hacked and lmwod through
mid>> my axe and inhalant, and inexpreesihh: labour; after this, it cost me a. month to
shape it and duh it to a proportion, and to something like the boiiom of a heat, that if.
might swim upright as it ought; to do. It cost me nmr three moubhs more to clear the
inside, and work it out so an to make an exact; hoot of it: this I did, indeed, {vii-hour, fire,
by mere mullet>> and chisel, mul by the aims of hard labour, till I had brought it. to be 9.
very handwme peringua, and big enough to have carried six-und-zwenty men, and
consequently big enough to have carried me and all my cargo. '

When I haul gone through this work, I was extremely delighted with it" The boot
\ms really much bigger than ever I saw a. canon m: peiiaglm, hhafi was made of one tree,
in my life. Many a. weary stroke it hm] cost, you may be suro----for there remained
nothing hot to get it. into the water; and hml T gotten iL- into the Water, I make no
quest-ion but I uhouid have begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be
permrmerl, that eve-r was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the wafer failed me 5 though they cost infinite
labour too. It lsy about one humlrml yards fmm the water, and not more ; but the
first inconvenience was, it was up hill towards the crock. Well, to take away this
(lixooumgemcn 1,, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so make n dcclirily.
This 1 hogan, and it cost. me a prodigious denl oi' pains (but who grudge pains that have
thuir deliverance in View ?) 3 but when Lhia was worked through, and this difliculty
managed, it was still much at one, for I could no more stir the canoe than I could'
the other heat. Then I measured the distance. of ground, mud reaolt-'erl to out a (look or
canal, to bring the wntor up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to

36HIS FOURTH ANNIVERSARY.

 

'the water. Well, I began this work ; and when I began to enmr into it, and calculate
how deep it was to he (lug, how brawl, how the stuff was to be thrown out, I found
that, by the number of hands I had, being none. but my own, ii,- musi. hove been ten or
twelve years before I could have gone through with in ; for the shore lay so high blurb
.at the upper end it must have been at least twenty feet deep ; so at length; though
with grout reluctnncy, I gave this attempt over also.

This grieved mo heartily ; and now I saw, though boo lulu, the folly of beginning it
work before we count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our own ssrength to go
through with it.

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this place, and kept my
anniversary with the some devotion, 2.an with as much comfort as ever before ; for, by
a constant study and serious application of the Word of God, and by~the asnisiunce of
his gnwe, T gained a difi'erenb knowledge from what I had before. I entertained
dill'orcnt notions of things>> I looked now upon the world as a thing remote, which
I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and, indeed, no desires about: in a
'Wol'll, I had honking indeed to do with it, nor was ever likely to have. So I thought. it.
looked, as we may perhaps look upon it. heroaficr, viz, as a. place I had lived in. but
was come out of it 3 and well might. I say, as Father Abraham to Dives, "Between
me and thee is a great gulf fixec ."

In the first} place, I was removed from all the wickodness ol' the world here 5 I had
neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the prirle of life. I had nothing
.to covet, for I had all I mu; now capable of enjoying 5 I was low! of the whole
manor; or, if I pleased, I mighc Cull myself king or emperor over the whole country
which I had posseflsiou of. There were no rivals; I had no companion, none to dispute
sovereignty or command with me. I might. have raised ship-lowlings. of com, but I had
no 11356 for it. ; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my occasion. I had for>>
Wises or turtles enough, but now and then. one was as much as I could pub to any use.
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships ; anrl I had gmpes enough to have
made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have loaded that float when it had been
built.

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable: I had enough to out. and to
suyply my wants, and what was all the root. to mo? 13' I killed more flesh than I
could eat, the dog must cut is, or the vermin ; if I sowed more com than I could eat, it
must be spoiled ; the trees that. I cut down were lying to rot- on the ground; I could
make no more use of bhem than for fuel, and than I had no occasion for but to dress my
food.

In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to me, upon just reflect-ion,
that all the good things of this world are no further good to us than they are for our
use ; "C: that, whatever we my heap up indeed to give others, we enjoy as much as we
can use, and no more. The inert covetous, gripiug miser in the wot-kl would have
been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had been in my case 3 for I posseoaezi in-
finiwly more than i knew wlmn to do with. I had no room for desire, except it; was
of things which I had not, and they were but trifles, though, indeed, of grcut- use to me.
T hml, as I hinted belong a parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirtysix
pounds sterling. Alas! there the nasty, son-y, uselesu snuff lay! I had no murmur of
business for it, ; and 1 often thought ~with myself that I would have given a handful of it
for a gross of tobacco~pipes; or for a hand-mill to grind my corn ; my, I would have
given it all for sixpanny-m'u'th of turnip and carrot seed out of mglnnd, or for 8, handful

87
of peas and beans, and a. bottle of ink. As it was I had not the limb advantage by it,
or benefit from it 3 but there it lay in a. drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of the-
cave in the wet seasons 3 and if I had had the drnwer full of diamonds, it had been the
mme (me, they had been of no manner of value in me, because of no use.

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itselfthnn it was at first.
and mudh easier to my mind, as well 3.3 to my body. I frequently sat down to meat:
with thankfnluess, and admired the hand of God's providence, which had thus spread
my table in the wilderness. T learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and loss upon the dork side, and to consider what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted 3
and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that I cannot express them 3 and
which T lake notice or" here, to put those discontented people in mind of ii, who cannot-
enjoy comfortably what God has given them, because they see and covet. something that
he has not given them. All our diseontcnts about who: we wont appeared to me to
spring from the want of thankfulxxess for what we have.

Another reflection ngs of grant mm to me, and (loubLlnss would he so to any ono'tlmt
should fall into such distress as mine was 3 and this fvns, to compare my present condition
wiLh what I no find (-ixpmfl-m'l it would be; nor. with what it would certainly have been,
if the good providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cost up nearer-
-l.n Llic shore, where I not only could come at her, but could bring what I got out of
he): to the shore, for my relief mnl-comiort 3 without which, I haul wnniefl for tools to
work, weapons for defence, and gunpowder and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole houna, I may my whole days, in ieprwenting to myself. in the most
lively colours, how I must have noted il' 1' had got nothing out of the ship. How T could-
not- have so much as got any food, except fish and turtles; and that, as it was long
before I found any of them, I must have perished first 3 that I shouid have lived, if i
had not perished, like a more savage 3 that if I had killed a goat or :1. fowl, by any con-
tzirance, T. had .no way to flay or open it, or Purl. tho flenh from the akin <<.ml the bowels,
or to cut it up3 but must gxnuv it with my teeth, and pull it with my eimvs, like about.

These reflect-ions made me very wmible ofthe goodness of Providence to me, and
very thankful fbr my piment condition, with all its hardships and misfortunes : and this
part also T mun-mt but recommend to the reflection oi' those who are apt, in their misery,
to say, " ls any nfllieL'ion like mine 'I" Let them consider how much worse the cases of'
some people are, and their case might hm'e been, if k'mvidenee had thought fit

I land smother reflection, which assisted me also to comfort my mind with hopes 3
aml this was comparing my present situation with what I had deserved, and hml Lhere--
lure reason to expect from the hand of Providence. I had lit-ado. dreadful life perfectly
destitute of the lmowiedge and fear of Gml I had been well instructed by ihther and
mother 3 neither had they been wanting to me) in their early omleavoum to infuse a
religious awe of Cod'into my mind, a. sense of my duty, and wlmt the nature and end
of my being required of me. But, alas ! falling only into the sonflu'ing life, which, of"
all. lives, is the most destitute of the fear of God, though his terrain are nlwnys before
them 3 I say, filling early into the seafaring life, and into senrfiiring company, all that
little. sense of religion which I hurl entertained was laughed out of me by my memmates 3
by n hardened dospising of dangers, and the views of death, which grewhnhitual to me 3
hy my long absence from all manner of opportunities to converse with anything but
what; was like myself: or to hear anything of what vars good, or tended towards it.

So void wax T of everything that was good, or of the least sense of What I was, or was
to be, that. in the greatest deliverancea I enjoyccl'wch as my escape from Snllco; my

88CRUSOE'S REFLECTIONS.

 

 

"mill-'1'. g

l\

 

CRUSOK MAKING A CDA'I.

being taken up by the Portuguese master of fihe ship ; my being planted so well in she
Brnzlls; my receiving filxo (mg!) from England, and the Ilka--J. never once had the
words, " Thank Goal 1" so much as on my mind, or in my mouth ; nor in the greatest
distress had I so much thoughea 5m to pro;- to him, or so much as to soy, " Lord, have
mercy upon me l" no, not to mention the name of God, unless in was to swear by, and
blmpheme it.

1 Incl terrible reflections upon my mind for many months, as I have already obseryed,
on the nccounl'u of my wicked and hardened life past 3 and when I looked shout. mo, and
considered what pm'ticnlar prm-"idences had attended me since my coming into this place,
and how God had dealt- hountii'ully with mc----hncl not only punished me less than my
iniquity had deserved, but had so plentifully provided. for inc--this. gave me great hopes
that my repeulyanm was accepted, and that. God had yel. mercies in store for um

With those reflections, I worked my mind up, not. only to resignation to the will of
God in the present (Exposition of my circuxuslantxas, but even to a sincere thankfnlness
for my condition; and that 1, who was yet; a living 1mm, ought not to complain, seeing I
had not the duo punishment of my sins. That I enjoyed so many mercies which I had.
no reason to have expected in that place, That I ought uevermm'e to repine at my coir
dit'ion, but to mjoice, and to give daily chunks for that daily brooch which nothing but a
crowd of wondem could have brought, That I ought to consider I had been fed even by
a. miracle, own as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of
miracles. And that I could hmdly lmve named 22. place in the uninhabited pm": of (he
world where 1 couhl have been cast more 1:0 my admotage ; a, place where, as I had no
society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, uo furious

s9
wolves or tigers, to threaten my life 3 no venomous creatures or poisonous, 'which I
might; have fed on to my hurt; no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as
my life was a. life of sorrow one way, so n. was 9. life of mercy another ; and I wanted
nothing to make it n life of comfort, but to be able to make my sense of God's good-
.nexs to me, and care over me in this condition, be my daily consolation; and after
I made ajusl; improvement. of these things, I went away, and was no more and. I had
now been here so long, t-lmr, my thing which I brought on share for my help were
either quite gone, or very much wanted and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been gone some time, all but it very little) which I eked
out with water, a lint-1c and a little; till it was so pale, it scarce lcfi any appeamnce of
blank upon the paper. As long (IS it lested I made use of it to minute down thc'dnyn
-of who month on which any remarkable thing happened to me ; and firstJ by casting up
times past, I remembered than there wan a strange concurrence of (la-ya in the various
providences which befall me, and which, if I had been superstit-iously inclined to
<<observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have looked upon with a.
great deal of curiosity.

First, 1 had observed, that the same (lay that I broke away from my father and my
friends, and mu awn-y to Hull, in order to go to sea, the some day afterwards I' was
taken by the Sollm manor-war, and inside :1 slave ; the some day of the your that
I escaped out of the wreck of that ship in anmouth Roads, that same day of the year
afmmards 1'. made my escape from Sallee in a boat ; the some day of the your .T was
born on, viz, the 20th of September, the some day I had my life so mirnculously saved
twenty-nix years after, when l was cast on shore in this island 5 so that my wicked life
will solitaryvlifc hogan both on a day.

The maxi; thing to my inl- being wasted, was that of my bread, I mean the liixouit
which I brought out of the ship ; this I had husbandod to the last degree, allowing
myself but one cake of bread in day for . hove a year; and yet I was. quite without
bread for a. year before I got any corn of my own; and great roman I haul to be
lenkfuhthot I had any at nll, the getting it being, as has been already observed, next
to miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily ; as to linen, I had had none a good while,
excepb some chequered shirts which I found in the chests of the other seamen, and which 1
-eo1efully preserved ; because many times i could bear no other clothes on buto. shirt 3 and
it was a very great help to me that I had, among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost
three dozen of shirts. There were also several thick watch--coats of the scmncn's which
"were left behind, but they were too hot to wear : and though it is true that the weather
was so violently hot that there we no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked---
no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not ; nor could I . hide the thoughts of
it, though I was all alone. One renxon why I could not go naked was, I couid not hour
the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as with some clothes on 5 nay, the very
heat frequently blistcrcd my skin ; whereas, with a. shirt on, the air itself made some
motion, and whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No more
could I ever hring myself to go out in the heat of the sun without A cup or a hat; the
heat of the sun, heating with such violence as it does in that place, would give me the
headache presently, by darting so directly on my lmml, without a. cap or hot on, so that
I wold not bear it ; whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.

Upon those views: T began to consider about putting him {cw rage I had, which I
called clot-hes, into some order 5 I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my busi--

90CRUSO E'S U M BRELLA.

)'loss was now to try if I could not make jackets out of che great watch-coats which I
had by me, and with such other nlnl-Ieriuls as I had; so I act. to work, tailoring, or
rather, indeed, holclzing, for I made most piteous work of it, llowovcr, I made shift to
make two or three waistcoat", which T hoped would serve me a great while ; as for
lll'llofllxllfl or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed till afterwards.

I have mentioned that, I saved the skim; of All the creaturea that I killed, I mean
form-footed ones, and I had them hung up stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which

I means some ofbhem were so dry and hard than they vrcm fit for little, but others, it seems,
were very useful. The fist. thing 1 made of them was a. grass cap for my head, with
the hair on the outside, to shoot 013' the min ; and this I performed so well, that after, I
made me a unit of clothes wholly of those skins--that is to my, n waiswoal, and breaches
open at the knees, and both loose, for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than to
keep me warm I muxb no'h omit to mknowladgo that: they were wrctchedlynmlo 5 for
if I was a bad carpenter, I was a. worse tailor. However, they were such as I nude 3
very good shift wish, and when l. was abroad, if it happened to rain, L-hc hair of the
waistcoat and cap being outermoxfr, I was kept very dry,

After this, I spout a great. (lead of Lime and pnins to make an umbrella. I was in'
deed in great not of one, and had a great mind to make one. I hlul seen them made in
the Emails, where they are very useful in the great heats which are there,and I full. the
heats every jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer the. equinox ; besides, as I was
obliged w 'be much :du'oad, ib was a. most; useful thing to me, as well for the rain>> we the
limits, I took a world of pains at it, and was a great while before I could make any-
thing likely to hold; nay, after I thought T had hi1. the my, I spoiled two or three 1m>>
.fore I mule one in my mind. Bum lastI made one that answered indifi'erem-ly Well;
the main dimculty I found was in make it (73 let down. T could makeit apreuxl, but if i':-
did not let down too, and draw in, it would not be port-able for me any way but, just over
my head, which would not do. However, at. last, as I said, I made one (.0 answer. I
covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pentvhouso, and
kept of!" the sun so eefectually, film. I wuld walk out in the behest of the weather with
greater <<(innings than I could before in the coolest, and when I had no need of in, I
could close it, and carry it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely composed by resigning
to the will of God, and throwing myself wholly upon film disposal of his pwvhhmcc.
This made my life better than sociable, for when I lmgnn to regret- the want of conver-
sat-ion, 1 would ask myself, whether Lluls mnvcrsing mutually \vi'bh my own t-liouglzt5,
and (as I hope I may say) with even my Maker, by ejaculations and pensions, was not

better than who utmost enjoyment of human society in the world!

I cannofi any that, after this, for five yea-r3, any extraordinary thing happened to me,
but I lived on in the name course, in the same Ems-Lure and pluce,just us befum The chief
thing I was employed in, besides my yearly labour of planning my barley and rice, and
curing my raisins--of lmt'u \vli'nzll I always kept up just enough to have sull'iciunt. stool: of
she year's provision beforehand--I say, besides thin yearly labour, and my daily labour of
going out with my gun, I had one labour, in make me a. canoe, which at Inst I finisllml ,'
so that, by digging a canal to it; of six foot wide and four feet. deep, I brought it>> hunt-he
creek, almost half a. mild As for the first, which was so vastly big, as I under it Vii-l:-
Out considering beforehand, as I ought ('0 do, how I should be able {.0 launch it, so,nevur
being able to bring it into the we"; or bringdie water no in, T was obliged to let it lie
Where it was, as a menmranduni to teach me tribe wiser the next; time. Indeed, the next,

91-";
 

time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a place whom I could not
gal. the water to it at any less distance than, as .l have said, of near half a. mile, yels, as
I saw it was pmtioa'cle at last, 1 never gave it over ; 'and though I wars near two years
about it, yet I never grudged my labour, in hopeg of having a boat. to go 011' to sea at
last>>

However, though my lil-tle periaguo was finished, yet the sin. or iii was not at. all
answerable to the (laign which I had in View when I made the first ; I mean of ventur--
ing over to the [arm firmq, where it was show: {my miles broad; aowrdingly, the
smallnees of my boat assisted to put an end to that design, and 'now '1 thought no more
01' 31-. As; I hail a bout, my next design was to make a tour round the island ; for as I
had been on the other side in one place, crowing. no I'hnve already described it, over
the land, so the discoveries I made in that journey made me very eager to see other
parts of the coast ; am] now I had a bout, I thought of nothing but soiling round the
island.

For this purpose, and that I might do everything with discretion and consideration, 1
fitted up it little must in my bout, Kind made a. soil to it out of some'of the pieccs'of tho
aliip's sails which lay in store, and of which I had a. great atom by mo. Having fitted
my most. and soil, and tried the limit, I found she would suil very well ; then I inside.
little lockers, or boxes, at each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, ammunition,
650., into, to be kept dry, either froin rain or the syruy of the 1%. ; and a'litcle, long,
hollow place I out in the inside of the boot, where l coulcl'lay my gun, making}: flap
to hang down over it, to ken-p it (by.

I fixed in) umbrella also In a step at the stern, like a must, to stand over my head,
and keep the heat of the sun ofi'of me, like an (inning And thus I en my now and then .
took a. little voyage upon the son ; but uovcr wont flzr out, nor for from the little creek.
At last, being eager to view the circumference of mylittle kingdom, I resolved upon my
tum- ; and accordingly I victvualled my ship for the voyage, putting in five dozen of
loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread, on earthenpot full of parched.
rice (a food T ate a great deal of), a little bottle 01' mm, half vigour, and powder with shot
for killing more, and two large watch--coats, of those which, as I mentioned before, I had
savor] out of the scomen's chests 5 these 1 took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover
me in the night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my captivity, which
you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected ;
for though the island itself rum not very large, yet when I came to the mist side of it,
I found :4. great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sen, some above Water,
some under it ; and beyond that a. shoal of sand, lying dry half a. league more, no that I
was obliged to go it goes": way out. to sea to double that point.

When I first discovered them, 1 was going to give over my enterprise, nnd comeback
again, not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out 60 son. 5 and, above all, doubt-
ing how T should get- back Again ; <<a I came to an anchor ; for I had mndeakind ofan
anchor with a piece of a broken grappling which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my been, T. took my gun and went on shore, climbing up a hill, which
seemed to overlook that point wlieroI saw the full extent of ii, and rosolirod to venture.

In my viewing the files, from that hill where I stood, I perceived a strong and, in-
deed, o mosl. furious current, .wliiuh ran to the east, and even came close to the point ;
and 1 tool; the more notice of it, because I saw them might, be some danger, that when
I came into it, I might be carried out- to sea. by the strength of it, and not be able to

92A VOYAGE OF DISCOVERY.

 

 

 

 

CRUSOB SAILS 031' OF HIS CREEK

make the island again. And, indeed, hair! I not got first upon this hill, I believe it
would have been s0 3 for than: was the same exit-rent on the other side of Use island,
only that. it; set ofi' at a farther dislauce, and I saw there was a strong add}; under the
slum-c; so 1 had nothing to do but to get out of the first curreuh, and I should presently
be in an eddy.

1 13)' he": however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty fresh at ESE, and
that being just. coxitmry to the current, made a great breach of the sea. upon the point;
so that it; was nuL min for me to keep too close to the share for the breach, nor to go
too far ofl', because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having akmlled overnight, the sea. was nnlm,
and I ventured. But I am n warning~picw to all rash and ignomnb pilots ; for no sooncl'
"we! I come to the point, when 1 was not even my boat's length from the $12011), but I found
myself in a great depth of water, and a current- like the sluice of a. mill. it, carried my

93
bust along with it with such violence that all I would do could not keep her so much as.
on the edge of in 3 but I found it hurried me farther and (orthon- out; from the eddy, which
was on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all that 1 could do with
my pmlnlles signified noiliing. And now I began to give myself os'm' Tm- lnn'l- ; for an she
current we on both sides offno island, I knew in a few leagues' distance obey must join
again, and then I was irrecorernble gone ; nor did I see any poseihllity of avoiding it ;
so that I had no prospect before me but of perishing, not by the gen, for that was calm
enough, but of shin-11% from hunger, I had, indeed: fouml a tqrmiso on the shore, as
big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the host ; and I had a. grant jar of fresh
water, that is to any, one of my eanhen pots ; but what was all this in being driven inlo
the vase ocean, where, to he sure, there was no shore, no mainland or island, for a.
thousand leagues at least?

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God to make the most
miscmblo condition that mankind could he in W'DI'XB, Now I looked hack upon my
desolate, solitary island M4 the most pleasant place in the world, and all the happiness
my heart could wish for was to be there again. I stretched out my hands to it, will!
eager wishes. " 0 happy llllficl'li l" said I, "I shall never see thee more. 0 miscm'ole
creature! whither am I going 3" Then I rcpmnoheul myself with my unthnnlzful tem-
per, and how I had rcpined at my solitary condition ; and now what. would I give to
be on shore there again! Thus, wo never see the true state of our condition till it is
illustrated to us by its contmries, not know howto value what we enjoy, but, hy the
wan: of it. It is scarcely possible to imagine the consternation I was now in, being
driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to he) inlo Lhe wide ocean,
almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it gain. However. I
worked hard. till, indeed, my strength was nlnmsl. exhausted, and kept. my boat as. much
to the nnrchwnrd --l.ha'a is, towards the side of the current which the eddy lny on--nsi
possibly I could ,' when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I lenglxb I felt, a.
little breeze of wind in my fiace, springing up from the 83.13. This cheered my hear: a.
little, and espem'olly when, in olmutlmlf rm hour more, is blew a. pretty small, gentle gale.
By this time, I had got at a frightful distance from the island ; and had she least cloudy
or hazy weather imarrened, I had been undone another way, (on ; for I had no compass
on hoard, and should never have known how to have steered townrds the island, if I
had but once lost sight of it. But the wmther continuing clear, I applied myself to got
up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing away to the north as much as possible,
to get out of the current.

Just as I hail set my must and sail, Emil the host began to stretch away, I saw even
by the clear-Hess of the water some aim-slim of the current. was nam- ; for whom lilie-
cum-enn was so strong, the water was foul ; but perceiving the water clear, I found
the current. abate 3 and presently I found to the east, at. about half 51 lllllls a breach
of the sea. upon some rocks These rocks I found caused the cun'ent to part again, and
as the main stress of it mn away more soul-hurl}; leaving the rocks to the with cast, sm-
the other returned by the repulse of the rock, and ins/lo a strong eddy, which mu back
again to the northwcali, with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon the ladder, or
to be rescued fmm thieves just going to mm'tler them, or who ll-'LVC been in such ex-
tremities, may guess what my present; surprise ofjuy was, and how gladly I put mybont.
into the stream of this eddy 5 and the wind also frmhcning, how gladly I spread my sail
to it, running chosrfully before the wind, and with a strong hide or eddy under foot

0--1Eli GETS BACK TO HIS lSLAND.

 

This eddy nau-rirxl me about a league in my my back again, nlimcldy towuuh-s
the island, but>> about two leagues more towards the northward than the current lay
which carried me away at first ; so that when I can") near the isinnd, I found myself
open b0 the nor-them shore of ih, that in to say, the other end of the island, opposite to
that which I went out from.

W'heu I had made something more than a league of way by 11511) of this current
or eddy, I found it was spent, and email me no farther. Howaver, I found that being
between two great currents, viz, that on the south side, which had hurried me away, and
that on (vine mirth, which in; about law) leagues on the other side ; T 5151], betwefin (mane
two, in the wake of the island, I found the water at lemt still, and running no way ,1,
and having shill a bronze. of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island,
though not making such fresh way as I (lid before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within aboun a league of the island, I
limnd the point of the rocks which occasioned this disaster stretching Out, as is deaeribul
before, to the sonthmml, mid. casting off the current more southerly, had, of amuse,
made sum-her eddy to the north; and this I found very strong, but directly sorting
the way my eoursn lay, which was due west, but almost full norlh. However, having xv.
fresh gale, I stretched across thin eddy, slanting north-west ; and in about an hour came
within about a mile of the sham, where, it being smooth Wain>>, I soon got to laud.

When I we: on shore, I fell on my knees, and give God thanks for my deliverance,
legalizing to by aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my hum- ; and refreshing myself
with such things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore. in a little cove than I
htvl syiud under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent wish the labour
and fatigue of the voyage.

I was now at a-grent loss which way to gel. home with my boat! I had run so-
mueh hazard, and know (-00 much of the case, to think of ail-tempting it by the way I
Went) out 5 and whav might be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor-
had I any mind in run any morn-ventures. So I resolved on tho next: morning to nmkc
my way westward along the shore, and in see if there was no creek where I might lay
up my frigate in safety, no as be have her again, if i wanted her. In about three miles,
or therealnmls, cmsting the share, I came to a very good inlet or buy, about a mile over,
which narrowed (ill in came to a. very little rivulct or brook, where 1 found a very
convenient harbour for my boat, and when: she lay as if she lmd been in a. little dock
made on purpose for her. How I put in, and having slowed my boat very safe, T went
on shore to lm)l< about me, and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a. little waged hy the place where I had been before, when I.
travelled on foot- to that shore; 50, taking nothing out of my hon: but. my gun and
umbrella, for iL was exceedingly hot, I' began my march. The way was comfortable-
enough after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I rezwlxo'l my old bower in
the evening, where I found everything standing as I left 34. 5 for I always kept it in
good order, being, as I said before, my country-house. _

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest mylimbs, for I was very
Weary, nnd fell asleep. But judge you, if you can, than maul my story, what a surprise-
I must have been in when I was awaken out of my sleep by a. voice, calling me by
my name several times: " Robin, Rubin, Rabin Crusoe! poor Robin Crusoe! 'Wherc
are you, Robin Cruwe? "There are you? Where have you been? "

I was so dead asleep at firss, being fuligued with rowing, or paddling, as it is called,
the first part of the day, and walking the latter pub, that I did not awake thoroughly ;,

9S
and dozing between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me ;
butane the voice continued to repent, " Robin Crusoe! Robin Crusoe !" at last; [began to
awake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frightened, and stertwl up in the utmost
consternation. But no sooner were my eyes open, but I show my Poll sitting on the top
of the hedge, and immediately knew that it was he that spoke in me ; for just: in such
bemoaning language I had used to tell: to him, and teach him ; and he had learned it;
so perfemly, that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and
cry, "Poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been? How come
you here?" and such films as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it; was the pin-mi, and that indeed it could be nobody
else, if, was a. good while before I could compose myself. First, I was (unwed how the
creature got thither; and then, how he shouhl just keep about; the place, and nowhere
else ; but, as I was well satisfied iii could he nobody hui honest Poll, 1 got over- it- ; and
holding out. my hand, and culling him by his name, " Poll,' the sociable creature came (0
me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking to me, "Poor
Robin Crusoe? and how did I come here? and where had I been i" just as if he had
been overjoyed to see me again 3 and so I carried him home 'nlong with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea). for some time, and had enough to do for
many days tosit still, and refleci,_upon the (longer I had been in. I would have been
very glad to have had my boat again on my side of the island; but. I knew not how it
was practicable to get it about. Ask: the east side of the island, which I haul gone
round, I know well enough there was no venturing that way; my very heart. would
shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to think of it: ,- and as to the other side of she
island, I did not know how it might} be there. But supposing the current ran with she
same force against the show at the mt. as it; passed by it- on the other, I might run
the same risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by the island, as I had
heen before of being (buried away from it>>. So with l-hese thoughts I contented myself
to be without any boat, though it, had been the produce of so many months' labour to
make ii, and of so many more to get if. into the sun.

In this government. of my temper, I remained near a year ; lived a very sednbe,
retired life, as you may woil suppose ,1 and my thoughts being very much composed
as to. my condition, and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of
Providence, I thought I . lived really very happily in all things, except that of
society.

T improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exerdscs which my necessities
'pm: me upon 'npplyiug myself to 3 and I believe I should, upon occasion, have made a
.verygoorl carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived or an unexpected perfection in my earthenwau'e, and contrived
well enoughje make them with a. wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better;
beceuee I mnde things round and shaped, which before were filthy things indeed to loch
on. But I think I was never more min of my own performance, or more joyful for
.enybhingil. found out, than for my being able to make as tobacco-pipe; and though
it was every ugly, clumsy thing when it was done, and only burnt red, like other
ea-ri-henwn'm, yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly
comforted with it, for I hurl heen always used to smoke ; and there were pipes in the
ship, but I forgot'tiiem (it first, not thinking that there was tobacco in the island ; and
ei-l'zerwmids, when I searched the ship again, I could not come at any pipes.

' In my wickerwere also I improved much, and made abundance of necessary baskets,

96:7 - CRUSOE AT DINNER.
 

As well as my invention showed me; though not very handsome, yet they were such as
were very handy and convenient for laying things up in, or [chilling things home. For
example, if I killed'n gontnbroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, and dress it, and
cut it in pieceng and bring it home in a. basket : and the like by a turtle ; I could cut it
up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring
them home in a. lxukeli, and leave the rest behind me. Also, large deep lnsnkois were
my receivers for my com, which J. always inbhed out as soon as it was dry, and cured ;.
and kept it in great basketag instead of n ginnnry.

I began now to poreeive my powder abated considerably 5 and this was evmm: which
it. was impomildo for me to supply, and I began seriously to consider what I must do
when I should have no more powder ; that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats.
I had, as I observed in the third year of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred be?
up {mile ; I was in hopes of getting a lie-kid: but T could not by any menus bring
it to pass, till my kid grow an old goat 5 and as I could nevei' find in my heart; to El
her, she died at lost of mere age.

But being now in the eleventh your of my residence, and, as I have said, my
ammunition growing low, I not myself to study some art to trap mill snore the gents, lo
see whether I could not catch some of them alive; and particularly, I wanted a she-
goat great with young. To this: purpose, I made snares to hamper them ; and T
believe theywere more than once token in them ; but my tackle was not good, for 1
had no wire. and always found them broken, and my belt devaurwl. At length, I
resolved to try n pitfall : so I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where I lam!
observed the goals "and to feed, and over these pita I puma hurdles, of my own making
too, with a great weight upon them; and several times I put ears of barley and dry
rice, without setting the hop; and T mold easily perceive that the goats had gone in
and eaten 111') the corn, for I could see the marks of their feet. At length, I set three
tot-pa in one night, and going the next morning, I found them all standing, and yet the
bait eaten and gone: this was very discouraging. However, I altered my traps ; and,
not to tronlile you with lmilienlnrz, going mm morning to see my traps I'found in one
ofi'them'n large old hogont; and'in one of the others, three kids, in male and two
females. . ' . -

As to the old one, I knew not. what to do with him; he was so fierce, I durst not
go into the pit to him; that is to any, to go about to bring him away olive, which
was what I wanted. I could have killed him, hula that was not my busineexg nor would
in answer: my'end ; so I even lei: him out, and he ran away as if he haul been {lighted
out of his wits 3 but 'I haul forgot then what- I ltmrneil nfcorwanla, that hunger will tame
a, lion. ' I3" I hiul lul: him stdy there L-lmie or four days without foodhnnd the" have
carried him some water to drink, and then a little corn, he would have been as tame as
- one of Lhe kids ; for they are mighty asgscioufl, tractable creatures, where they are

well used.

However, for the present I. let- liim go, knowing no better at that time : then I went-
to the three kids, and, taking them one by one, I lied them with strings together, and
with some difiimlby brought- them all home.

It was a. good while before (they would feed ; but throwing them some sweet corn, il,
tempted them, and they began to he tome. And now I found that if I expected to
supply myself with gosts' flesh, when I had no powder or shot loft, breeding some up
tome was my only way; when, perhaps, I might have them about my house like a flock
of sheep. But, then, it occurred to me that 1 must keep the tome from the wild, or else

98HE MAINTAINS A FLOCK'OF COATS.

 

 

they would always run wild when they grow up 5 and the only way for this was to have
some inolmcel piece of ground, well fenced either with he@e or pale, to keep them up so
effectually, than those within might not break out, or those without break in.

This was a grant undurmking for one pair of hands; yul: 3.5 I saw there was an
absolute necessity for doing it, my first piece of work was to find out n. proper piece of
ground; viz., where there was likely to ho herbage for them to eat, water for them
to drink, and cover to keep them from the gun.

Those who understantl such inclosnres will think Iliad very little conh-ivanec, when
I pitched upon a place vary proper for all these, being a. plain, open piece of meadow
land, or snwnnn (as our people call it in the western colonies), which lxml two or three
little drills of fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody ; I say, they will smile
at. my forecast, when I shall tell them I bags." by inulosing of this piece of ground in such
a. manner, that my hedge or pale must have been at 1333'. two miles about. Nor was
the! madness of it so great as to the compass for if it was ten miles about, I was like to
have time enough to do it in ; but I did not consider that my goals would be as wihl
in so much compass as if they had had the whole island, and I should have so much
room to chase them in that I should never catch them.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fifty yhnla, when this. thought
occurred to me; so I presently stopped short, and, for the first beginning, I resolved to
inclose a piece of about one hundred and fifty yards in length, and one hundred yards
in breadth, which, as it would maintain as many as I should have in any reasonable
fime, so, as my flock increased, 1' could add more ground to my inelosui'e.

This was acting with scum prudence, and I went to work with emu-ago. I was
about three months hedging in the first piece ; and, bill I haul done it' I tethered the
three kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as punible, Lo malm
them familiar; and very often I would go and carry them some cars of barley, or n.
handful of rice, And focal them out of my hand ; so that, tiller my inclosure was finished,
and I let them loose, they would follow me up and down, bloating after me for a. hand-
ful of com.

This answered my end, and in about a. year and a. half I had a. (leek of about twelve
gents, kids and all ,- and in Lwo yawn more I had tln'eomd-forty, besides several that I
tookand killed for my food' ; and after that, I inclosecl five seveml pieces of ground to
1'.de Lhum in, with lil-tle pens to drive then into, to lulu: them as I muted them, and
gates out of one piece of ground into another. >>

But this was not all; for new I not only had goat? flesh to feed on when l' pleased,
but mill: too--o. thing which indeed in my beginning I dial not so much us think of,
and which, when it came into my thoughts, was molly on agreeable surprise ; for now
I set up my dairy, and had somelimes a gallon or two of mill: in 1; day. And in.
Nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates oven naturally how on
make use of it, so I, that never milked a. cow, much less a gust, or saw butter or cheesu
made, very readily and handily, though nil/av n glint msuiy essays and miscarriages, made
me both butter and cheese 9.5 lust, and never wanted it afterwards. How mercifully
can our Creator treat Hi9 creatures, even in those cumiihimm in which they seemed
to be overwhelmed in destruction 1 How can He sweeten the bioterest providencos,
and give us amuse to praise Him for (lungoons and prisons! What a. table was here
spread for me in a wilderness, when: I saw nothing at first but to perish for hunger!

it would have made a Stoic smile to have seam me .1,an my little family sit down to
dinner. There was my majasty, the prince and lord of the whole island; I llll. the

99
 

lives of all my subjects at absolute commend ; I could hag, elm-w, give life and liberty
and take it away, and no rebels among all my subjects. Then V) See how like a kig I
dined too, all alone, attended by my servants ! Pall, as if he lmd been my favourite,
was the only person permitted to talk to me ; my dog, who was now grown very old
and many, and had found no species to multiply his kind upon, saw always at my right
hand; and two cats, one on one side the table, and one on the (filler, expecting now
and then a. bit from my hand, as a. mark of special favour.

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at first, 'for they were
both of them dead, and had been interred near my habitation by my own hand ,' but
one of them having multiplied by I know not when kind of creature, these were two
which I preserved tame ; Wham the rest run wild in the woods, and became
indeed troublesome to me at last ; for they would often come into my house, and plunder
mo too, till at last 1mg obliged to shoot i.hcm,mul did kill a. great many; at length
they left me. With this attendance and in this plentiful manner I lived; neither
could I he slid to want anything but society; and of that, in some time after this, I
was likely to have too much.

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of my host, though
very lath to run any more hmrd ; and therefore sometimes I set conniving ways to
get her about the island, and at other times 1 SM: myself down contented enough with-
out her. But I had a strange uneaniness in my mind to go down to the point of the
island where, as I have said, in my last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore
lay, and how the current set, that I might see what I had to do : this inclination in-
creased upon me eVery day-,and at, length I resolved to LDLVGI thither bylund; and follow-
ing the edge of the shore, 1 did so 5 but had any one in England met such a. man as I.
was, it must either have frighted them, or raised a green deal of laughter: and as I
frequently stood still to look at myself, 1 could not but smile at the notion of my
travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased
to take a sketch of my figure, as follows 2---

I had a great high shupelms cap, made of goat's skin, with a flap hanging down
behind, as well to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain of from running into my
nee-k; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the min upon the flesh under
the clothes.

I had a short jacket of'goat's skin, the shirts coming down to about the middle of
the thighs, and a pair of opemkneed breaches of the same ; the breeohea were made of
the skin of an old hegost, Whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like
pmtaloons it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I had none, but
had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce knew what to call them, like bushing, to
flap over my legs, and lace on either side like spatierdasher, but of a most barbarous
shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.

1 had on n. broad belt of goat's skin dn'ed, which I drew together with two thongs
of the same, instead of buckles ; and in s. kind of in frog on either side of this, instead of
a. sword and (logger, hung a little saw and n hatchet, one on one aside, one on the
other. I had another belt not so broad, and fast/cued in the same manner, which hung
over my shoulder ; and at the 0nd of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both made

' of gont's skintoo, in one of which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my
back I carried my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head a great clumsy,
ugly, goat--skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most necessary thing I
lied about, me next to my gun. A: for my face, the colour of it was really not so

100CRUSOE SEES A FOOTJ'RIN'I' lN THE SAND.
. mixlatto--lihc 5 one might expect from a, man not at all careful of it, and living within
niam or ten degrees of the equinox, My lurm'il I had once sum-ma to grow till it wan:
about a quarter of n yard long ; but in I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had.
cut it pretty short, except wlml; grew on my upper lip, which I hail trimmed into a
large pair of Mnlxomctnn whiskers, such as I hnd seen worn by some 'l'in'ks at Snllm,
fur the Moors did not wear such, though the 'hirlos did 3 of these mouslnchios, or
whiskers, I will not any they were long enough to hang my hat upon them, but they
were ol'a.lungfli and shapa momlmus enough, and such as in England would have
passed for frightful.

But all this is. by Lhe bye ; for, .13 to my figure, I had so few to observe me, that it
was of no manner of consequence, so 1 say no more to that part. In this kind of dress I
want my new journey, and was out five or six days. T. imvollcd first along the res.--
shore, directly to the place where I. first brought my boat to an anchor to- get; up upon
the ranks ; and having no boot now to fake care of; I went over the land a nearer way
to the same height that I was upon before, when, looking forward to the point of the
Tuck whiulr lay out, and which I was obliged to double with my boat, a>> .T raid More,
I was surprised to see the see. all smooth and quiet--no rippling, no motion, no current,
any more there than in other places, I was at a. strange loss to understand thin,
and resolved to spend some time in, the observing it, to see ii" nothing from. the sets of"
the tide hail occasioned it ; but I was presently convinced how it was, viz, that the tide
of obb setting from the wmt, and joining with the current of waters from some great
river on the shore, must be the occeuion of this current; and that according as the
wind blew more forcible from the wort ctr fiom the north, this current came near, or
went farther from the shore ,- for, waiting theroabouts till evening, '1' went up to the
rock again, and than the tide of obb being made, I plainly saw the current again as
before, only that it ran flir'ohcr ofl', being near lmlf a league from the shore, whereas in
my m it not clone upon the idiom, and hurried me in my canoe along with it, which
at another timo it would not have done.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but to observe the ebbing

.nnd the flowing of the tide, and I might very easily bring my boot about the island.
again ; but when T hogan to think about putting it in practice, I had ouch terror upon
my spirits at the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that; I could not think of it
again with any patience; lml, on tho cont-my, 1 took up another resolution, which was
more safe, though more laborious--(ind this was, than. I would build, or rather make
me another periaguo or canoe; and so have one for one side of the island, and one
for the other.

You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call iL, two plantations in the
inland ; one my little fortification or hunt, with the wall about it, under the rock, with
the cove bulxind me, which by this time I had enlarged info rover-<11 apartments, or
caves, one within smother. One of these, which was the driest. and largent, and had a
floor o-xl; 'mzyonrl my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall joined
to the rock, was all filled up with the large earthen poi>>, of which I have given an
Inmmxl, and with fourteen or fifieen great lxnslceta, which would hold fire or six bushels
each, where I hid up my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in the ear, out
03' short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand.

As for my well, made, as before, wiph long stakes or piles those piles grow all like

_ tress, and were by this time grown so big, and ispread so very mneh', that there was not
the least appearance, to any one's View, of any habitation behind them.

102CRUSOE'S COUNTRY HOUSE AND PLANTATION.

 

Near this dwelling of mine, but; nlittlc flirt-her within the land, and upon lower
ground, lay my two pieces of corn land, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and
which duly yielded me their harvest in its seaaon ; and whenever T had occnsion for
more corn, I had more land adjoining, as fit as that.

Besides this, I lmd my wunlury sent, and I had new a toleraible plantation there
also 3 for first, I had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept; in repair--that i>> to
my, I kept-the lmlgc, which circled it in,- eonslanvly lifted up to its usual hoight, the
ladder standing always in the inside; I kept the trees, which at first were no more
than my stakes, lml. were now grown very firm and tall, always so out, that they might
spread and grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which they did.
elliwtually b0 _ my mind. In the middle of this I had my (out. always standing, being a.
piece of a sail spread over poles set up for that purpose, and which never wanted
"any repair or renewing ; and under this 1 had made me o. squah or couch, with the skins
of the creature's I had killed, and with other soft. things, and in blanket laid on them,
such as belonged to our uwhedding, which I had saved ; onda grmt watch-cont. to cover
me ; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my
country habitation,

Adjoining to this, I had myinclosures for my cattle, that is to any, my goats ; and
as I had taken zul inconceivable deal of pains to fence and inelose this ground, I was so
'anxious to see it kept. entire, lat the goats should break through, that I newer left 011

' till, with infinite labour, I had stuck the outside of the hedge so full Ial' small stakes,
and so near to one another, that it was rather a pnle than a hedge, and there was scarce
room in put a hand through between them 3 which afl'crwnrdz, when those stakes grow,
as they all did in the next miuy season, made the inclosure strong like a wnll, indeed
stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that .l. spared no pains to bring to
pass whatever appeared newly for my comfortable support. ; for I considered the
keeping up a. breed of tame creatni'es Lhus at my hand would be a. living magazine
of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me as long an I lived in the place, if it were to be
forty years ; and that keeping them in my reach depended enbirriy upon my perfecting
my inclosnres to such o degree, that I might be sure of keeping them together ,1 which,
by this method, indeed, I so effectually secured, that when these little stakes began
to grow, I had planted them so very thick, I was forced to pull some of them
up again. .

In thin place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally depended on for my
winter store of raising and which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as the best
and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet ; and, indeed, they were not. agreenble only,
but physixml, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the lust dgree.

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the place where I
had laid up my boat, I generally stayed and lay here in my way thither, for I used
frequently to visit nay-boat ; find I kept all things about, or belonging to her, in very
good order. " Sometimea I went out in her 9.) divert, myself, but no more hazardous
voyages would I go, scarcely ever above a stone'sl cast or two from the shore, I was so
apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents or winds,
or any other accident. But now I come to a new scene of my life.

Ic happened one day, about noon, going towardn my boot, Iwaa exceedingly surprised
with the print of a man's naked foot. on the shore, which was very plain to be seen on
the sand. I stood like one thundcmtruck, or as if I had soon on apparition. I listened,

103
I looked round me, but- I could hear nothing, nor see anything ; I went up to a rising
ground, to look further ; I went up the shore, and down the shore, hm it. was all one. :-
1 could see no other impression but>> that one. '1 went to it again to see if there were
any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy ; but there was no room for that,
for there was exactly the print of n foot--toes, heel, and every part, of n fooL. How it
came thither I lmew not, nor could in the lenst imaginm But after innumerable
fluttering thought>>, like a man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my-
fortificntion, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last dogma,
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mistnhing every hush and tree, and
fonoying cverystnmp at a distance to be a man. Nor is it'posnble to describe how
many various shapes-my nfl'righted imagination represented things to me in ; how nanny
wild ideas were fornml every moment in my fancy, and what strange unaccountable
whimseys came into my thoughts by the way. '

When I game to my castle (for 80 I think I called it ever nfbcr this), I fled into it-
like one pursued. Whether I went over by the ladder, as first. contrived, or wont in at
the hole in the rock, which I called a door, I cannot remember; for never frightcd
hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind tlmn I to this retreat.

I had no Kleep that night; the further I was from the oeensdon of my (right, the greater
my apprehensions were, which in something contrary to the nature of such things, and
especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear ,- hnl; I was so embarrassed with
my own Eighth-I ideas of the thing, that 1 formed nothing but dimual imaginations to
myself, even though I wm now 9. great way of it. Sometimes I fancied it, must l)e the
devil ; and reason joined invith me upon this supposition : for how should any other thing
in human shape come i nto the place? Where was the Veml that brought; them i "'hat
marks were there of any other footsteps? And how was it- possible n man should oomo
there? But then to think that Satan should take human shape upon him in such a
place, where there could he no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of Mg.
foot behind him, and that even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure I should
see it'~--this was on amazement the other way. I considered that the devil might have
found out abundance ofother ways to have terrified me than this of the single print. of a.
foot 5 that as I lived quite on the other side of the island, he would never have been so
simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether I should
ever see it or not, and in the send too, which the first surge of the we, upon n high wind,
would have defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself, and
with all the notions we usnslly entertain of the subtlety of the devil.

Abundance of such things as these aseisted to argue me out of all apprehensions or"
its being the devil ; and I presently concluded then, that ii. must 'be some more
dangerous creature; viz, that it must be some of the savages of the mainland over-
against me, "'1'" had wandered out to sea. in their canoes, and either driven by the
currents or by conu'ary winds, had made the island, and hurl been on shore, but were
gone away again to son ; heig as 10th, perhaps to have stayed in this desolate island
as I would have been to hero haul them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very thankful in my thought,
that I was so happy as not to be tlioreabouts at that time, or that they (lid not see my
boat, by which they would have concluded that some inhabitants lmd been in the place,
and perhaps hm'e searched farther for me. Then terrible thoghts racked my imagb
nation about their having found my boat, nud that there were people here ; and that,
if so, I should Certainly have them come again in greater numbers, and devour me ;

104H

 

CRUSOE MIX-KING COATS.

that if it should happen that they should not find me, yet they would find my onclusure,
destroy all my com, and carry away all my flock of fame goals, and .T uhould perish at:
last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope ; all that. former confidence in God,
which wns founded upon such wonderful experience as I had had of his goodnes, now
vanished ,' as if He tlmt, lmd fed me by miracle hitherto, coulti not pressure by His
power the provision which He had made for me by His gom'lneam. I reproachod myself
with my lnyincss, that would not sow any mom corn one year than would just>> serve me
till the next season, as if no accident could intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop
that; was upon the ground; and this J. thought so just. a i'eproof, that I resolved for the
futin'c to luwe two or three yeznm' com befm'elmnd, so that, whatever might come, I
might not perish for want. of bread.

How strange n. chequer-wox-k of Providence is the life of man! and by what-
aecret difl'oring springs are the afi'ectionu hurried about, as differing circumstances '
present! To-clny we love what. tomorrow we hate ; today we seek what to-morwxv

105
 

we shun,- {0-de we desire what Wmouow we fear, my, 0'. e11 tremble at the apprehen--
sions of. This was exemplified 111 me at th'ux time 111 the most lively manner imaginable;
for I, whose only affliction was, than I seemed banished from human society, that I
was alone, circumscribed by the boundlenn ocean, cut oil" from mankind, and condemned
to What I 1:111 ailent'life ,- tlmt I was as one whom Heaven thoghb not worthy to be
numbered among the living, or to appear mnongxt the rcsl. of his creatures 5 that. to have
man one of my own species would have seemed to me a raising me from death to bin,
and the greatest blussing tint Bowen itself, next to the supmine blessing of salvation,
could bestow I gay, that I should new trend Ila at the voiy apprehensions of seeing a.
- man, and. was randy to sink into the ground at but the shadow or Silent; appeamuce of a
man. having set his foot; on the island.

$111211 is the uneven state of human life ;. and it ail'urded me ogreat many curious
Spelllllzbfionfi afterwnrcls, when I had :1 little recovered my final: siu'prise. I considered
than this was the station of life the infinitel}r Wise and good providence of God had
di "tounined for me; that as I could not foruseo whar- the 011d 0. Divine wisdom might
be in all thin, 110 I was nob to disqu His sovereignty, who, as T was His cmnture, had
an undoubted right by emission to gov or n and dispose of me absolutely as Ile thought
lit. 3 and who, as I was 11. creature who had offended Him, had likewise a. judicial right to
condemn me to wlmi. punishment; He thought fit ,- uan that it was my part. to submit to
beeris indignation, because I had sinned against Him. I then reflected, that God, who
mu not: only righteous, but omuipoteni, as He had thought fit. thus to punish and nflict
me, so He was able to deliver mo; ishol; if He did not think fit to do it, it was my
unquestioned tlui-y to resign myself absolutely and entirely to His will; and, on the other
hand, it was my duty alao to hope" in Him, 1111137 to Him,.~1nd quietly to attend the dictates
and directions of His daily pmvidunm.

These Lhougth took me up many 110111 5, duvs, nay, I mxw my weeks and months, and
one pnruculnr efi'ect of my cugiluliona on this occasion I_ cannot omit; viz,m1o morning
enrlv, lying in mv bed, and filled with thongth about, my danger from the oppcmance
of savages, I found it <<lisoompoeod me very mun-h , upon which those words of tho
Scripture came into my thoughts : " Cnll upon me in the day of trouble: I will
deliver Lime, and thou shalt glorify me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out. of llflll, my
heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and encouraged to pray earnest-1y to God
for deliverance: when I had done praying, I look up my Bihlo, and opening ii, to read,
the first words that prmonhed to me were, " W ail on the Lord: be of good courage,
and He shall strengthen thy heart: wait, I my, on the Lord." TL is impossible (o
express the comfort this gave me, 11nd in remirn I thankfully laid down the hook, and was
no more sod, oi. loasb, not on that occasion.

In the middle of those cogilalions, apprehensions, and ieflections, it came into my
thoughts one day. that- nll this might he a. mere chimera of my own, and that this loot
mig at be the print of my own foot, when 1. come on shore from my bout: this cheered
me up a little, 1100,311111 T began to persuade myself it was all n doluaion; that ib was
nothing else but my own fool ; and why might I not come that way from the boat, as
well as I was going that way to the bout? Again T considered also, that I could by no
means tell for certain where I had trod, 11nd where I lnul not ; and that if, at last, this
was only the print- of my own foot, I had played the pm of those fools who try to make
stories of spoof/r98 and nppnritious, and than are themselves frighted at them more than
anybody else.

Now I began lo trike courage, and to peep abroad again, for I had not- stirred out. of

106ANOTHER VISIT TO THE SHORE,

my castle for three days and nightg so that I began to starve for provision ; for 1' had
little or nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that my
goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was my cvoning diversion; and the
poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of it ,- and, indeed, it
almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk.

Hesrtening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but the print
of one of my own feet, and so I might; be truly said to shirt at my mun shadow, I began to
go abroad again, and went to my countryhouse to milk my flat-J: ; but. to see with what
12:9.1' 1 went. forward, how often 1 looked behind me, how I was rmrly, every now and
then, to lay down my basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one have
thought I. was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had been lulcly most. terribly
'frighted ; and so, indeed, I had. However, as I went down thus two or three days, and
having soon nothing, I begun to be a little bolder, and to think there was really nothing
in in but my own inmgizmtion 5 bubI could not persuade myself fully of this bill I should
go clown fro the shore again, and see this print. of a foot, and measure it; by my own, and see
if there was any similitude or Mom that I might be assured il.' was my own foot But
when I come to the place--first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up my
boat, I could not. possibly be on shore anywhere thereobouts : secondly, when I came to
measure tho marl: with my own foot, I found my fool; not so large by a, great deal.
Both these things filled my head with new imoghmtiong and gave mo the vapours again
to the highese <<legmo, so that T shook with cold like one in an agile ; and T \vant home
again, filled with the belief that some man or men had been on shore there 3 or, in short,
that the island was inhabited, and 1' might be surprised before I was aware; and what
course to take for my security I knew not.

Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men who when possemd with (nor! It deprives
them of the "86 of those mama which reason ofl'ers for their relief: The first thing I
proposed to myselfwaa, to throw down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild
into the woods, that the enemy might not. find them, and then frequent. the island in
prospect of the flmne or the like booty: then the simple thing of digging up my two corn-
fields, that they might not. find such a. grain there, and still be promptexl to frequent, the
island ; than to demolish my bower and hint, that they might not. see any vestiges of
habitation, and be prompted to look further, in order to find out. the persons inhabiting.

These were the subjects of the firs'k nigho's cogiiabions, after I was come home again
While the apprehenuions which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and my
head was full of vapours as above. Thus, fear of danger is ten thoumd times more
errifying than danger itself, when apparent in the eyes 3 and we find the burden of
anxiety greater, by much, than the evil which we are anxious about : but, which was-
worse than all (.hig I had not that relief in this trouble, from the resignation I used to
promise, the"; I hoped to hora. I looked, I though, like Saul, who complained not
only that the Philista'na were upon him, but than. God had forsaken him ; for 1 did
not now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to God in my dish-ext, and IN'
ing upon IIis providence, as i had done before, for my defence and deliverance ; which
if I hadilono, I had at least been more cheerfully supported under this new surprisv,
and perhaps carried through it with more rmalution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night ; but in the morning I fell
asleep; and having by the amusement of my mind been, as it were, tired, and my
SpiriLs exhausted, I slept very morally, and awaked much better composed than I had
over been before. And now I began to think sedotcly 3 and, upon the utmost debate

m7
with myself, I aunehnlml that. this island (which was 2111 exceeding pleasant, fmitfiil, and no
farther from the main land than as I had seen) was not so entirely abandoned as I might
imagine; that although there wcm no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet; that;
there might sometimes come bouts 01f from the shore, who, either with design, or perhaps
never but when they were ilriven by cross winds, might eome to this place 5 that I hzul
lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with the least shadow or figure of any
people yet ; and that, if at any time they should be driven here, it was probable they
went away again as soon as ever they could, seeing they haul never thought {it to fix here

upon any oulaeion to this time; that the most I could suggest any danger from was,
from any mini accidental landing of scrap. gling people from the main, who, as it 11 as
likely, if they were driven hither "131-13. here against their wills; so they made no stay
here, but went oll' again with all possible speed, seldom staying one night on shore,
lust they should not have the help of the titles and daylight lmnlc anguiu ; and that,
therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in case 1 shank!
see any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large as to bring a door
through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond where my lineman-ion joined to
the rock. Upon mntnrely consirlering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a. second
fortification, in the some manner of n semicircle, at a distance From my wnll, just where
I 11211 planted a double row of trees about twelve years before, of whichI made mention :
these trees having been planted so thick before, there wanted but) few piles in) be driven
between them, that they should be thicker and stronger, and my wall would be 110011
finished 80 Limb I had now :1 double wall; and my outer wall was thickened with
pieces of timbe1, old cables, and everyihing I could think of to make it strong, having
in it, seven little holes about as big as I might put my mm 01115112. In the inside of this,
I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, continually bringing earth out of my
cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven
holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took notice that I got- seven on
shore out of the ship ; these, T any, I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into
frames, that held them like a carriage, that so I could fire all the seven guns in two
minntes' time. This wall I was nanny a weary month in finishing, and yet, never thought
myself safe till it was (lone.

When 11.1.1 was done, I stuck 11" the ground without my wall, for 0. great way every
way, as full with stakes or sticks of the osier~liko wood, which I found no apt to grow,
as they could well 51.111111 ; insomnch that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand
of them, leaving a. pretty large space between them and my wall, that I might have
room to sec 9.11 enemy, and they might have no shelter (from the young trees, if they
attempted to nppmnch my outer wall.

Thus, in two years' time, I had a. thick grave; nml' 111 five or six years' time I had a
wood before my dwelling gmwn so monstrous thick and strong that it was indeed
perfectly impmnble: and no man of what kind never, would ever imagine that than:
wan anything beyond it, 11inch less a habitation. As for the way which 1 proposed to
myself to go in and out (for I left 110 avenue), it was by setting two lnxlders,_ one to :1
part of the rock which was low, and then inoke 1n, and let"; room to place another ladder
upon that , so when the two ladders were taken do" n, no man living could come down
to me vr 'z-houb unschiufing himself; and if they had come down, they were still on
the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I wok all {he measures human prudence could suggmi for my own preservation ;

108
 

and it will be seen, at length, that they were not. altogether \vibhoutjnst reason ; though.
I foresaw nothing at that time more than my more feet suggested to me.

\Vhile this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other afl'sxirs ; for I had 9.
great concern upon me for my little herd of gents; : they were not only a. present supply
to me upon every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me, wileouL tho expemse of
powder and shot, but also abated the fatigm of my hunting after the wild ones; and I
was loll: to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but two ways to pmserve
them: one was, to find another convenient place to dig a- cave under ground, and to
drive them into it every llighh ; and the other was to enclose two or three little hits at"
land, remote-from one another, and as much concealed an I could, Where Imiglll" MOP
about half a dozen young gents in each place ; so that. if' any disaster happened to the
final: in general, I might be able to raise them gain with little trouble and time : and
this, though it, would require a good deal of time and labour, I thought was the most.
rational design.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired parts of the island ; and
I pitched. upon one which was as private indeed as my heart could wish : it was a.
little damn piece of ground: in the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is
observed, I nlmnsh lost myself once before, endeavouring to come back that way from the
eastern part of the isinnd. Here'l found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so aur~
rounded with woodslthat it. was almost; an enclosure by Nature 5 at least, it did not want
new: so much luhour to make it so, as the other pieces ofgrouud I had worked so linrd at.

I immediately went to work with thin piece of ground ; and, in loss than a month's
time, I had so fenced it round that my flock, or herd, call it which you Diem, which
were not so wild now as at first, they might be supposed to hm were Well enough secured.
in it. 3.), without any further delay, I removed ten she-gents, and two he-ganis,
to this piece 3 and, when they were there, I continued to yerfimt the fence, till I hall
made it as aecure as the other ; which, however, 1 did at more leisure1 and it took me-
up more Lime by a great-t deal. -

All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from my apprehensions on the
account of the print. of in man's fool: which I had seen; for, as yet, I had never seen
any human creature come near the island ; and I had now lived hvo Fouls under.- this
uneasiness, which, indeed, made my life much less; comfortable than it was before, as
may well he imagined by any who know what it is to live in the constant. snare of the fear
of men. And this I must observe, with grief, too, that the discomposure of my mind
had ('00 great impressions nlno upon the religious part; of my thoughts; for the dread and

' terror of falling into the hands of mvsges and cannilruls lay so upon my siyirils, that- I.
seldom found myself in a due temper for application to my Maker 3 at. least}, not: with Lln;

, aedate calmness and resignation of soul which I was wont to do: I mhlmrpmyed to God
as under great allliclinn and measure of mind, surrounded with dmer, and in
expectation every night of being murdered and devoured before morning; and I must
testify, from my experience, that a ['01an of peace, illmikfiilness, love, and rim-mien, is
much the more proper frame for prayer than that of terror and discompoaure ,- nnd that.
under the dread of mischief impending a man is no more [it for a comforting performance
of the duty of paying to God, than he is for repentance on a sick bed 5 for these
disuouuposures affect; the mind, as the otlwns do the body: and the diseomposnre .of the

_ mind must necessarily be as great a disability as chm: cf the body, and much greater .,

' paying to God being properly an act of the mind, not of the body.

noFRAGMENTS OF A CANNIBAL FEAST.

But to go on 2 ailer- T had thus secured one part. of my little living stock, I want;
about the whole island, searching for another private place to make such another deposit ;
when, wandering more to the west point of the island than I had ever dono yet, and.
looking out to gen, I thought I saw a. boat upon the son, at a great distance. I haul found
a perspeorive glue; or two in one of the seamen's cheats, which 1 saved out of our ship,
but I had it not about me ; and this was no remote that I could not tell what to make
of ig-though I looked aL ii. Lill my eyes were now able to hold to look any longer:
whether ii: was a boat or not, I do not know; but as I descended from the hill Icould see
no more of it, -so I gave if. ovor; only I resolved to go no more out withouL- a
perspective glusa in my pocket.

When l was come down the hill Lo the end of the island, where, indeed, I had never
been before, I was presently convinced that the seeing the print of a. man's fool; was not
such a, strange thing in the island as I imagined ; and but that it was a special providence
that I was cast upon the side of the inland whore the savages never came, 1 should easily
here known that nothing was more frequent than for the among from the main, when.
they happened to be a little too for out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island
for harbour: likewise. as they often met and tough: in their canons, the victors, having
taken my prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, acoordixig to their
dreadful. customs>>, being all cannibals, they would inn and eat r-hem ; of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the share, as I said above, being the SW. point
of the island, I was perfectin confounded and amumd ; no): is it possible for me tocxprus
the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other
bones of human hodios ; and particularly, I observed a place where there had been n fire
mode, and a circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit where .l supposed the surge wretchos
had sat, down to their inhuumu fmsti'ngs upon the bodies of their Rallow-creaturee

I was so asoonished with the sight of these things, that I entertained no notions of
any danger to mysolf from it for 9. long while : all my apprehenxioug wen: buried in the
thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy
of human nature, which, though 1 had heard of oflcn, yet I never had so near it view
of before ; in short, 1 turned away my than from the horrid spectacle 5 my stomach grew
sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, when nature discharged the disorder l'xom
my stomach ; and having vomited with uncommon violence, I was 9. little relieved, but
could not bear in stay in the place a. moment; so I got. up the hill again with all the-
apeed I could, and Walked. on towards my own habitation

When I come alittlo cub of that: purl of the island, I stood still awhile, as amazed,
and than, recovering myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my soul, and, with
a. flood of tears in my eyes gave God thauloi, that had cost my first lot in a. part of the
world whom I was distinguished from such droodful creatures as thew: ; and that though
I had (steamed my present condilion very miserable, had yet given me so many comforts
.in it that I had still more to give thanks for than Lo complain of: and this, above all,
that I had, even in this miserable condition, boon comforted wish the knowledge of
Himself, and the hope of His blessing: which was a felicity more than sufficiently
equivalent to all the misery which I hold suffered, or could suffer.

In this frame of Llionkfuincss, I went homo to my castle, and began to be much.
easier now, as to the safety of my cimimtancms than ever I Was before: for I observed
that these wrenches never came to this island in search of what they could get ; perhaps.
not seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, anything here ; and having alien, no doubt,
been up in the covered, woody part of it, without fxmling anything to their puroose. I

In
 

 

know I had been here nr)w almost eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps of .
human cms'lm-e there before 3 and I might be eighteen years more an entirely concealed
as I was now, if I did not discover myself in them, which I had no manner of occuion
to do; it being my only 'nueiness to keep myself entirely oonceuled where I was, unless
I found a. better sort- of creatures than onnnibals to maize myself lmown to. Yet I
entertained such an ahhorrenco of the savage watches thatI have been speaking of; and
of the wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another up, that I
continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my own circle for alumni: two years
after this: when I my my own circle, I mm by it my three plantations, win, my castle,
my country-sent (which I called my bower), and my enclosure in the woods : nor did I
look after this for any other use than us an enclosuro {or my goals; for the aversion
which nature gave me to these hellish wretohes was such, that I won as fearful of seeing
them as of seeing the devil himself, nor did I so much 35. go to look alter my boat in all
this time, but began rather to think of making me another; for I could not think of ever
making any mom attempts to bring the other boot round the island to me, lest I should
meet with some of those creatures atvsea ; in which case, if I hnd happened to have fallen
into their hands,>> T know what would have been my lot~

Time, however, and the sotisfiwtion I had that I was in no danger of being discovered
by these people, began to wear off my uneasiness about then: ; and I began to live just
in the some composed manner as beibre, only with this difference, that I used more
motion, and kept my eyes more about me than I did before, lest 1 should happen to be
seen by any of them ; and particularly, I was more cautious in firing my gun, lost any
of them, being on the island, should happen to hear it 5 and it was, therefore, a very good
providence to me that Iliad fumished myself with a tame breed of goats, and that 1 had
no need to hunt any more obout'thc woods, or shoot at them 5 and if I did catch ony of
them after thin it was by hays and snares, as I had done before : so that for two years
after this I believe I never fired my gun once oil; though I never went out without it 3
and, which was more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them
out with me, or at least two of them, "ticking them in' my goat--skin belt. I likewise
furbiehed up one of the great cutlossos that I had out of the ship, and made me a. belt to
put it on also; so that I was now a most formidable follow to look at when I went
abrond, if you add to the former description of myself, the particular of two pistols, and
a grant h'msxl--'sword hanging at my side in a hell, but withouta ecnbbnrd.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, excepting these
cautions, to he reduced to my former calm sedate way of living. All these things tended
to ahow me, more and more, how far my condition was from being miserable, compared
to some others; nay, to many other particulars of life, which it might have pleased God
to have made my lot. It put mo upon reflecting how little ropining there would he
mnnng mankind at any condition of life, if people would rather compare their condition
with those that are worse, in order to be thankful, than he always comparing them
with those which are better, to assist their murmnrings and compleinings.

As in my present condition there were not really runny things which I wanted, so,
indeed, I thought that the flights I had been in about these savage wretehcs, and the
concern I had boon in for my own preservation, had taken oil' the edge of my invention
for my own conveniencts ; and I had dropped a good design, which I had once bent
my thoughts upon, and that was to try if I could not maths some 'of my barley into
melt, and then try to brew myself some beer. This was really a. whimsical thought, and
I mproved myself often for the simplicity of it : for I presently saw there would be the
1 r2FEARS. ABOUT THE SAVAGI'ZS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CRUSOE 0N TEE LOOK-OUT ON THE HILL.

want of several things necessary to the making my beer, that'- it would .be impossible for
me to supply ; as, firsx, mks (o preserve it in, which was a. thing that, as 1 have ob-
servml already, I could never compass 5 no, though I spent. not many dam but weeks,
nay months, in atLemphiug it, but ('0 no purpose. in the next place, I had no hops to
make it keep, no yeast to make it work; no copper or kettle to make it: boil ; and yet
had not all these things intervened--l menu, the flights and terrain 1 was in about .
the savages--I hull undertaken it, anti perhaps brought it to pass, too 5 for I seldom
gave anything over without accomplishing il, when I once had it in my head enough
10 begin iL But- my invention now mu quite another way 5 for, night and day, I
muld'tliink of nothing but. how I might destroy some of those monsters in their
8 [13
 

cruel, bloody ontm'taiument 3 and, if possible, save the victim they should bring hither
to destroy. It Would take up a larger volume than this whole w0rk is intended to be,
to set down all the contrivmiws I' hatched, or rather hruovlml upon, in my thoughts, for
the destroying these creatures, or 3,: least tightening them so as to prevent their
coming hither any mum: hut all was abortive ; nothing could be pomible to take
eli'ec-t, unless I was to be there to do it. myself: and what could one man do among
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together with their darts,
or their bows and arrows, with which they could shoot as true to a mark as I oouhl
with my gun? - ,

Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where they made their fire,
und putting in live or six pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire,
would consequent-1y take fire, and blow up all that was near it : but ace, in the first plscv,
I should he unwilling to waste so "mull powder upon them, my slow lining now within
the quantity of one barrel, so neither could I he sure of its going 03' at any certain.
time, when it might auv'prise thorn ; and, at best, that it would do little more thanjnsit
blow the fire about their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make them ibrsnkc
the plaice : an I laid it aside ; and then proposed that I would plaw myself in mnhnxh
in some convenient ylace, with my three gums all double loaded, and in the middle of'
their hlnudy ceremony lot fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound lfllrlmps
two or three at every shot 3 and then falling in upon them with my three pistols and
my sword, I made no doubt. but that, if there were twenty, I should kill them all. This
fancy planned my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of it, that I often dreamed
of it, and smnetivnes, that I was just going to hat fly at them in my sleep. I went so
fax with it in my imagination, that I employed myself several days to find out proper
places to put myself in ambuscndo, as I said, to watch for them, null I. wont frequently
to the place itself, which was now grown more familiar to me ; but while my mind was
thus filled with thoughts of revenge and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of thmn to
the swonl, as I may call it, the hm-rur I had at the place, and at the signals of the
barbarous \vretchea devouring one (mother, abetted my malice. Well, at length I
found a place in the ride of the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I
saw any of their boats coming ; and might then, even before they would ha, randy to
come on shore, convey myself unseen into some thickets of trees, in one of which
there was a hollow hinge enough to conceal me entirely ; and there I might sit and
observe all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when thoy were
550 close together as that it would be next to impossible that I should miss my shot, or
that T could fail wounding three or four of them at the first shot>> In this place, then,
I resolved to fix my design 5 and accordingly, I prepared two muskets and my
or-zlinary finding-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace of slugs each, and
four or five smaller bullets, about the size of pistol bullets ; and the fowling~piecc 1
lonxlod with near it handful of mun-shot of the largest size ; I also loaded my pistols
with about four bullets each ; and in this posture, well provided with ammunition For a
second and. third charge, I prepared myself for my expedition. '

Alter I had thus laid the scheme or" my design, and in my inmgixutiou put it in
practice, I continually made my tour every morning to the top of the hill, which was
from my castle, as I called it, about three miles, or more, to see if I could observe any
hours upon the sea, coming new: the islmul, or standing over towards it 5 but I hogan
to tire of this haul duty, after I had for two or three months constantly kept my
watch, but came always back without any discovery ; there having not, in all that

114HE ABANDONS :ns DESIGN AGAINST THE SAVAGES.

 

 

time, been the least appearance, noconly on or near the shore, but on the whole ocean,
as far as my eyes or glass could reach every way.

As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long also I kept up the
vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in s suitable frame for so
outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an ofi'mce
which I hall not at all enhcrod into a discussion of in my thoughts, any farther than
my passions were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of the
people of that country ; who, it seems had been suffered by Providence, in His wise dis-
position of the world, to have no other guide than that of their own abominable and
vitiabml passions ; and, consequently, woro left, and perhaps had been so for some ngeS,
to not. such horrid things, and receive such dreadful customs, as nothing but nutiu-n,
entirely abandoned by Heaven, and actuated by some hellish dgeneraoy, could have
run them into. But now, when, as I lmvc said, i began to be weary of the fruit-less
excursion which I had made so long and so for every morning in min, so my opinion of
the notion irreli' began to alter; and Ibcgan, with coolermul calmer thoughts, to consider
what I was going to engage in ; wlmt- auohority or call I had to pretend to he judge
and executioner upon those men as criminals, whom Ileana: had thought fit, for so
many ages, to null'or, unpnnished, Lo go on, and to be, as it were, the executioneni of
His judgmenls, one upon another; how for those people were ofl'enders against me, and
what right I had to engage in the quarrel of this blood which they shod promiscuously
upon one another. I debated this very often with myself thus :---" How do I know what.
God himself judges in this psrticnlnr case? It is certain these people do not commit
this as a crime ; it is not agaiimt their own consciences reproving, or their light
rcprosching them 5 they do not know it) to be an 03231109, and then commit it in
defiance ol' Divine justice, as we do in almost. all the sinswc commit. They think is no
more a crime to kill a captive taken in war, than we do to 1:111 an on ; or to out human
flesh, than we do to cm, mutton."

When I considered this a little, it followed nocmsnrily that I was certainly in the
wrong in it ; that dim people were not murderers, in the sense that I had before con-
demned them in my thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers who often
put- to death the prisoners when in battle ; or more frequently, upon many occasionu,
put whole troops of men to the sword, withouu giving quarter, though they throw
down their arms, and submitted. T1; the next piano, it. occurred to me, that albeit the
usage they gave one another was thus bruiizsh and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to
ma These people had done me no injury; that if they attempted me, or I saw it
necessary, for'myimmediatc preservation, or) full upon them, something might be said for
it ; but that- I was yet. out of their power, and they mull}r had no knowledge of me, and
consequently no design, upon mo 3 and, therefore, it could not he just for me to full upon
them. That this would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all their harbor-Rios
practised in America, where they destroyed millions of "these people; who, hochOI'
they wore idolalors and barbarians, and had several bloody and lmrhnrous rites in their
customs, such as sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards,
very innocent people ; and than the rooting them out of the country is spoken of with
the utmost abhorrence and dotestot-iou by ovcn the Spaniards themselves, at this time,
and by all other Christian nations in Europe, as a more butclzery, a bloody and unnatural
piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God or man; and such as for which 'the very name
of s. Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity or of
Chris-ion compassion 3 as if the kingdom of Spain were psrticulaflv eminent for the

I 15
produci- of a race or" men who wore without principles of t'mxdernusi, or the common
bowels of pity Lo Lhc miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of a generous temper in
the mind.

These considerations really put. me to a pause, sand to a kind of a full slay ; 3,an I began,
by little and lime, to be off my design, and to conclude I had taken "10% measures in
my resolution to atlack the ravages ; and that ii. was not. my business to meddle vriLh
them, unless they first attacked me 3 and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent :
but that if T were diwovered and attacked by them, then I knew my duty. On the other
hand, I argued with myself that this really was the way not to deliver myself, but
entirely to ruin and destroy myself 5 for, "News I was sure to kill every one that not
only Shauld he on shore at that. time, but that should ever come on shore afterward>>, if
but one of them escaped to tell i-lmir country--people what had happened, they would
come over again by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows, and I should only
bring upon myself a certain destruction, which, at present, I had no manner of occasion
for. Upon the whole, I conduclod that I ought, neither in principle not in policy, one
way 01' other, to concern myself in this 3mm ; that my business mm, by all possible
moon>>, to conceal myself from them, and not to leave the least Sign for them to guess
by that there were any living creatures upon the islandvI mean of human Hllfiplf.
Religion joined in with this prudential menu-Lion ; and I was convinced now, many
ways, that} I was perfectly out of my duty when I was laying all my bloody mheinas for
the destruction of innocent creatures --I mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes
they were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing to do with thorn 3 these were
national punizlunentg to make a. just retribution for national ofl'enccs, and to bring
public judgment upon those who ofi'end in a public manner, by such ways as best
please God. This appeared so clear in ma nmv, that nothing was a greater satis-
faction to me than that: I had not been sufl'crod to do a thing which I now saw so
much reason to believe would hawe been no less a sin than that of wilful murder, if I
had coinmitted it ; and I gave most humble thanks, on my knees, to God, that He had
thus delivered me from hluml--gnilt'iness 5 beseeching Him to grant me the protection of
His providence, that 1 might- not on into the hands 01 um barbarians, or um I might
not lay my hands upon them, unless 1 had a mom clear call from Heaven to do it, in
defence of my own life.

In this disposition I mutilated for near a. year after thin; and so far was I from
desiring an occasion for filling upon these wretches, that. in all that time I never once
went up the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or to know whether
any of them had been on shore there or not, that I might: not be tempted to renew any
of my uont'rimncos against them; or he provoked by any ndvmitoge that might
present itocll', to fall upon them: only this I did ,- I went and removed my boat,
which T had on the other Shh: of the island, and carried it down to the <<not end of
the whole island, whore I ran it- into a little cove, which I found under some high
rocksg and where I knew, by reason of the currents the savages dursb not, at' least
would not, come with their boat>> upon any account- whatever. With my boat, I carried
away everything that. I had 1ch [more belonging to her, though not news-airy for the
bare going thither, vim, a mast nncl sail which I had made for her, and a, thing like an
mmlwr, but which indeed could not be called either anchor or grapncl 3 however, it was
bite bes': I could make of its kind: all these I removed, that there might not be the
leusb shadow for discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any halliiation upml
"'9 island Be'iides this: I kept myself, as I said, more retired than ever? and seldom

1:6Kufnv" !

' I:
ll
. r l . l"

afflirniqfiifia.

 

 

 

CRUSOE FINDS A DYING GOAT.
went from my cell, except upon my constant employment, viz, to milk my she-goats,
and manage my little flock in the wood, which, ms it was quite on the other part of the
island, was out of danger; for certain it in that these savage people who sometimes
haunted this island, never came with any thoughts of finding anything here, and
emsequently never wandered 011' from the coast, and I doubt not but they might have
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had made me cautious,
as well as before. Indeed, I looked hunk with some horror upon the thoughts of what
my condition would have been, if 1 had chopped upon them and been (limovcnxl
lefore that ; when, naked, and unannod, except with one gun, and that loaded often
only with snmll shot, I walked everywhere, peeping smd peering about the island to see
what I could get. ,- what asnn'prise should I have been in, if, when I discovered the
print of a mmfs foot, T. had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty flanges, and found
them pursuing me, and by the swiftncss of their running, no possibility of my
escaping them! The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within me, and
distressed my mind so much that I could not soon recover it, to think what. I should
have done, and how I should nol; only have been unable to resist them, but even
should not have had prmcnee of mind enough to do what I might have done 5 much
hes what now, after so much consideration and preparation, I might be able to do.
Indeed, anoi- serious thinking-r of these things, I would be very melancholy, and,
sometimes, it would last a great while : but I unsolved it all, at last, into thank-
fnlness to that 'Provirleoce which had delivered me from so many unseen dongein, and
had kept me from those mischiefe which I could have no way been' the agent in
delivering myself from, because I had not the least notion of any such thing depend-
ing. or the least supposition of its being possible '

This renewed s. contemplation which often had come into my thoughts in former
times when first I began to see the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers
we run through in this life; how wonderfully we are delivered when we know
nothing of it 5 how, when we are in a quandary (as we call it), a doubt or hesitation
whether to go this way or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this way, when we
intended to go that way : nay. when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps business,
has called us to go the other way, yet a strange impression upon the mind, from
we know not what springs, and by we know not what power, shell overrule us to
go this way ,' and it shall afiorwerds appear that had we gone that way which we
should have gone, and even to our imagination ought to have gene, we should have
been ruined and lost. Upon those, mid many like reflections, T afterwards made
it a certain rule with me, that whenever I found these secret hints or pressings of
mind, to doing or- not doing anything that presented,'or going this way or that way,
] never {Exiled to obey the secret dictate; though I knew no other reason for it
than that such a pressure, or such a. hint, hung upon my mind. I could give many
examples of the success of this conduct in the course of my life, but more especially
in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy islnnd; besides many occasions
which it is very likely I might have taken notice of. if I had seen with the some
eyes then that I see with now. But it- is never too late to be wise ; and l". cmmot
but advise all considering men, whose lives are attended with such extraordinary
incidents as mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret
intimations of Providence, let them come from what invisible intelligence they will.
That 1 shall not discuss and perhaps cannot account for; but. certainly they are
a. proof of the converse of spirits and a secret communication between those

HSTHE. CAVE 1N THE WOODS.

embodied and those unnmbodied, and such a proof as. can never ho withstood; oi
which I shall have occasion 00 give some very remarkable immune: in the remainder
of my solitary residence in this dismal place. I

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I. confess that these
anxious, these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern that was NOW "13011 11W:
put an end to all invention, and to all the contrivnnces that 1 had laid for my future
.mcommodztiona and conveniences. I had the cure or my safety more now upon hands
than first of my food. I cared not (.0 drive a. nail, or chop a. stick of wood now, for
fum' the noise I should make should be heard ; much-less would I fire 9. gun for the
some reamu: and, above all, I was intolemhly uneasy at making any fire, lust the

' smoke, which is visible at e grant diam-nee in the day, should betray me For this
reason, I removed that pert-of my business which required fire, such as burning of
you: and pipes M., into my new apartment in the woodn; where, after I lmd been
some time, I found to my unspeakable consolation, adhere natural cave in the earth,
whiuh went in a vast; \my, and where, I dxrc soy, no savage, had he been at the mouth
of it, would be so hardy us to venLure in ; nor, indeed, would any mam else, but one
who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a wife retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at; the bottom of a. great rock, where, by mere
accident, (I would say, if I did not see abumluut reason to ascribe all such things now
to Providence), I was cutting down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal;
and before I go on 1 must observe the renson of my making; this charcoal, Which
was hilllSS--I was afraid of making a. smoke shout my hubimnion, 9.3 I said before;
and yet 1 could not, live there Without Inhing my hrcnd, cooking my meal, 614'"; so
I contrived to burn some wood here, as 1 had seen done in England, under turf, till
it became cherk or dry cool: and than pulling the fire out, I preserved the and to
carry home, and perform the other services for which fire was wanting, without danger
of smoke. But this is by the bye, "'hile I was cut-ting down some wood here, I
perceived that, behind a very thick branch of low brush wood or underworld, there was
.a. him] (If hollow place: I .wns curious to look in it; and getting with difficulty into
the mouth of it, I. found in mp: pretty large, than is to say, snfiioient for me to stand
upright in in, and perhaps another with me: but I nmsaf. confess to you Ll!" I. made
more hasle out. than I did in, when looking l'nmher into the place, and which we:
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature--whether devil or men
I knew not--which twinkled like two skim; the dim light from the enve's mouth
shining directly in, and making the reflection. However, after some pause, 1
recovered myself, and began to call myself a thousand fools, and to think ulnar, he
' hat was afraid to see the devil, was not fit to live twenty yours in an island all
alone; and that I might well think there we nothing in this care that; was more
frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my eonmgo, 1 took up n firahrnnd,
and in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand: 1 had not gone three swim
in, before I was alumni. as much frightened as before; for I heard n very loud sigh,
like (hat of a. man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of words
half expreswl, and then a deep sigh 39in. I stepped luck, and was indeed struck
with such asmpriae thawil; put me into a cold sweet, and if I lmd had a hub on my head,
I will not (mower for it that my hair might not. have lifted it oil'. But- sbill plucking
up my spiritu as. wall as I could, and encouraging myself a. little will: considering that
the power and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to protect me, I stepped
forwud again, and by the light of the firebra'nd, holding it up a. little over my head, I.

"9saw lying on the ground n monstrous, frightful old he~gont, just making his will, as we
say, and gasping for life, and dying, indeed4 of more old age. I stirred him A little to
see if I could get him out, and he eeaayed to get up, but wns not able to mise himaelf;
and I thought with myself he might, even lie there; for if he had frightened me, so
he would certainly fright any of the am'agcs, if any one of them should be so hardy
as to come in chore while he had any life in him.

I was now recovered flom my surprise, and began to look round me, when I found"
the care was but very small, that is to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but. in
no manner of shape, neither round nor equal-c, no hands having ever been employed in
making it- but those of more Nature. 1 observed also that there was a. place at the fan'--
ther side of it that went in farther, but. was so low that it required me'to creep upon
my hands and knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew not; so, having no
candle, I gave it; over for that time, but resolved to come again the next day provided
with candles and a tinder--lmx, which I had made of the luck of one of the muskets, with
some wildfire in the pun.

Accordingly, the-next day I came provided with six largo mndlm of my own making
(for 1 made very good candles now of goats' tallow, but was hard eel. for candle-wick,
using sometimes. mgs or rope-yarn, and sometimes the dried rind of uweed like nestles) ;
and going into this low place 1 was obliged to creep upon all-fours, as I have said, almost.
t'en yardsawhich, by the way, I. thought was a. venture bold enough, considering that 1
know not how for it. might go, nor what was beyond it. 'When I had got through the
strait, 1 found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet ,- but never was such
a. glorious sight, seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to look round the sides and moi."
of this vault or cave ; the wall reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my two
candla. What it was in the rock--whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or
gold--which I rather [supposed ii; to be--I knew not.- The place I was in was a most-
dclightful cavity, or grotto, though perfectly dark ; the floor was dry and level, and had
it sort of a. small loose gravel upon it, an that there was no nauseous or venomous ore-in--
ture'to be seen, neither was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof; the only dill' ->>
culty in it was: the entrance--which, however, as it was a plume of seem-icy, and such a
retreat as T wanted, I. thought was a convenienw--so that I was really rejoiced at the
discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of those things which I was
most. anxious almut to this place ; Irirliculnrly, I rewlvod to bring hither my magazine
of powder, and all my spare arms ; viz, two fowliug-piecee--for I had thee in all--'---
and three muskete~for of them I had eight in all; so'I kept in my cuxtle only five,
which stood ready mounted like pieces of cannon on my outmost defence and were
ready also to take out upon any expedition. Upon this occasion of removing my
ammunition, I happened to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the sen,
nnd which had been wet, and I found that the water had penetrated about three or four
inches into the powder on every side, which coking and growing hard, had preserved
the inside like a kernel in the shell, so that! had nem- eixty pounds of very good powder-
in the centre of the cash; and this was a very agreeabledisoovcry to me at that time ; so
I carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three pounds of powder with me
in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind ; I also carried thither all the lead I had
left for Bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who were said to live in caves
and holes in the rocks, where none could come at- lem ; for T persuaded myself, while
I was here, that if five hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find me out

noDEATH OF THE OLD GOAT.

 

 

CRUSOE IN HIS NET.

--or if they did, they would not venture to attack me here. The old gout whom I found
expiring (lied in the mouth of the care the next day after i made this discovery ; and
I found it much easier to dig a. great hole there, and throw him in and cover him with
earth, than to drag him out, 5 so I interred him them, to prevent offence to my nose.

I was now in the twenty-third year of residence in this island, 9.an was 50 I
naturalised to lilxe place and the manner of living, that, could I but have enjoyed the
certainty that no savages would come lo the place to dial-ml) me, I could have been

content tovae capitulntcd for spending the mat of my time there, even to the last
[RI
moment, till I haul laid mo down and died, like the old goat. in the com. I had also
arrived to some little diversions and amusements, which made the time puss more
pleasantly with me a great deal than it did before: first, I had caught my Poll, as I noted
before, to speak; and he did it so fizmiliarly, and talked so unionist-rely and plain, that it
was very plfiwlhh to me, and he livod with me no less than six'and-twenty yours. How
long he might have lived afterwxmis I know not, though I know they have a notion in
the Bx'azils that they live nhnndrcd years. Perhaps 510m!) of my Pals may be alivc there
still, culling emu: poor Robinson Crusoe to this day : I wish no Englishman the ill-luck
to come there and hour them ; but if he did ho would certainly believe it was the devil.
My dog was s. pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years of my
time, and L-hcn died of mere ohl ago. A9 for my cats, thcy multiplicd, M I have observed,
to that degree, that I was ohligcd to shoot; several of them at first, to keep them from
devouring me andnll 1 had ; but, at length, when the old ones 1 brought with me were
gone, and after some time contimwdly driving them {loin me, and letting them halve no
provision with me, they all mu wild into the woods, except two or three fnvmirilma, which
I kept tome, and whose young, when they had any, I always drowned ,1 and these were
part of my fumily. Besides these I always kept two or three household kids about 1:18,
whom I taught to feed out of my hand; and 1' lmxl two more pin-rots, which talked
pretty well, and would all coll " Robin Crimea," but nane like my first; nor, indeed,
did I film the palms with any of them that I had done with him. I had also several
tame searfowls, whose name T. knew not, that l' caught upon the shore, and cut their
wings ; and the little stokes which I had planted before my castle-wall beingr now grown
up to a goof] thick grove, these fowl: all lived among these low trees, and bred them,
which was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above, 1 begun to he very well
contented with the life I led, if I could have been secured from the dread of the savage>>.
But in was otherwise directed; and it may not be anus for all people who shall meet
with my story to make ihisjust observation from it: viz, how ficquenfly, in the course
of our lives,the evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen
into, is the most dreadful to us. is oftcniimen'the very means or door of our deliverance,
by which alono we can be raised again fmm the affliction we are flillen into. I could
give many examples of this in the course of my unaccountable life,' but. in nothing
was it more particularly remarkable than in the circumstances of my last years of
solitary residence in this island.

It vies now the month of December, as I fluid above, in my iwenty~third year; mid
this, being the southern solstice (for winter I cannot call it), was the particular time of
my harvest, and required me to be pretty much abroad in the fields, when, going
.9": pretty early in the morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I was surprised
with fleeing a. light of some fire upon the shore, at a. distance from me of about two
miles towards the end of the island where I had ohserved some savages had been, as
before, and not on the other side, but, to. my great alfliqtion, it was on my side of
the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short within my grove, not
daring to go out. lat I might be surprised ; and yet. I had no more peace within, from
the apprclicnsimm I had that if these savagoe, in rambling over the island, should find
my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements, they would immediately
conclude that there were people in the plug'and would then never rent till they had
found me out In this extremity I went; back directly to my castle, pulled up the
ladder slim me, having made all things without look no wild and natural as I could.

122SAVAGES ARE DESCRI ED.

Then 1 prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of defence; I loaded
all my cannon, as 1 called them--thnt is to say, my mnskets, which worn mounted upon
my new filrfificntion, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp--_
not hirgetfing seriously to commend mysoll to the Divine protection, and earnestly to
pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians. And in this posture
I continued about two hours, and began to he impatient- for intelligence abroad, for l' hne
no spies to send out. After sitting a while longer, and musing what [should do'iu this
case, T was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer ; so setting up my ladder liu
the side of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I observed before, and len pulling
the ladder after me, I set it- up again, and mounted to the top of the hill, and pulling
out my perspective--glass, which I had taken on purpose, I laid mo dov'rn flat on my
belly on the ground, and began to look for the plants. I presently found there
were no less than nine naked savages sitting round a. small fire they had made, not to
warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being extremely hot, hut, as I
supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh which they had brought
with them, whether alive or (load I could not know.

Thoylmd two canons with them, which they had hauled up upon the shore ; and as it
was then ebb of tide, they seemed to me in wait the return of the flood to go away
again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, esplminlly
seeing them come on my side of the island, and so near me, too ; hut- whenI considered
their coming must be always with tho current of the ebb, I hogan afterwards to be more
soulam in my mind, hoing satisfied that. I might go almond with safety all the time of the
flood of tide, if they were not on short: before; and having made this observation, I
went abroad about my harvest work with the more composure.

As 1' expected, so it proved 5 for, as soon as the tide made to the westward, I saw
them all Lulu: boat and row (or paddle, as we call it) away. I should have observed,
that for an hour or more before they went oli' they were dancing, and I oould easily
discern their postures and gestures by my glass. I could not pnmeive, by my nicest
observation, but that they were stark naked, and had not. tho least covering upon them ;
but whether they were men or women I could not distinguish

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I tool: two guns upon my shoulders, and
two pistols in my girdle, and my great sword by my side, without a scabbm'd, and with
all the speed I was able to make. wont awn-y to the hill where I haul discovered the first
alipmmuce of all ; and as soon is I got thither, which was not in has than two honm
(for I could not go apnea, being an loaded with urma's as I was), I perceived there had
been three canoes more of savages at that pluce; and, looking out ihrther, I saw
they were all at sen together, making over for the main. This was a dynwlful sight
to me, especially when, going down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror
which the dismal work they ha~l been about had lefl. behind it, viz, the blood, the bones,
and part of the flesh of human bodies eaten and devoured by those wretchcs with
xuerriment mid sport. I was so filled with indignation at. the sight, that I now begun to
premeditete the destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be whom or how
many soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits which they mado thus to
this island were not very frequent, for it was above fifteen months before my more of
them came on whore there again--4h" is to my, I neither saw them nor any foanMps
or signals of them in all that time 5 for as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure not
to come abroad, at least not so for: yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, hy romon
of the constant apprehensions of their owning upon me by surprise--<<from whence I

' l 2 '5
 

observe that the expectation of evil is more hitter than the tendering, especially if there
is no room to shake oil' that expectation or those apprehensions

During all [his time I was in the murdering hiimmxr, and spent most of my hours,
which should have been better employed, in conniving how to circumvent and fell upon
them the very next- timel should see them--especially if they should be divided, as they
were the last time, into two partiee ; nor did I consider at all that. if I killed one party
--suppose ten or a dozen--I was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill another,
and so smother, even adinfim'tum, till I should be, at length, no less a murderer than they
were in being man-mfers--sml perhaps much more so. I spent my days now in great
perplexity and nnxicty of mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall into the
hands of these merciless creatures ; and if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not
without looking around me with the greatest cure and caution imaginable. And now I
found, to my great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided a tame flunk or herd
of goats ; for I (innit not upon any account fire my gun, especially near that side of the
island where they usually come, lost I should elem the savages ; and if they had fled
from me now, I was sure to have them come again with pcrhaps two or three hundred
canoes with them in a few days, and then I knew what to expect. However, I wore
outs. year and three months more befom I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I
found them again, as I shall soon observe It is two Lhcy might have been there once
or twice, but eiohcr they made no stay, or at least I did not hear them; but, in the
month of My, as near as I could calculate, and in my (intend-twentieth year, I had a.
very strange encounter with them 5. of which in its place.

Thcpcrtm-bnfion of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen months interval was
very great; I slept unquictly, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often started out
of my sleep in the night. In the day, greet troubles overwhelmed my mind 5 and in
the night, I dreamed often of killing. the savages, and of the reasons why I might justify
the doing of it But to waive all this for a. while. It was in the middlc of MAY; on the
sixteenth clay, I think, as well as my poor wooden calender would rmkon, for I marked
all upon the post still ; I say, it was on the sixteenth of May that it blew a very gram:
storm of Wind all day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night
it was other it. I knew not wind: was the particular occasion of it 5 but as I was
reading in the Bible, and taken up'with very serious thoughts about my present condi-
'lion, I was surprised with the noise of a. gun, as T thought, fired at sea. This was, to
be sure, a surprise of a, quite different nature from any I had met with before ; for the
notions this put into my thhughm were quite of another kind. I started up in the
greatest hence imaginable ; and, in o trice, clapped my ladder to the middle place of the
rock, and pulled it after me; and, mounting in the second time, got to the top of the
hill the very moment that a flash of fire hid mc listen for m second gun, which, accord-
ingly, in about half a minute, I heard 5 and by the sound, knew that it was from that.
part of the sea where I was driven outwith the current in my host I immediately
considered that this must be some ship in distress, and that they had some comrade,
or some other ship in company, and fired these for signals of distress, and to obtain
help. I had the presence of mind, 22!; that minute, to think, that though I could not
help them, it might be they might help me 5 so I brought togochcr all the dry wood I
could get at hand, and, making v. good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill.
The wood was dry, and hinted freely; and though the wind blew very hard, you it-
bumed fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was any such thing as a ship, they must
ncod see it, and no doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up, I heard

124(2R!!2~'-ZH( vxsu's THY .il'LKl-x'fl SHIP.another gun, and all-or that several others, all from the same quarter. I plied my lire
all night long, till daybreak 3 and when it was broad any, and the all: clean-ml up, I saw
something at n. great distance at see, full east of the island, whether a. sail or a. hull I
could not distinguish -<<no, not with my glass; the distance was so great, and the
weather still something hazy also--at least; it was so out at sea

I looked frequently at it. all that day, and soon perceived that it did not move; so
I prmntly concluded that it. was A ship al; anchor 3 and being anger, you may be sure,
to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, nndmn towards the south side of the island,
to the rocks where I had formerly been carried away with the Current; and getting up
there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great
sorrow, the wreck ofn ship, cast away in the n'ght upon those concealed rocks which 1
found when I was out in my bent; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of'
the stream, and made (A kind of counter--stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my
recovering from the most desperate, hopeless condition that ever I had been in in all
my life. Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's destruction; for it seems
these men, whoever they were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly
under water, had been driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E.
and ENE Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not, they
must, as I thought, have endmvmirod to have saved themselvw on shore by the help of
their boat 3 but their firing ofl' their guns for help, especially when they aw, as I imagined,
my fil'a, filled me with many thoughts. First, I imagined that upon seeing my light,
they might have put themselves into their boat, and endeavoured to make the shore ;
but that the sea running very high, they might have been cast away. Other times, i
imagined that they might have lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways ;
as particularly, by the breaking of the sen. upon their shi p, which many times obliged men
to stove, or take in pieces, their bent, and sometimes to throw it overboard with their
own hands Other times, I imagined they had some other ship or ships in company,
who, upon the signals of distress they made, had taken them up, and carried them all. '
Other times, I fancied they were all gone 0" to sea in their boat, and being lmrriad
away by the current that I had been formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean,
where there was nothing but misery and perishing ; and that, perhaps, they might by
this time think of starving, and of being in a condition to eat one another.

As all these were but conjectures as heat, so, in the condition I was in, I could do
no more than look on upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them; which had still
this good effect upon my side, that it gave me more and more cause to giro thanks to
God, who had so happily and comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition 3
and tlmi; of two ships' companies, who were now cost away upon this part of the world,
not one life should be spared but mine. I learned here again to observe, that it is very
mire that the providence of God costs us into my condition of life so low, or (my misery
so grcet, but we may see something or other to be thankful for, and may see others in
worse circumstances than our own. Such certainly was the case of them men, of whom
I emild not so much as see room to suppose any of them were saved; nothing could
make it rational so much as to wish or ex poet that they did not till perish there, except-
the possibility only of their being taken up by another ship in company ; and this was
but mere possibility indeed, for l sownot. the least signal or appeamnm': of any such.
thing. I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words, what a strange longing I
felt in my soul upon this sight, breaking out sometimes thus --" Oh, that there had been
but one or two, nay, or but one soul, saved out of this ship, to have escaped to me, that

126ROBINSON RESOLVES TO VISIT THIS VVRECK.

 

i might but have had one companion, one fellow-crmtnre, to have spoken to me and to
have converged with i" In all the time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so
strong it desire other the society ofmy fellow--creatures, or so deep 3 regret at the want
of it.

There are some secret moving springs in the affections, which, when they are set
a--going by some object in View, or, though not in view, yet mudered present to the
mind by the power of imagination, that motion curries out the soul, by its impetuosity,
to such violent, eager embracings of the object, that the absence of it is insupportable
Such were these earnest wishings that but one man had been saved. I believe I
repeated the words, " Oh, that it had been but one l" a. thousand times; and my desires
wereso moved by it, that when I spoke the words my hands would clinch together, and
my fingers would press the palms: of my hands, so that if I had had any soft thing in
my hand, I would have crushed it involuntarily; and my teeth in my head would
strike together, and set against one another so strong, that for some time 1 could not
part them again. Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason and manner
of them. All I can say of them is, to describe the fact, which was even surprising to me,
when I found it, though I know not from what it should proceed 5 it was, doubtless, the
allied: of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my mind, realising the comfort which
the convex-nation of one of my fellow-Christians would have been to me. But it was not
to be ; either their fate, or mine, or both, forbade it, for till the last year of my being on
this island, I never know whether any were saved out of that ship or no; and had
only the allliction, some clays after, to ace the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at
the end of the island which was next the aldpwreek. He had no clothes on but a
scnmen's waistcoat, a pair of open--knead linen drawers, and 9. blue linen shirt; but
nothing to direct me so much an to guess what nation he was oPS He had nothing in
his pockets but two pieces of eight and c tobacco-pipe--the last was to me of ten times
more value than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my boat to this wreck,
not doubting but I might find something on been! that might be useful tome. But,
that did not altogether press me so much as the possibility tlmt there might be yet some
living creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but might, by saving that
life, comfort my own to the last degree ; and this thought clung so to my heart that I
could not be quiet night or day, but I must venture out in my boot on board this
wreck; and committing the rest to God's providence, I thought the impression was no
strong upon my mind that it could not be resisted, that it must come from some
invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle, prepared every-
thing for my voyage, took a. quantity of broad, a great pot for fresh water, n compass to
steer by, a. bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), and a basket oi'
raisins ; and thus leading myself with everything necessary, I went down to my loom,
got the water out of her, got her afloat, loo/led all my cargo in her, and then went. home
again for more. My second cargo was a goat bag full of rice, the umbrella to set up over
my head fora shade, another large pot full of fresh water, and about; two dozen of small
loevea, or barley cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat'smilk, and a cheese : all
.which with great lnbour and sweat I brought to my boat 3 and praying to God to direct
my voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, came at last to
the utmost point of the islnnd on the north-east side And now I was to launch out.
into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture I looked on the rapid currents

:27which ran constantly on both s'des of the island at :1 distance, and which were very
terrible to me, from the remembmxce of the. hazard I had been in before, and my heart
begun to foil ine; for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of those currents, I
should be carried a grrmt way out to sea, and perhaps out of my tench, or sight of the
islsnd again ; and that then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should
rise, I slnoulclbo inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give over my enterprise ; and
having hauled my boat, into nlittle creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat down upon '
a rising bit of ground, very pensive and anxious between fear and desire, about my
voyage; when on I was musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood
come on; upon which, my going was impracticable for so many hours Upon this,
presently it occurred to me, that; I should go up to the highest piece of ground I could
find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the title, or currenis lay, when the flood
came in,_thz.t I might judge whet-her, if I was driven one way out, 1 might not expect
to be driven another way homo, with the same mpidity of the currents. This thought
was no sooner in my head than I cast niy eye upon a little hill, which sufficiently over-
looked the see both ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the currents or sets of
the tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that as the
current of ebb set out close by the soul-h 'point of the island, so the cum-ant of the
flood not in close by the shore oi' the north side 5 and that I hail nothing to (10 but to
keep to the north of the island in my return, and I should do woll enough. _

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next morning, to set out with
the first>> of the tide, and reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under the great
watelrcont I mentioned, I Inimched out. I first made a little out to sea, full norbh,
till I began to fool the benefit of the con-am, which set eastward, and which carried me
at a. great rate ; and yet did not 90 hurry me as the current on the south side had done
before, so as, to take from mo all government of the boat; but lmving at strong nleemgo
with-my puddle, I went, at it great me, directly for tho wreck, and in less than two
hours 1 came up to it. It was a. dismal a'ght tolonk at : the ship, which, by its building,
was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between nwo rocks : all the stern and quarter of her
were beaten to pieces by the so! 3 nnd as her forecastlc, which stuck in the rocks, had
run on with grant violence, her maimuasb and foremost were brought by the board, that
is to say, broken short of 3 but her bow-sprit- wns sound, and the hood and bow appear-m]
firm. When I came close to her, a. dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming,
yelpcxl and cried 3 and, '95 soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me : I
took him into the boat, but found him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him
a who of my bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been stmmg a
fortnight, in the snow; I then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I
would have let him,he would have burst himself. Arm this I wont on board ; but the
first sight, I mot with was two men drowned in the cook--mom, or forecastle of the ship,
with their arms fast about. one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that>> when
the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, and so continually over her,
that the men were not able to hear it, and were stnwglod wit-h the constant rushing in
of tho water, as much as if they had been under water. Besides the dog, there was
nothing left in the ship that had life 5 nor any goods, thatI could see, but what were
spoiled by the water. There were some cazks of liquor, whether wine or brandy, I
knew not, which hay lower in the hold, and which, the watcr'being ebbod out, I could

see ; but. they were too big to meddle with. I saw several chests, which I believe
128
 

 

 

 

CRUSOE SLEEPING IN HIS BOAT.

belonged to some of the seamen; and 1' got. two of them into the boat, without:
pxaufiuing what: was in them. Had the stem of the ship li'een fixed, and the
pfox-elmrl. broken ofl', I am pmsnmded I might. hams made a. good voyage; for,
by what 1 found in mesmtwo chests, I had room to s'nppdse the ship had a great
'lleal of wealth on hoard ; and, if I may guess from the come she steered,
she must have been boxmd from Bueuos Ayrw, or the Rio do In Planar

9 , , 129
in the south port of America, beyond the Brnzils to the Havnnnnh, in the Gulf of'
Mexico, and no perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, 9. great treasure in her, but of
- no use, at that. time, .to anybody 5 but what became of the crow I then knew not.

I found, basidee these clucsla, a little cask full of liquor, of about twenty gallons,
which I got into my boat with much difficulty. There were several muskcts in the-
eehin, and a great powder born, with ahonl: four pounds of powder in it 5 as for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so 1 left them, but took the powder-horn. l took
a fire-elmvel and tongs, which I wanted extremely ; as also two little hnn's kettles, a,
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron ; and with this cargo, and the dog, 1 came
away, the tide beginning to nmlcc home again ; and the some evening, about an hour
within night, 1 reached the island again, weary and fatigued to the lust degree. I
repowd that night in the host 5 and in the morning I resolved to harbour What I had
got in my new awe, and not carry it home to my castle. Alter refreshing myself, I got
all my cargo on shore, and Began to emuine the particulars. 'l'he cask of liquor I found.
to he a kind of mm, but not such so. we had at the Bmzils ; and, in n. word, not at all
good ; but when 1 come to open the chats, I found several things of great use to me:
for example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled
with cor-din! waters, fine and very good; the hetbles held about three pints each, and.
were tipped with silver. I found two pots of very good suceadcs, or sweetmeats, eo-
fastened alro on the top that the salt water lmd not hurt them ; and two more of the
some, which the waiter had eyoiled. I found some very good shims which were very'
welcome to me 5 and about a dozen and a half of white linen hawker-chiefs and colourml
neckoloths; the former were also very welcome, being exomdingly refreshing to wipe-
my face in A hot. day. Besides this, when T. name to the fill in the chest, I found there
three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all 5 and
in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six clouhloous of gold, and some $1118" bsne or-
\vcdgna of gold ; I suppose they might all weigh near a. pound. In the other chest were
eome clothes, but of little value; but, by the oircumstuncee, it must luwe belonged to the
gunnm's mate; though there was no powder in it, except two pounds of fine glazed
powder, in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their fowling-pieees on
occasion. Upon the whole, 1 got very little by this voyage that was of any use to me ;.
for as. to the money, I had no manner of ocweion for it; it was to me as the dirt. under
my feet, and i would have given it all for three or four pair of English shoes, and.
stockingr, which were things I greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for many years.
I had, indeed, gob two pair ofghoea now, which 1 tool: 011' the feet of the two drowned
men whom I saw in the wreck, and I found two pair more in one of the chests, which
were very welcome to me 5 but Lliay \veie not like our English shoes, either for ease or-
servicc, being miller what we call pumps than sheet>>. I found in this scaiuan's cheat
about fifty pierce of eight, in rials, but no gold: I suppose this belonged to a. poorer
'nmn than the other, which seemed to belong to some otlicer. Well, however, I logged
this money home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before which I had
brought from our own ship ; but it was a. gloat pit-y, as I said, that the other pix-rt of-
thin ship had not come to my share ; for I cm satisfied I might. have loaded my (amoe-
asoveral times over with money ; which, if I had ever escaped to England, would have
lain hero sufe enough till T might have come again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured when), I went back to my'
hunt, and rowed or paddled her along the shore to her old harbour, where I laid hex"
up, and made the best of my way to my old habitation, where I found everything sale;

:30and quiet. I began now to repose Inyzsolf, lire alter my old fashion, and take care of
my family aflhirs ; and for a. While I lived easy enough, only (hat, I was more vigilant.
than I used to be, looked out oft-mew, and (lid not. go abroad so much; and if, so any
time, I did stir with any freedom, it wars always to the <<not. part of the island, where I
was pretty well satisfied the savages never come, and where I could go without so
many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition as I always carried with
mu if I wont Lilo. usher way. I lived in this condition near two youm more ; but my
unlucky head, that was always to let me know it mus born to make my body miserable,
was all these two years filled with projccts and designs, how, if it worn pousihle, I mighi
get away from this island: for sometimes I was for making another voyage to tho
wreck, though my reason told me that hhere \vns nothing left. there worth. the hazard
of my voyage; sometimes; for a ramble one way, sometimes another: and I believe
veiily, if 1 had had the boot shah I went from Saline in, I should have vcntnmil to sea,
bound anywhere, I knew no: whither. I have been in all my circumstances, a. memento
to those who are touched'with the genoml plague of mankind, whence, for might I
know, onehalf of their miseries flow; I menu that. of not. being satisfied with the
stubion wherein Cod and Natum hath placed them: for, not>> to look back upon my
primitivo condition, and she excellent advice of my hither, the opposition to which
was, as i may call it, my migiml sin, my subsoqueni, mistakes of the some kind had
heeu the means of my coming into this miserable condition ; for bad that. Providence,
which so happily seated me at the Emails as :1. planter, blosxcxl me with confined
desires, and I could have been contented to have gone on gradually, I might have
been by this time, 1' mean in the time of my being in this island, one of the most
consiclemblo planters in the Brazils: my, I an) persuaded, that by the improvements
I had made in that little time I lived there; and bile increase I should ljl'olwdlly have
msdo if I had remained, I might have been worth a hundred thousand moidorcs: and
what business haul T to leave a settled fortune, a. welLstookml plantation, improving
and increasing, to turn nupercargo to Guinea. to fetch negroes, when patience and time
would have so incrcaaoil our stock at home) Lime we could have bought them at our
own door from those whose. business it, was to fetch them? and though it had cost us
something more, yet the difference of that price was by no means worth saving at; so

. great a hazard. But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so reflection upon the
folly of it is as commonly the exercise of more years, or of the dearbought- experience
of time : so it was Willi me now ; and yet. so deep had the mistake taken root in my
temper, that I could not. satisfy "veal! in my station, but was continually poring
upon the means and passibilily of my escape from this place : and shot I may, with the-
greater pleasure in the render, bring on the remaining port of my story, it may not be
improper to give some account of my first conceptions on the uuhject of this foolish
scheme for my (scope, and how, and upon what foundation I acted.

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my late voyage to the wreck,
my frigate laid up and smurod under water, as usual, and my condition motored to
what if. was before : 1 had more wealth, indeed, than I haxl before. but was not at all
the richer; for I had no more use for H; than the India-us of Peru hmrl before the
Spaniards come there.

It was one of tho nighte in the rainy season in March, the four-andtwentiebh you
of my first setting foot in this island of solitude. 1 was lying in my bed or hammock.
awke, very well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, nor Pm]?
uneasiness of mind more than ordinary, hut- could by no means close my eyes, that. 2'3,

131
so as to sleep ; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as follows>> 9--H. is impossible
and needless in set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through film-L
great thoroughfare of the brain--the memory, in this night's fime: I ran over the
whole history of my life in miniature, or by abridgmmt, as I may call it, to my coming
to this island, and also of that part of my life since I canio to this island. In my
reflections upon the state of my case since I came on shore on this 'Blnnd, I was
comparing the happy posture of my affair>>: in the first year>> of my habitation here, with
the life of anxiety, four, and care, which 1 had lived in ever since I had seen the print;
of a foot in the sand ; not. that I did nun believe the savages had fmquented the island
even all the while, and might have hmn several hundreds of them at times on shore
there 3 but. I had never known it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about it ;
my satisfaction was perfect, though my (longer was the sumo, and I was as happy in
not. knowing my danger as if I had never really been exposed to it. This furnished
my thoughts with many very profitable reflections, and pal-hiculmvly this one: How
infinitely good that. Providence is, which has provided, in its government of mankind,
such narrow bounds to his flight and knowledge of things ; and though he walks in the
midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, would
diuimof- his mind and sink his Spirile, he' is kept. serene and calm, by having the events
of things hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround him.

After those tlmughne had for gomc time entertained me, I came to reflect seriously
upon the real danger I had been in for so many years in this very island, and how I
had walked about; in the greatest security, and with all possible tranquillity, even when
perhaps nothing but. the brow of a. hill, 3. great. tree, or' the casual approach of night,
lmd been bet-ween me and Lhc worst kind of destruction, viz, that of falling into the
bonds of calmilmlu and savages, who would have scimd on me with the same view as I
would on a goal; or a turtle,- and have thought it>> no more crime to kill and devour me
than I did of a pigeon or o curlew. I would unjust-1y slander myself, if I should say 1
was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose singular pmtcct'eon I
acknowledged, with great humility, all these unknown delivemuces were due, and
withone which I must incrimhly have fallen into their merciless hands.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken up in considering
the nature of these wretched creatures I mean the savages, and how it came to pass in
the world, that the wise Governor of all things should give up any of his cmuhuree to
such inhumanity, nay, to something no muchbclow even brutnlity itself, as to devour
its own kind: but as this ended in some (at that time) fruitltss speculations, it occurred
to me to inquire, what part of the world these wretches lived in? how for ofi' the coast
was fiom whence they came? what they ventured over so for from home for? what
kind of boats they had 2 and why I might not, order myself and my Business so, that
I might. be as able to go over thither, as they were to come to me. '

I never so much as troubled myself to consider when I should do with myself when
I went, thither ; what. would become of me if I fell into the hands of there savages; or
how I should eacupe them if they attacked me ; no, nor so much as how it was possible
for um lo reach the cons-l, and not. be attacked by some or other of them, without,
any possibility of delivering myself: and i! I should not fall into their hands, when
I should do l'or provision, or whither I should bend my course: none of them: thoughts,
I 53F: SO much as come-2n my way ; but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of
my lfimiil'm' We!" in niy boat to the main land. I looked upon my present condition as
'vhe mast missemble that could possibly be ;' that I was not able to throw myself into

1.12. .

 

 

_, it? .5. '2

5,. ..

Q . .

_ i". :x
"K!" 1.;

MZWA'flyo

 

CRUSOE AND FRIDAY.
anything but death, that could he mulled werse ; and if I rea/Jhed the shore of the main,
1 might perhnps meet with relief, or I might count along, on I did on the African nhore,
till I come to some inhabited country, and where I might find some relief; and, afmr
all, pm'haps I might full in wit-h mime Christian ship that might take me in; and if the
worst come to the womb, I eould but die, which would put an end to all these miseries;
at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an impatient temper,-
made, as it were, desperate by the long oontinuunce of my troubles, and the disappoint,-
mcnls Ilmd met with in the wreck I had been on board at; and where I had been so
near the obtaining what I no earnestly longed for, namely, somebody to speak to, and.
'to learn some knowledge of the place where I was, and of the probable moons of my
deliverance. I my I was agitated wholly by these thoughts ,' all my calm of mind, in
my resignation to Providence, and waiting the issue of the disapnsitions of Heaven, seemed
to be suspended 5 and I had, an it were, no power to turn my thoughts to anything but
the project of a voyage to tho 1min, which came upon me with such force, and such an
lmpL-Luosii-y of desire, that it was not to be resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, \viih such violence
that ii.- sel my very blood into a. ferment, and my pulseheab as if I had been in a fewer,
merely with the extraordinary fervour of my mind about it, Nature, :15 if I had hcon
fatigued and r:xlmuul.ell with the 'very thoughts of it, threw me into asound sleep. One
xvmxld have thought I should have dreamed of in, but I did not, nor of anything
rolaliug to it: but I dreamed that as l was going out in {he morning as usual, from
my castle, I smv upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages, coming to hind, and
that they brought with them another ravage, whom they were going to kill, in order to
eni. him ; when, on a sudden, the away: that they were going to kill jumped mvay, and
ran for his life; then I thought, in my sloop, that he came running into my little thick
grove before my fortification, to hide himself ,' and that; I, seeing him alone, and not
perceiving that the others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling
upon him, encouraged him : that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist
him ; upon which I nhowed him myludder, made him go up it, and carried him into my
care, and he became my servant ; and that. as soon as I had got thin man, I said to
myself, " Now I "my certainly venture to the main land, for this fellow will We me
as a. pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and whit-her
not to go. for fear of being devoured; what planet: to venture into, and what to escape."
I waked with this thought; and was under such inexprcssible impressions ofjoy at. the
prospect of my escape in my dmnm, that blue diwppointments which I felt upon coming
to myself, and finding that it was no more than a dream, were equally extravagant the
other my, and threw me into a, good dejeotion of spirits.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion ; Limb my only way to go about an ablempt
for an escape was if possible, to get a, savage into my possession ; and, if possible,
it should he one of their prisoners whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should
bring hither to kill. But these thoughts still were attended with this difficult-y, that it
was impossible to effect this without attacking it whole cnmvnn of them, and killing
them all; and. this was not only a very despemte attempt, and might miscarry, but,
on the other hand, Iliad greatly seruplod the luwfi'ulncss'of it to me ; and my heart
trembled at the thoughts of shedding so much hlmxl, though it was for my deliverance
I need not repeat the arguments which occurred to me agninst this, they being the same
IanILlOlIGIl before; but though I lmd other reasons to ofi'er-uow~viz., that. those men
were enemies to my life, and would devour me if they could 5 that it was self-

I3-1ANOTHER ARRIVAL 0F CANNIBALS.

 

 

preservation, in the highest degme, to deliver myself from this (loath ofa life, and was
acting in my own defence as much as if they were actually assaulting um, and the like ;
I say, though these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood flur
my deliverance wcro very terrible to me, and such as I could by no means reconcile
myself Lo for a. great while. However, at last, aim many secmt disputes with myself,
:and after great perplexilies about it (for all these arguments, one way and another,
.su'uggled in my head a long time), the eager prevailing desire of deliverance of. length
mastered all the rest; and I resolved, if possible, to get one of these nudges into my
.lmudx, cost what it would. My next thing was to contrive how to do it, and this
:indeed was very dillimilt to resolve on ; but as I could pitch upon no probable means
for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them when they came on
shore, and leave the rest to the event 5 taking such measures as the opportunity should
present, lee he what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scout as often as
poseible, and indeed so ol'mn that I was heartily tiredofit; for ii. was above a year and
a half that I waited; and for great part of that time went out. to the west end, and to
the southwest- corner of the island almost every day, to look for canoes, but none
appeared. This was very discouragig, and began to trouble me much, though I
cannot say that it did in this case (as it had done some time before) wear ofl' the edge
of my desire to the thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I
was for it: in a word, I was not at first so careful to khan the sight. of there savages,
and avoid being seen by them, as I was now eager to be upon them. Besides, I iaucied
myself able to manage one, nay, two or three savagm if I had them, so as to make them
entirely Slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct them, and to prevent their being
able at any time to do me any hurt. It was 9. great while that I pleased myself with
this afllsir; but nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes earns to nothing,
for no savages came near me for a great while.

About a year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by long musing had,
as it were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to {mt them in execu-
tion), I was Surprised one morning only by seeing no less than five canoes all on show
together on my side the island, and the people who belonged to them all landed and
out of my sight. The number of them broke all my measures; for seeing so many, and
knowing that they always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a. boat, I could not
tell what to think of it, or how to take my measures, to attack twenty or thirty men
single-handed ; so lay still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However, I put
.mficlf into all the Sumo postures for an attack that I had formerly l'irovialeil, and was
just ready for action, if anything had presented, Having waited a good while, listening
.Bo hear if they made any noise, at length, being very impatient, I sol. my guns at the
foot of my ladder, and clambcred up to the top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual;
standing :50, however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that they could
:not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the help of my perspective slag,
that they were no less than Lhiriy in number; that they had a. fire kindled, and that
they had meat dressed. How they had cooked it, I kno'w not, or what it was; but they
were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures and figures, their own
way, round the tirc.

While I m thus looking on them, I perceived, by my penspeutive, lwo miserable
wretches dragged from the boats, Where, it, seems, they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fall 5 being

135
 

knocked down, I suppose, with a. club, or wooden awcrd, for that was their way; and
_ two or three others were at work immediately, cutting him open for their cookery, while
the other victim was left stnnding by himself, till they should be ready for him. In.
that very moment, this poor wretch, seeing himself a. little at liberty, and unbound,
Nature i nsrpired him with hopes of lilo and he started away from them, and run with
incredible swiibness along the sands, directly towards me ,- I mean, wwsrds that part of
the consb where my habitation was. I was dreadfully frightened, that I must acknowledge,
when I perceived him run my way; and especially when, as I thought, I saw him
pursued by the whole body ; and now T expected that part of my dream was coming to
pass, and that he would certainly take shelter in my grave : but I could not depend, by
any mums, upon my dream, that: the other savages would not pursue him thither, and
find him there. However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to recover when I
found that there was not above tlnnn men that followed him; and still more was 1
encouraged, when I found that he outstripped chem exceedingly in running, and gained
ground on them; so that, if he could but hold it forhalf an hour, I now easily he
would fairly get away from them 9.1L
Them was between them and my castle, the creek, which I mentioned ofien in the
first pnrt of my story, where I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw
plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there ; but
when the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was then
up ,' but, plunging in. swam through incbont thirty strokes, or thereabonts, landed, and
min with exceeding strength and swiftness. "'hen the three persons come to the crack,
I found that two of them could swim, but the third could not, and that, standing on the
other side, he looked at the others, but went no farther, and soon aller went softly back
again 3 which, as it happened, was very well for him in the end, I observed that. the
two who swam. were yet more than twice as long swimming over the creek than the
fellow was that find from them. It; came very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed.
irresiistibly, that now was the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a, comlmnion or
assistant ; and that: I was plainly called by Providence to save this poor creature's life.
I immediately ran down the ladder with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns,
for they were both at the foot of the ladder, as I observed before, and getting up again
with the same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed towards the sea; and having a
very short. cut, and all down hill, clap'd myself in the way between the pursuers and
the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking book, was nt inst perhaps as
much frightened at meas at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come buck ;
and, in the mean time, I. slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then rushing
at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with the stock of my piece. I was
lath to fire, because I would not have the rest hear ,- though, at that. distance, it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke, too, they would not
have known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the other who
pursued him stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced towards him z'buh
as I came nearer, I perceived prevently he had a. how and arrow, and was fitting it to
shoot at. me: so I was then obliged to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him
ct; the first. shot. The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he saw both his
enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened with the fire and noise
of'my piece that he stood stock still, and neither came forward nor wont backward,
though he seemed rather inclined still to fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him,
and made signs to come forward. which he may understood, and came a little my ;
x :6TERROR OF THE SAVAGE.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FRIDAY EURYING THE DEAD.

then stopped again, 'iunl then a little fu'i'flmr, and stopped again ; and I could lhen
perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just been
to he killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned In) him again to come to me, and
gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could think of ; and he camo nearer
and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of wknowledgment
for saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to
him to come still nearer; at length, he came close to me; and than hc 'kneeled
down again, kissed the ground, and laid his. hand upon the ground, and, taking
me by the foot, set my foot upon his head 5 (big it seems, was in 1.0le of swearing>>
to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made much of him, and encouraged"
him all I oouhl. Butjhovo was more Work to do yet; for I perceived the savage
whom I had knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and
lwgan to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the gamma, that;-
he was not dead ; upon this he spoke some words ('0 me, and though I could not.
understand Lhuxu, yet I Lhuught they were pleasant to hear; for they were the
first scund of o man's voice that I hnd hoard, my own excepted, for above twenty-
five years. But them was no time for such ruflecfimu'nuw 3 the savage who was
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit- up upon the ground, and I perceived
first my em-'nge began to be :ifi'aid ;. but when I am that. I presented my other
piece at>> the man, as if I would shoot him ; upon this my'mvnge, for so I call him
now, made a motion to me to lend him my award, which hung naked in a belt by my
side, which I did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy. and at one blow

I37
out oil' his head as cleverly, no executioner in Gernmny could have done it scone
or heater; which I thought very strunge for one who, 1 had reason to believe, new:
snw a sword in his life before, except. their own wooden swords: however, it, seeum, at. I
.learned afterwanls, tin-y make their wooden swords so sharp, so hem'y, and the Wood is
mohair-d, thuls they will. even cut ofl' heads with them, ny, and arms, and that of. one
blow too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to mo in sign of triumph, and
'hrought me the sum-d ugnin, and with abundance .of gestures which I did not understand,
laid it; down, with the hood of the snmgc that he had killed just holin-c me. But that
which astonished him mail, was to know how I killed the other Indian so far off,- no
pointing to him, he made fins to me to let- him go to him; and I bade him go, as well
as I could When he (who to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turning
him first on one side, then on the other ; looked at the wound the bullet-lied made,
which it seems was just in his breast, where in had mmlo a. hole, and no great quantity
of blood haul followed; but he had. bied hiwardly, for he was quite dead. He took up
his: bow and mow-s, and came hmk ; so 1 turned to go away, and beckoned him to
follow me, making signs; to him that more might. (mine after them.

Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with snnd, that they might
not be seen by the rest, if they followed 5 and so I nude signs to him again to do so.
He fell to work ; and in an instant he had sompedaholc in the sand with his hands, big
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered him ; and did so by
the otlicrnlso ; T believe he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling
him away, I carried him, not to my castle, bubqnite away to my care, on the farther part
<<if the island; so I did not lei; my dream come to pass in that part, that he came into
my grove for shaker. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a
drought of water, which 1 found he w'ns indeed in great distrw for from his running;
and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go and lie down to sleep, shoving,
him a place where I had laid some rice straw, and a blanket upon ii, which I used to
sleep upon myself sometimes ; so the poor creature lay down, nnd wont to sleep.

He was a. comely, hxndsnme fellow, perfectly well "male, with straight, strong limbs.
:not too large, tall and well shaped; and, as I reckon, about twenty--xix yeais of age.
He had a very good countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have
something very manly in his fine ; and yet he had all the sweet-neon and softness of a
European in his countenance, too, especially when he smiled. His hair was long and
Mack, not curled like wool 3 his forehead very high and large; and a great vimcity and
sparkling sharpneas in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite block, but very
'tnwny 5 and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and Virginians, and
0th" natives of America are, but of a, bright kind of a. dim olive-colour, that. hall in it.
something very agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His face was round and
"Plump ;- hi8 10080 snmll, not flat like the Negroes; 9- very good mouth, thin lips, and his
.'flne teeth well set, and as white as ivory.

After be In"! slumber-ed, rather than slept, about half-an-hour, hc awoke again, and
come out of the cave to me; for I had been milking my goats, which I had in the
inclosurc jimt by: when he espied me, he came running to me, laying himself down
again upon the ground, ~with all the possible signs of en- humble, thankful disposition,
making a great many antic gestures to show in At last he lays his head flat upon the
ground, close to my {001; and sole my other foot upon his head, as he had done before;
and "(51' "ll". made all the signs to me of eulqicct-ion, servitude, and submission
imaginable>> to lot me know how he would serve me so long as he lived. I understood

158
him in many things, and let him know 1 was very well pleased with him. In a. little
time I began to speak to him, and towlx him to speak to me ; and, first, I let lzim know
his name should he FRIDAY, which was the day I spied his : 1 called him so for the
memory of the time, I likewise taught him to my Muster, and then let him know that
was to be my name ; I likewise taught him to say Yes and l\'o, and to lamw the meaning
<<if them. I gave him some milk in an earthen put, mul let him use me drink it before
him, and sop my bread in it 3 and gave him a. cake of bread to do the like, which he
quickly complied wieh, and made signs that it was very good for him. I kept them
with him all that night 3 bid, as soon as it was day, i beckoned to him to come with
1ne,au<l let him lx'DOW I would give him uome clothes ; at which he seemed very glad, for
he was stark naked. As we went? by the place where he hail buried him two men,
he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me the marks that he had made to find
'thcm again, making signs to me that we should dig them up again and eat them. At
this I appeared very angry, exprosed my obhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at
the thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which he did
immediately, with great uubmianion. I' then led him up to the top of the hill, to see if
his enemies were gone, and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place
where they had been, but no appearance of them or their canoes ; so that it was plain
they were gone, and had lcfl; their two commdes behind them, wit-hunt any march
alter them.

But I was not content with this discovery; but hrs-ring new Inuru county, and
consequently more curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in
his hand, with the bow and arrows at his hack, which I fonml he could mm very
vdexterously, making him carry one gun for me, and I two for myself; and away we
mnrehml to the plum where these creaturw had been for I had a mind now to get
some fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place, my very lllOOd rsm chill in
my veins, and my heart sunk within 'me, at. the horror of the spectacle ,- indeed, it mm a
dreadful sight, at leuast it was so to me, though Friday mode nothing of it. The place
was covered with human lie-no.3 the ground dyed with the blood, and great- pieccn of
flesh left here and there, half-eaten, manglexl,9.nPSl scorched 3 and, in short, all the tokens
(lithe triumphant feast they had bem- making there, afier a. widely over their enemies.
I saw three skullx, five hands, and the bones of three or {our legs and fuel, and
abundance of other parts of the bullies; and Friday, by his signs, made me under-
_ stand that they brought over {our prisoners to feast upon ; that three of them were

eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth ; that there had been a great
battle between them and their next king, of whose subjects, it seems, he had been
one, and that they had taken a great number of prisoners; all. which were carried
'to several places, by thoue who had taken them in the fight, in order to feast
upon them, as wigs done here by those wretchcs upon those they brought hither.

I anused I'h'iday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever remained, and
lay them together on a. hemp, and make a great {ire upon it, and burn them all to ashes
I found I'Yidny haul still a, hankering stomach nfier some of the flesh, and was still a.
cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much ubhorrence at the very thoughts of it,
and at the least appearance of it, that he durst not discover iL--fot I haul, by some means,
let him know that I would kill him if he offered it.

I When he had done thin, we more back to our castle, and there I fell to work for my
man Friday ; and first of all, I gave him a. pair oflinen ilx'uwei's, which I lunl out at the
reorganize-1's chest I mentioned, which I found in the wreck, and which, with a little

' l 39
 

nltcmlion, fitted him very well; and than I made him iijorlcin of goat?>> skin, as well as
my skill would allow (for I win now grown a tolerably good tailor) ; and I gave him a.
cap which 1 mode of here's skin, very convenient, and fashionable enough ,: and thus he-
wns clothed, for the present, tclcmhly well, and was mighty well pleased to see himself
slinost as well clothed'ao his master. It is true, he went- awkwardly in these clothes at
time; wearing the dnuvers was: very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat-
galled his shoulders and the inside of his arms--but a little easing them where he.
complained they hurt him, and using himself to them, at length he took to them very
well.

The next day, nfier I came home to my hutch with him, I began to consider
where 1 should lodge him 3 and, that I might do well for him, and yet be pertcctlyensy
myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant place between my two fortifications,
in the inside of the last, and in the outside of the first. An there was a door
or entrance there into my cave, I made n formal flamed doo'mnse, and a door to it
of hoards, and set it up in the passage, 3 little within. the entrance ; and, causing the
door to open in the inside, 1 barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders, too ,' so
that Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost well, without.
making so much noise in getting over that it must needs awaken me; for my first wall
had new a complete roof over in of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to
the side of the hill 3 which was again'la-id norm with smaller sticks, instead of lnths, and
then thatched over a greet thickness with tho rice-straw, which was strong, like reeds ;
and of; Eli!) hole or place which was left: to go in or out by the ladder, I had planed. a.
kind of trap--door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would no: 'lm'vc
opened at all, but would have fallen down and made it great noise 2 as to Weapons, 1
took them all into my sitia every night. But I needed none of all this precaution ; for
never mun lmd a more faithful, loving, sincere scrvnnt Lhzm Friday was to me ; without
passions, sullonnens, or designs, Pm'feci'ly obliged and engaged 3 his very affections were
tied io me, like those of u. child to a father; and I dare say he would hairs sacrificed his
life for the saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever: the nmny testimonies he gave
me of this put it out of doubt, and soon courinccd me that I. needed no precautions
for my safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion (.0 observe, and that with wonder, that however it
had pleased Got] in his providence, and in the government of the works of hit; hands, to
take from so great n purl. of -thc world of his matures the best uses to which their
faculties and the you'ers of their souls are Minot/ed, yet that he has bestowed upon them
the some powom, the ski-me reason, the same nfi'cenions 3 the some sentiments ofkindncus
and obligation ; the some passions and resentments of wrongs; the some sense of
gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good and receiving good,
that he has given to us ; and that when he pleases to ofi'cr them occasions of exerting
these, they are as ready, my, more ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they
were lie-slowed than we are. This made me ver}r melancholy sometimes, in reflecting,
as the several occasions presented, how mean a. use we make of {all these, even though
we have these powers enlightened by the great; lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God,
and by the knowledge of his word added to our understanding 3 and why it has pleased
God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls, who, if 1 might
judge by this poor savage, would make a. much better use of it than we did. From
hence, I sometimes was: led loo fixr, to invade the sovereignty of Providence, and, us it
were amigo the justice of so crummy w disposition of things, that should hide that

140
 

sight from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect u like duty from both 3 but I
shut it \Il','fllul checked my thoughts will: this conclusion: first, Thin. we did no! lmmv
by what light and law these should be condemned ; but than as God was necessarily,
and, by tho nature of his being, infinitely holy and just, no it cauld not; be, but if those
creatures were all suntcnccd to aliacnce from himself, it was on account- of ginning
against that light, which, as the Scripture smys, was a, law to themselves, and hy such
rules as their consciences would acknowledge to he just, though the foundation was not
discovered to us; and, smmully, Thai; shili, m: we are all the clay in the hand of the:
Potter, no vessel could say to Him, "Why hash thou formed me thus?"

Ilui, to return to my new companion : I wos granny delighted with him, and made:
it my business to tench him evei-yahing that was proper be make him useful, handy, and
luzlpful 5 but especially to make him speak, and understand me when I upolcc ; and he-
wns the aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly
diligent, andmo pleased when he could but undm'smnd me, or nnu'xc me understand
him, that if. was very pleasant to me to Eul'k to him. And now my life hugnn to be so
easy that I began to say to myself, am. could I but have hacn safe from more savages, I
cared not if I wus never to remove from the place while I lived.

Aikerl. had been two or three days rewrutu'l to my casthx I thought that, in order
to bring Friday 011' from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a, canuihol's
ammonia, I ought to let him taste other flesh 5 so I tool: him out with me one morning
to the woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring in
home and (hem in; limb as I was going, T saw a she-goat. lying down in the shade, and.
two young kids sitting by her. I cutehcd hold of Friday 3 "Hold," said I, "stand
still ; " and made signs to him not to stir : imuuztlintcly I presented my piece, shot, and.
killed one of the kidu The poor creature, who had, at a diskmce, indeed, scan me kill
the savage, his enemy, but did not know nor could imagine how it was done, wee
sensibly surprised ; trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed that. I thought he would
have sunk down. He (lid not see the icicl I shot. at, or perceive I had killed it, but-
rippud up his waistmi, to feel whether he was not wounded 5 and, as I found presently,
thought I was resolved tolcill him : for he camemid kuoelcd down to me, and embracing
my knees, said a. great many things I (lid not mnlemland ; hub I could easily sec the
morning was, to pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to eunvincc' him that I would (lo him no harm ; and taking him
up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned
(0 him to run and fetch it, which he did : and while he was wondering, and looking to
see how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By-wd-by I saw a great:
fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a. tree within slioL; so, to let, Friday understand a little-
wlmt I would do, I called him to me aguin, pointed at who fowl, which was indeed a'.
parrot, though I thought it haul been a. hawk; I any, pointing to the purmt, and to my
gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to lot. him see I would make in full, I made
him understand :hat I would shoot and kill that bird ; amn-dingly, I fired, and bade
him look, and immediatul y he saw the parrot full. He stood like one frightened agfiin,
notwithsiundiug all 1 lnul said to him 3 and I found he was the more amazed, because
he did not. see me put unyihing into the gun, but thought that there must be some
wonderful fund of (loath and (lam-action in dual. thing, able to kill man, burial, bird,
or anything near or far off ; and the astonishment this created in him wan such as could
not wear off for a long time ; and, I believe, if I would have lot him, he would
have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much as

[42FRIDAY BECOMES USEFUL.
touch it For several days after 3 but he would speak to it and talk to it, as if it had.
answered him, when he was by himself; which, as l afterwards learned of him, was to
desire it- not to kill him. Well, after his astonishment was in little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some:
time 5 for the parrot, not being quite dead, haul fluttered away a good distance from the.
place where she fell: however, he found her, took'hcr up, and brought her to me 3 and
as 1 had perceived his ignorance about. the gun before, I took this advantage to charge-
tlm gun again, and to let. him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark that
might prewnt ; but nothing more uITered at thin:- time : so I brought home the kid, and.
the some evening I took the skin 05, and out it out as well as I could 5 and having a pot.
fit for that purpose, I lmiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some very good
broth. After I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad
of it, and liked it. very well ; but that which was strongest in him was to see me cat-
sslt with it. He made a sign. to me that the salt was not good to cut ,' and putting a
liLLla into his own mantli, he seemed to museum it, and would spit. and sputter at it,
washing his mouth with fresh water after it: on the other hand, I tool: some meat.
into my month without salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as
fast as he had done at the salt ; but it would not do; he would never care {or salt-
with his meat, or in his broth 3 at least, not for a great while, and then but avery little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to feast- him the
next- day with roasting a piece oi the kid : this I did by hanging it before the fire on a
string, as I had seen many people do in England, setting two poles up, one on cnch
side of the fire, and one across on the top, and tying the string to the cross stick, letting-
the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much ,' but when he came to-
taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could not
but understand him : and at last he told me, as well as he could, he would never eat-
man's flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.

The next; day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and: sifting it in the

manner I used to do, as I observed before ; and he soon wider-stood how to do it as well'
as I, especially after he had soon what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make.
bread of; for after that, 1 let him see me make my bread, and bake it, too ; and
in a little time, Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as I oould do it.
myself. .
I began now to consider, that having two months to feed instead of one, I must
provide more ground for my harvest, and plant elm-gei- quantity of ('oru than 1 used to
do ; so I marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as.
before, in which Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard, but did it very
cheerfully : and I told him what it was for ,- that it was for corn to make more bread,
buw'use he was now with mo, and that I might have enough for him and myself too.
He appeared very sensible of that port, and let me know that he thought. I had much.-
more labour upon me on his account, than I had formyfielf; and that he would work-
the harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.

This was the plcosantcat year of all the life I led in this plmce. Friday begun to-
talk pretty Well, and understand the names of almost everything I had occasion to call
for, and of every place I had to send him to, and talk a great deal to me; no that, in short,
I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which, indeed, I had very little
oceanion for before ; that is to say about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him,.
I had asingular satisfiiction in the fellow himself : his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared.
I43
 

 

to me more and more everyday, and I began really to love the creature; and on his side
I believe he loved me more than it was possible for him own to love anything before.

I had a. mind once to try if he had any hankering inolimtion to his own country
again ; and having taught him English so well that he could answer me almost any
question, I asked him whezher the notion that he belonged to never conquered in battle.
At which he gmilcdmnd said, " Yes, yes, we always fight'the better 5 " that in, he meant,
always get the better in fight ,- nml so we began the Following discourse :--

JIostor.----You always fight the better ; how come you to be token prisoner then,
Friday?

Friday--My nation heal. much, for all that.

Masters--How beat? If your nation beat them, how (2an you to be taken?

Friday--They more many than my nation, in the place where me was ; they take
one, two, three, and me : my nation over-bent them in the yonder place, whore me no
was ; there my nation take one, two, great thoumd.

Match--But why did not your side recover you from the hand): of you enemies
than l

Friday--They run, one, two, three, and mo, and make me go in the canoe ; my
:nntion have no cnnoe that. time.

JRMWr--'Wcll, Friday, and what does your nation do with the men they take? Do
they carry them away and um thlnn, as these (lid?

Fridays--Yes, my nation silt mans too : eat all up.

Maskn--"flxcrc do they on rry hhom l

Eriday.--Go to other place, whom they think.

Mater. ~Do they come hither?

ii'iday.---Yesa, yes, they come hinhcr 5 come other else place.

JIaster.--ane you. been here with them?

Friday--Yea, I been here (points lo the NW. side of the island, which, it seems
was their side)

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly ham: among the mvngea
who used to comcon chore on the farther pm of t-he.islnnd, on the said man-caring
occasions that ho mm now brought for: and, some time after, when I took the courage
to carry him to that side, being the some I formerly inentiOnod, hc prescntly knew the
place, and told me he was there once, when they eat up twenty men, We women, and
one child : ho could not tell twcnoy in English, but he numbered them, by laying so
many stones in a. row, and pointing to mcbo tell them over.

I have told whiz passage, because il. inbmdnces what follows ,- that, after this discourse
I haul with him, I asked him how far it- wnn from our island to the shore, and Whether
the canoes were not often lost He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost;
but that after a little my out bu can, there was a current nod wind, always one way in
the morning, the other in the afternoon. This I understood to be no more than the
safes of the tide, as going out or coming in ; but I afterwards understood it. was man-
sioncd by the great draft. and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the month of
which river, on I thought afterwards, our island lay 5 and that this land which I perceived
to the W. and N.W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth
of the river. I asked Friday a. thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants,
the sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he know, with the
greatest opennems imaginable. I asked him the names of the neveral notions of his sort
of people, bul, could get no other name than Carihs: from whence I easily understood

x44FRIDAY'S Aceoum 10F HIS PEOPLE.

 

 

 

CRUSOE INSTRUC'A'ING FRIDAY.

that. these were the Carihbecs, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Galina, and onwards to St. Martha.
_I[e told me, that up a great way beyond the moon (that was, beyond the settixg of the
moon, which must be west fi'om their country), there dwell; white-bearded men, like
me, and pointed f0 my gram whiskers, which I mentioned before 3 and that they had
killed much mans, that was his word '5 by all which I understood he meant the
Spaninmls, whose cruelfies in America had been spread over the whole countxjy'L and
were remembered by all the nations, from father fa ion.
10 ' x45
I inquired if he could tell mo how 'I might. come from this island, and get. among
those white men : he told me, " Yes, yes, I might go in we ounce." I could not
understand what he meant by two canoe, till at last, with great ditficnlby, I found he
meant it must be in a. large, great boat, as big as We emcee. This part of hidey's
discourse began to relish with me very well ; and from this time 1 entertained some
Impes that, one time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my escape from
this place, and that this poor savage might. be a means to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday haul now been with mo, and that he hogan to
speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundefiion of religious
hxroiivledge in his mind: parliaulni'ly I asked. him one time who made him. The poor
creature did not understand me at all, but thought 1 had asked him who was his {abhor :
but I look it by another handle, and asked him who made the sea, the ground we
walked on, and the hills and wood; He told me, " it. was one Benaumekee, that lived
beyond all ;" he could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very old,
" much older," he said, " than the sea or the land, than the moon or the More." ' I aslcmi
him then, if this old person had made all things, why did not all thinge worship him!
He looked very grave, and, with a perfect look of innocence, said, "All things said 01
to him." I asked him if the people who (lie in his country went away anywhere. He
said, " Yes ; they all went to Benamuckce." Then I asked him whether those they eat.
up went thither too. He said, " Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the true God : I
told him that the great Maker of all things lived there, nointing up towards heaven ;
that be governed the world by the some power and providence by which he made it ;
that he was omnipotent, end cohld do everything for us, give everything to us, take
everything from us; and thus, by dogma I openrd his eyes. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem '
as, and of the manner of making our prayers to God, and his being ' hle to hear us.
even into heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear us, up beyond the
sun, he must needs be a, greater God than their Benainnekee, who lived but :1 little way
oli'. and yet could not hear till they went up to the great mountains Where he dwelt to
speak to him. T asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him. He mid, " No ;
they never went that were young men 3 none wont thither but. the old men," whom he -
celled their Ouwokelme ; that is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious or
clergy; end that they went to any 0! (so he called saying prayers) and then came birch
and told them what Bonamnokee said. By this I observed, that Lhcreispriesterafi.
even mong the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy of making
a secret of religion, in order to preserve the venomtion of the people to who clergy, is not
only in he found in the Roman, but, perhaps, among all religions in the world, even
among the moat hrutish and barbarous savages.

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my mum Fridey, and told him that the pro.
tence of their old men going up (X) the mountains to my 0 l to their god Bennmnckee
was a cheat ; and their bringing word from thence what he Liaid was much more so ; that
if they met with any answer, or spoke with any one there, it much: with an evil spirit;
and then I entered into a long (Momma with him about the devil, the original of him, his
rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the
dark parts of the world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
strangeme he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he had a. secret access
to our passions and to our aflections, and to adopt his snares to our inclinations, so as

146FRIDAY RECEIVES RELIGIOUS 'lNSTRUC'l'lON.

to cause us even to be our own tempters, and run upon our own destruction by our
own choice.

1 found it was not so easy to imprint right nations in his mind about the devilns it
was about the being of a God : nature aegismd all my arguments to evidence to him even
the necessity of a great First Censor--en overruling, governing Power-a. secret directing
Providence ; and of the equity and justice of paying homage to Him that made us, and
the like: but there appexrml nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit: Of his
original, his being, his nature ; and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and tode
us; in (.0 do so too: and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a. manner, by a
question merely natnml and innocent, that I scarce knew what to any to him. I lie/d
been talking a great deal to him off-lie power of God1 Ilia; omnipotenw, His aversion
to sin, Bis being a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity ; how, as He llMl made us
.all, He could destroy us and all'the world in a moment; and he listened with grani-
seriousness to me all the while After this, I had been telling him how the devil was
God's enemy in the hen-rte of men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the good
designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like.
"' W ell," says Friday; " but you my God is so strong, so great ; is he not much strong,
much might as the devil?" " Yes yes," says I, "Friday; God is stronger than the
devil : God in shove the devil, and therefore we pray to God (A trend him clown under
~oiir feet, and to enable us to resist his temptations and quench his fiery durts." " But,"
says he again, "if God much strong, much might as the devil, why God no kill the
devil, so make him no more do wicked l" I was stnmgely surprised at this question ;
15ml ail-or all, though T was now an old man, yet I was but nyoung doctor, and ill quali-
fied for a. essuist, or a solver of difiiculbies; and at first I could not tell what to any 5
so I pretended not {7.) hear him, and askedhim what he said ; but he was too earnest for
an answer to forget his question, so that he repeated it. in the very same broken words
as above, By this time I had recovered myself a little, and T said, " God will at last
punish him severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and he is to be cast into the
bottomless pif, to dwell with everlasting fire." This; did not satisfy Friday ; but he
roturns upon me, repeating my own words, " ' Reserve at last! ' me no understand 2 but
why not kill the devil now ; not kill greet ago i" " You may as; well ask me," said I,
'" why God does not>> kill you or me, when we do wicked things here that oil'eud Him 1
we are preserved to repent and he psi-cloned." He muses awhile on this: "Well,
well," says he, mightily affectionately, " that well : so you, I, devil, ell wicked, all
preserve, repent, God pardon ell." Here I was run down by him to the last degree :
and it was a testimony to me, how the mere notions of nature, though they will guide
reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a worship or home due to the
supreme being'of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but Divine revelation
can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of redemption purchased for us; of o
Mediator of the new covenant, and of an Intercessor 9.5 the footstool of God's throne ; I
:say, nothing but a revelation from heaven can form them: in the soul 5 and that, therefore,
the gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of God, and the
Spirit of God, promised. for the guide and sanctifier of His people, are the absolutely
necessary instructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of God, and the means
of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man, rising in p hastily
as upon some sudden occasion of going out; then sending him for something a. good
way off, I seriously prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct smringly this

:47
 

poor savage ; assisting by His Spirit the heart of thepoor ignorant creature to receive
the light of the knowloge of God in Christ, reconciling him to Himself, and would
guide me to speak so to him from the Word of God, that his conscience might be
convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he come again to me, I entered
into a long discourse with him upon the subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour
of the world, and of the doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven-viz., of repentance
towards God, and faith in our blesed Lord Jesus. T. then explained to him as well as
I could why our blessed Redeemer took not on Him the nature of angels, but the seed
of Abrebnm 3. and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption ;
that he came only to the lost sheep of the hum of Israel, and the like.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the methods I took for this
poor creature's inxtruction, and must acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the
name principle will find, that, in laying things open to him, I really informed and
instructed myselfin many things that I either did not know, or had not fully considered
befom bull which occurred naturally to my mind upon scorching into them, for tim-
information of this poor savage ; and I had more efi'ection in my inquiry after things
upon this occasion than over I felt before : so that, whether this poor wild wretch was
the better for me or. no, I had reach to be thankful that ever he came to me; my grief'
snt lighter upon me ; my habitation grcw comfortable to me beyond measure : and when
I reflected that, in this solitary life which I had been confined to, I had not only been '
moved to look up to heaven myself, and tosock the hand that. had brought mchcrc, but
was now to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for aught I
know, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and of
the Christinn doctrine, that he m'ght know Christ J emits to know whom is life eternal ;
I say, when I reflected upon all these things a secret jay run through every part of
my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this place, which I had so.
often thought the most dreadful of all omictions that could possibly have befallen me.

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my time 3 and the conver--
sation which employed the hours between Friday and me was such as made the three
years which we lived there together perfectly and completely happy, if any such thing
as complete happiness can be (build in e siu'blunurgr state. This savage was now a. good-
Chn'stian, a. much better then I ; though I have reason to hope, and bias God for it,
that we were equally pcnitent, and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the
Word of God to read, and no firrthcr oii' from His Spiritto instruct, thunif we had been
in England. I always applied myself, in reading the Soriptum, to let him know, as
well as I could, the meaning of what I read 3 and he again, by his serious inquiries and
queetionings, nude me, as I said before, a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge
than I should ever have been by my own mere private reading. Another thing I
cannot refrain from observing here also, from experience in this retired part of my life
~----viz, how infinite and inexpressible a. blessing it is that the knowledge of God, and of
thc doctrine of salvation by Christ J eons, is so plainly laid down in the W'ord of God,
so easy to be received and understood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture made me
capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly on to the great work of
sincere repentance for my sins, and of lnyinghold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a
stated reformation in pram-tics, and obedienm to all God's comnnmds, and this without any
teacher or instructor, I mean human ,' so the ruins plain instruction sufieiently served
to the enlightening this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian as I.
have known few equal to him in my life.

148REFLECTIONS ON RELIGION.

 

 

 

 

CRUSOE AND FRIDAY ON THE HILL.

As to like disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention which have happened in the
world about mligion, whether nicelics in doctn'nw or whomes of church government, they
were all perfectly useless to us, and, for Might I can yet see, they have been to the rest oi'
the world. We had the sure guide to heaven, viz, the Word of God ; and we had, blessed
'be God, comfortable views of the Spirit of God teaching and instructing us by His word,
leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and obedient to the instruction of
his word. And I csm'mt. see the least use that the gwatest knowledge of the disputed

r49points of religion, which have made such confusions in the world, would have been to
us, if we could have obtained it ; but I must go on with the historical part of things,
and take eve-y part in its order.

After Friday and I boom-1c more intimately acquainted, and that he could under--
stand almost all I said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken English, to me, 1
acquainted him with my own story, or at least so much of it as related to my coming
into this place 5 how I had lived there, and how long : I let him into the mystery, for
such it was to him, of gunpowdorand bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave him

' a. knife, with which he was wonderfully delighted ; and I made him ahclt, with ofrog-
hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers in ; and in the frog, instead of, a-
hanger, 1 gnve him a hatchet, which was not only us good 9. weapon in some cases, but

much more useful upon many occasions.
I described to him the countries of Europe, particularly England, which I came from ;.

how we lived, how we worshipped God; how we behovod to one another, and how we
traded in eh 31>>; to all ports of the World. I gave him an account of the wreck which I
had been on bound of, and showed him, osnenr as I could, the place where she lay : but.
she was all beaten in pieoes long before, and quite gone. I showed him the ruins of'
our boat, which we lost. when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole-
stncnth then ; but. was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday
stood musing a. greot while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was he studied:
upon. At, last, says he, " Me see such boot like come to place at my notion." I did
not understand him a good while; but, at Lost, when I had examined further into it, I
undemtood by him, that a. boot, such as that had been, came on shore upon the country
where he lived , thot is, us he explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I
presently inmgined that noun-i European ship must have been cast away upon their coast,
and the bout; might get loose and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once
thought of men moking their eeonpe from a wreck thiuluer, much less whence they might
come : to I only inquired after the description of the bout. '

Friday described the boot to me well enough ; but brought mo bother to undeisfend
him when he added with some warmth, " We save the whitemans from drown." Then
I prmenoly asked if there Were any white mans, as he called them, in the boot. " Yes,"
he said ; "the host full of white mans." I asked him how many. He told upon his
fingers sex'ecuteen. I asked him than what became of them. He told me, " They live,
they dwell at my nation." '

This put new thoughts into my head ,- for I presently imagined that theso might be
the men belonging to the ship that was cast away in the eight of my island, as I now
called it ; and who, after the'ship was struck on the rock and they saw her inevitably
lost, had saved themselves in their boot, and were landed upon that wild shore among
the savage Upon this I inquired of him more critically what was hecomo of them.
He assured mo they lived still there ,' that they had been there about four years; that
the savages left them alone, and gave them vie-tools to live. I asked him how it
caune to pass that they did not kill them and out them. He said, " No, they make brother
with them 5" that is, as I underntood him, 8- Lruce ; and than he added, " They no out
mans but when make the war light ;" that is to say, they never eat any men'but such
as come to fight with them, and are taken in bottle

It was oftor this some canaidemble time, that being upon the top of the hill, at the
east side of the island, {mm whence, as l have sold. I had, in o clear day, (Uncovered the
main or continent of America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks vary

[soCRUSOE .INDULGES IN GROUNDLESS JEALOUSY.

earnestly towards the mainland, and, in n'kind of surprise, 57.115 arjumplllg sud dancing,
and calls out to me, for I was at some distance from him. I asked him what wns the

' matter. " Oh, joy!" says he ; "oh, glodl there one my country, there my nation l" I
observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled.
and his countenance discovered a strange ougermm, as if he lmd a mind to be in his
own country again. This observation of mine puta great many thoughts into me, which
made me, at first, not so cosy about my new man Friday": I. was before ; and I made
no doubt but that, if Friday could get back to his own nation again he would not only
forget all his religion, but all hiso'nli gntion to me, and would he forward enough to give
his countrymen an account of me, and. come back, perhaps, with a hundred or two of
them, and make a feast. upon me, at which he might be as merry as he used V.) be nith
those of his enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged the poor honest
creature very much, for which I was very sorry slur-"unis. However, as my jealousy
increased, and held me some weeks, I was a. little more circumspect, and not so familiar
and kind to him as before: in which I was certainly in the wrong too ; the honest
grateful creature hating no thought about it, but what consisted with the host prin-
ciples hoth as a religious Christian. and so a gmiuefiil friend ,- as appeared afterwards to
my full satisfaction.

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every day pumping him,
to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts which I suspected were in him ;
hot I found everything he will was so honest and so innocent, that I could find nothing
to nourish my suspicion ; and, in spite of all my uneasinees, he mule me at last entirely _
his own again; nor did he in the least perceive that l. wasunoasy, and therefi>re T could
not suspect him of deceit.

One day, wnlking up the some hill, but the weather being hazy at sea, so that we
could not see the continent, I called to him, and said, " Friday, do not you wish yourself
in your own country, your own nation?" ." Ya," he said, "I be much 0 glad to be
at my own nation." "What would you do therel " said I: " would you turn wild
again, eat men's flesh again, and be a. sa-veige, as you were before?" He looked full of
concern, and shaking his head, said, " No, no; Friday tell them to live good ; tell them
to pray God ; tell them on cut com-bread, cattleflesh, mill: ; no out man again." " \Vhy,
then," said I to him, "they will kill you." He looked grave at that, and than said,
" No, no; they no kill me, they willing lore learn." Ho meant by this, they would be
willing to learn. He added, they learned muchof the bearded mans that came in the
boat. Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that. and told
me he could not swim so for. I told him, I would make a canoe for him. He told me
he would go,if 1fI would go with him." [go I" says 1;" why they will out me if I
come there." "No, no," gays he, "me make them no eat you; me make them much
love you. " He meant, he would tell them how T had killed his enemies, and saved his
life, and so he would make them love me. Then he told me, 3.3 well as he could, how
kind they were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came
on shore in distress.

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and see if I could possibly
join with those bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese;
not doubting but, if I could, we might find some method to escape from thence, being ,
upon the continent, and a good company together, better than I could from an island
forty miles off the shore, alone, and without help. So, after some days, I took Friday
to work again, by way of discourse, and told him I would give him a heat to go back

15x
to his own nation 5 and, aocordingly, I carriedhim to my frigate, which layonthe other
side of the island, and having cleared'it of water (for I always kept it sunk in the watei');_
I brought it out, showod it him, and we both went into it. I found he was a most
dextcrous fellow at managing it, and would make it go almost as swift and fast 'again
as I could. So when he was in, 1 said to him, " Well, now, Friday, shall we go to
your nation '1" He looked very dull at my sayingso ; which it seems was because he
thought the boot too small to' go so for. I then told him I had a, bigger; so the next
day I went to the place where the first boat lay which I. haul made, but which I
could not get into the water. He said that was hig enough; but then, as I had taken
no care of it, and it had loin two or three and, twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, that it was; rotten. Friday told me that such a boat would do very well,
and would carry " much enough vittlo, drink, bread ;"---thnt was his way of talking.

Upon the whole, T was by this time so fixed upon my design of going over with him
to the continent, that I told him we would go and make one as big as that, and he
should go home in it. He answered not one word, but looked very gum) and sad. I
asked him what was the matter with him. He asked me again, " Why you angry mad
with Friday 'Z--wlmt mo clone '1 " I asked him what he meant. I told him I. was not
angry withhim at all. " No angry l " any: he, repeating the words several times , " why
send Friday home away to my nationl" "Why," guys I, "Friday, did not you say
you wished you Were them?" "Yes, yes," says he, "wish we both there; no wish
Friday there, no muster there." Ins word, he would not think of going there without
me. " I go there, Friday 3" says I ; " what shall I do there? " He turned very quid:
upon me at this. " You do great deal much good," says he; " you teach wild m be
good, sober, tame mans 5 you tell them know God, pray God, and live new life."
"Alas, Fridny I " says I, " thou knowost not what thou soyest ; I am but an ignorant
man myselfi" "Yes, you," says he, "you teaches me good, you tencheo them good."
" No, no, Friday," toys I, "you shall go without me ; leave me here to live by myself;
as 1 did before." Ho looked confused again at that Word 5 and running to one of the
lmlchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. " What must
i do with this?" says 1 to him. " You take kill Friday," says he. " What must I
kill you for i" said I again. He returns very quick--" What you send Friday away.
for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away." This he spoke so earnestly that I saw
tears stand in his eyes. In a. word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in him
to me, and a. firm resolution in him, that I told him then, and often alter, that I would
never send him away from mo, if he was willing to stay with me.

Upon tho whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled affection to me, and that
nothing could part him from me, so I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his
own country was laid in his nrdout affection to the people, and his hopes of m y doing
them good ; a. thing which, as I had no notion of myself; so I had not the least thought,
or intention, or desire of undertaking in But still I found a strong inclination to my
attempting an escape, founded on the supposition gathered from the former discourse,
that there were seventeen hem-dad men them ; and therefore, without any more delay, I
went to work with Friday to find out a, great tree proper to fell, and make a largo
puriagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There were trees enough in the island to
have built a. little fleet, not of periaguas or canoes, but even of good large vossels 5 but
the main thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water that we might launch it
when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At last, Friday pitched
upon a. tree; for I found he know much better than I what kind of wood was fittest for

152
it ; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to cull the [me wo cut down, except that it
was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it was
much of the same colour and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of
this tree out, to make it into a boat, but I showed him how mthcr to cut it with tools ;
which, afler I 11nd showed him how to use, he (lid very handily 5 and in about it month's
hard labour, we finished it and msxlc it very handsome ; especially, when, with our axes,
which I showal him how to handle, we cut; and hewed the outside into the true shape
of a boat. After this, however, it cost, us near 9. fortnight's time to get her along, as it
were, inch by inch, upon great rollers into the water ; but when she was in, she would
have carried twenty men with great ease.

When she was in the Waiter, though she we so big, it amazed me to see with what
dexterity and how swift my man Friday could manage her, turn her, and paddle her
along So I asked him if we would, and if we might venture over in her. '= Yes," he
said ; "we venture over in her very well, though great blow wind." However, I haul a
further design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a. most and a sail, and to
fit her with an anchor and cable. As to n mast, that was easy enough to get ; so I
pitched upon 9. NJmiglIl. young cedar-tree, which I found near the place, and which them
was great plenty of in the island, and I set Friday to work to out it down, and gave
him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the sail, that was my particular
one I knew I had old stilts or rid-her pieces of old sails, enough ; but as I had had
them now six-nndtwenty yenrs by me, and had not bean very careful to preserve them,
not imagining that I should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but
they were all rotten ; and, indeed, most of them were so. However, I found two pieces,
which appeared pretty good, and with there I went to work ,' and with a great deal of
pain>>, and awkward, tedious stitching, you may be sure, for want of needles, l at length
made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what we call in England a shouldewofvmutton
snil,to go with n. linmu at hot-tom, and a. little short sprit at the top, such as usually
our ships' long-boats mil with, and such as I best know how to manage, because it was
mmh 3 our: as T need in the boat in which I made my mane from Barbary, as related
in the first part of my awry.

I was near two months performing this last work--viz, rigging and fitting my mast
and sails ; for I finished them very complete, making it email slay, and a. sail or foresuil
to it, to assist if we should turn to windward ; and, which was more than all, I fixed a.
rudder to the stern of her to steer with. And though I wns but a. bungling shipwright,
yet as I knew the usefiilnesa, and even the necessity of such a. thing. I applied myself
with so much pains to do it, that at last I brought it to pass ,' though, considering the
many dull contrivmmea I had for it that failed, I think it wat- me almost as much
labour :18 making the hunt.

After all this wax done, _I had my man Friilny to beach as to what belonged to the
Inflation of my boat ; for, though he knew very well how to paddle the canoe, he knew
nothing of what belonged to a sail and a rudder ; and was the most amazed when he saw
mo work the boat to and again'in the sea. by the rudder, and how the sail gibbed, and
filled this way or that way, as the course we sailed changed 5 I say, when he saw this,
he stood like one astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I made all these-
things familiar to him, and he became on expert sailor, except that. no to the compass I
could make him understand very little of that. On the other hand, as there was very
little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was theJess.
occm'ion for the compnss, seeing the steers were always to be seen by night, and the shore>>

l 54by din], except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody Cfll'ml to stir abroad either by lnnd':
or sea.

I was now entered on the sm'cn--mid--twoniioih yien- of my captivity in this place 5
though the slime Inst years that I had this crenhure with me ought. rather to ho loll. out
of the account, my habilniion being quite of mmtluzr kind than in all the rest ofmy
time. I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the some tlmnkfulness to God
for his mercies as at first : and if I had ruch cause of acknowledgment at first, I 1W1
much more so now, having such additional testix'noniea of the care of Providence over
me, and the groin; hopes 1 had of being efleciually and speedily delivered ; for I had
an invincible immersion upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at hand, and that.
I should nob be anohher your in this place. However, 1 went on with my lnmlmmlry ;
digging, planting, and fencing, as usual. I ganhered and cured my grapes, and dil
every necessary filming as before.

The rainy season W38, in the meantime upon me, when I kept more within doors
than at; other times. I lied stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her
up into the creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship ,-
and hauling her up to the whore sit high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig a. little
dock, just big enough to hold her, and just. deep enough to give her water enough fo-
flont in 5 and then, when the {Me was out, we made a strong dam across the end of it,
to keep the water out ; and so she lay dry as to the tide from the sen : and to keep the
min of, we laid n great many banging of triage), so thick i.lmi.slic was as well thatched as
a. house; and thud we waited for the months of November nod December, in which I
design-41 to make my adventure.

When the settled 3504qu began to come in, an the thought of my design returned
with the fan- wcmhher, I was prepm'ing daily for the voyage. And the first thing I did
was to lay by u. certain quantity of provisions being the stores for our voyage ; and
intended, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the duck, and lnunch out our boot. I
was busy one morning upon smoothing of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid
him go to the sea-ashore, and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a, thing which we
generally got} once a week, for this sake of the eggs, 9.3 well as the flesh. Friday had not.
linen gone long when he came running back, and flew over my outer wall, or Fence, like
one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set. his feet on ; and before I hnd time to
speak to him, he cries out to me, " 0 water! 0 master 1 O sorrow : 0 bad 1"
"What's the mailer, Friday 3" and I. " 01: l yonder, there," says he 5 "one, two, blimo
canoes! 5 ono two, three I" By this way of speaking, I concluded there were six ; but.
on inquiry I found there were but three. " Wei], Friday," says I, " do not be
frightened." So I heeitenml him up as well] as 1' could However, I saw the poor fellow
was most terribly scared for nothing ran in his head but that they were come back to
look for him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him 5 and the poor fellow trembled
no that I noni'cely knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I could, nnd.
tohl him I was in as much danger as he, and that they would eat me as well. as him.
"But," said 1, "Friday, we must resolve to fight. them. Can you fight, Friday '1 "
" lie about," says he; "but there come many great number." "No matter for that,"
said I, again ; " our guns will {right them that We do not kill." So I asked him
whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me, and stand by me, and (In just
as I bid him. He said, " Mo dio, when you bid die, master." So I went and
fetched n good dram of rum and gave him ; for I had been so good a. husband of my
rum, that I had to great deal left. When he had drunk it, I made him take the two-

155
fending-pieces, which we always carried, and load them with lnrge swan-shot, as big -
as small pistoLbullcts Then I tool: four muskels and loaded them with two slugs,
and live small bullets each ; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each.
I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, 1 took my perspective-glass, and went. up to the side
of the hill, to see what I could discover; and I found quickly by my glass, that there
were one-snd-twenlyy sludges three prisoners, and three canoes 3 and that their whole
business seemed to he the triumphemt banquet upon these three human bodies; a.
barbarous feaxt indeed, but nothing more than, as T. had observed, was usual with
them. I observed also that they lauded, not where they hxul done when Friday made
his escape, but nearer to my crack, where the shore was low, and where a. thick wood
came close almost downto the sea. This, with the ebhorrence of the inhuman errand those
wretches came about, filled me with such indignation that I came down gain to Friday,
and told him I was resolved to go down to them, and kill them all ; and asked him if
he would stand by me. He had now got over his fright, and his spirits being it little
raised with the drum I had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
would die when I hid (lie.

In this fit of fury I tool: first and divided the arms which I had charged, as before,
hetweon us 5 I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upmi his
shoulder, and I took one pistol and the other three myself; and in this posture we
marched out I took a. small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a. large
bag with more powder and bullets ; and as to orders, I charged him to keep close
behind me, and not to stir, or shocker do anything till I hid him, and. in the mean-
time not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched u compass to my right hand of
near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, 80 that I might come
within shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was
easy to do. .

While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning. I began to
:tlml-e my resolution--I do not mean that l entertained any fear of their number,
for, as they were naked, unarmed wretchos, it is certain I was superior to them--nay,
though I had been alone. But. it occurred to my thoughts, whet call, what occasion,
much less what necessity, I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people
who had neither done or intended me any wrong L--whn, as to me, were innocent, and
whose barbarous customs were their own disaster, being in them a. token, indeed, of God's
having left them, with the other nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity, and
to such inhuman courses, but did not call me to take upon me to be a. judge of their
actions, much leis an executioner of His justice--that whenever he thought fit He
would take the cause into His own hands, and by national vengeance punish them
for national crimes; but that, in the meantime, it was none of my business--that it
was true Friday might justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a state of
war with those very particular people, and it was lawful for him to attach them ; but I
could not say the some with regard to myself. These things were so warmly pressed
upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that I reaolved I would only go and place
myself near them that. I might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would not then
as God should direct; and that unless something ofi'erecl that was more a call to me than
yet 1 know or, I would not meddle with them.'

With this resolution I entered the wood, and, with all possible waxiness and silence,
Friday following close at my heels, I marched till 1 came to the skirt of the wood on

156TNK 6?).th

CU"

Climax 55
 

the side which wns'next to them, only that one corner <<the wood lay between me and
them. Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a, great tree which was just. at.
the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see
then; plainly what they were doing. He did so, and came immediately back to me, and .
told me they might be plainly viewed thew--that they were all about their fire eating
the flesh of one of their prisoners, mid that another lab}? bound upon the sand 8 little
from them, whom he said they would kill next-3 and this fired the very soul within me.
He fold me it. was not one (If their nation, but. one of the bearded men whom he had
'told me of, that came to their country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very
naming of the white bearded man ; and gning to the tree; I saw plainly by my glam? a
white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea. with his lxu-udfl and his fact tied with
flags, or things like masher, and that he was a European, and had clothes on.

I There was another free, and a. little thiokoi. beyond it, about fifty yards nearer to
them than the place where I was, which, by going a little way about, I 331W I might
come at undiscovered, and lehlxheu I should be within half a. shot of them ; so I
wibhhold my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going
back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held n1] lche my till I came
to the other trap, and than cmnc to a. limo rising ground, which gave me a full View of
them at the distance of about eighty yards.

I had now not; a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful matches sot upon the
ground, all close huddled together, and hurl jusl- sent the (ii-her two to butcher le poor
Christian, and bring him perhaps limb by limb to their fire, and they were steeping
down to untic the bands at his feet. I burned to Friday ; "Now, Friday," said I, " do
as I bid thee." Friday said he would. " Then, Friday," said I, " do exactly as you see
mo <<in ; [mil in nothing." So I MI. duwu one of the muskets dntlthe fowling--pieoe upnu
the ground, and Friday did the like by his, and with the other musket I took my aim
at. fillBSflVflgefi bidding him do the like; than asking him if he was ready, he said,
" Yes." " Then fire at. thong," said I 5 and at the same moment I fired nlso.

l'h'iday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that he ahot he killed
two of them, and wounded three more ;_ and on my side I killed one, and wounded two.
They were, you my be sure, in a. dreadful consternatinn ; and all m' Lhem thntrwcrc
not hm jumped upon their feet, but did not immediately know which way to run, or
which way L0 100k, for they knew not from whence their destnwtion cmuu. Friday
kept. his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what 1 did; so, as
soon as the first shot was made, I threw down Isl-a pines, and took up the fowlingpiece,
and Friday did the like 3 he saw me cock pand present ; he did the same again. " Are
you ready, Friday?" Mid I. "ch," says he. "Let fly, then," said I, "in the name
of God 1" and with that. I fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday;
and as our piecea were now loaded with what 1 call swsufidmli, or mamll pistol--bullets,
we found only two drop ; but so many were wounded, that they run about yelling and
screaming Like mad creatures, all bloody, mud mosh of them miserably wounded ;
whereof three more fell quichly lifter, though not quite dead.

" Now, Friday," said I, laying down the discharged piratingJ and taking up the
musket which was yer, loaded, " follow mo," which he did with a great deal of courage ;
upon which I rushed out of the wood and showed myself, mud Friday alone at my that
As soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade h'r-idzy do
so too, and running as first as I could, which by the way was not. very fast, being lo.ul.g..i
with arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor victim, who was. as I said, lying

158THE SPAN iARD SAVE D.

 

upon the beach or shore, between the place where they sat and the sea" The two butchers
who were just going to work with him had left him at the surprise of our first fire, and
fled in 0'. terrible fight to the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and three-more of
the rim made the mime why. I turned to Friday, and lmlo him atop forwards and fire
at them ; he understood me immediately, and running about forty yards to he unarer
them, he shot at them 3 and I Lhought he killed them all, for I saw them all fhll of a
limp im'o the boat, though 1 saw two ofthem up again quickly; hmvm-er, he killed
two of them1 and wounded the third so than he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if
in; lord been dead.

While my man Friday fired at, them, I pulled out my knife and cut the flags that
hound Line pum' victim ; and loosing his hands and foot, I lifted him up, and asked him,
in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He answered, in Latin, Christinnus ; but was
.so Wank and think that he would Scarce stand or spunk. I tool: my bottle out of my
pocket, and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave
himo piece of brew], which he are. Then I asked him wlw'. countryman he was, and
he said Espagnolc ; and being a little recover-ml, let me know, by all the signs he could
possibly make, how much he was in my de'om'or his deliverance. "Seignior," said I,
with as much Spanish as I could make up, " we will talk afierwards, but wemusl', fight
now; if you have any strength Ici't, Lake this pisLol and sword, and lay about you."
He took them very thankfully ; and no sooner had he the nuns in his hands, but, as if
they had put new rigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had out
two of them in pieces in an instant ; for the truth is, as the whole was a mrprixe to
them, so the pour ermhures were so much frightened with the noise of our pieces that.
they fell down for mere mmimmcnt and fear, and had no more power to attempt their
own escape, than their flesh lmd to resist our shot-1' and that was the case. of those five
thxt Friday shot at- in the boat ; for as three of them fell with the hurt they received,
so the other two fell. with the {right

I kept my'piecs in my hand still without: firing, hoing willing to keep my charge
manly, heatuse 1 had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword ; so I cal-"ml to Friday,
and bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired, and fetch the nuns which
lay there that had been diachmged, whichhe did with great mvifimess; and than giving

_ him my musket, I sat down myself to land all the rest again, and hula them come to
me Wlmu filmy wanted. W'hlle I was loading these pieces, there happened a Home
engagement between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at him with one
of their great'wonden swords, the some weapon that was to have killed him before, if I
had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as could be imagined,
though weak, had fought this Indian a. gem] while, and had cut two great wounds on
his head; but the savage being a. stout. lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown
him down, being faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand ; when the
$pnhiard, though undcmiost, wisely ("titted the sword, drew the pistol from his girde
shot the nawngc through the body, and killed him upon the spot, ht-J'om T, who was
running to help him, could come nmr him.

Friday being now left. to his lll'lfil'h)', pursued the flying wretches, with no weapon
in his hand but>> his hatchet ; and with that he dispatched those three who, as I Said
before, were wounded at find, and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with : and
the Spaniard coming to me for a. gun, I gave him one of the fowiing-pioces, with which
he pursued two of the savages, and wounded them both ; but, as he was not; able to run,
they both got. from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one of

159
 

them, but the other was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all his; might ofl' to those two who were
[ea- in the canoe 3 which three in the came, with one wounded, that we knew not
whether he died or no, were all that camped our hands, .of mound-twenty. The
account of the whole is as follows z--Jl'hree killed at our first shot from the tree ; two
killed at the next shot ; two killed by Friday in the boat,- two killed by Friday, of
those at first wounded 3 one killed by Friday in the wood ; three killed by the
Spaniard ; four killed, being found dropped here and there, of the wounds, or killed by
Friday in his chase of them; four escaped in the heat, whereof one wounded, if not
dead~twenty-one in all,

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot, and though Fx'ixloy
made two or three shots at them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday
Would fnin have had me take one of their mom, and pursue them ; and, indeed, I was
very anxious about their escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people, they
should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the canoes, and devour us by
mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one "of their
canoes, I jumped in,-und bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe,
I was surprised to find another poor creature lic there, hound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing what was
the matter ; for he had not been able to look up over the side of the boat, he was
tied so hard neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that he had really little life
in him.

' I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they hurl bound him with, and
wouldhnve helped him up ,' but he could not siand or speak, butgmmed'most piteously,
believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to be killed. When Friday
came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out
my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram 5 which, with the news of his being
delivered, revived him, and he set up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him
speak, and look in his face, it would have moved {my one to team to have seen how
Friday kissed him, embraced him, hmged him, cried, laughed, halloocd, jumped about,
danced, hung; than cried again, wrung his hands, but his on face and head ; and then
sung and jumped about again like a distracted creature. It was a. good while before I.
muld make him speak to mo, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came a
little to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to exprcee how it moved me to see what ecstney and filial
affection had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death ; nor, indeed, can I describe half the extravagmces of his afl'eetinn
after this ; for he went into the boat, and out of the boat, a great many: times : when
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's head
close to his bosom half an hour together, to nourish it; then he took his arms and
ankles, which were numbed and still' with the binding, and ehnfed and rubbed them with
his handu 5 and I, perceiving what the case was, gore him tome nun Out of my bottle to
rub them with, which did them a great deal of good.

This notion put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other savages, who were
new gotten almout out of eight- ; and it was happy for us that we did not, for it blew
so hard within two hours after, and before they could be got a quarter of their way, and.
oontinucrl blowing so hard all night,ancl that from the north-west, which was against them,
that I could not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached their own coast,

16::FRIDAY'S KINDNESS TO HIS FATHER.

 

 

    

' ., H111]!!!
l! 311311" J;

H ("will

TIM-NIH

7 >>

Ilgr

W

  
  

   
 

    
   

  

m. ..
J1). ;

 
 

           

 

CRUST": CONFERRING 'n\'l'l'H THE SPANIAED-

But to return to Friday 5 be was so busy about. his father, that I could not find in
my heart to take him off for some time; but. after I thought; he could leave him a. lintle
1' called him to me, and he came jumping and laughing, and yleased to tho. highest
extreme ; then I asked him if he had given his father my bread. He shook his head,
am} said, "None ; ugly clog eat all up self." I then gave him a cake of bread, out ofa
lictle pouch I carried on purpose ; J. also gave him a diam for himself; but he would not
tastc'ili, but; carried it to his father. I had in my poclmt. also two or three bunches of
raisins. so I gave him a. handful of them for his father. He hurl no sooner given his
father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat, and run away as if helm] been
bewiwhad, for he mus the swiftesb fellow on his feet that ever I saw ; I say, he ran at
such a rate that. he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant ; and though Tcnlled, and
Emma! Out, too, after him, it was All one--away he went ,' and in a quarter of an

n. 16:
 

hour I snw him come back again, though not so fast as he went ; and, as he come nearer,
I found his pane slacker, because he had eomething in his hand. W'hen he came up to me,
I found he had been quite home for on earthen jug or pot, to bring his father some
fresh water, and that he had got two more cake: or leaves or" bread : the bread he gave
me, but (he water he cnrrieil to his father ; however, as I was very thirst-y too, I Look
a little sup of it, This miter revived his father more than all the ruin or spirits I hurl
given him, for he was just iidnting with thirst

When his father had drunk, I mailed to him to know if there was any water left :
he said "Yes 5" and I lmde him give to the poor Spaniard, who was in us much want
of it on his father ; and I sent one of the when that Friday brought, to the Spaniard
too, who was indeed very weak, land was repesing himself upon a. green place under
the shade of a tree ; and whose limbs were also very stilf, and very much swelled with
the rude bandage he haul been tied with. When 1 saw that upon Friday's coming to
him with the water, he set up and drank, and took the bread and began to eat, T went
to him and gave him a. handful of raisins : he looked up in my fame with all the tokens
of gratitude and thank l'nlness that could appear in any countenance 5 but was so weak,
notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand up upon
his feet: he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not able, his ankles were
so swelled end so painful to him 5 so 1 bade him sit still, and caused Friday lo rub his
ankles, nod bathe them with mm, no he had done his fhther's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes, or perhaps less, all the
while he was here turned his head about, to see if his father was in the same place and
posture as he left him sitting; and at last he found he was not to he soon ; at which he
started up, and, withOut speaking a. word, flew with that swil'tnoas to him, that one could
scarce perceive hie fwt to touch the ground as he went: but when he come, he only
found he had laid himself down to ense his 1i mhs, so Friday came book to me
pi-ezently; end I then spoke to the Spaniard to let hidiiy help him up, if he (:I)ul<l,9.n(l
land him to the bent, and then he should earrv him to our dwelling, where I would take
care of him. ' But Friday, a lusty young fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his
back, and carried him away to the bent, and not him down softly upon the side or
gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it ; and then lified him quite in, and
set; him eloxe to hfi fhthor 5 and presently stepping out again, launched the bout ofl',
rind paddled it along the ashore faster than I could walk, tinmgh the wind blew pretty
hard too ; so he brought- them both safe into our creek, and leaving them in the boat,
runs away to (etch the other e'moc. As he passed me 1 spoke to him, and asked him
whither he went He told me, "Go fetch more heat 5" go away he went like the wind,
for sin-c never mom or horse ran like him ; and he hm] the other came in the creek
almost as BOOK] as I got to it by land ; so he wafted me over, and then went to help our
new guests out of the boat, which he did ,' but they were neither of them able to walk ,'
so that poor Friday knew not. what to do.

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to Friday to bid them sit
down on the bani; while he came to me, 1 soon made a kind of hand--hnrmw to lay them
on, and Friday and T carried them up both together upon it between us.

But when we got them to the outside of our well, or ibuificntion, we were at a
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and I was resolved not to
brcnk it down ; so I set to work again, and Friday and I, in about two hours' time,
moxie a. very hamlmme tent, covered with old sails, and above that with bougha of trees,
being in the npnee without our outward fence, and bet-ween that and the grove of young

:62CRUSOE CONVERSES \Vl'l'll lllS SUBJECTS.

wood which I had planted ; and here we made them two beds of such things as I had,
viz, ol'goocl rice--straw, with blankets laid upon it, to lie on, and mother to cover them,
on each bod.

My island was now peopled, and I thought mysoll' very rich in subjects ; and it was
2. merry reflection, which I frequently made, bow like a king I looked. First of all, the
whole country was my own more property, so that I had on undoubted right of dominion.
Secondly, my people wcm perfectly subjected : I was almlutely lord and lnwgiver : they
all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there had been
occasion for it, for me. Tc was remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were
of three dili'erent religions : my man Friday was a. Protestant, his {Either was a. Pagan
and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a. Pnpiat. However, I allowed liberty of conscience
throughout my dominion>> :----But this is by the way.

As soon as T had secured my two weal: rescued prisoners and given them shelter,
and a place to rest them upon, I began to think of making some provision for them,-
and the first thing 1 did, I ordered Friday to m1"; a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a
goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed ,- when I cut oil the hinder quarter, and
chopping it into small pieces I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made
them 8. very good dish, I. assure you, of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice
adso into the broth ; and as I cooked it withoulrduors, for I made no fire within my inner
wall, so T carried it all into the new tent, and having sol: a table there for them, I sat
down, and ate my <<Win dinner also with thorn, and, as well as I could, cheered them
and encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indmul,
to the Spaniard too ; for the Spaniard spoke the Language of the savages. prorty well.

After we hurl dined, or rather suppczl, I ordered Friday to take one of the canoes
and go and fatal: our muskots nod other firearms, which, for want of time, we had led:
upon the place of bottle ; and, the next day, I ordered him to go and bury the dead
'oodios of the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently be ofi'ens'ivo
1 also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I could
not think of doing myself: nay, I could nui bear to see them, if 1 went that way ; all
which he punctunll}r performed, and defaced Lhevery appearance of the savages being
there 3 so that when I went again, T could scarce know when it. was, otherwise than by .
the corner of the wood pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new subjects; and,
first, I set Friday to inquire of his {amber what he thought of the cscapo of the savages
'in that. canoe, and Wlmlzber we might expect a return of them, with a power too great
for us to resist. His first opinion was, that tho savages in the boat never could live out
the storm which blow that night they wont ofl', but must, of nommily, ho drowned, or
driven south to those oLhor shores, where they were as sure to be devoured as they were
'to be drowned if they were cast away 5 but, as to what they would do if they came safe
on sham, he said he knew not ,' but it was his opinion, that they were so dreadfully
frightened with the manner (sF'kl-eir being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that be
believed they would tell the people they wore all killed by thunder and lightning, not by
the hand of mnn ; and that the two which appeared, vim, Friday and I, were two heavenly
apirits, or hiring come down to dwiroy them, and not men with weapons. This he said
he know, because he heard them all cry out so. in their language, one to another ; for
it. was impossible for them to conceive that it man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and
hill at a. distance, without lilting up the hand, as was done now: and this old savage was
in the right ,- i'or, us I undersmod since, by other bands, the savages never attempted to

163
 

go over to the island sfbcrwards ; they were so terrified wish the accounts given by those
four men (for it seems they did escape the son), that they believed whoever went to that
enchanted island would be destroyed with fire fmm the gods. This, however, I knew
not ; and therefore was under continual apprehensions for a. good while, and kept always
upon my gmml, I and all my army: for, as we were new four of us, 1 would have
ventured upon n hundred of them, fairly in the open field, at any time.

in a. little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the four of their coming wort:
oll' ; and I began to take my former thoughts of a. voyage to themnin into consideration ;.
being likewise assured, by Friday's Bithor, that I might depend upon good usage from
their nation, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts were A little suspended
when I had a serious dimourse with the Spaniard, and when I nnderstoml {Just shore:
were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who hnving been cast nvmy nnd
made their escape to than. side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the ravages, but were
very sure pub to it. for necessaries, and, indeed, for life. I asked him all the paifiiculms
of their voyage, and found they were a Spunish ship, bound from the Rio (la la Plato. to
the Havana, being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides and
solver, and to bring back what European goods they could meet with there 5 that they
had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom they tool; out of another wreck ; thain five:
of their own men were drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these escaped.
through infinite danger and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast,
whcro they expected to have been devoured every moment He toltl me they had some
arms with them, but they were perfectly useleas, for that they had neither powder nor ball,
the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little, which they used as
their first lending, to provide themselves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and if they had formed
no design of making any escape. He said they had many consultations about it ; but
that having neither vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions of anv kind, their councils
always ended in tears and desgair. I asked him how he thought they would receive a
proposal from me, which might. tend towards an escape ; and whether, if they were all
here, it. might. not he done. i. told him with freedom, T fen-red mostly their treachery
and ill-usage of me, if T put my life in their hands 3 For that gratitude was no inherent
virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their dealing>>: by the obligations.
they hurl received, so much as they did by the advantages they expected. I told him it
would be very hard that I should be the instrument of their deliverance, and that they
should allerwa-rds make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was
certain to be made a merifiee, what neeexsity, or what accident soever brought him.
thither 5 and that I had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be devoured alive,
than fall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be carried into the Inqu'mition. 1
added that, otherwise, I was persuaded, if they were All here, we night, with so many-
hands, build a. barque large enough to carry us all away, either to the Brezile south--
word, or to the, islands or Spanish coast northward 5 but. that if, in tequila-l, they should,
when I had put weapons int-o their hands, carry me by force among their own people, I
might be ill used for my kindness to them, and make my case worse than it was before.

He answered, wi'uh a grent deal of candour aml ingonuousnoen, that their condition
was so miserable, and that they were so sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor
the thought of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance 5 and
that, "1 pleased, he would go to them, with the old man, and discourse with them about
it 84111 return again, and bring me their answer ; that he would make wnditiom Wiuh

164CRUSOE SRFS AN HNmJbu SIL'P.
 

them upon their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under my direction, as their
commander and captain; and they should swear upon the holy sacrament and gospel,

to be true to me, and go to such Christian country 25 I should agree to, and no other;
and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my ordem, till they were landed safely in

such country as I intended 5 and that he would bring a contract from them, under their
hands, for that purpose Then he told me he would first swear to me himself; that he-
would never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders ,- and that he would

take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there should happen the leaet breach of'
faith among his countrymen. He told me they were all of them very civil, honest men,
and they were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons nor clot-hes,

nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the savages ; out of all hopes of over

returning to their own country 3 and that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief,

they would live and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if possible, and Lo send
the old savage and this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we had gotall things
in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much
prudence in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that J. could not
but be very well snfis'fiedin it 3 and, l>yhi3 advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades
for at least half at year. The case was thus : he had been with us now about a month,
during which time I had let him seein what manner T had provided, with the assisum 3c
of Providence, for my support 5 and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice T. had
laid up ; which, though it was more than stillieient for myself; yet it- was not sufficient,
without- good hushnmlry, for my family, now it was increased to four 5 but much less
would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen, still alive, should
home over ; and, least- of all, would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should
build one, for a voyage to snvof the Christian colonies of America ; so he told me 'he
thought- it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig rind cultivate some
more Land, as much as I could aspsre seed to sow, and that we should wait another harvest,
that we might have a supply of com for his countrymen, when they should come ; for
want might be a. temptation to them to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered,
otherwise than out of one (limeulty into another. "You know," says he, "the children
of Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their being delivered out of Egypt. yet rebelled
even agnineb God himself, that delivered them, when they came to want brand in the
wilderness."

His caution was so seasonnhle, and hie advice so good, that 1 could not but be very
well pleased with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity ; so we fell to
digging, all four of us, as well no the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted ;.
and in about a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as much
land cured and trimmed up, as we sowed two'u-nd- twenty bushels of lmrley on, and
sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare ,' indeed, we left
ounselves barely sulficient for our own food fox-the six months that we haul to expect our-
crop ; that is to any, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sowing ; for it is
not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that country.

Having new society enough, and our number being sufficient to put us out of fear of
the savages, if' they had come, unless their number had been very great, we went freely
all over the island, whenever wefound occasion ,- nnd as we had our escape or deliver-
ance upon our timughtu it was impossible, at. least for me, to have the means of it out.
of mine. For this purpose, 1 marked out soveml trees, which I thought fit for our-

166A CHARITAB LR MISSION.

 

work, and I set Friday and his father to out [ham down 5 and then I caused the Spaniard,
to whom I imported my thoughts on that nfi'nir, to oversee and direct their work. I
showed them with what. indefatigtble paint; I lmtl lmwod at large tree into single
planks, and I caused them to do the like, till they had made about a dozen large plnnks
of good oak, near two feet brood, thirty~five feet long, and horn two inches to four
inches thick : what prodigious labour it took up, my one may imagine.

At the some time, T contrived to increase my little <<Lock of tonic goats as much as I
could; and for this purpose I made Eridny and the Spaniard go out One day, and
mysell'with Friday the next day (for we bunk our turns), and by this means we got
about. twenty young kids to breed up with the rest 3 for whenever we shot the (him, we
saved the kids, and added them to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing the
grapes coming on, I caused such _a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that, I
believe, hail we been at .r'xiicnnt, where the raisins ofthe sun are (illl't'dl, we could have
filled sixty or eight-3r barrels 5 and those, with our bread, formed n great part of our food
--vory gum] living too, I assure you, for they are exceeding nourishing.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was not the most plentiful
incrwse I had seen in the island, hut, however, it was enough to answer our end; for,
from twenty--two bushels of barley, we brought in and thrashed out above two hundred
and twenty bushels ,- anrl the like in proportion of the rice 3 which was store enough
for our food to the next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore
with mu}; or, if we had been ra'cly for n voyage, it Would very plentii'nily luwe
victnnlled our ship to have carried us to any part of the world, that. is to say, of
America. \Vlmu we had til")! houoed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work
to make more wicker-work, vizl, grout basketsin which we kept it 3 and the Spaniard
wss very handy and dcxmrous at this yart, and often blamnd me that I did not make
some things for defence of this kind of work ; but I saw no need of it.

And now, having :2. full supply of food for all the guests expec'md, I gave the
Spaniard leave to go over the main, to son what he could do with those he had left
behindliixn there. I gave him a strict clmrge not to bring any man with him who
would not first swear, in the presence of himvoif and the old navago, that he would no
way injure, fight with, or attack the person he should find in the island, who was so
kind as to send for them in order to their deliverance; but that they would stand by
him and defend him against. all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be
entirely under and subjecwd E0 his command ; and that this should be put in writing,

. and signed with their hands. How they were to have done this, when I knew they had
neither pen nor ink--that, indeed, was a question which we, uovcr asked. Under those
instructions, the Spnninrd and the old storage, the father of Friday, went awoy in one of
the canoes which they might be said to have come in, or mtlmr were brought in, when
they came as; prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I gave each of them a. musket,
with s. fire-lock on it, and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to
be very good huslhmds of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgant occasion.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used bymc, in View of my
deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days. 1 gave them provisions of
broad, and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves for many days, and mfiicient for all
the Spaniards for about eight days' time ; and wishing them a. good voyage, I saw them
go, agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out at their return, by which I
should know them again, when they came back, at a distance, before they came on
shore, They went} away, with a fnir gale, on the day the moon was at full, by my

167
 

account in the month of October 3 but as for on exact reckoning of day", after I had
once lost. it, I could never recover it again ; nor had I. kept even the number of years
so punctuully as Ln lac sure I was right 5 though, as it proved, when I afterwards
examined my account, I found I had kept- a true reckoning of yearn.

it was no 13$ than eight clays I had waited for them, when a Strange and niubrcseen
accident intervened, of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in history. I was
fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, " Muster, master, they are come, they are come!" I jumped up, and.
regardless of danger, I wont cut as soon as 1 could get my clothes on, through my li_l.l.lo
grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown to be xi very thick wood ; 1 say,
regudlays of danger, T went without my arms, which was not my cnslom to do : bub T
was surprised, when, turning my eyes to the sex, T presently smv cheat "bailout-fl league
and a. half distance, standing in for the shore, with e shonldcnof--mutton sail, 9.: they
. cell it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in: also I observed, presently,
that they (lid not come from that side which the slim-o, lay on, but. from the southemv
most end of the 'niland. Upon this I called Friday in, and bnde him lie close, for these
were not the people we looked for, and that we n)ighl- not know yet. whether they were
friends or enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my peispective-glass, to see
what. I could make of them ;. and, having taken the ladder out, I climbed up Lo the top
of the hill, us I used to do when I was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view
winner, without lining discovered. I had scarce sci. my foot upon the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a. ship lying at an anchor, 9.6 about two leagues and 9. half distance
from me, 5.8111,, but not above a. league and a half from the sham By my observation,
it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-
lan.

I cannot express the confusion I wax. in, though the joy of seeing a. ship, and one
that 1 had reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen, and consequently
friends, was Such as I cannot describe ; but yet I had some secret doubts hung about
mo--~1 cannot tell from whence they came--bidding me keep upon. my guard. In the
first place, it occurred to me to consider what bua'ness an English ship could have in
that part of the world, since it was not the wu-y to or from any pnrt of the world where
the English lxxd any trnfiic ; and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in
there, in distress ,- wd that il'Lhcy were really Englixli, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design ; end that I had better continue as I was, than fall into
the hands of Lhicvcs mid mmnierers.

Lot no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger which sometimes are given
him when he may think there is no possibility of its being real. That such hints and
notices are given us, I believe few that. have made any observer-lions of things can deny ;
ilmr. they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and n converse of spirit>>, we
cannot-doubt ; and if the tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why
should we not suppose they are from some friendly agent, (whether supremo, or inferior
and subordinate, is not the question), and thet they are given for our good?

The present qunsiion abundantly confirms me in the justice of this reasoning ; for
had I not been made cautious; by this scorch admonition, come it from whence it will, I
had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse condition than before, as you will see
presently. I had not kept myzielf long in this posture, till I saw the boat draw; near the
shore, as if they looked for acreek (m thrust- in at, for the convenience of landing ; how-
cvcr, any they did not come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I

168P'H c: w: .-\u\'.

Eofl'ns FIMMJJ 'h'J I)". Fm:-
 

 

formerly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a,
mile from me 5 which was very lmppy (or me ,' for "flier-wise ialmy wuuhl have landed
just at my door, as I may say, and would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and
perhaps lmvc plundered me a? all T. had. W'heu they wene on shore, T was illlly satiafied
they were Englishmen, at least most of them ; one or two I thought were Dutch, but; it
did not prove so ; nix-3m were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I ibund were
unarmed, and, as I thought, bound 5 mid when the first four or five of Lhem werejumped.
on shore, they tonic those three out of the boat, as prisoners : one of the three I could.
perceive using the most. pmsionmm gestures of culinary, affliction, and despair, even to a.
kind of extravagance ; the other two, I could perceive, lifmul up their lmud sometimes,
and appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a. degree as the fist. l was perfectly
coni'ouudml all the sight, and knew not what the meaning of ih should be. Friday called
oui~ to me in Eglish, us well as he could, " O umslserf you see English mnns cal: prisoner
as well as uni-age mans." " W'hy, Friday," says I, " do you think they are going to cut
them, then 2"-----" Yes," says Friday, "they will eat. them."---"No, no," says 1', "Friday ;
1 mn afmid they will murder them, indeed ; but you may he sure they will not cut
them."

All this while I lwl no Lliouglxl; of what Elie mutter really was, but stood trembling

' with the horror of the sight, expecting every moment when the three priaonei'u should be
killed ; nay, once I mw one of the villains lift; up his arm with a grant millage, m; the
seamen cell it, or award, to strike one of the poor men ; and T expected to see him fall
every moment. ; at which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins, I
wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage film. was gone with him, or that I
luul any way to have come undiscovered within shot of them, that. I might have secured
the three men, for I saw no fire-suns {hey had among them 5 but it (3311 our, to my
mind another way. After I had observed the outmgeous usage of the three men by
the inwlmt seamen, I observed the fellows run scattering about him lam], an if they
wanted to see the country. I observed also that the three other men had liberty to go
where they pleased,- hut they sat down all time upon the ground, very pensive, and
looked like menjn despair. This put me in mind of the first; Lime when I came on
shore, and began to look about me 5 huw I gave myself over for lost ; how wildly I
looked round me; what dreadful apprehensions I luul ; and how I lodged in the tree all
night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As I knew nothing, that night, of the>>
supply I was in receive by the pmvidential driving of the ship nearer t'hc land. by the
Storms and tide, by which I have since been so lung neuriahed and supported ; so these
three p302 desolate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance and supply they were,
how near it was to them, and how ell'echmlly and really they were in a condition of
safety, at the same time they thought tlmmsclvas lost, and their case deqmmm. So
little do we sac betbm us in the world, and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully
upon the great Maker of the would, that: He does not>> leave His crcntixms so absolutely
destitute, but that. in the womb circumsmmms they lmve always something L0 be
thankfixl for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they imagine 5 nay, are
even brought. to their duliverunce by the means by which they scmu to bu brought to
their destruction.

It- wasj met at the top ofhigh water when Ithese people came on slmrc ; and while they
rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in, they had carolesslyatayed till the.
tide was spent, and the water was ebbcrl considerably away, leaving their limb aground.
They had loll: L'u'o men in the boat, who, 93 I fouiul afterwards, having drunk A little too

weDELIVERANCE IN AN UNCOUTl--l FORM.

 

 

much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them wukuig a little sooner than this other,
and finding the boat- too tut aground for him to stir it, lmllooed out For the rest, who
were straggling about ; upon which. they all soon came to the boom ,- bnt it was past all
their strength to launch her, tho bout being very heavy, and tho "horn on that sitlo
being a, soft. cozy Sand, almost like a quickszmd. In this condition, like true seamen,
'who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and
away they strolled about the country gain; and I heard one of them say aloud to
another, culling Lhmn off from the boat, "W'hy, let he): alone, Jack, can't you? she'll
float next tide ,"' by which I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what country-
men they were. All this while I kept myself close, not once daring to stir out of my
castle, any further than to my phwo of ohnervafion, min the top of the hill ; and very
glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I knew it wasno less than ten hours
before the boni- could float again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might be at
more liberty to see their motion>>, and to hear their disconme, if they llSlll any. In the
iuwntimo, I fitted myself up for a hauls, an before, though with more caution, knowing
I had to do with another kind of enemy thin I had at finst. I ordered Friday also,
whom I had made an cxcnllent marksman with his gun, to land himself with arms. I
took myself two fowling-piocos and I gave him three musket; My figure, indeed, was.
very fierce , I had my formidable gmfrnkin coat on, with the great cap 1 have mentioned,
a Inked sword, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.

1% was my dcs'gn, as I said above, not to have manic any attempt till ii. was dark ;'
but about two o'clock, being the hcab of the clay, I found, in short, they were nll gone
straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, were all laid down to sleep. The three lmor
distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, had, however, sat down
under the shelter of a groin; tree. at- about A quarter Ora mile from me, and, an I thought,
out of sight- of any of the rest. Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and
learn something of their condition ,- immcdisinly I marched on above, my man Friday at.
a good distance behind me, as Rn-midable for his arms as I, but not making quite so
slaving 2i. spoof-reduce figure as I did, T. came as near them undiscovered n; I could, and
than, before any of them Iszuv me, I called Aloud to then: in Spanish, " \Vhatare ye, gent-lo>>
men l" They started up at the noise, but were to" Limes more oonfmunleil when "my
emu mo, and the uncouth figure that I made. They made no Answer at all, but I
thought I pcmoi-V cd [In In just,' wing to fly from mes when I spoke to them in Englinh:
" Gentlemen,' said I, "do not he surpriaed at- me: perhaps you may have a. flicnclncar,
when you did not expect in" " lle must he sent directly from heaven, then," said.
one of them very gravely to me, and pulling of? his hot at the same time ; "for our
oondilion is past the help of man. " "All hi 11> 5,5 from heaven sir',' mid I; "bun.
can v an put a stranger' in tho wny ('0 help you 1 for you seem tobc in some great clistraao.
I saw you "hen you landed, and chII you seemed LI) make applicai-iuu to (film lnutea-
tlmt came with y,on I saw one of them in): up his sword to kill you."

The your man, with 'l-emrr. running down his fawn, and trembling, looked like one
astonished, returned, "Am I talking to God, or man? In it a real man, or an angel '2 "

---" Be in no fem about (hogan ," flhhl T; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he
would have come better clothed, and aimed niteranother manner than you sac me in 5 pray
lay aside your fears 5 1 am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you ; you sea I
have one servant only; we have arm>> and ammunition; toil us freely, can we serve
you? W'lmt is your case 7 " " Our (me, sir," said ho, " in too long to ml] you, while our
murderers are so near us ; but, in short, sir, I was commander of that ship ,- my men.

,r7i
 

have mutinied against me 3 they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me, and,
at last, have set we on shore in this desolate place, with these two men: with rue--(mu
my mate, the other a. passenger, where we expected to perish, believing the place to be
uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it." "Where are these brill-es, your
enemies 2 " said I; " do you know whom they are gone?" " There they lid sir," said
be, pointing to n thicket of trees ; "my heart tremblw for fear they have seen us,
and heard you speak; if they have, they will certainly murder us all." "Have they
any fire-arms? " said I. He answered, " They had only two pieces, one of which they
loll. in the hon. ." " Well then," said I, " leave the rest to me 3 I see they mallssleep;
it is an easy thing to lcill them all ,- 'hut shall we rather take them prisoners ? " He told
me there were two desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to show any
mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the test would return to their duty.
I asked him which they were. He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them,
but he would obey my orders in anything I would direct " Well," says I, " let us
retreat. out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve further." So
they willingly went back with me, till the woods covered us from them.

" Look you, sir," said I ; "' if I venture upon your deliverance, are you willing to
make two eonditions with me? " He anticipated my propowls by telling me that both he
and the ship, iii-wavered, should be wholly directed and commanded by me in everything ;
and if the ship was not renovated, he would live and die with me in what. pert of the
world sooner I would send him ; and the two other men said the some>> " Well," said
l, "my conditions are but two ; firsq--nmt while you stay on this island with me, you
will not pretend Lo any authority here ; and ii 1 put arms in your-hands, you will, upon
all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island,
and in the meantime be governed by my orders; secondly,--t.hat if the ship is or may
be recovered, you. will carry me and my man to England pas-use free."

He gave mo all the assurance that the invention and faith of a. man could devise that
he would comply with these most reasonable demands, and besides would owe his life no
mo, and acknowledge it- upon all occasions as long as he lived. " Well, then," said I,
" here are three muskets for you, with powder and ball ; tell me next what you think is
proper to he done." He showed oil the testimony of his gratitude that ho was able,
but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told. him I thought it was hard venturing
anything ; but the best. method I could think of was to fire on them at once as they lay,
and if any were not killed M: the first volley, and oil'ered to submit, we might save them,
and so puk ib wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot. He said, very modestly,
that he was 10th to kill them, if he could help it ; but that those two were incorrigible
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in blue ship, and if they escaped, we
should be undone still, for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's compmy,
and destroy us all. " Well, then," says I, " necessity legitimate: my adviuo, for it is the
only way to save our lives," However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I
told him they should go tlmmselves, and manage :us they found convenient.

In the middle of this discoursewe heard some of them awake, and soon afici- We saw
two of them on their feet. I asked him if either of thorn were the men who he had said
were the heads of the mutiny? He said, "No." " Well, then," said I, " you may' let
them escape i and Providence seems to have awakened them on purpose to save them
selves NOW," says I, "if the inst. escape you, it is your fault." Animated with this, he
took the musket I hurl given him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two com--
rades with him, with each man u piece in his hand 5 the two men who were with him 30%

:72PUNISHMENT OF THE MUTINEERb.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

0:115 MUTINRERS.

first made some noise, at which one of the seamen, whoiwas awake, burned about,
and seeing them coming, cried out. to the rest ; but it was too late then, for the
moment he cried out they fired--l mean the two man, the captain wisely reserving
hie own piece. They hm! so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that mm
of them was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded 5 but not being
dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to the other ; but the.
captain, stepping to him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he should call
upon God to forgive his villmxy, and with that word knocked him down with the
stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more: there were three more in tho
company, and one of them was slightly wounded. By this time I was come 5 and
when they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy.
The captain told them he would spare their lives if they would give him an assurance
of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would wear to be
faithful? to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to
Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all the protestations of their
sincerity that could be desired ; and he was willing to believe them, and spare their
lives, which I was not against, only 1 obliged him to keep them bound hand and fact
while they were upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the capmin'a mate to the boat, with
orders to secure her, and bring away the oars and nails, which they did 3 and by-nnd-by
three straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted from the test, came back
upon hearing the guns fired ; and seeing the captain, who before was their prisoner, now
their wnqueror, they submitted to be bound also ; and so our victory was complete.

173
 

It now remained that the captain and 1 should inquire into one mother's circum-
-stances. I began first, and told him my whole history, which he heard with an attention
oven to amazoment,--ond particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished
with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a. whole collection of
wonders, it affected him dmply. But when he reflected from thence upon himself, and
how I aeemod to have been preserved there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran
down his face, and he could not. speak n. word more After this communication we: at
an end, T carried him and his two men into my apartments, leading them in just where
I came out, via, at the top of the house, where I refreshed him with such provision so
I had, and showed them all the contrivances I had made during my long, long inha-
hiting that place.

Alll showed them, all I sold to them, was perfectly amazing ; but above all, the
~03ptu-in admired my fortification, and how perfectly I had concealed my retrw; with a
grove of trees, which, having been now planted near twenty years, and the trees growing
much faster than in England, was hmmme a. little wood, so thick that it was impassable
in any part of it. but at that one side where I had reserved my little winding passage
into it T told him this was my castle and my realdence, hut that I had a sent in the
country, as most. princes have, whit-her I could rot-root upon occasion, and I would show
him that too another time 5 but at present our business wax i0 consider how in recover
the ship.- He agreed with me an to that, but told me he was perfectly at a, loss what
measures to take, for that there were still fix-nnd-twenty hands on board, who, having
entered into a. cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law, ,
would he hardened in it. now hy desperation, and would carry it on, knowing bind. if
they were subdued they should be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to England,
or to any of the English colonies, and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them
with so small a, number as we were.

I nursed for some time upon what he had said, and found it who a very rationnl con-
clusion, and that therefore something was to be resolved on very speedily, as well to dmw
the men on board into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent- oheir landing upon no,
and destroying us. Upon thin, it presently occurred to me that in a little while the
ship's crew, wondering what was hmmno of their comrades and of the boat, would
certainly come on shore in their other boot to look for them, and that than, perhaps,
they might come armed, and be too strong for us : this he allowed to he mtionnl. Upon
this, I told him the first. thing we had to do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the
Mach, so that they might not carry her off, and (<<king everything out ofher, leave her so
far useless as not to be fit to swim. Acwrdingly we went on board, took the arms which
were loll; on board out of her, and wlmtever else we found there,--which was a bottle
of brandy, and another of rum, a few hineuiboalces, a. horn of powder, and a great lump
of xugnr in a piece of canvas (the sugar was five or six pounds.) 5 all which was very
welcome to me, especially the birtndy and anger, of which I had had none lefi for many
V851 Hi.

When we had carried all those things on shore (the cars, must, nail, and rudder of the
hunt. were carried away before), we. knocked a great hole in her lJotmm,tlint if they hnd
come strong enough to master us, yet they could non carry oil the boat. Indeed, it was
not much in my thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship; but my view you
that if they went away without the boat, I did not much question to make her again
fit to carry us to tho Leeward Islands, and call upon our frienda the Spaniards in my
way, for I had them still in my tlimxghte.

I74PREPARATIONS FOR A CONTEST.

 

\Vhilc we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main strength, lieu-veil
the boat>> upon the beach, so high that the tide would not float>> her 03 at high-water
wk, and heeidms had broken a hole in her bottom too big to he quickly stopped, and
Werner. down musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire a. gun, and make a
waft with her ensign as anigual for the boat to come on board : hut no hoot stirred ;
and they fired several times, making other signsls for the boat At: last, when all
their signals and firing proved fruitleas, and they found the lmflb did not stir, we saw
them, by the help or my glasses, hoist, another boat out, and row towards the shore;
and we found, as they oppromehod, that there were no less than ten men in her, and
that they had fire-arms with them.

As the ship lav almost two leaguws from the show, we had a. full view of them us
their came, and 0. plain sight even of their faces; because the tide having sol. them a
rlietlo to the east oz "the other hoof, they roued up under shore, to come to the same
place where the othei had landed, and where the bent lay , by this means I say, we
had a full ~rierr of them, and the captain knew the pe1sons and <<hamsters of all the men
in the boat, of whom, he said, there were three very honest fellows, who, he was sure,
were led into this conspirney hy the rest, being ovewowored and frightened 5 but lel;
as for the boutswajn, who it seems was the chief oflicer among them, and all the rest,
they were as outingmus as any of the ship's crew, and were no doubt made desperate in
their now enterprise ; and terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too powerful
for us. I smilul at him, and told him that men in our circumstmmoa were past. the
operation of {car 5 that seeing nlmofi'. every condition that could be wus better than than
which we were supposed to he in, we ought to expect. than the consequence, whether
death or lifo, would he sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the.
circumstances of my life, and whether n deliverance were not worth vauluriug for.
" And where, sir," said I, "is your belief of my being preserved here on purpose to save
your life, which elevated you a little while go? For my part," said I, " there seems
to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect. of it." " What is that": 1" Sears he " Win,
said I,' 'it is, that as you. Saw them are three or fom honest follows among them, which
should be spared, had they been oil of the \i: cked part. of the crew, I should have thought
God's providence had singled them out to deliver them into your hands ; for depend upon
it, every man that comes ashore is our own, and shall die or live as they behave to no."
A; I spoke this with s. raised voioo and cheerful countenance, I found it. greatly
encouraged him ,' so we set vigorously to our businesn

We had, upon the first appearance of the boats coming from the ship, considered
of separating our prisoners ; and haul, indeed, secured them cfi'ocbually. Two of them,
of whom Llic.(,-.~z.pio,iu was less anand than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the
three delivered men to my core, where they were remote enough, and out. of danger of
being heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of the woods, if they could have
delivered themselves; how rhev lei} tlunn hound, but go '0 them provisions; and
yl'omined them, if they continued (here quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or
two; but thais if they attempted their area-11o, they should he put. to death without
mercy. They promised faithfully to burr their mmfinemeno with pulienoo, and were
veryehankful that they had such good image as to have provisions and a light; left them :
for Friday gave them candles (such as we made ourselvea) for their comfort ; and they
did not know but that he stood germinal over them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better ugge ; two of them were kept. pinianed, indeed,
because the captain was not free to trust; them 3 but the other two were taken into my

175
 

service, upon the captain's recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live '
and dip. with u: ; so with them and the three honest men we were seven men, well
armed; and I made no doubt we should ho able to deal well enough with the ten that
were coming, considering thut the captain had said there were three or four honest men
among them also. As- 300:: as they got to the place where their otherbont lay, they ran
their boat into the beach and came all on ahorc, hauling the boot up after them, which
I was glad tn see, for I was afraid they would rather have left the bout (it an anchor
some distance from the shore, with some bands in her, to guard her, and so we should
not be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first thing they did, they 1m all to
their other boat; and it was easy to see they were under a great, surprise to find her
stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom. After they
had mused awhile upon this; they set up two or Lhmo great shouts, hullooing with all
Lhoir might, to try if they could malts their companions hear ; but all was to no purpose :
then they come all close in a ring, and fired a. volley of their small arms, which, indeed,
we heard, and the echoes made the woods ring 3 but it was all one 3 those in the care,
we were aura, could not hear 3 and those in our keeping, though they heurd it well
enough, yet durst give no answer to them. They were so astonirhed aL the surprise
of this, that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again to their
xhip, and lot them know that the men were all murdered, and the long-haul; stared ;
accordingly, they immediately launched their boat again, and got all of them on board.

The cuylnin was terribly anuwml, and even con founded, at this. believing they would
go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades over for lost, and so he
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered ; but he was
quickly as much frightened the other way.

They had not been long put of with the hunt, when we perceived them all coming
on shore again; but with this new measure in their conduct, which it seems they
consulted together upon, '57,, to have three men in the bout, nnd the rest to go on
shore, and go up into the country to lock for their i'ollowe This was a great disappoint-
ment to us, for now we wen: at a lose wlml. to do, as our seizing chose seven men on shore
would he no advantage to us if we let the bent escape ; because they would row away
to the ship, and then the mat of them wouid he sure Lo weigh and set rail, and 50
our recovering the ship would be lost However, we had no remedy but to wait and
see what the issue of thing>> might prment The seven men mine on shore, and the
three who remained in the bout put her off to it good distance from the shore, and came
to an anchor to wait for them 3 no that it was impousiblo for us to come at them in the
boar. Those that come on shore kept close together, marching towards the top of the little
hill under which my habitation lay 5 and we could see them plainly, though they could
not perceive as We should have been very glad if they would have come nearer to us,
so that we might have fired at them, or that they would have gone Luther oil; that We
might come abroad. But when they were com: to the brow of the hill where they
could see a grant way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the nortlronst part,
and Where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hulloocd till they were weary: and
not caring, it seems, to venture for from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat '
down together, under a tree, to consider of it, Had they thought fix: to have gone to sleep
there, as the other purl/y of them had done, theyhad done. the job for ui' 5 but they were
too full of apprehensions of (hugel- to venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell
what the danger was they had to fear-

The captain made a veryjust proposal to me upon this consultation of theirs, viz,
176Tax m 'xuxmms OVRRJ-OWIRH>>. ' . . ..
that perhaps thev would nll fire a volley again, to ondmvo'ur to make their fellows hear,

and that: we should all sally upon them just. at the' Junecure when their pieces were all
diflclwged, 3. ul they would certainly. Yield, and we ehuulll have them Without, bloodshed

I liked this proposal, provided It- was done while we were nem- enough to come up to
them hefoio they could load their pieces again. But this event did n'oohsippon ; and we
lay still n long time, very irresolute what course to take. At length, I told them there
would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then if they nlid not return ['0
the boot, perhaps we might: find a way to get between them and (he shore, and so mighb,
use some stra'lagem with them in the boot. to get them on allure. Vile wuitod e great.
while, though very impatient for their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after
long consultation, we now thorn all start up, mid max-eh down towards the son: it seems
they had such dreadful apprehensions of- the danger of the place, that they resolved to go

on board the ship again, give their companions over for lint, and so go on with their

ink-ruled voyage with the ship.

A3300!) as I perenlreil them go towards the shore, I imagined ii. in llH as it renlly was,
that they hml given over their search, and were for going back agnin ; and the captain,
as soon as I told him my thonghlir' was ready to sink of. the npprchensimis of it. : but 1
presently thought of n. s'umtngem to fetal: them back gain, and which answered my end
to o little. I ordered Friday mul the cnplnin's new: in go mm- the lincloerool; westward,
towards the place where the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and no
men as they came w a little rising ground, at <<lieut- half a mile diszamce, T bade them
halloo out, as loud 3 they could, and wait. till they found the seamen heard them ; that
us soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they should return it again ; mid.
then keeping out of sight, take A round, always answering when the others hallooed, oo-
draw them as far into the island, and among the woods, as possible, and than wheel
about again to me by such ways as I directed.

They were just going into the been when Friday and the mute hallooed ,2 and they
presently heard them, and, annworing, ran along the ahore westward, towards the voice
they heard, when they were pmsencly stopped by the creek, where, the water being up, they
could not get, over, and called for the boat to come up and set them over ; as indeed, I
expected. When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat being gone up a
good way into the creek, and, as in were, in a. harbour within the land, they took one or"
the three men one of her, to go along with them, and loll; only two in the bent, having.
fastened her to the stump of a little tree on the shore. This wee what I wished for ;.
amiimmediately leaving Friday and the captain's mate in) their business, I tool: the met,
with me, and crossing the creek out of their eight, we surprised the two men before they
wero aware ; one of them lying on the shore, and the other beingiu the hook The Yellow
on where was between sleeping and waking, and going to siart up; the captain, who was
foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down ; and then called out to him in the-
heat to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few arguments to persuude a

single mm to yield, when he saw {lie men upon him, and his conn- ide knocked oown:

' besides, this was, ii; seems one of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the r oat
*of' the crew; and, therefore. was easily pemuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to
join very sincerely with us in the menu time, Friday and the captain's make so well
managed their business with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooim and answering,-
l'roan one hill (0 snot-her, and from one wood to anolvlier, till they not only heartily tired
Lliem, but left. them where they could not reach back to the boat before it new dark ;
and, indeed, they were heartily tired themselves also, by (She ohm they came hook to us.

178THE )iU'l'lNEERS' CAPITULATE.

 

'We haul nothing new to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to fall upon
them, so as to make sure work with them It was sevenil hours liner Friday came back
to me imfore they came buck to their boat 3 and we could hear the foremost of them,
long before they came quite up, calling to those behind to come along ; and could also
hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they were, and not able in come any
faster: which was very welcome news to us. At length they came up to the boat :
but if. is imlmsihle to express their confusion when they found the boat that aground in
the creek, the tide. ebbcd out, and their two men gone. We could hear them call to one
another in u- mosf. lamentable manner, telling one another they were got into an
enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants in it,and they should all ho.
murdered, or else them were devils and spiriw in it, and they should be ail carried away
and devoured. They halloood ngsin, and called their two mummies by their names a
great many times ; but no answer. Aller some time, we could see them, by the little
light there was run about, wringing their hands like menin despair, and sometimes they
would go and sit down in the boat (79 rest themselves: then come ashore gain, and
wall: about again, and so the some thing over again. My men would falln have had me
give them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark ; but T was willing to take them
at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could ; and wpecially
I was unwilling to hazard the killing any of mn' men, knowing the othersvrcxe Very well
armed. I resolved to wait, to see if they did not separate 5 and therefore, to make sure
of them; I drew my 'ambuscnde nearer, and oxdored Friday and the villi. min to creep
upon their hands and feet, as close to the gionnd as they could, that tl: cy might not he
discovcmd, and get as near them as they could pomibly, hefme they offered to fine.

They haul not been long in that posture, when the boatswnin, who was the principal
ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirlliul
of all Lha rust, came walking towards them, with two maiool' the crew,- the captain was
so anger at having the principal rogue so innu'h in his power, that he could hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to he sure of him, for they only heard his tongue
berm>>. , but. when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, ntarting up on their feet,
let- fly at them. The baatswain was kilicd upon the spot : the next man was shotin the
body, and fell just by him, "tough he did not die till an hour or two after 5 and the
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole mmy,
which was now eight men ,- viz, myself, generalissimr); Friday, my lieutenant-general ,-
the captain and his two men, and the three prisoners of war whom we had trusted with
arms. W e came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see our number ;
and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was now one of us, call them by
name, to try if I could bring them to u. parley, and so perhaps reduce them to terms ;
which .fell'out just as we desired 3 for, indeed, it was easy to think, as their condition
than was, they would be very willing to capitulate. So he calla out: as loud as he could
to one of them, " Tom Smith 2 Tom smith l" Tom Smith answered immcdiitely, "Who's
that? Robinson '? " for it seems he knew the voice. The other answered, " 21y, ay ; for
God's sake, Tom Smith, throw clown your arms and yield, or you are all dead men this
momenL"v--"Wh0 most we yield to 1! Where are they 2 " says Smith again. " Here
they are," says he ; "here's our captain and filly men with him, have been hunting you
these two hours ,' the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded and I am a. prisoner ;
and if you do uobyield, youare all lost."----" Will they give us quarter then '2 " says Tom
Smith, " and we will yield."-----"I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield." said Robinson :
so he asked the captain; and the captain himself then calls out, " You, Smith, you

179
 

 

 

know my voice 3 if you 1:1,}! down your arms immedialcly, and submit, you shall have
your lives, all but W'Ell Atkixm."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, " For God's sake, captain, give me quarter 5 what.
hm'eldonu'l They have been all as bad as I :" which, by the way, was not true ;. for,
it seems, this Will Atkins was she first mam that laid holcl of the captain, when chef
[list mutinied, and used him barbaroimly, in tying his lmnds, end giving him _ injurious
language. However, the wptain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion, and
trust to the governor's mew-y: by which he meant me, for they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their lives ; and Isont the man
that had parlayerl with them, and two more, who hound them all ; :uul then my great

_ army of filly men, which, with those three, were in all but eight, come up and seized
upon them, and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one more out of sigllh, for
reasons of shite.

Our next Work was to repui r the boat, and think of seizing the ship ; and as for the
captain, now he had leisure to purlcy with them, he expostulated with them upon the
villain); of their practices with him, and upon the further wickedness-of their denign, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to film
gallows. They all appesl'ed very penilcnt, and begged hard for their lives: As for that, he
told them they were none of his prisoners, hub the commander's of the inland ; than they
thought they had sec him on shore in a barren, uninhabited island; but it had pleased God
so to direct them, that it was inhnhited, and that; the governor wars-m Englishman ; that
he night mg Lhom all there, if be pleased ,' but as hohad given them all qim'ter, he
supposed he would send them to England, to be dealt with there an justice required,
except Atkins, whom he was oomnmndcd by the governor to advise to prepare for death,
for that lie would be hanged in the morning. '

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had its dea'red effect ; Atkins fell
upon his knees, to bag the captain to intercede with the governor for his life ; and all
the rest bagged of him, for God's sake, that they might not} he sent to England.

It now occurred to me, that; thc time of our deliverance was come, and that it; would
be 3 most easy thing to bring these fellows in to he hearty in getting posscsa'on of the
ship 5 col retired in the dark from them, that {illeyfmight not see what kind of a. governor
they had, and called the captain to me ; when I called, as at, a good distance, one of the men
was ordered in speak again, and say to the captain, " Captain, the commander calls for
you ; " and praentiy the captain replied, "Tell his Excellency, I m just coming."
This more perfectly anmmd them, and they all believed that the conimunderwosjust by.
with his. filly men. Upon the explain coming to nic, I told him my project for seizing
tho ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in execution next
morning. But, in order to execute ib'witli more art, and to be secure of success, I told
him we must. divide the grisonem, and that he should go and take Ackins, and two more
of the worst of them, and send them pinioncd to the cave where the others lay. This
was committed to Friday and the two men who came on shore with the cupiuin. They
conveyed them to the cave as to 9. prison : and it wits, indeed, a dismal place, especially
to men in their condition. The other: I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which 1

> have given 9. Full description : and as it Who fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was
secure enough. considering they were upon their behaviour.

To these in the morning I sent; the captain, who was to enter into a pnxley with
them ,1 in a. word, to try them, and tell mo whether he thought, they inight he trusiod or
'not to go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury dono- him.

:80"MTV; (:14 'rHv Rl-'FRL (Z.\l'l'-UM
of the condition they were brought to, and that though the governor had given them
quarter for their lis-ns as to the present action, yet that if they were sent to England,
they would be all hanged in chains; but that if they would join in such an attempt
as to recover the aliip, he would have the governor's engagement for their portion.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted by men in their
condition ,- they fell clown on their kllelAS to the captain, and premixed, with the dimpest
imprecations, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should
own their lives to him, mu] would go with him oil over the world ; that they would own
him for a father to them as long as they lived. "Well," says the captain, "I must go
and tell the governor what you my, and see what. I can do to bring him to consent to it."
So he brought me an'aeeonnt of the temper he found them in, and that he verily believed
they would be faithful. However, that we might he very secure, T told him he should
go back again and choose out five of thorn, and tell them that they might see that he
did not wont. men, that he would take out those five to be his assistants, and that the
governor would keep the other two and the three that were sent prisonens to the castle
(my arches hostages; for the fidelity of those five 5 and that if they proved unfaithful in
the execution, the live hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the shore. This
looked severe, and convinced them that the governor was in earnest; however, they
haul no woy left. them but to accept it ,~ and it was now the business of the prisoners,
as much as of the enptoin, to persuade the other five to do their ulnty.

Our strength was now thins ordered for the expedition : first, the captain, his mate,
and passenger ; semnd, then the two prixrmors: of the first gang, to whom, having their
character fmm the captain, I had given their liberty. and trusted them with arms 3 third,
the other two whom T hall kept till now in my bower. pinioned, but, upon the captain's
motion, hail now released ; fourth, these five released a-t'lxst : so that they were twelve
in all, besides fire We kept prisoners in the care for hostages.

l asked the mpmin if he was willing to venture with these hemls on bokll'll the ship ,-
i'or as for me and my man Friday, I (llx'l not think it was proper for us to stir, having
seven men left behind 3 and it was employment enough for us to keep them asunder,
and supply them with vietnels. As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast, but Friday went in twice a. day to them, to supply: them with neoeesarios 3 and I
made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to take it.

When I showed myself to the two'hosigeg it was with the captain, Who told om

lwns the person the governor had ordered to look. after them; and that it was the
governor'n pleasure they should not stir anywhere but hyimy direction ; that if they did,
they would he fetched into the cit-Sile, and he laid in irons : so that as we never astrflox'ed
them to see me as governor, I now appeared as another person, and spoke of the
governor, the gnrrison, the castle, and the like upon all occasions. '

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his two boats, stop the

brawl: of one, and man them. He made his paraenger captainof one, with four other
men ; and himsnlf, his mote, and five more, want in the other ; anal they eontrivcd
their business very well, for they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they
came within call of tho shi p, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them they hzul brought
off the men and the boat, but tbnt it was a long time before they had found them, and
the like; holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's side; when the captain
and the mate entering first- with their arms, immediately knocked dorm the second mate
and carpenter with the butt-end of their inns-hots, being very faithfully seconded by
their men 3 they secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-decks, and
"$2THE SHIP RECOVERED,

begun to fatten the hatches, to keep them down that were below ; when the other boot
and their men, entering at the fore--01mins secured the {aromatic of the ship, and the
scuttle which wont down into the cook-room, making three men they found there
prisoners. When, this was done, and nil snl'o upon deck, the captain ordered the mate,
with three men, to break into the round-house, where the new rebel captain hay, who.
having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men and a boy hnd got fire--arms in
their hands ; and when the mate, with n crow, split open the door, the new captain and
his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a. munkel'rbull, which
broke his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but. killed nobody. The mote, calling
for help, rushed, however, into the round-house, wounded as he was, and, Will) mi pistol,
shot the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, coming out
again behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a. word more: upon which the rest
yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was tlius secured, the explain ordered seven guns to he fired,
which was the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success, which, you
may he sure, I was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore {or it j-ill near
two o'clock in the morning. Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down ;
and it having been a. day of great. fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was something
surprised with the noise of a gun ; and presently sierhing up, I heard a. man calling mo by
the name of " Governor! Governor !" and presently I knew the captain's voice; when
climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and, pointhig lo the ship, he embraced
me in his arms. " My dear fi~ieml and deliverer,"says ho, " there's your ship 3 for elm is
all yours, and so are we, and. all that belongs to her." .I. cast my eyes to the ship, and there
she rode, within little more than half n. mile of the whore; for they had weighed her
anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and, tho weather being fair, had brought
her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek 5 and, the tide being up,
the mptoin had brought. the pinnace in near the place where I first landed my rafts,
so landed just at my door. I vans at first ready to sink down with the surprise; for
I sew my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into m y hands, all things easy, and a. huge nhi p
just ready to carry me away whither l pleased to go. At first, for some time, 1 was
not able to answer one word ; but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by
him, or I should have fallen to the ground. He perceived the surprise and immediately
pulled a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a. dram ofcordial, which he had brought on
purpose for mo. After I haul drunk it, I sat down upon the ground; and though it
brought me to myself; yet it was a. good while before I could speak a wordto him. All
this while the poor man was in as great an 'ecstaoyns I, only not under any surprise as I
was; and he mid a thousand kind and tender things to me, to compose and bring me to
myeeli'; but such was the flood ofjoy in my breast, that it put all my spirit>> into con-
fueiou : at last- it broke into tears; and, in a. little while after, T recovered my speech ;
then I took my turn, and embraced him asmy deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I told
him I looked upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me, and that the whole trans-
action seemed to he a chain of wonders; that such things as these were the testimonies
we had of a. secret lmnd of Providence governing the world, andnn evidence that the eye
of an Infinite Power could search into the remotest comer of the world, and send help
to the miserable whenever Ile pleased. I forgot not to lift up my hoart in thankfulneaa
to Heaven ; nnd what. heart. could for-beer to bless Elm, who had not only in a miracu--
lous manner provided for one in such a wilderness and in such a. desolate condition, but
from whom every deliverance must always be acknowledged to proceed?

' 183
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had brought, me some little
refi'eehmento, such as the ship ofi'ordod, and such as the "Tel-elves that had been. so long
his mastershaxl not; plundered him 015 Upon this, ho called aloud to the boat, and
bade his men bring the things ashore that. were for the governor ; and, indeed, it. was a
present as if I had been one that was not to be carried away along with them,
but as if 1 had been to dwell upon the island still, and they were to go without.
me. First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters, u'x
huge bottles of Mnrloiun wine (the bot'vles held two quarts each), two pounds of
excollnns good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bag of pins, and about a hundmdwcight. of biscuit ; he also brought me-
a box of sugar, a. box of flour, a bag full of lemonz, and two bottles of lime-juice,
and abundance of other things. But, besides those, mid what was a thousand fima
more useful, he brought me six new clean shirts, six very good nockclotlm, two pair
of gloves, one pair of shoes, :1 hat, and one pair of stockings, and n very good, suit.
of clothes of his own, which had been worn but very little: in a word, he clothed
me from head to foot. It was :1 very kind and agreeable present, as any one "my
imagine, to one in my circumsionces ; but never was anything in the world of that kind.
so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at their first.
[rubbing on. _

After these ceremonies were p551), and alter all his good things were brought into-
my little apartment, wo began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we
had ; for it was wort-h considering Whether we might venture to take them any WiLlL
us: or no, especially two of them, whom he knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the
last dogma 3 and the captain snid he knew they were such rogues than there was no
obliging them, and if ho did carry them away, it must he in irons, as malefactom, to be
delivered over to justice at the first English colony he could come at 3 and I found one
the captain himself was very anxious shout it. Upon this, I told him that, ifho desired
it, I would undertake to bring the two men ho spoke of to make it their own rcqncsa
that he should leave them upon the island. "1 should he very glad. of Lind," says the
captain, "with all my heart." " Well," says I, "I will send for them up, audio": with
them for you." - So I caused Friday and the two hosiagcs, for they were now discharged,
their comrades having performed their promise 5 I say, I caused them to go to the cave,
and bring up the five men, pinioned as they were, to die bower, and keep them there
till I came. Adar nome time, I came thither dressed in my new habit 5 and now Iwaa
called governorngain Bum all met, and the captain with um, I caused the men to he
brought before me, and I told them I had got'a. full account of their villauous behaviour
to the captain, and how they had run away with the ship, and were preparing to commit
further robberies, but that Providence had ensmred them in their own ways, and that
they were fibllell into the pit which they had dug for others. I let them know that by
my direction the ship had been seized 3 that she lay now in the road ; and they might.
see by--nud ivy: that tlioir new captain had received the rewm'd of his villany, for that
they might see him hanging at. the yard-aim 5 that, as to them, I wanted to know what
they held to say why I should not execute them a>>: pirates, taken in the em, as by my
commission they could not doubt but I had authority to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had nothing to say but this,
that. when they were taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they humbly
implored my mercy. Bul: I told them I knew 110$ what mercy to show them 3 for as.
for myselfl had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage

:84THE PRISONERS SET AT LIBERTY.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE CAPTAIN HUKG AT THE YARD-ARM.

with the captain w go to England ; and as for the captain, he could not carry them to
England other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried fer mutiny, and running awn-y
with the ship; the consequence of which, they must needx know, would be the
gallows; so that I could not tell what: was the best. for than), unless they had a mind
to take their fate in the island. If they desired that, 1 did not (are 3 as I had liberty
to leave it, I had some inclination to give them their lives, if they [110"ng they
could shift on shore. They seemed very thankful for it, and said they would much
rather venture to stay there than be carried to England to be hanged. So I lett- it
on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some (lilllculty of it, 38 if he dunk
not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a. little angry with the captain, and
told him that they were my prisoners, not his; and, that seeing I. had offered
them go much favour, I would be as good as my word ,- and that if he (lid not
think fit. to consent to it, I would get them at lilnerby, as I found them; and if
he did not like it, he Milt take them again if he could catch them. Upon
this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and
.bste them retire into the woods, in the place whence they came, and 1' would

185
 

leave them some firearms, some ammunition, and some directions how they should live
very well, if they thought lit. Upon this I prepared to go on board the eliip ; hut told
the captain I would stay that night V.) prepare my things and desired him to go on
board in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore
next day for me ; ordering him, in the mean time, to cause the new captain, who was
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that those men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I saith for the men up to me in my apartment, and
entered seriously into discourse with them of their circumstances. I told them I
thought they had made a right choice ; but if the captain had carried them away, they
would certainly be hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging at the ynrdmrm
of the ship, and told them they had nothing less to expect

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I told them I would let
them into the story of my living there, and put them into the way of making it easy to
them. Acconlingly, I gave'them the whole llislory of the piece, and of my coming to
it; showed them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured
my grapes; and, in a. word, all that was necesstu-y to make them easy. I told them the
story also of the sixteen Spaniards, that were to he expected, for whom I left a letter,
and made them promise to treat them in common with themselves.

I left them my (ire-arms, viz., five muskets, three fuelling-pieces, and three sword>>.
I hail ethos-ea barrel and n belief powder left ; for after the first year or two I used but
little, and wasted none. I gave theme description of the my I managed the goats,
and directions to milknnd flatten them, and to maize hob-h butter and cheese. In a word, I
gave them every part of my story; and told them I should prevail with the captain
to leave them two barrels ol' gunpowder more, and some garden-seeds, which I told them
1' would have been very glad oi: Also, I gave them the bag of peas which the captain
haul brought me to eat, and bade them be sure toaow and increase them. -

Having done all this, I left the next day, and went on board the ship.__ Vie
prepared immediately to soil, but did not weigh that night. The next morning early,
'two of the five men came swimming to the ship's side, and nnule the most lamentable
complaint of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship for God's sake, for they
should be murdered, and bagged the captain to take them on board, though he hanged
them immediately. Upon this, the captain pretended to have no power without me ;
but after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of amendment, they were taken
on board, and were, some time after, soundly whipped and pickled ,- after which they
proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, I went with the boat on. shore, the tide being up, with Lhe
things promised to the men 3 to which the captain, at my intercession, caused their
chests and clothes to be added, which they took, and were very thankful for. 1' also
encouraged them, by telling them, that if it lay in my way to send any vase] to take
them in, I would not forget them.

\Vhen I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for reliques, the grcntgoaL-altin
cup I had made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots ; also I forgot not to take the money
I formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless that it was grown misty or
tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver till it had been a littlernbbed and handled,
and also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship And thus I left the island,
the lDth of December, as I found by the ship'n account, in the year 1686, after I had
been upon it eight-and-hvonty yams, two months and nineteen days ; being delivemxl
from this second captivity the same day of the month that I limb made my escape in the

186HE RETURNS TO ENGLAND.

 

llama 10th from among the Moon, of Snilen In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived
in England the llih of June, in the. your 1087', having been thirty-five years absent.

1."?le I came to England, I was a. perfect stmnger in all the world, as if I had
never been known there. My benefactor and faithful stowanl, whomI had 1.311: my
money -iu irust with, was alive, but, had had great misfortunes in the world; was
'hemmc a widow the second. Lime, and very low in the world. I made her easy as to
what she owed mo, assuring her 1 would give her no trouble ,' but, on the contrary. in
gmlitmlc for her former cure and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my lit-tle stock
would atlonl 5 which at clinitirno would, indmd, allow me Lo do but little for her : huh
I assured her I would never forget her former lrindnessto me 3 nor did I foxgot her when
1 had sufiicient- i0 hell) her, as shall he observed in its place. I Went down after.
words into Yorkshire; but my {other was dear], and my mother and all the family
taxi-incl, cxmpt that I found two sisters, and two oft-he children of one of my hrotlwne 5
and as I had been long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me; so was in a word, I found nothing to relic-w; or 2155551. mo 5 and that little money
I had would not do much for me as to settling in the world.

I met. with one piou- of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect; and this was, that
the master of the ship, Whom I had so happily delivered, and by the-same means saved
the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome account to the owners, of the manner
how I had azwed the lives of the men, and the aship, they invited me to meet them iind
some other merchants concernml, and all together made men very handsome compliment
upon the subject, and a present of almost PS200 sterling.

But allel- making seveml reflections upon the ciruumslmums of my life, and how
little way this would go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon,
and new if I might not come by some information of the state of my plantation in the
Bin-Lila, and of what my become 0!. mypnrlner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some
years now given me over for (1me With this view 1 tool: shipping for Lisbon, where I
arrived in April follonm ,- my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in All those
rambling>>; and proving a most faithful servant. upon all occasions. When 1 came to
Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular satisfacfiion, my old friend, the
captain of the ship, who first took me up at. am on" the shore of A frica. He, was now
grown old, and had lelb the <<ca, having put his son, who was far from a. young man,
ink) his xlnip, and who still used (-139 Email Made. The old man (lid not know me ;
.wd indeed, [hardly knew him, But I soon brought myself to his remembrance, when
I told him who I was,

After some passionate express-1m: of the old mqimintance between u>>, I inquired,
'you may be sure, afier my plantation and my partner. The old man told me he hnd not
been in the Brnxils for about. nine yems ,- but that he could nsme me, that when he
'chc away my partner was living 5 but the (51118th, whom I laid joined widi him in
take oognisance of my part, were both dead 3 that, however, he believed that I would have
.n vary good anmunt of the improvement of the plantation 3 for that, upon the general
belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the
produce of my pan. of the planmtion to the plummet-fiscal, who had appropriated it, in
case I never came to claim it, one-third ('0 the king, and two-thirds to the monastery of
St. Augustine, to be expended for the hanci'it of the poor, and for the conversion of the
Indians to the-Catholic faith 3 but that, if I appeared, or any one for me, to .claim the
inheritance, it would be restored; only that the improvement, or annual producbion,
lining diatribnted to charitable uses, conhl not be restored ; but he 388le me than the

187 -
 

 

steward of the ling's revenue from lambs and the providore, or steward of the monastery,
had taken great cum all along that the incmnhenf, that is to sny, my partner, gave every
year a, faithful amount of the produce, of which they haul received duly my moiety. I
asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he hmi brought the plantation, and.
whether he thought it might be worth looking after ; or whether, on my going thither,
I should meet with any obstruction in my poeeessing my just right in the moiety. He
told me he could not toll exactly to what degree the plantation was improved ; but this
In) knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but one-half of
it ; and that, to the heel of his remembrance, helm] heard that the king's third of my part,
which was, it. reams, granted away to some other mousslm'y or religious house, amounted
to above two hundred moidoree a year : that as to my being restored to aqniet possession
of it, there was no question to be made of that, my pmvtner being alive to wit-nose: my
title, and my name being alao enrolled in the register of the country ; also he told me
that the survivors of my two trustees were very fiiir, honest peoplo, and very wealthy ;
and he believed I would not only have their assistance for putting me in possession, but
would find a very considcmblo sum of money in their hands for my account, being the
produce of the farm while their fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, as
above ; which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years.

I allowed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and inquired of the
old captain how it came to pus that the trustees aliould thus dispose army efl'ects, when
he knew that. I had made my will, and had made him, the I'orhigucsc captain, my
universal heir, cine.

Ila told me that was true ; but that as there war no proof of my being (lend, he
could not act as executor, until some certain account should come of my death ; and that
besides, he was not willing la) intermedclle with a thing so remolo _; that it was true he
had registemcl my will, and put in his claim ,- and could he have given any account of
my bl'jng dead or alive; he would have acted by procnrntion, and taken posstmion of the
ingenin (so they cnll the sugar~housc), nml have given his son, who was now at the
Brazil: orders to do it. "But," says the old man, "1' have one piwo of news to tell
you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you as Lhe rust; and that is, believing
you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees did offer to
account with mo, in your mum, for the first six or eight yem's' profits, which I received.
There being at that time great disbursement-a for increasing the works, building an
i ngenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount mnear so much as afterwards it produced :
however," says the old man, "I shun giw: you a true account (if-what l have received in
all, and how I have disposed of it."

After a few duye' further conference with this ancient friend, he brought me an
account of the first six yemn' income of my plantation, signed by my partner and the
nmnzhant--trnshms, being always delivered in goods Viv", tobaom in roll, and anger: in
chests, besides mm, molasses, <<be, which is the consequence of a sugar-work; and I
found by this account, that every year the income considcmbly increased ,- but, as above,
the disbursements being large, the sun at first was small ; however, the old man let me see
that. he was debtor to me {our hund rod and seventy moidmw ot'gold, besides sixty chest:
of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in hisship ; he havingheen
shipwrecked coming home'to Lisbon, about eleven years after my leaving the place.
The good man then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged
to make use ofmy money to rmover his leases, and buy him a- sham in a new ship
" However, my old friend," says he, " you shall not; want a supply in your necessity ,:

188:.\~\~" .N .

g,

_ '\s~n\\n

i
;'
z
1
e
;
i
,.
,
!
t
,

 

 

._._..,.~_ mu ....._.
 

 

and as soon as my son inturns, you shall be fully satisfied." Upon this he pulls. out an
old pouch, and gives me one hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold ,' and giving
me the writings of his title to the ship, which his son was gene to the Brazils in, of which
he was quarlelkpart owner, and his son another, he puts them both in my hands for
security of the rest

I was too much moved with the l10nesty.:\nd kindness of the poor men to he able
to bear this; and remembering what he had done for me, how he had taken me
up m,- sca' and how generously he had used me on all occasions, and particularly how
sincere a. friend he wss now to me, I could hardly 1cfmin weeping at what he had
said tome, the1eforc, first, I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so
much money at that time, and if it would not straitcu him 2 He told me he could not
my but it might streiten him a little; but, however, it was my money, and 1' might
want it more than he.

Everything the good man said was full of infection, and I could hardly refrain from
tears while he spoke; in short, 1 tool: one hundred of the meidores, and milled farapen
and ink to give him it receipt for them : then I returned him the rest, and told him if
over I had pomssion of: the plantation I would return the other to him also (as, indeed,
I afterwards did) 3 and that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son's ship, I would
not take it by any means ; hut that if I wanted the money, 1 flannel he was honest enough
to pay me ; and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I
Would never have a penny more from him.

"Then this was past, the old man begun to ask me if he should put me into a method
to make my claim to my plantation. I told him I thought to go over to it myself. He
said I might do so if I pleased; but that, if I did not, there were ways enoughto
vecure my right, and imumdiatcly to appropriate the profits in my use : and as them
were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go sway to Brazil, he made me enter
my name in a. public register, with his aflidavii, efiirming, upon oat-h, that l was alive,
and that I was the some person who took up the land for the planting the said
plantation at first>> This lining regularly attested by a notary, and a procurntion affixed,
he directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance
at the place; and then proposed my staying with him till an account came of the
return.

Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings upon this proeumtion ;
for in less than seven months I received a large packet from the survivors of my trustees,
the merchants for whom amount I went to sea, in which were the following particular
letters and papers inclosed.

First, there was the accountant-rent of the produce army farm or plantation, from.
the yeax when their father had balanced with my old Portugal captain, being *for six
yam; the balance appeared to be one thousand one hundred and seventy'l'our moidoma
in mr favour

Secondly, there was the account of {our years more, while they kept the efi'ecte in-
their hands", before the government claimed the administration, as be" the effects of a.
person not to he found, which they called civil deeth 3 and the balance of this, the value
of the plantation increasing, amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six
crusadoes, being about three thousand two hundred and forty moidm-m.

Thirdly, there was the Prior of the Augimines' account, who had received the profits-
for above fourteen years ; but not being to account for wlmt was disposed of by the
hospital, very honestly declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not

tooNEWS FROM THE BRAZILS.

 

distrilmLml, which he acknowledged to my account : as to tin: king's part, the:- refnnrlml
nothing.

There was also a letter of my partner's, eongintulntiug inc very affectionately upon my
being aliv 6, giving me an account how the estate W18 improved, and what it produced a
yam; with the portioning of the number 02' squares or some that. it contained, lzmv
planted, how many slam there were u L10" it : and making {wound--twenty crosses for
blmsings, told me he had said so many Ava fiz'ariaa to thank the Blessed Virgin that T
was alive , inviting me very passionnl'ely to come over and take possession of my own; and,
in the mean time, to give him orders to whom he slmnlrl deliver my effects, if I (lid not
come myself; concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and that of his family 3
and sent me, as n present,.seven fine leopml'lle' skim, which he had, it snems, received
from Africa, by some other ship that he had sent blillllel', and which, it. seems, had made
a. better voyage than I. He sent me also live chests of excellent; sweetmeats, and a
hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By the some fleet, my
two )nm-clmuHrustees shipped me one llmnsmnl two hundred chest}; of sugar, eight
hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in gold.

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was better than the lxcgim
ning. It is impossible to express the flutwrings of my very heart when I looked over
these letters, and especially when I found all my wealth about me; for as the Biz-mil
ships come all in fleets, the game ships which brought my letters brought my goods:
and the Minute were 52f>> in the river before the letters came, to my lmul. In at.
word, I turned pale, and grew sick 5 and, had not the old man run and fezched me a
cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had ovorscl: nature, and I had (lied upon
the spot : my, after that, I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till n physician
being sent for, and something of the real cause of my illness being known, he ordered
me to let blood 5 after which I haul relief, and grow well: but I verilyv believe, if
I had not been eased by the vent given in that manner to the spirit; I should have died.

1 was new master, all on a sudden, of above fifty thousand pounds Starling in money,
and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the Bmzils, of above a thousand pounds a
your, as: sure as an mate of lands in England : and, in a word, I was in a condition
which I scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose myself for the enjoyment.
of. The first thing I did was to recompense my original benefimtor, my good old
captain, who had been first charitable~ in me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning,
and honest to me at the end. I showed him all that was sent to mo 5 I told liim that,
next to the providence of Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing to him ,' and.
that it now lay on me to reward him, which I would do a. hundred-fold; so I limb
returned to him the hundred moitloras T. had received of him; then I sent- fur a notary
and coined him to draw up a gciicinl release or dischurge from the four hundred and,
uwenty moiclorcs, which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firineet
mnnncr poesible. After which, I <<reused a procumlion to be drawn, empoweiing him to
be the receiver of the annual profits of my plantation ; and appointing my part-net to
account him, and make the returns, by the usual fleets, to him in my name ; and
by a clause in the end, made a grant of one hundred moidoree a year to him during his
life, out of the effects, and fifty moidores a year to his son after him, (or his life : and
thus I roquited my old man.

I had now to consider which way to steer my course next, and what to do with the
estate that Providence had thus put into my lands 5 and indeed, I had more care upon
my head now than I had in my silent state of life in the island, where I wanted nothing

191
 

 

 

but when: I had, and had nothing but what I wanted ; whereas I had now a great
chnrgo upon me, mid my business was how to gamma it. I had not a euro now to hide
my money in, (WI! place where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew mouidy
and tarnished hoforo anybody would meddle with it ; on the cont/wry, I know not where
to put it, or whom to trust with it. My old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest,
and that was the only refuge I had. In the next plan/5e, my interest in the Emails
seemed to summon me thither ,- hut now I could not toll how to think of going thither
till I had settled my nfl'nim, and left my efi'ects in some snfe hands behindme. At first
I thought of my old friend the widow, who I know was honest, and would he just to
me ; but then she was in years, and but poor, and. for ought I knew, might be in debt _;
so that, in a word, I had no wny but to go back to England myself; and take my 91?st
with me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this ; and therefore, as I had
rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my former hone-
fmolor, so T. began to think of my poor widow, whose husband had hum my first hono-
fiictor, and aim, while it was in her power, my faithful steward and instructor. So, the
first 'lvhing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his hon-respondent in London,
not only to pay 3. bill, but to go find her out, and curry her, in money, almndred pounds
from me, and to talk wit-h her, and comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she should,
if I lived, have a. further supply : at the same time, I sent my two sisters in thecountry
a. hundred pounds Will, they being, though not in want, yet not in very good circum-
stances ; one having been moiried and led a widow ; and tho othen having a>> husband
not so kind to her who should be. But, among all my relations or acquaintances, I
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I (hunt commit the gross of my stock, that I
might go away to the Bmyils, and leave things safe behind me ; and this greatly por-
plexed me.

I had once a. mind to have gone to Line Rmzils, and have settled myself then, for I
was, as it were, naturalised to the place ; but I had some little aoruplein my mind about
religion, which ilwunsibly drew me hawk, of which I shall any more presently. Dow-
ovcri it was not religion that kept me from going there for the present ; and as I had
made no sample of being openly of the religion of the country all the while I was
among them, so neither did I yet ; only that, now and then, having of late thought more
ofit than formerly, when I began to think of living and dying among them, I hogan
to regret my having professed myselfa Papist, and thought it might not he the best
religion to die with. I

But, as I have said, this'wasnot the main thing that kept me from going to the
Bruzils, but that molly I did not know with whom to lmvo my eifecte behind me; so I
resolved at last to go to England with them, where, if I arrived, 1 concluded I should
make some acquaintance, or find some relations, that would be faithful to me; and,
accordingly, I prepared to go to England with all my wealth.

In Order to prepare things for my going homo, I first (the Brazil [loot being just
going away) resolved to give answers suitable to the just and faithful account of things
T. had from thence; and, first, to the Prior of St. Augustine, I wrote a letter full of
thanks for his just dealings, and the ofi'er of the eight hundred and seventy-two moi~
dores which were undisposcd of, which I desired might be given, five hundred to the
inonaatery, and three hundred and seventy~two to the poor, as the prior should direct _:
desiring the good pmlre'x prayers for mo, and the like I Wrote next a letter of tlmnles
to my two trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty

192MARCH.

5 TROOP ON THE

E'

CRUSOcalled for : 2H! for sending them any preseni, they were for above having any occasion
of it. lastly, I wrote no my partner, neknou'lming his industry in the improving the
plantation, and his integrity in incrming the stock oz" the works ,- giving him instrue--
tions fox his future gm ernment ol'mv pint according to the powen; I lmd left; with my
old patron, to whom I desired him to send whzttewi lK. came clue to me, till he should
hear from me more particularly; aasuriug him that it was my intention not only to
ooum to him, but to settle myself there 1'01 the remainder of my life. To thin I added
a very handsome present of some Italiun silks for his. wife and two daughters; for such
the cuaniu's Hun informed me he had ; with two pieces of fine English broad cloth, the
beat 1 could get in Lisbon, five pieces of block helm, and some Flanders lace of a good
value. .

Having thus settled my ufl'oirs, sold my cargo, and burned all my effects into good
bills of exchange, my next (limculty was which way to go in England: I had been
accustomed enuuvh to the sea, and yet I had a. strange aversion to go to Eglnnd bye-es.
at that time; and though I could give no reason for it, yet the dlfl'ieulty increased upon
me so much, that thouvrh 1 had once shipped mv haggage' in order to go, yet. I elLorsd
my mind, and that DOV once, but two or three times.

It' 15 true I had been very uufmtunate by son, and that might be one of the reasons ;
but let no man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases oi'sueh moumnb:
two of the ships which I had singled out to go iii--.1 mean, more particularly singled out
than any abhor--having put my things on board one of them, and in the other having
agreed with the captain; I say two of these ships miscarried; vim, one was taken by
the Algerit:ez,.nll(l the other was cast- away on the Start, near Torliuy, and all the pcoplu
drowned, except three ; so that in either of those vaunela I had been made miserable, in
which most, it was haul in any.

Having been Shun harassed in my arousing my old pilot, to whom I communicated
everything, Pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, but either to go by laudto the Groyno,
and cross over the Bay of Biscuy to Rochelle, from whence it was hut an easy and safe
journey by land to Parig And no to Calais and Dover ; or to go up to Madrid, and E0 all
the way by land through France. In a word, I was so preposscssnd against my going
by sea at all, except from Cola-is to Dover, that T. resolved to travel all the way by land ,-
which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the pleasanter
way : and to make it more so, my old captain brought mu English gentleman, the son
of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me 5 after which we picked
up two more English merchants also, and two young I'ortugnem gentlemen, the lust
going to Paris only ; so that in all, there were six of us, and five servants ;. the two
merchants and the two Portuguese concerning themselves with one servant between
two, to save the charge ; and as for'me, I got an English sailor a; travel with me no a.
servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a strangerto be capable of supplying
the place of a servant upon the read.

In this manner I set out from Lisbon 5 and our company being very well mounted
and aimed, we made a. little troop, whereof they did me the honour to cull me captain,
as well because I was the oldest man, as hmuse I had two scrvantamuid, indcml, was
the origin of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my son journalig so I shall trouble you ncw
with none of my land journals ; but wine adventures that happened to usin this tedious
and difficultjoumey I illustnot omit.

"\'y'han we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain, were willing to

194WE CHANCE OUR ROUTE.

 

stay some time to <<no the court of Spain, and what was worth observing ; but, it being
one latter port of the summeero hastened away, and sot out from Madrid about the
middle of October, but when we come to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed, sit
several towns on the way, with an account that so much snow was fallen on the French
side of the mountains, that several Lmvellers were obliged to come back to anpoluno,
after having attempted at an extreme hazard to pass on.

When we came to Pumpeluna. itself, we founci it so indeed; and to me, that had
been always used ('0 a. hot climate, and to countries where I could scarce bear any
rclothen on, the <<on was insufl'erzible; nor, indeed, was it more painful than it. was
surprising, to come Ibut ten days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was not
only warm, lmt very hot, and immediately to feel it wind from the I'yrenean Mountains
so very keen, so severely cold, as to he intolemble, and to endanger benumbing and
perishing of our fingem and toes.

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountnins all covered with snow.
and felt. cold went-her, which he had never seen or felt before in his life To mend the
matter, after we came to Pumpeluns, it continued snowing with so much violence, and
so long, that the people said winter was come before its time; and the tennis, which were
dfiicult before, were now quite impassable ; in a word, the snow lay in xoxne places
too thick for in; to trawl, and hning not hard frozen, as is the case in the northern
countries, there wns no going without being in danger of being buried alive every step.
We stnyed no less than twenty days at Pampelnna. 3 when (seeiu the winter coming on,
and no likelihood of its being better, for ism the aeveresf, winter all over Europe
that had been known in many years) I proposed that we should go away to Font-
:n'ahis, and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very little voyager But, while
I was considering this, there came in four French gentlemen, who, having been stopped
-on the French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found outaguide, who,
traversing the country nenr the head of Tanguedor, ho/l brought them over the mountains
Shy such way; that they were not much ineommoded with the snow ; for where they met
with snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to hear them and their
l10m(SS, We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake in curry us the some
way, with no hazard from the snow, provided we were armed sumeiently'to protect our~
selves from wild beasts; for, he fluid, in these great snows it was frequent for some
wolves to Show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made invenous for want
of food, the ground being covered with snow. ""9. told him we were well enough
pmpnrod for such creatures as they were, if he would insure us frame kind of two-legged
wolves, which, we are told, we were in most (lager from, especially on the French side
of the mountains: He moisflod us that there was no danger of that kind in the way
that we were to go ; so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other gentle-
men, with. their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to
.go, and were obliged to come back-again.

Accordingly, we set out from Pumpeluna with our guide, on the 15611 of November ;
.and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of going forward- he come directly hack Wit-h
us on the same road that we came from Madrid, about twenty miles; when, having
pasaml two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found ourselves in a warn:
climate again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but, on a
sudden, turning to his left, he approached the mountains another my 5 and though it
is true the hills and proclpiees looked dreadful, yet he made so mxmy tours, such
manndom, and led us by such winding ways, that we insensibly passed the height of the

'95
 

mountains without being much encumbered with the snow ; and all on a. sudden, he
showed us the pleasant and fiuitful provinces of Langnudoe and Gnseony, all green and
flouriehing, though, indeed, they were at it great distance, and we had some rough.
way to peasstill.

We were a little unenq, however, when we. found it snowed one whole day and n
night so fast that we could not travel 3 but he bid us be may ; we should soon be past
it all: we found, indeed, that we began to descend every day, and to come more north.
than before ; and so, depending upon our guide, we went on. '

It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being something before us, and
not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and oft-er them a. beer, from n
hollow way :uijoining to a, thick woo-l ; tr. e of the wolves flew upon the guide, and, had
he been fie: before us, he would have been devoured before we could have helped him ,2
one of them fastened upon his home, and the other attacked the man with miclniolcuee
that he had not time or practice of mind enough to drew his pistol, but hallooed and
cried out to us most lustily. My men Friday being next me, 1 bade him ride up, and
see whim was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of the man, he halloocd out
as loud as the other, " 0h, master: Oh, master 1" but like u hold fellow, rode directly up to
the man, and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked him in the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday ; for, having been used
Lo such creatures in his country, he had no fear upon him, but went close up ('0 him and
shot him ; whammy. any other of us would have fired at a further distance, and have
perhaps either missml the wolf, or endangered shootig the man.

But it was enough to horn terrified a holder men than I ,- and, indeed, it alarmed
all our company, when, with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on hothsidcs the most
dismal howling of wolves ; and the noise, rcdoubled by the who of the mountains,
that it was to us as if there had been a prodigious number of them ; and perhaps there-
was not euuh Sr few as that we had no cause of apprehension ; however, as Friday had
killed this wolf, the other that had fastened upon the horse lefi: him immediately, and.
fled, without doing him any damage, having happily his-toned upon his head, where the
bosses of the bridle haul stuck in his teeth. But the man was most hurt ; for the raging
creature had hit him twice, once in the arm, and the other time it little above his knee ;
he waejuet, as it were, tumbling down by the disorder of his horse, when Friday came
up and shot the wolf.

it is easy to suppose that at the noise of h'iday'e pistol we all mended our pace, and
rode up as first as the way, which was very difficult, would give us leave, to see what was
the matter. As soon as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
plainly what had been the case, and how Friday hml disengaged the poor guide: though
we did not presently discern what kind of creature it was he had killed.

But never was 9. fight mmaged so hardily, and in such a surprising manner, as that
which followed between Friday and the bear, which gave us all, though at first we were
nurprineil and afraid for him, the greatest diversion imnghiable. As the bear is a heavy,
clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does, which is swift and light," he has
two particular qualities, which genemlly are the rule of his actions; first, as to men,
3th are not his proper prey (he does not usually attempt them, except they first attack
him, unless he be excessively hungry, which it is probable might. now be the case, the
ground being covered with snow), if you do not meddle with him, he will not meddle
with you 5 but then you must tnke core to be very civil to him, and give him the road,
for he is a very nice gentleman ; he will not go a step out of his way for a prince ; my,

196
 

 

if you are really afraid, your best way is to luck another waI-y and. keep going on ; for
sometimes if you stop, and ntaml still, and look steadfastly at. him, he takes i6 for an
ufi'roui, 5 bub if'you throw or toes anything at him, and it- hits him, though it were but a
bit. of stick as big as your finger, he takes it for an all'mni, and gets all other business-
neide to pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point of honour--that. is his
fil'sh quality : the next. is, that. if he he once affronted, he will never leave you, night or
(lay, till he has had his revenge, but follow at a good round rate will he overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered 01w guide, and when we came up to him, he was.-
helping him off from his horse, for the man was both hurt and frightened, and indeed.
the last more than the first", when on a sudden we cspicd the beau- come out. of the
wood, and u web, monstrous one it was, the biggest by far thut ever I saw. We
were all a little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday Haw him, it was easy
to see joy and courage in the fellow'a countenance : " Oh, oh, oh 1" says Friday, three
times, pointing to him 5 "0h, mast-er! you give me la leave, me ehnkce to hand with
him ; me mkee you good laugh."

I was surprised to see tho fellow so pleased: " You fool," said I, "ho will eat.
you up."--"Eaxee me up! eatee ma up !" says Friday, twice ever again ; " me eatee
him up 5 me Ina-lice you good laugh ; you all satay hero, me show you gnarl laugh." So
down he sits, and gets his boots 013' in a. moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as we call
blue flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his pocket), gives my other servant his.
horse, and with his gun awn-y he flew, swift like the wind

The hear was walking saith: on, and offered to meddlc'wich nobody, till Friday
coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear could undemlnnnl him, " Hark yo, hark
ye," says Friday, " mo speakec with you." we followed at-a distance, for now being come
down (0 the Gummy side of the mountains, we were entered a. vast, great; fox-eel, where
the country was plain and protuy open, though it had many trees in it scattered here
and there. Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly,
and took up a, great} stone, and threw it at him, and hit; him just on the head, but did
him no more harm than if he had Lhmwu it against a wall 3 but it answered Friday's.
end, for the rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the bearfolle him,
and Show us some laugh, as he called it As scan as the bear felt the stone, and saw-
liim, he turns about, and comes after him, taking very long strides, and shufiling on at n.
stmnge mic, so as would have put a. horse to a middling gallop ; away runs Friday, and
talus his course an if he ran towards us for help ; so we all resolved to fire a: once upon
the bear, and deliver my man 3. though I was angry 8.!) him heartily for bringing the bear-
haek "pun us, when he was going about. his own busiam another way ; and especially I
was angry (vi-$.13 he had. turned the bear upan us, and then run away 5 and I called out,
" You dog! " said T, "is this your making us laugh 7 Come away, and take your horse, that
we may about the creature." He heard me, und criea out, " N 0 shout, no shout ; siwd
still, you get much laugh ; " and as the nimble creature ma two feet; for the beaat'a.
one, he turned on a sudden on one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his
purpose, he beckoned us to follow; and doubling his pace, he gob nimbly up the tree.
laying his gun down upon the ground, at about five or six yards {mm the bullion: of the
tree. The bear soon came (0 the tree, and we followed at a, distance 5 the first thing he
did, he stoppml at, the gun, smelled nl} it, but let it, lie, and up he wrambles into the tree,
climbing like 9. can, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly, and thought
it, of my man, and could not for my life see anything to laugh at yet, cill seeing thabear
get up the tree, we all mile new: to him.

198I'RlDAY AFFORDS US SOME DIVERSXON,

 

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got mil; to the small and of a large limb
of the tree, and the heurgot about half way to him. As Boon n: the hour goi out to that
part where the limb of the tree was weaker--" Ha !" says; he to us, " new you see me
teachee the boar dance 5 " so he hugm jumping and shaking the bougli, at. which the
bear bogaui to totter, hul. stood still, and hogan to look behind him, to see how he should
get. back ; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But; Friday had not done with him by
a great deal ; when seeing him stand stifl, he called out to him agsiu, as if he had
supposed the bear could speak English, " W'lmt, you no come fort-her? pray you come
fan-her 5 " so he left. jumping and shaking the bongh ; and the bear, just as if he haul
"dammed what he said, did come a little farther ; then he begen jumping again, and
the bear stopped ngxi n. We thought now was n. good time 'w knock him on the head, and
called to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear 3 but he cried out earnestly,
"0h,pmy ! oh, pray i no shootgne shoot by and than g" he would have said brand-by.
However, to shorten the story, Friday danced so much ,xmd the bear stood so Liehlisl), that
we haul laughing enough indeed, but still oouhl not imagine what the fellow would do ,' for
first we thought he depended upon sham the bear on" 5 and we found the hear was too
cunning for that too ; for he would not go out for enough to be thrown down, but clung
fast with his great broad clown and foot, go chat we could not; imagine who". would he
the end of if, and. what thejvob would, be at high But Friday put us out ofduuht quickly :
for seeing the bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come
any further, " Well, well," asuyx Friday, "you no come further, we go , you no come to
me, me come to you ;" and upon (shis he went out to the smaller end of the hough
where it would bond with his weight, and gently let himself down by it, sliding down
the bough till he come near enough to jump down on his feet, and away he run to his
gun, took it up, and stood slilli "Wall," said I to him, " Friday, what will you douow 9
Why don't you shoot him ? "--" No ahoot, ' sa'ys Friday, " no yet ; me shoot now, me
no kill ; me stay, give you one more laugh : " and, indeed, so he did, as you will see
presently; for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he come back from the hough
where he stood, imt did it very cautiously, looking behind him every siep, anal coming
backward till he got into the hotly of the tree; then, with the some hinder ond forc-
most, he came down the tree, grasping it with his ohms, and naming one fool; at a
time, very leisurely. At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind feet
upon the ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the mumle of his piece into
his ear, and shot him dead as a. stone. Then the rogue turned About to see if we did
not laugh ; and when he saw we were pleased, by our looks, ho hegnu to laugh very
loud. "So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. "80 you kill them? " says I ;
"Why, you have no guns."---"No," says he, "no gun, but shoot great much long
arrow." This was a good diversion to us ; but we were still in a wild place, and our
guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves run
much in my head 3 and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa.
or which I have said something already, I never heard anything that filled me with so
much horror.

Those things, and the spprmmll of night, called us of}; or else, in! Friday would have
had us, we should certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous creature ofi', which
was worth saving 3 but we had near three leagues Lo go, and our guide hastened n8 ; so
We left him, and went forward on our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and dangerous as on the
mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come down into

")0k

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

 

the forest and plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great
deal of mixchief in the villages, where they surprised the country people, killing 8 Smith
many of their sharp and horses, and some people too. We had one dangerous place to
pose, and our guide told us, if there were more wolves in the country we should find
them there 3 and this was a. small plain surrounded wielx woods on every side, and a long
narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pose to gas through the wood, and then We
should come 60 the village where we were to lodge. It was Within half an hour of
sunset when we entered the wood, and a little after sunset when weoamc into i210 plain :
we met with nothing in the first wood, except that in a lit-ole plain within the wood
which was not above two furlongs over, we saw five great, wolves cross the mud, full
speed, one after another, as if they had been in chase of some prey, and bed in in view ;
they took no notice of us. and were gone out} of eight in a few moments. Upon this,
our guide, who, by the way, was bull a fair-("hearted fellow, bid we keep in a ready
posture, for he believed there were more wolvw (booming. We kept. our arms ready
and our eyes about us ; but we saw no more wolves till we came through that wood,
which was near half a loaguo, and enharnd i-lm plain. As soonas we come into theploin,
we had occasion enough to look about us: the first object we met with war: a. dead
horse ; that is to so): a poor horse which the wolves lmd killed, and at least a dozen of
them at work, we could not say eating him, but picking his bones rather; for they had
eaten up all the flesh before. "'5 did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us. Friday would have let fly at- thcm, but I
would not. suffer him by any means ,: for I found we were like to have more business
upon our hzmda than we were aware of. We had not gone half over the plain, when
we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left, in n. fiightfid manner, and
presently after we saw about (1- kindred coming on directly towards us, all in a body,
and most of them in a line, an regularly as an army drawn up by experienced officers.
T scarce knew in What. manner to receive them, but, found to dmw ourselves in a close
line wan the only way 5 so we formed in a. moment; but that we might not have too
much interval, I ordered that only every' other man should fire, and that the others, who
had not fired, should stand ready to give them a second volley immediately, if they
continued to advance upon us ; and then that Llee who had fired at first, should nofi
pretend to load their fusees again, but stand ready, every one with a. pistol, for we were
all armed with a. fuscc and 9. psi r of pistols each man ; so wc were, by Lhis method, able
no fire six volleys, half of us at n. time : however, at present we had no necexxity 5 for
upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the fire. Four of them being shot; in the head, dropped 5 several others
wcro wounded, and went blending oil; as we could see by the snow. 1 found they
stopped, but. did not immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering. that I had been
told our the fiercest creature>>: were terrified on tho voice of it. man, I caused all the
company to 119.1100 as loud as we could ; and I found the notion not altogether mistaken ;
for upon our shout they began to retire and turn about. T then orderedasecoml volhaY
to be fired in their rear, which put. them to the gallop, mdnway they wenuto rho woods.
This gave nsleismre to charge our piewa again; and that we might lose no time, We
kept going ; but we had but. little more than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves in
rmdinom, when we heard a. terrible noise in the some wood on our left, only that, it was
further onward, the same way we were to go.

Inc night. we coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which made it the worse on
our side ; but the noise increasing, we could easily peweive what it was the howling and

zooTIIE WOLVES D '1 :EN OFF.
 

yelling of those hellish creature-s ; and, on a Sudden, we perceived two or three troops
of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to he-
suurounded with them : however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward,

as first as we could make our horses go, which, the way bniug very rough, was only a.
good howl trot. In this manner, we came in view of the entrance of; wood, through.

which \m were to pass, at the fin'ther side of the plain ; but we were greatly surprised.
when, coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused number of wolves standing-
juai. at the entrance. On a. sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the noise
of a. gun, and looking that way, out rushed a horse, with a. saddle and a hridlc on him,

(lying like the wind, and sixteen or seventmn wolves other him full speed. Indeed,

the horse had the advantage of them 3 but as we supposed that he could not hold it at

that mix), we doubtoil not: hut they would get up with him at last : and no question

but they did.

But here we lmd a most horrihlc sight 5 for, riding up to the entmucc where the
horse (mine out, we found the cums of mother horse and of two men, devoured by
the ravenous creatures; and one of the men wasno doubt the some whom we howl
fire the gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired off; but us to the man, his head and
the upper part of his body were eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we knew not.
what course to take 5 but the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us
prescully, in hopes of prey ; and I verily believe there were three hundred ofthem. It.
happened. very much to our advantage, that at the entmnm into the wood, hot a little
way from it, there lay some large timber-trees, which had been cut down the summer
before, and 1 suppose lay there for carriage. I drew my little troop in among those
trees, and placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised them all to night
and keeping that tree before us for n breastwox'k, to stand in a triangle, or three fi-ouls',
inclosing our homes in the centre. We did so, and it was well we did ; for never was
A more furious charge than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on us
with a growling kind of a noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I said, was-
our hmnstm-k, as if they were only rushing upon their prey ; and this fury of theim it.
seems, was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us, which was the
prey they aimed at. I ordered our mun Lo fire as before, every other mun ; and they
took. their nim so sure that indeed they ldlled Beveral of the wolves at the first vollc}r ;.
but there Was n necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils, those
behind pushing on those before. .

When we had fired a second volley of our fusilg we thought they stopped a. little,
and I hoped they would have gone oil', but it. want but omoment, for others came fox-word
gain ; go we fired two volleys of mu- pistols 5 and I believe in those four firings welmd
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamad twice as many, yet they come on again.
I was 10th to spend our Inst shot too hastily ; so I called my aorvnn't----not my man Friday,
for he was better employed, for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, ho had charged
my fuses and his own while we were engaged ~but, as I acid, I called my other mm,
and giving him a horn -of powder, I bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber,
and let itbe a large train. He did so, and hmi but just time to get away, when the
wolves came up to it, and some gob upon it, when l, snapping an unchanged pistol close
to the powder, sud. it on fire ; those that weie upon the timber were scorched with it,
and six or seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among ua with the force arid frighbof
the fire: we dispatched those in an instant, and the rest were so frightened with the
light, Whidl the night--for it- wss now very new dark--mule more terrible, that they

202A HARD TUSSLE, AND VICTORY.

drew back a little ; upon which I ordered our last pistolstobc fircdnfl' in one valley, and
after that we gave a about; upon this the wolves turned tail, and we ullied immediately
upon near twenty lame ones that we found struggling on the ground, and fall to cut-ting
them with our swords, which answered our expectation, for the crying and howling they
made was hotter understood by their fellow! ; so that they all lied and left us.

W e had, first and hat, killed about three-score ot'them, and had it been daylight. we
had killed many more. The field of hatclo being thus cleared, we made forward again,
for we had still near a league to go. We heard le ravenous crea'itureshowl and yell in
the woods as we went several times, and sometimes we fimcied we saw some of then: ;
hue. the .snow dauliug our eyes, we were not certain. So in about an hour more we come
to the town where we Wore to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, and all in
arms ; for, it seems, that the night, before, the wolves and some bears had broke into the
villAgc, and put them in ouch terror, that they were obliged to keep guard night and
(lay, but especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and indmd their people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so much with the
rankling of his two won ad>>, that he could go no farther ; so we were'obliged Lo take a
new guide here, and go to Toxxlom, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant-
country, and no snow, no wolves, nor anything like them ; but when we told our story
at Toulmxse, ihey told us it was nothing but; what was ordinary in tho great forest at
the foot of the mountainsg especially when the snow lay on the ground; but they in-
quired much what. kind of a guide we had got, who would venture to bring us that way
in such a severe season, and told us it was surprising we were not all devoured, When
we told them how we placed ourselves and the horses in the middle, they blamed us
cxccodingly, and told us it. was filly :0 one but we had been all destroyed, for it was the
sight of the horses which made the wolves no furioun, seeim their prey, and that at other
times they are really afraid of a gun ; but being exceenively hungry, and raging on that
account, the cagemeiea to come at the horses had made them senseless of danger; and
that if we had not by the continued fire, and at last by the istratagcm of the train of
powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that we had been torn to piece: ,-
Wherm had we been content to have sat still on hammock, and fired as horsemen, they
\vOnld not have taken the horses so much for their own, when men were on their books,
as otherwise; and, withal, they told us finit- at last, if we had stood all together, and
leis our horses, they would have been so eager to have devoured them, that we migho
have come 013' safe, especially having our firearms in our hands, and being so many in
number. For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life , for, seeing above
three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing
to shelter us or retreat to, I give myself over for lost; ; and, as it. was, 1 believe I shall
never care to cross those mountains again ; I think I would much rather go a thousand
leagues by son, though 1 was sure to meal. with a. storm once a, week.

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my pasage through France-nothing
hut what other travellers have given on account. of with much more advantage than I
can. I travelled from Toulouse to Paris, and without any considerable stay came to
Calais, and landed info at Dover the Man of January, after having 11 severe cold
season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had ins lilllo time all my new
discovered estate safe about me, the bills of exchange which I brought with me having
been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient widow, who, in

203
 

 

 

gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no pains too much nor care too great to
employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely \viih everything, that I was perfectly easy
as to the security of my effects ; and, indeed, I was very happy from tho beginning, and
now in the end, in. the umpottccl integrity of [his good gentlcwmnan.

And now, having resolved to disponc of my plantation in the Brazihy, T wrote to my
old friend at Lisbon, who lowing offered it to the two merchants the survivons of my
trimmers who lived in the anilr, they accepted the offer, and remitted thirty-three
thousand pieces of eight. to a correspondent of theirs at Lichen i0 1);. y For it.

In return, I signod the instrument. of sale in the form which they sent from Lisbon,
and smut it to my old man, who sent me the hills of exchange for thirty-two thousand

- eight. hundred pieces ofcight for the estate, reserving the payment of onc' hundred
moidores a your to him (the old man) during his lifeq and-fifty xnnidore; afterward>>: in)
his eon for his life, which I had promised them, and which the plantation was lo make
good as crentchurgo. And thus I have given the first port of a life of fommc and
adventure--u life of l'z'ovidenco's chequer-work, and of a variety which the world will
seldom be able to show the like of--beginning foolishly, bun closing much more happily
than any port of it ever gave me leave no much as to hope for.

Any one would think that in this state of complicated good fortune I was past
running any more hazards ; and so, indeed, I had been, if other circumstancm hail
concurred ; but I \vaxinurcd to nwandcring life, had no family, nor many relations; nor
however rich, had' 1 contracted much acquainiwiee ; and though 1 had sold my estate in
the Brnziis, ye'c I could not keep that country out of my head, and had a great mind to
be upun the wing mgnin ; especially I could not resint the strong inclination l hadto see
my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being there. My true friend, the
widow, earnestly diaauudmi me from it, and so far prevailed with me, les for almost
seven years she prevented my running shroud, during which time I took my two
nophows, the children of one of my brothers, into my care ; the eldost, having nomething
of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him 9. settlement; of some mlrlition to his
esini/e after my <<income. The other I placed with the captain of a. ship ; and char five
young, finding him n sensible, bold, enterprising young follow, I put him into it good
ship, and xenl' him to sea; and. this young fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I was,
to further adventures myself.

in the mean i-ime, I in port settled myself here ; for, first of all, I married, and choc
not either to my dismlvantagc or dissatisfaction, and had tin-ea children, two sons and
one daughter ; but my wife (lying, and mynephmv coming home with good suwe'as from a
voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and engaged
me to go in his ship we a private trader to the End; Indies ; this was in the year 169 4.

In this voyngc I visited my new colony in the island 5 saw my smecenors the
Spaniard): ; had the whole Sl-ory of their lives, and of the villains I left. Lhcre 3 how at
first they insulted the poor Spaniards ; how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united,
separated, and. how nt- lost the Spunizmln were obliged to use violence with them ; how
obey were subjected to the Spaniards,- how honestly the Spaniards used them ;--21
history, if it were entered into, as full of variety and wonderful accidents as my own
port--particularly, also, as to their booties with the Curibheans, who landed several
times upon the island, and as La the improvement they made upon the island itself--and
how five of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and brought, away eleven men
and five women prisoners, by which, at. my coming, I found about twenty young children
on the island,

204
 

w;

l' i! i :l
l

 

(:mrsm: MARRIED.

Here I stayed about twenty days--lefi them suppliers of all necessary things, and
particularly of arms, powder, shot' clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I' brought.
from England with. me ----S'iz., a. carpenter: and a smith.

Besides this, I slmrcd thalamls into parts with them, msen'ed to myself the property
of the whole, but gave them such psi-Ls respectively as they agreed on ; and having
settled all things with them, and engaged them not to leave the place, I left them there.

me thence T touched at the) Brazils, from whence l scuba. bark, which T bought
there, with more people to the island ; and in it, baides other supplies, I sent. smveu
Women, being such as I found proper for service, or for wives to such as would take them.
As to the mglishmen, I promised them to send them uomc women from England, with
:4. guml cargo of ueceswicg if they would apply themselves to plan ling--which I after-
wards could not perform. The fellows proved very honest and. diligent. arbor they were
umxmml, and had their properties set apart for them. T sent them, also, from the
Brazils, five cows, three of them being big with calf, some sheep, and some hugs, which
when 1 wine again were considerably increasml.

But all those things, with rm accounthow three hundred Garibbees came and invaded

20;them, and ruined their plantationas and how they fought; with that Whole number twice
, and were at first defeated, and one of them killed 3 but, at last, astorm destroying their
enemies' canoes, they faminhed or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and
recovered the pomssion of their plantation, and still lived upon the island--fish these
mango, with some very surprising incidenfn in some new adventures oi'my own, for ten
years more, 1 shall give a further account 01 in tho Sccond Purl. of my history

a

 

 

PART l1.

. HAT homely proverb, used on so many occasions in England, viz, "Than
what is bred in the bone will not 50 onf, of the 11 " wns never more
' 'verified than in the story of my life. Any one would think that after
, . thirty-five years' infliction, and 3. Variety of unhappy circumstances, which
few men, if any, ever wenh tin-(nigh before, and after near seven years of ponco and
@njoymant in the fulncss of {111 things, grown old. and when, if ever, it might be allowed
me to have had experience of every state of middle life, and to know which was most
adapted to make n ma completely happy 3 I my, after all this, any one would have
thought hhnt the native propensity to rambling, which I gave an account- of in my first
setting out>> in me world t'o lee been so predomixmnl: in my thoughts, should be worn
out, the volatile part. be fully evacuated, or or, least condenscd, and I might, no sixty one
years of age, have boon a. little inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing life
and fortune any more.

Nay, further, the common motive of foreign adventures was taken away in me= for
I had'no fortune to mnke ; I had nothing to seek : if I had gained ten thousand pounds,
I lwl been no richer; for I had already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave
it to ; and what I had was visibly increasing ; for having no great family, I could not
spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for an expensive way of living.
such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiei-y, and the like, which were things I had
no notion of; or inclination to; so that I lnul nobliing, indeed, in do but to sit. still, and
fully enjoy what I hurl got, and see it increase daily upon my hands, Yet all these
things: had no effect upon me, or at leaal: not enough to resist the strong inclimfa'on l'
had to go abroad again, which hung about me likeaclxmnical dixbcmpor. In particular,
the desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the colony '1 left. them, run in
my howl continually. I dreamed of in all night, and my imagination run upon it all
day ; it was uppermost in all my thoughts ; and my fancy worked so steadily and strongly
upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep; in short, nothing could remove it out of my
.mind. it. even broke so violcndx into 9.1 my discourses that, it, made my conversation
tiresome, for I could talk of nothing else, all my discom: c run into it, even to
impertinence; and 1 saw it myself.

I haw offen heard persons of good judgment any, that all the stir people make in
the world about ghosts and appurilionsi is owing to (.119 strength of inmg'umtion, and
the powerful operation of fancy in their minds; that there is no such thing as a spirit-
nppwring, or a ghost walking ; that people's poring afloctionniely upon the past
conversation of their deceased friends, so realises it to them, that they are capable of
206PICTURES OF IMAGINATION.

'lhucying, upon some extraordinary circumstances, Lllul: they see them, talk to themgmd
are answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour in the
1hing, and they really know nothing of the matter.
' For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any such things as real
apparition, spectres, or walking of people after they are dead 3 or whether then-e is
anything in the stories they tell us of that kind more than the product of vapours, sick
minds, and wandering fancies; but this l know, that my imagination worked up to
such 3 height, and brought me into such cxeek~ of vapours, or what else I may call it,
that 1 actually supposed myself often upon the spot, at my old castle, behind the trees 5
saw my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprohate sailors 1 left upon the island ;
my, 1 fancied I talked with them, and looked at them steadily, though I was lll'flall
awake, as at persons just before me ; and this I did till I often frightened myself with
the hunger my ihncy represented to me. One time, in my sleep, l had the villany of the
three pirate sailors so lively related to me by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that
:it was surprising ; they told me how they liurbm'ously attempted to murder all the
Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions they had laid up, on purposeto distress
.ond starve them; things that I had never heard of, and that, imlerxl, were never all of
Them true in {not : but it was so warm in my imagination, and so realised to me, that,
to the hour 1 saw them, I could not be persuaded but that if. mug or would be, true ;
also how I resented it, when the Spaniard complained to me 5 and how I brought them
to justicn, tried them, and ordered them all three to be hanged. What there was really
in this shall be seen in its place ; for however I come to form such things in my dream,
and what secret converse of apirits injected it, yet there was, I say, much of it true. I
own that this dream had nothing in. it literally and specifically true ; but the general
purl. was, so true--the base, villainous helm-riour of these three hardened rogues was
such, and had been so much worse than all 1 can describe, that the dreum had too much
.similitudu of the feet 5 and as I would afterwards have punished thorn severely, so, if I
had hanged them all, I had been much in the right, and even should have been justified
both by the laws of God and man. But to return to my story. In this kind of teinper,
I lived some years 3 I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable
divnm'mn, but. what lmxl something or other of this in it- ; so that my wife, who saw my
mind wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously one night, that she believed there was
some secret, powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which haul determined me to go
thither again ; and that she found nothing hindered my going, but my being engaged to
.n wife. and children She told "no that it was true she could not think of parting with
me : but as she was assured that if she was dead it would he the first thing 1 would do ;
so, as it seemed to her that the thing was determined above, she would not he the only
obstruction 5 for, if I thought fit and resolved to go-- [Here she found me very intent
upon her words, and thatl looked very earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered her,
and she stopped. I asked her why she did not go on, and say out what she was going to
say. But I perceived that her heart was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes]
"" Speak out, my door," said I ; "are you willing I should go 3" " N o," says she,
very nfl'ectionutely, " I am far from willing ; but if you are resolved to :50," says she,
" rather than I would be the only hindrance, I will go with you ; for though I think
it a most preposterous thing for one of your years, and in your condition, yet, if it must
bus" said she, again weeping, "I would not leave you 5 for, if it be of Human, you must
do it 5 there is no resisting it ; and if Heaven make it your duty to go, He will also
- make it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that 1 may not obstruct it."
207
This umwcionnte behaviour of my wife's brought mo 5]. little out; of the vapours, and r
I began to consider when I was doing; I corrected my wandering flincy, and began to
argue will: myself sedalely what; business 1 had, after Lhroescore years and after such a.
life of tedious sniforings and disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a. manner--I say,
what business had T to rush into new hazards, and put- myself upon adventures fit only
for youth and poverty to run into? '

With them thoughts 1 Considered my new engagement; that. I had a. wifomne child.
hem, and my wife than great with child of another 5 that I had all the world could give
me, and had no' need no scck'hazurd for gain ; .that l-Was declining in. years, and oughfi
to think nether of leaving what 1 had gained than of seeking to increase ii. ; that as to
when my wife luui mid of its being an impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my
ducy to go, I had no notion of that; so, Moor many of these cogiiaiiona, I struggled
with Lina Power of my inmginntion, rousnmxl myself out of it; as I believe people may
always do in like cases if they will ;. and, in a word, 1 conquered it 5 composed myuelf
with snug}; nrgnmenti; 95 occurred to my Lhoughlis and which my preeent coinlicion
furnished me plent-ifully with ; end. particular-1333.9 61):: most cfi'cetual method, I resolved
to divert- myself with other tlainga, and to engage in some business that might. ell'eotusilly
tie me up from any more excursions of this kind 5 for 1 found that thing return upon
me chiefly when I was idle, and had nothing to do, nor anything of moment iiiimeiliumly
before me. To this purpose, I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, and
resolved to remove myself thither. I hail ulittle convenient house upon it, and the
land about it, 1 form], was capable of great improvement; 5 and it was many ways
suited to my inclination, which delighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and
improving of lend 3 and particularly, being an inland county, I was removed from
conversing among sailors, and things relating to the remote parts of the world.

in a. word, I went. down to my firm, settled my family, bought plough-s, him-rows,
a cart, wagon, horses, cows, and sheep, and, selling seriously to work, became in one
half-year a mere country gentlemen 3 my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing
my servants, cultivating Lvlle'. ground, enclosing, planting, Arc. ; and I lived as I thought,
the move agreeable life that nature was capable of directing, or that a. man always bred
to misfortunes was capable of retreating to.

I farmed upon my own land ; I had no min: to pay, was limited by no articles 5 I
could pull up or out down as T pleased ; what I planted was for myself, and what I
improved was for my family ; and having thins left 011' the thoughts of wandering, I had
not the least dixemnl'ort in any pan-t of life as to this world. Now I thought indeed thal:
I enjoyed the middle state of lilo, which my father so earnestly recommended to "IO,
and lived s. kind of heavenly life, something like what is described by the poet, upon.
the subject of a country life :--

" Free from vices, free ill-om cure,
Ago ha; no pain, and youth no snare."

But in the middle of all Llllfl felicity, one blow from unseen Providenceunliinged me
at once ; and not only made a breach upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me,
by its consequences, into a (limp, relapse of the wandering disposition, which, as I may
say, being born in my very blood, soon minivan-d its hold of mo ; and, like the returns
of in violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force upon me. This blow was the.
loss of mywife. It is not, my busineee here to write an elegy upon my wife, giro n.
chamoter of her particular virtues, and make my court; to the as): by the flattery of n
fuuoml sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my afl'airs, the centre of All my

208DEATH OF CRUSOE'S WIFE.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C-RUSOE'S FARM AT BEDFORD

enterprises, the engine that, by her prudence, reduced me to that happy compass I was
in, from the most exti'evegnut anal ruinous project that filled my head; and did
more to guide my rumbling genius the." a. mother's teams, a father's instructions, a
friend's counsel, or all my own reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening
to her, and in being moved by her entreatiea ; and to the last degree desolate and
dislocatml in the world by the 103 of her. When she was gene, ":6 world looked
awkwardly round me. I was as much a etxanger in it, in my thoughts, as I Wm
in the Brnzils, when I fixst went on gluon: them; and as much alone, except for
the assistance of servant's, as I was in my island. I knew neither what to think
nor what to doi 1 saw the world busy nmund me; one .parlz labouring for bread;
another pnrt- squandering in vile exceeses or empty pleasures, equally miserable, because
14 :09
 

the end thoy pmpmccl still fled from them; fbr the men of pleasure every day snrfeitecl
of their vice, and heaped on work for sorrow mid mpcnmmo; and who men of hihnui
spent, their stronghh in daily struggling for bread to maintain the vital strength they
laboured with 5 so living in a. daily circulniion of sorrow, living but, to work, and
working but: {-0 live, as if' daily bread were the only (and of wom~isoxnc.lifi;, and a weari-
wme life the only occasion of daily brand.

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island ; where I suffered
no more mm to grow, lmmmse T did not Want it ; and bred no more goats, bocnnseI had
no more use for them ; Where Lhc money lay in thedmwoi- till it. grew mouldy, and had
snares the fiwour to in: looked upon in twenty years

All those things, had 1' improved them as I ought to hove done, and as reason and
religion had didamd to me, would havo taught. me to search further than human
'enjoyments for a full felicity ; and that- there was something which certainly was the
reason and and oflifc, superior to all these things, and whieh was either in he possessed,
or at. least hoped for, on this siiiu the grave.

But my sage counsellor was gone ; I was like a. ship without- :Lpilot, that could only
run atom the wind. My thoughts my: all away again into the old affair ; my head was

V quite turned with the whimscys of foreign adventures ; and all the pleasant, innocent
mnusmnonhi of my form, my garden, my cattle, will my Family, which before entirely
possessed me, were nothing to me, luul no relish, and were like music to one that has no
car, or food to one that has no {.nsbn 3 in 9. word, I resolved to leave all housekeeping, let
my farm, and return to London 5 and in nfew months after I did so.

\Vhen I came to London, I vane still as uneasy on I was before ; T had no relish for
the place, no employment. in it, nothing to do but to saunter about. like an idle person,
of whom it. may be said he is perfectly uselws in God's creation, and in is not- one
farthing's matter to the rest of his kind Whether he be dead or olive. This also was
the thing which, ofnll circumstances of life, was the most my aversion, who had been all
my days used to an active life ; and I would often say to myself, "A state of idlenes is
lfluohrory drags of life ,- " and, indeed, I thoght I was much more suitably employed whon
I was twenty-six days making a deal board.

It was now the beginning of the yeflr lll93, when my nephew, whom, an 1' have
observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and had made him commander of a ship,
was come home from a. short voyage to Bilboa, being the lion holnul made He came to
ma, aml told me that some merchsnls of his acquainionce had been proposing ('0 him to
go a. voyage for them to the East Indies, and to Chins, as private traders. " A ml now,
uncle," says he, "i:" you will go ('0 sea with me, I will engage to him] you upon your 01,1
habitation in tho ishiml ; for we are Ln much at the Rrazils."

Nothing can he a gram-er (lemonsfmtvion'of a, future smto, and of the existence of an
invisible world, than Lho concurrnnno of almond conga with the ideas; of things which
we form in our minds perfectly reserved, and not. communicated to any in the world.

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was rotnrnml upon
me, and I knew nothing of what. he had in his thoughts to say, when [has very morning,
before he came to me, I hot], in :1 great deal of confusion of thought,n.ncl revolving every
part of my circunistmioes in my mind, come (0 this resolution, that I would go to Lisbon,
and consult with my old sm-mpmin ; and if it was rational and practicable, I would go
and see the island again, and what was become of my people there. I had pleased
myself with the thought" of peopling the placo,mnl czu'rying inhnhihants from 'nonuv,
getting a patant for the possession, and I know not what ; when, in Lhe middle of all

210l RESOLVE TO REA-"SIT MY ISLAND.
ibis, in (mines my nephew, as I have said, with his project of carrying me thither in hi.-I
-wa.y totho East Indies

l paused {while at hie words, and looking steadily at him, "'VVlmt devil," said I,
"sent you on this unlucky ermnd 2" My nephew stored as if he had been frightened,
at first 3 hut perceiving that T was not. much displeased with the proposal, he recovered
himself. "I hope it may not he on unlucky proposal, sir," says he 5 "I dare say you
would he pleased to see your new colony there, Where you once reigned with more
felicity than most of your brother monarchs in the World."

In a word, the scheme hit- so exactly with my temper, that is to say, the propossossiou
l was under, and of which I have said so much, that. I told him, in a few words, if he
agreed with the merchants, I would go with him ; but T told him I would not promise
to go any farther than my mm island. "Why, sir," says he, " you don't wont to he left
there again, I hope i" " Why," said I, " can you not take me up again on your return '2 "
He told me it would one be possible to do so ; that the merchants would never allow
him to come that way with a laden ship of such value, it being a, month's sail out of his
way, and might be [lime or (our. "Besides, sinif I should miscarry," suidhe, "and not-
Teturu at all,'i.hen you would he just, reduced to the mmlition you \voroin before."

This was vow-rational ; but we both found out a remedy for it ; which was, to carry
a framed sloop on board the ship, which being taken in pieces, and shippnd on him": the
.ship, might, by the help of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with u; be set up
again in the island, and finished fit to go to sea in a few days.

I was not. long resolving; for, indeed, the importunitlos of in ' nephew joined so
efl'ectmlly with my inclination, that- not-hing could oppose me. On the other hand, my
wife being dead, nobody concerned themselves so much for me as to persuade me to one
way or the other, except. my ancient. good friend the widow, who earnestly struggled
with me to consider my years, my easy circumstances, and the needless hazards of a. long
voyage ; and ahovu all, my young children. But it was all to no purpose ; I had an
irresistible desire for the voyage 5 and I told her I' thought there was something so
uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind, that; it would bc a kind of resisting
Providence if I should attempt to stay at home ,- nfter which she ceased her expostulations
and joined with me, not only in making provision for my Voyage, but also in settling my
finnily affairs for my absence, and providing for the education of my children.

In order to do this, I made my will, nud settled the estate T lmd in such a monum-
ior my children, and placed in such handle that I was perfectly easy and satisfied they
would have justice done them. whstcver might befall me 5 and for their <<location, T left
it wholly to the widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care : all which
she richly deserved ; for no nor-her could have taken more care in their education, or
undonatood St' better; ' ml as she lived till I come home, I also lived to thank her for in

My nephew was ready to soil about the beginning of January, 1694--5 3 and T, with
my man Friday, went; on board, in the Downs, on the 8151; having, besides that- sloop, which
I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo of all ln'ncls of necessary things for my
colony ,- which, if T. did not find in good condition, T reach-ml to Sena-e so.

.Firat', I carricd with mo some servants, whom I purported to place there an;

' inhabitants, or at least to set on work there, upon my account, while 1 stayed, and either

(a) leave them there or carry them forward, as they should appear willing ; particulnrly

1 carried two carpenters, It smith, and 9. vor ' hourly, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper

by trade, and was also it general mechanic ; for he was dcxterous at making wheels:

and handouills to grind sum, was a good burner, and a good pot-maker 5 he also made
211~' anything that was proper to'make of earth or of wood; in a word, we called him our
_ J ock-okzll-trucles. With these I carried a. tailor, who had offered himself to gt) a.
passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on our
new plantation. ; and who proved a most necessary, handy follow, us could be desimd, in
many other businesses besides that of his trade ; for, as I observed formerly, necessity
arms us for all omployments.

My Cargo, as neal' as I can recollect, for I have not kept account of the particulars,
camiutod of a sufficient (pnmtitfir of linen, and some English thin st'nfi's, for clothing the
Spuniardu that. I expected to find there ; and enough of them as; by my calculation,
might. comfortably supply them for seven yams. If I remember right, the materials I
curried for clothing theiu, with gloves, hols, shoes, stockings, and all such thingsas Huey
could want for wearing, amounted to above two hundred pounds, including some beds,
bedding, and household stuff, particulurly kitchen utensils, With pots, kettles, pewter,
brass, we, and near u hundred pounds more in iron-work, nails, fools of every kind
stapler, hooks, hinges, and <<very necessary thing 1 could think of.

I carried also a, hundred spare arms, munkets, and fusees ; besides some pistols, a.
considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four ions of lead, and two pieces of
brass cannon ; and, hecuuse I knew not'what time and what- extromitiesl was providing
for, 1 carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlwiacs, and the nonpart-
of some pikes and lmlhcrts 5 so than in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores :
and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-dock guns more than he warned for hie
ship. to leave behind if there was occasion; that when we came there we might; build 9.
fort, and man it against all sorts of enemies; anal, indeed, I at. first thought- there would
he need enough for all, and much more, if we hoped to maintaiin om possmiou of Dha-
ishmd- , as shall be seen in the course of the story.

That! not such bad luck in thin voyage as I had been used to meal: with ; and
thoml'orc, shall have the 'leus unzmxion to interrupt the reader, who, perhaps, may be
impatient to hear how matters went with my colony. Yet some odd accidents, cross
wind>>, and bad weather, happened on this find. setting out which made the voyagv
longer than I eaqiected it at first, and I, who had never made but one voyage, my first
voyage to Guinea, in which I might be said to come back again, as tho vownge was an
firsv designed, began to think the same ill fate attended mc , and that 1 was born to he-
never com-enter} with being on short: and yet to he always unfortunate at sea.

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were obliged to put in at-
Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wiml'hound [mound-twenty days ; but we haul this
satisflicfiou with the disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the
utmost plenty 5 so that while we lay here, we never touched the ship's stoma, but rather
added to them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and two cows with their calves,
which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore in my island ; but} we found
occasion to dispose otherwise of them.

We sol; out. on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a. very fair gale of wind for
some days. As I remember, it might he about the 20th of Februmfir, in the evening-
late, when the male, having the watch, mine into the round-house, and told us he saw a.
flash of fire, and heard a gun fired ; and while he was telling us of it, 9. boy came in, and
mid us the boatewuin hoard another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-deck,
where, for awhile, we heard nothing ; but in a few minuhw we saw a very green light>>
and found that there was some vergr terrible fire at a. distance. _ Inmioiliacely wu had
recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed that there could he no land that way

212' .4 FRENCH = .
in which the fire showed itself, no, not for five hundred leagues, for it. appeared at WINW.
Upon this, we concluded it- mimt be home ship on lira; uh son 5 and as, by our hearing the
noise of gum; just bolero, we concluded that. it could not. be far oil, we stood. directly to-
wnrdg it, and were presenhly satisfied .wc should discover it, because the farther we
sailed, the grootor the light appeared; though, the weather being hazy, we could not
perceive anything but the light for a while. Tn about half an hour's sailing, the wind
being fair for us, though not much of ill, and the wonthcr clearing up a little, we could
plainly discern that it was a great ship on lire, in the middle of the $09.

I wm most sensibly touched with this disaster, "though not at all. noquaintml with
the persons engaged in is : I presently recolleoted my former oimnnsinnecsg and what
cognition I was in when taken up by the Portuguese captain ,' and how much more
deplorable the circumstances of the poor creatures belonging to that ship must be, if
they had no of-lzer ship in company with them. Upon this, I immediately ordered that
five guns should be fired, one soon after another, that, if poseible, we might. give notice
to them that there was help for them an hand, and that they might. endeavour to save
thenmlvus in their ban: 3 for though we conl-l see the flames of the ship, yet they, in
being night, could see nothing of us.

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship drove, waiting for
daylight, when, on o sudden, to our great (error, though we had reason to expeco it,
the ship blew up in the air 3 and immediately, that. is to say, in n few minutes, all the
fire was out, that in to my, the rest of the ship sunk. This was a terrible, and, indeed,
an afflicting sight, for the sake of the poor men, who, T concluded, must be either all
destroyed in the. ship, or he in tho utmost tilstress in their host, in the middle of the
ocean 5 which, at present, as it was dark, I could nob see. However, to direct them as
Well as i. could, 1 caused lights to he hung out in all pom of the ship where we could,
and which we had lantems for, and hep; firing guns all the night long; letting them
know by this that there was a. ship not 3hr oll'.

About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered the ship's hosts by tho help 01"
our perspective glasses, and found them won; two of them, both thronged with people,
and (leap in the water. "'0 perceived they rowed, the Wind being again" them 5 that
they saw our ship, and did their utmost. to make 03$ see f-hem.

We immediately spread our ancient, to let. them know we saw them, and hung'
a waft out, as a signal for them to come on board ; and then made more sail, standing
directly to them. In little more than half an hour, we came up with them ; and, in a.
word, book them all in, being no lcns' than sixty-four men, women, and children; for
there "'01'0 B. 8293': lllfllly mellgflrfi.

Upon inquiry, we found it was ill French merchant ship or" three hundred ions, homu-
wnrd-bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada. The master gave 123 it long account
of the distress of his ship 3 how the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the
steemmam ; but,.on hisicrying out for help, was, as everybody thought, entirely put out ;
but they soon found that somcnpnrks of the first fire had got into some part of the
ship so difficult to come at that. they could not effectually quench ii. ;. and afterwards
getting in between the timber>>, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the
hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they were able to exert.

They had no more to do then but} to gel. inlv their boats, which, to their groan
comfort, were pretty large ; being their long-boat, and a great shallop, besides a small
skill, which was of no great service to them, other than to get some flash water and ~
provisions into her, after they had uncut-ml their lives from. the fire. They had, indeed,

2m.jOY A'l' DELIVERANCE.

mull hope 0! their lives by getting into these hours, at that distance from any land 5
only, as they said, that they thus escaped from the fire, and them wag a possibility that
some ship might happen to be at sea, and might Luke them in. They had sails, oars, and
a. compass ;' and were preparing to mnke the best of their way haul: to Newfoundland,
the wind blowing pretty fair, for it blow in: my gale at 3.11 lb)! E. They had as much
provision and. "outer as, with spa-ring it. so as to be next \1001' to starving, might support
them about twelve (lays, in which, if they had no bad wcnt'nui- and no routimy winds,
the captain said he hoped he might gel: to the Banks of Newfoundland, and might
perhaps take some fish, {0 susfain them till they might go on shore But then:
were so many chmiccs goinst them in all these cases, such as SLDI'IHR, to orerset uml
founder them; rains and cold, to hemnuh and perish their limbs ; contrary winds, to
keep them out and starve them ; r-hnt'it must have been next to miraculmm "they had
csmpeil. I

In the midst of their consternation, every one being hopeless and ready to 11031
the captain, with mm in his eyes tohl me they were on a. sudden surprised. with the juy
of hearing 9). gun fire, and after that four more : these were the five guns which I CfluSSCl
to be fired or first seeing the light This. revived their lienrts, and gave them the
notice, which, an above, I desired it should, that there wen a ship ut hand for their help
It was upon the hearing of these gum; that they took down their mash: and soils : the
sound coming from the windward, they "solved to lie by till mowing. Some time after
Lhin, hearing no more guns, they fired three nmslci 3 one a comiclemble while after
another ; but these, the wind being contrary, we never Leurd.

Some time after that Again, they were still more agreeably surprised wiih seeing our
lights, and hearing the guns which, as I have said, I caused to be fired all the rest of
the night. This sol; them to work with their cum to keep their hunts ahead, at lets-t,
that we might- the sooner some up with them ; and, uh lust, to their inoxpressihle joy,
they found we saw them.

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the ntmnge ecsracics, Lho
variety of postures which these poor delivered people ran into, to express the joy
of their rouls at so unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described;
sighs, team, groans, and a. very few motions of the head and hands, mnkc up the sum of
its variety; but an excess of joy, :1 surprise of joy, has a. hhounaml extravagancos in it
There were some in tears; some raging mid tearing themselves, as if they had been 511
the greatest agonies of sorrow ; some stark rowing and downright lunatic; some run
about the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing their hands; mine were
dancing, some singing, some laughing, more crying, many quite dumb, not able to
speak a word ; othens sick and vomiting; several swooning and ready to faint 3 and a
few were crooning themselves, and giving Gml thanks.

T would not wrong them either ; there might. he many that were thankful afterwards ;
but the passion was too strong for theni at first, and they Were not able to master it ;
they were thrown ink) ecsmcics, and a kind of frenzy, and it was but a very few that
were composed and serimis in their joy.

Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition to it. PSrom the particular circum-
stance of the nation they belonged to; 1 mean the French, whose temper is allowed to
be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid than

~ (If other nations. I am not philosopher enough to determine the cuuxe ; but nothing l
- had ever seen before came up to it. The ecstecics poor Friday, my trusty 'Dfi'3g0, was in,
when he found his father in the but, came the nearest to it ,- and the surprise of the

215

ir,
master and his two companions, whom I delivered from the villains that; set them on
shore in the island, came a. little wuy towards it ;. but; nothing 'was to compare f0 this,
either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere else in my life.

It is further observable, that these extravagance did not; show themselves in that
dirl'erenl. manner I have mentioned, in dill'erenfi persons only ,' but, all the varieny would
appear, in a. short succession of moments, in one and the same person. A man than we
saw this minul-e dumb, and, as it were, stupid and conkmndcd, would the next minute
be dancing and hallooing like an antic; and the next moment he tearing his hair, or
pulling his clothes to pieces, and stumping them under his feeHiko a madman; in a'
few moments after we would have him all in teens, then sick, swooning, and, had not
immediate help been had, he would in a few minutes have been dead ; and thus ii; was
not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the greatest purl; of them ; and, if I
remember right, our surgeon was obliged to lel. blood of about thirty of fihem.

There were two priests among them : one an old man, and the other a young mam ;
and that which was strangest was the oldest man was the worsL As soon as he see his
{00"} on hoard our ship, and sew himself safe, he dropped down stone dead to all appear-
ance ; not the least sign of life could he perceiVed in him: our surgeon immediately
applied proper remedies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship that believed
he was not, dead. At length he opened a vein in his am, having first. chaired and
rubbed the part, so as to warm it as much as p0SSible. Upon this, the blood, which only
dropped at first, flowing freely, in three minutes after the man opened his eyes; and a.
quarter of an hour after that he spoke, grew better, and in n little time quite well,
After the blend was stopped, he walked about, field uehe was perfectly well, Lookodram
of cordial which the surgeon gave him, and had come to himself. Ahoutaqnnrter ofan
hour after this, they come running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a.
French woman that. had fainted, and told him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems
he had begun to revolve the change of his circumstances in his mind, and again this put.
him into an ecstacy of joy. Hie spirits whirled about faster than the vesaels could
convey them, the blood grew hot. and feverish 5 and the man was :18 fit. for Bedlam an
my creature that ever was in it. The surgeon would non bleed him again in that
condition, but gave him something to doze and put him toslcep ; which, after some time,
operated upon him, and he awoke next, morning perfectly composed and well. '

The younger priest- behaved with great command of his passions, and was really an
example of a serious well'governcd mind. At his first coming on board the ship, he
drew himself flat on his face, presuming himself in tlianlcfulness for his deliverance, in
which I nnhappily nnd unreasonably disturbed him, really thinking he had been in 9.
swoon; but he si'mke calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance, begged me to lenve him n. few moments, and filial, next to his Maker, he would
give me thanks also.

I was heartily sci-r)r that. I disturbed him, and not only left him, but kept, others
from interrupting him also. He continued in that posture about three minutes, or little
more, after 1 left him, then came to me, as he had said he would, and, with a. great deal
of seriousnere and afiection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me, that had, under God,
given him and so many miserable creatures their lives. I told him I had no need to tell
him to thank God for it, rather" than me, for I had seen that. he had done that already 5
but I added that it we>> nothing but what reason and humanity dictated to all men, and
that, we hm] as much xemmn as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as to

make us the instruments of hie mercy to somony of his creatura.
216THE RESCUED CREW.

 

 

 

 

 

THE RBSCUED CREW (IN THE DECK CF CRUSOE": 5311?.

Men- 6th the young priest applied himself to his countrymen; laboumd to com--
pose them; persuaded, ontx'eated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his utmost. to
keep them within the exercise of their reawn ; and with some he had macess, though
others were for n time (put of all govemmeut of themselves.

T cannot- help committing this to writing, as perhaps it may be useful to those into
whose hands it may fall, tbr guiding themselvea in she extfavaguuca of their passions;

217
 

for if an excess of joy can carry men out to such a length beyona the reach of
their reason. what. will not the untrnragmm of lager, age, and a provoked miml,
carry us to? And, indeed, hunt I saw mason for keeping an exceeding watch over
our pamm! of every kind, as well those of joy and wilis'faiciion, as those of sorrow and
anger.

W e were eomewhzw disordered by these cxlmvagances among our new guests for the
first day 3 but; after they haul retina to' lodgings provided for them as well as our SSlilp
would allow, and they had slept heartily--em most of them did, being fatigued anti
flightened~--they Were quite another sort of people the next day.

Nothing of good "minors, or civil acknowledgments for the kindness shown them,
was wanting; the French, it is known, are naturally api- onough to exceed that way
The captain and one of' the priesls came to me the next. (lay, and desired to speak with.
me and my nephew. The commander begun to canth with us what should be done with
than: 3 and, first, Lhcy toid us we had mvud their lives, so all they had was little enough.
for a return to us for that kindness received. The exploit) said they lnul saved some
money and acme things of value in their boats, caught hastily out. of the flames, and if
we would accept it, they Were ordered to make an offer of it all to us ,' they only dashed.
to be set on shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they might get a passage to-
France. My nephew wished to accept their 'money At. first word, and to consider what
to do with them mamas; but I overruled him in that par-b, for I knew what. ii: was.
to beset on shore in a. "twinge country; and if the I'ortnguesn captain that took me up
at sea had served me so, and taken ail I hind for my deliverance, I must; have starved, or
have boon as much a slave at. the Bmzils as I had been at Barbary, the mere being sold
to a Mnhometnn excepted 5 and perhaps a. Portuguese is not. a. much better runs-bei- than
2'. Turk, if not, in some cases, much worse.

I therefore Cola the French captain that we had when them up in their distress in
\wa true, but that in was our duty to do so, as we were fellow-creature; ,- and we would
(icsire to be so delivered, if we were in the like or any other extremity ,' that we had done-
not-hing for them but what we believed they would have done for us, if we had been in
their case, and they in ours; but that we took them up to save them, not to plunder
lhmu ; and it would be a. more, barbarous thing to take that lintle from them which they
had saved on: of the lira, and then set them on shore and leave them ; that; this would.
be first to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves 2 save them from drowning,
and abandon them to starving ; and, therefore, I would not let the leash thing be taken
from them. As to subbing them on shore, I told them, indeed, khan? was an exceeding
ilifliculty to us, for that the ship was bound to the East, Indies 3 and though we were
driven out of our course to the wtsuvm'd a. very great way, and perhaps vfiere (invoked hy
Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet is was impossible for us wilfully to change
our voyage on their particular account ; nor could my nephew, the captain, answer it Lu
the fi'eighteis, with whom he was under charter to pursue his voyage by Way of Brazil ;
and nil I know we could do for them was, to put, ourselves in the way of meeting with
other ships 'nomcwsrd bound from the \'i'est Indies, and gel: them a. passage, if pessibic,
in) England 0|" France.

The first. part of the proposal was so generoms and kind, they could not- bun he very

. lenkx'hl forit ; but they wum in very great. consternation, especially the pasengers, at
51m notion of being carried away to the East indies 3 they then entreated me, that as T
was driven so far to the westward before T met with them, I would, at least, keep on
the same course to the Bu'nke- of Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet

usWE LAND-THE FRENCH PEOPLE.

 

with some ship or sloop the they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence
they came.

I thought thin was but a reasonable request on their part, and therefore I inclined to
agree to it 3 for, indeed, I considered that to carry this whole company to the East
Indies, would not only,' he an intolerable severity upon the poor people, but would he
ruining our whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions ; so T. (.houglm it 110 breach Of
charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in
which no one could any we were to blame; for the laws of God and nature would have-
forbid that we should refuse (a) take up two boats full of purple in such a distressed
condition ; and the nature of the thing, a: well respecting ourselves as the poor people,
Obligml us to set them on shore somewhere or other fur their deliverance So I eonsenbml
that we would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and \i'oni'her would permit 5 and if
he>>, thutl would can;r ihcxn lo Martinico, in the Want. Indies

The wind continued fresh canterly. but the weather pretty good; and as the winds
had continued in the points between NE. and $.15>> a long time, we nursed several
opportunities of sending [ham 0:) France; For we met several ships hound to Europe,
whereof two were French, from St. Christopher's ; but they had been so long beating'up-
against the wind that they'dunst not take in paesengeng for fear of wanting provisions for
the voyage, as well for flimnaclvcs 3:4 for Lhasa: they should bake in ; no we were obliged to
go on. It was about a week after this that we made the Banks of Newfoundland; where;
Lo slmann my glory, we put all our French people on board :I. liurque, which they hired
at sen there, to put. them on shore: and aflorwerds to carry them to France," they could
get- provisions to victual themselves with. When I say all the French went on shore, l
almuhl remember, that the young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the first
indies, desired to go the VOysigo with as, and m lac set on share on the cans: of
Coromanclel ; which I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very
good remaon, as will appear afterwards ; also four of the seamen entered themselves on
our ship, and proved very useful fellows.

From hence we directed our course for the West- Indies, suturing away S. and S. by-
Fl. for about twenty days together, sometimes little or no Wind at all ; when we met:
with smasher subject for our humanity Lo work upon, almost as deplnmhlc as um.-
before. _ .

TL vans in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minute); north, on the 19th day of March,
3-694-5; when we spied 2L suil, our course 3.151 and by S. We soon perceived it was a.
huge vessel, and. that she bore up to use but, could nor, at limb know what. no make of berg.
till, after coming a little nearer, we found she had lost. her main'topmnst, foremasg und-
bowspric ; and prcsoiilly she fired a. gun as a signal'of dim-ass. The weather mpretty
good, wind at. N.N.W. a. fresh gale, and we soon cuuie to speak with her.

We found her a ship of Bristol, hound home from Barbnxloes, but lied been blown
out. of the mad at Barbadoex a few days before she was ready to sail, by a. terrible-
hurricane. while the captain and chief unite were both gum: on <<hm-a ; su) c-hsl, besides.
the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent, case for good artist.>>- to bring the ship
home. They had been already nine weeks at sea, and had met. with another terrible-
storin, after the hurricane was over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge
in the wesiward, and in which they had lost their masts. They told us they exprwmd to.
have seen the Bahama Islands, but were then driven away again to the south-case,
by astrong gale of wind at N.N.W., the same that blew now :I and luring no sails to
work the ship with but a main course, and a kind of square sail upon a jury-foreman,

219
 

which they had set up, they could not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to stand
away for Glac- Canaries.

But that. which was worst of oil, was, that they were almost starved for want of
provisions, besides the l'ufiguaa they had undergone; flieir bread and flesh were quite
gone; they had not one ounce left in the ship, and had had. none for eleven days. The
only relief they load. wag, their water was not all spent, and they haul about half a barrel
of flour left 5 they 1le flugm' enough ; some snot-odes, or sweetmeam, they had at. first,
but they were all devoured ; and they had seven casks of mm.

There was u. youth, and Ilnis mother, and a maid-servant. on board, who were
pusengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came on board the
evening before the hurricane begun ; and having no provisions of their own left, they
were in n more deplorable condition than the rest: for the seamen, being reduced to
such an extreme uecessit'gr themselveg haul no compomion, we may be sure, for the poor
passengers; and they were, indeed, in such a condition that their misery is very hard
to describe.

1. had perhaps not known this purl, if my curiosity lxsul not. led me (the weather
being fair, and the wind aimed) to go on board l<<he ship. The second mate, who upon
this occasion commanded the ship, had been on boa-rd our ship, and he (told me they
haul three pawngers in the grant (shin, that were in n deplorable condition: "Nay,"
says he, " I believe they are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two days:
and I was afraid to inquire afler them," said be, "for .T laud nothing to relieve them
with."

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we could spare; and,
indeed, I had so far overruled things with my nephew, that I would. have victusillcd
them, though we had gone away to Virginityq or any other port of the coast of
America, to have supplied ouruelvex; but there was no necessity for then.

But. now they were in o now danger 5 for they were afraid of exiting too much, even
of that little we gave them. The moi-e, or commander, bruughfi six men with him in
his boat ; but these poor wretclles looked like skeletons, and were so weak that they
could hardly sit to their cars. The mute himscifwns very ill, and half--starved ; for he
declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went share and shale alike with
them in every bit they Mk.

I cautioned him to cut sparingly, but set moot before him immediately 3 and he lltld
noL mien three mouthfuls before he began. to be sick and out of order ; so he stopped
awhile, and our suigcon mixed him something with some broth, which he said would
be to him both food and physio: and after he bod taken it he grew better. In the
moaniime, I forgo: not the men,- I ordered viotunls to be given them, and the poor
creatures rather devoured than ale ill: they were so exceedingly lnmgi'y that they were
in a manner ravenous. and had no command of themselves 3 and two of them ate with
so much groedinons that. they were in danger 2f their lives the next morning.

The sight of these people's dim-cs; was very moving to me, and'brought to mind
what I llml a. terrible prospect of or, my fiist coming on slime in my island, where I had
never the least mouthful of food, or any prospect. of procuring any 3 besides the hourly
apprehensions I-lml of being made the fowl of other creatures. But all. the while the
mate was thus relating to me the miacmblo condition of the ship's company, I could not
put out of my thought the xtory he had told mo of tho threw poor creatures in the
great cabin, viz, the mother, her son. and the maid-servant, whom he lnid heard nothing
of for Lw>> or three <<lays, and whom, he ween-ml to confess, they lmd wholly neglected,

2 20
 

 

their own extremities being so grant: by which i understood, that they had really
given them no food at all, aml that therefore they xnnsl} ha perished, and he all lying
dead, perhaps on the floor or deck of the cabin.

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, an board with his men,
to refresh them, no I also (<<n-got not the slarving crew that were left on board:
hut. ordered my own boat to go an board the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men.
to carry them a. sack of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to hell. Our surgeon
charged the men to muse the meat to be boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard
in the cook-room, to prevent the men taking it to eat raw, or taking it- out of the
pol. before it wasivell boiled, and then to give every man but a, very little at. n. time :
mid by this; caution he presei'vedvtrlze men, who would otherwise have lulled themselves
with that very food that was given them mu purpose to save their lives.

AL- Lho same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin, and see what. con.
dition the poor passengers were in ,- and if they were alive, to comfort them, and giva
them what refreshment was proper: and the surgeon grwo him a large PlLClmr, wiLh
some of the prepared broth which he had given the mate that was on board, and which
he did not question would restore them gradually.

I was not satisfied with this: but, as I said above, having a. great mind to see the
same of misery which I knew (he ship itself would present me with, in a more lively
manner than I could have it by report, I took the mpta-in of the ship, as we now called
him, with me, and went myself, a little altar, in their boat. '

I found the poor men on board almost in n. tumult, 'to get the victuals out of the
boiler licl'm'e ii. was really 5 but the mate observed his orilem, and kept it gmnl gum-Cl at;
the cook--room door; and the man he placed there, nfter using all pmsiblc Dominion
to have patience, kept them oil' by (inure: however, he caused some biscuit cakes to
he dipped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the meat, which they called brewis.
and gave them every one some, to stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their
Own safety that he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But it was all
in vain ; and had I not come on board, and their own commander and officers with
me, and with good Words, and some threats also of giving them no more, I believe
they would have broken into the cook-romn by fine>>, and turn the meat oul. of (hp.
furnace; {or woi'cls'aye indeed of very small force to a hungry belly: however, we
pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for the first, and the naxt time
gave them more, and at. last filled their bellies, and. the men did well enough.

But the misery of the poor pamngnm in the cabin was of another nature, and
far beyond the rest ,- for as, first, the ship's company had so little for t-hcmsclmg, it was
bul- too true that they had at final: kept them very low, and at last totally neglected
them : so that for six or seven days it might be aaiil they had really no food at all, and
for several days hefnm very link. The, poor mother, who, as the men X'epori'erl, was a.
woman of sense and good breeding, had spnroxl all she could so nil'cetioimtcly for her
son, that at last she (naively sank under it; and when the mate of our ship went in,
she an! upon the floor or deck, with her back up against the sides between two chairs,
which were lashed fast, and her head sunk between her: shouldcnw, like a 06mm,
though not quite (lead. My mate said all he could to revive and encourage her, and
with a. spoon put some broth into her mouth. She opened her lips, and lined up one
hand, but could not speak : yet 6ch understood what he mid, and made signs to him,
inhimating that it was too late. {hr her, but pointed to her child, as if she would have

said they shunld take care of him. However, the "mile, who was exceedingly moved."-
2:9A FEARFUL SCEB l;._

 

the sight, endeavoured to get some of the broth into her mouth, and, nx he said, got two
or three spoonfuls down ; though I question whether he could he sure of it or not : bur
it; was box) 153:, and she died the some night.

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most a-fl'eciionate mother's life, was
not no lar gone; yet. he lay in a cnbin bed, as one stretched out with hardly any life left
in him. He had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it :
however. being young, and having more strength than his mother, the mate got
something down his throat, and he began sensibly to revivo; though by giving him,
some time after, but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and
brought it. up again.

But- the next (are was (the poo): maid : film lay all along upon the dock, hard lay her
mistress and just like one that had fallen down with on npoplexy, and struggled for life.

. lIer limbs were ilisiorted 5 one of her hands was clasped round the frame of the chair
.and she gripped it so hard that we could not easily make her let it go 3 her other arm
lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set. {not against Llic'D-anio-of tho cabin
table: in short, she lay just like one in the ngonies of death, and yet she was alive too.

The poor creatum was not only starred with hunger, and terrified with the thoughts
of death, hut, :us the men told us afterwards, was. broken'heaxted for her mistress, whom
xl-e saw dying for two or three days before. and whom she loved most tenderly.

\Vo knew not what to do with this poor girl 5 for when our gin-goon, who wash man
of very great- knowledge and experience, had, With great application, recovered her as to
life, he had her upon his hands still; for she was little less than distracted for a. con--
::i<lemblc Lime after.

Whoever shall read these xnemoranduws must be desired to consider, that visits at
sea are not like a journey into the comitry. where sometimes people stay a week or a.
tbrtnight at a. place : our hun'nese was to relieve this distressed ship's crow, but not- lie
by far them 3 and though they were willing to saucer the same course with us for some
'dflj's. yet we could mrry no soil, to keep pace with a ship that had no masts: however,
as their eapesin begged 0qu to help him to set up a main--topmost, and a. kind of top-
most to his jury-fiaremast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four days; and
then, 1""ng given him five barrels of beef, a barrel 02 pork, two hogslwwls of biscuit,
rind a proportion of peas, flour, and wluii- other things we could spore ; and taking three
onsks of mgm', some rum, and some pimps-of-oight from them for satisfaction, we left-
them, taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and the maid,
and all their goods.

The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a. pretty, well-bred, modest, and
sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of his mother, and, as it seems he had lost his
father but a few months before, at Barbndoes '. he begged of the surgeon to speak to me to
take him out, of the ship 3 for he said the cruel fellows had murdered hismoLher : and,
indeed, so they had, that is to say, passively ; for they might have spared a small sustenance
t" the P00!" l'GlPlE-is widow, that might have preserved her life, though it had been but
just enough to keep her alive ; but hunger knows no [i-iend, no relation, 11deg justice, no
right, and therefore is remorseless. and onpnble of no compassion.

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would carry him away from
-all his frienda, and put him, perhaps, in as bad circumstances almost as those "'0 1'03""!
him in, that is to my, starring in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went,
if he was but delivered from the terrible crew that he was among 5 that the captain (by
which he meant me, for he could know nothing of my nephew) had saved his life, and

2:3
 

 

he was sure would not hurt him ; and as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself,
she would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where we would, The surgeon
represented the case so affectionately to me that I yielded, and we took them both on
hoard, with all their goods, except eleven hogshonds of sugar, which could not be removed
or come at ; and as the youth had a bill of hiding for them, I made his commander sign
a writing. obliging himself to go as soon as he came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, 3.
memhant- there, to whom the youth said he was rolsited, and to deliver a letter which I
wrath to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow 3 which I suppose
was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most
prolmhln, lost at sea 5 being in so disabled in condition, and so far from any land, that I
am of opinion the first storm she met with 'afierwards, she might. founder in the see, for
she was leaky, and haul damage in her hold, when we met with her. '

I was now in the latitude of 19 (lugrcaa 32 minutes, and had hitherto a kilemhle
voyage as to weather, though, at first, the winds had linen contnu'y. I shall trouble
nobody with the little incidents of wind, weather, currents, he, on the rest of our voyage ;
hut, to shorten my story, shall observe that I came to my old habitation, the island, on
the 10th of April, 169:3. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place ; for as I
came to it, and went from it, before, on the south and east side of the island, coming
from the Bmzils, so now, coming in between the main and the island, and having no chart
for the coast, nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether I saw
it or not. '

"'e heat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands in the mouth of
the great river Oronooquo, but none for my purpose 5 only this I learned by my Counting
the shore, that I was under one great mistake before, viz, that the continent which 1
thought I saw from the island 1 lived in, was really no continent, but a long island, or
rather a. ridge ofislands, reaching from one to the other side of the extended mouth of
that great river; and that the savages who came to my island were not properly
them: which we call Caribees, but islanders, and other barbarians of the some kind, who
inhabited nearer to our side than the rest.

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose; some I found were in-
habited, and some were not ,: on one of them l found some Spaniards, and thought they
had lived there; but, speaking with them, found they had a sloop lying in a small creek
hard by, and came thither to make salt, and to catch some pearl--mussels if they oOnId ;
but that they belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay farther north, in the-latitude-
ol' l0 and 11 dugrecs.

Thug coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship, sometimes with.
the Ii'renchmen's shellop, which we had found a. convenient boat, and therefore kept her
with their very good will, at length I came fair on the south side of my island, and
presently know the very countenance of the place: so I brought the ship safe to an
anchor, broadside with the little creek where my old habitation was.

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him if he knew where he
was? He looked about 9. little, and, presently clapping his hands, cried, "Oh, yes ; oh, there
--oh, yes; oh, there!" pointing to our old habitation, and fell dancing and caporing like a.
mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore
to the place.

"Well, Friday," says I, " do you think we shall find anybody here or no? and do
you think we shall see your farther 'l" The follow stood mute as a stool: a. good whilc ;
but, when I named his father, the poorafl'octionnte creature looked dejected, and I could

224"PSka M.) ms mum>>;
 

see the tears run clown his face very plentifully. "What is the mother, Friday 7" slid
I ; "are you troubled because you may see your father 2 " " No, no," says he, shaking
his head, " no see him more : no, never more see him again." " Why so," said I,
"I"ridnyl how do you know that l" " Oh, no, oh, no," says Friday ; " he long ago dis, long
ago ; he much old man." ""Well, well," says I, " Friday, you don"tlmow ; but shall we
see any one else, then i" .The follow, it seems, had hotter eyes than 1', and he points to
the hill just above my old house ,' and, though we lay half a league off, he cried! out,
" Me are, me see, yes, yes, me see much man there, and there, and there!" I looked,
huh I saw nobody--no, not with a. perspectiveglass, which was, T suppose, because I
could not hit the place ; for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day ;
and there were five or six men all together, who stood to look at the whip, not knowing
what to think of us .

As scones Friday told me he saw peoplg I <<mixed the English ancient. to he spread,
and fired three guns, to give them notice we were friends 5 and in about half a quarterof
a." hour after we perceived a smoke arise from. the Bide of the creel; ; so I immediately
ordered a. boat out, taking Friday with me ; and, hanging out a white flag, or a flag
of truce, 1' "'ch directly on shore, taking with me the young frier I mentioned, to whom
I had told the story of my living there and the manner of it, and every particular, both
of myself and those I left. there, and who wars, on that account, ex bremely desirous to go
with me. We had, besides, about sixteen men well armed, if we had found (my new
gues'le there which we did not know of, but we had no need of weapons

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we rowed directly
into the creel; ; and the limb man I fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I
had saved, and whom I lmew by his face perfectly well : as to his habit, I shall describe
it afterward; I ordered nobody in go on shore at Inst but myself, but there was no
keeping Friday in the heat, for the afl'eciionute creature had spied his flather at a dish: uoe,
9, good way ofi' the Spaniards, where, indeed, I saw nothing of him : and if they had not
let him go ashore, he would have jumped into the sea. lie was no sooner on shore, but
he flew away to his father, like on mow out of a. bow. It would have made any man
shod were, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have seen the first transports of this
poor fellow's joy when he came to his fat-her : how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked
his face, took him up in hisarme, set him down upon a} tree, and lay down by him 5 then
stood and looked at him, as any one would loolc at a. strange picture, for a. quarter of an
hour together ; then lay dovm on the groxuid, and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and
then got up again, and stared at him ; one Would have thought the fellow hewitelmd.
But it would have made a dog laugh the next day to see how his panion ran out another
way: in the morning, he walked along the shore, and again with his Ether, several hours'
alxvnys leading him by the hand, an if he had been a lady 3 and every now and then he
would come to the boat; to fetch aonmbhing or other for him, either a. lump of sugar, n,
dram, a biscuit cake, or something or other that was good. In the afternoon his frolic: mu
another way ; for then he would set the old man down upon the ground, and dance about
him, and make a. thous'nnd antic postures and gestures ; and all the while he did this
he would be talking to him, and telling him one etory or another of his travels, and of what
happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial ad'ection was to he
found in Christians to their parents, in our part of the world, one would be tempted
to say there would hardly have been any need of the fifth commandment.

_ But this is A digression : I return to my landing. It would be endless to take
notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the Smnim'ds received me with. The
226ALTERATIONS IN THE ISLAND.

first Spaniard, whom as I said, I knew Very well, was he whose life I had saved. Ile
came towards le hunt, attended by one more, carrying a flag of truce also , and he not
only did not know me at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion, of its being me that
was come, till I spoke to him. "Seignior," said I, in Portuguese, " do you not know
me 2 " Al; which he spoke not. 9. word, but, giving his in uslcet to the man that was with
him, threw his arms abroad, and saying something in Spanish that I (lid not perfectly hear,
came forward and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not to know that few
again that he had once scan as if an angel from Heaven, sent to rare his life : he snid
abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how ; and
then, beckoning to the person that attended him, bade him go and call out his comrades.
He then asked me if I would wall: to my old habitation, where he would give me
possession of my own house again, and where I should see they had made but mean im~
provaments; so I walked. along with him; but, slang! I could no more find. the place again
than if I had never been there; for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in
such a position, so thick amlulnso to one another, and in ten yeah? time they were grown
so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible, except by such windings and blind ways
as they themselves only, who made them, could find.

I asked them what'- pnt them upon all these fortifications : he told me I would say
there we need enogh of it, when they had given me an account how they had pawd
their time since their arriving in the island, especially after they had the misfortune lo
find that 1 was gone. He told me he could not but have some satisfaction in my
good fortune, when he heard that Im gone in a good ship, and to my satisfaction ; and
that he hadoftcntimcs axtmngpersimsion that one time or other ho should see me again ;
but nothing that ever befall him in his life, he said, was so surprising and afflicting to
him at flint, as the (heappointment he was under when he came back to the island
.and found I was not there. -

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that- wcre lcfc- behind, and of whom,
he said, he hail a long story to tell me, the Spaniardr all thought themselves much better
.among the savages, only llmt their number was so small : "am," more he, "had they
been strong enough, we lmd been all long ago in purgatory g" and with that he crowed
himself on the breast. "But, sir," says ho, " I hope you will not be displeased when T.
shall toll you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our own presci'vntion, to
disarm them, and ins-lie them our subjects, as they would rml. he content with being
moderately our masteis, but would he our murderers." I answered, I was afraid of it
when T left them there, and nothing tmuhlad me at my parting from the island but um.
they were not come back, that>> 1 might have put them in poxseasion of everything first,
and left the others in a state of subjection, as they deserved ; hut if they haul reduced
Lhein to it, I was very glad, and alionlcl be very for from finding any flmlt- wiLh iL : for I
' ...k:no.w they were a. parcel of rci'mnlm-y, nugoveriwble villains, and were fit for any manner
of mischief.

\Vhile I was saying this, the man came whenn he had sent back, and with him
eleven more. In the drugs: they were in, it. was impossible to guess What nation they
were of; but he made all clear both to them and to me. First he turned to mo, and
pointing to thorn, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives to
yon ;" and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he lot Lhmn know who I was;
upon which they all come up, one by one, not <<is if they had been sailors, and ordinary
fellows, and the like, but really as if they had 1mm ambassadors or nobleman, and I n
monarch or great conqueror : their behaviour was, to the last degree, obliging and

227courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which very well became them ;
am], in short, they had no much more manners than T, that Iscarce knew how to receive-
their civilicies, much less how to return them in. kind.

The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the island, after my going away; is>>
very remarkable, and has so many inCidenta, which the former port>> of my relation will.
help to understand, and which will, in most of the particulars, refer to the account 1
have alrewly given, that, I cannot but commit them, with great delight, to the reading
of those chm: come after me.

I shall no longer trouble the siory with a relation in the first person, which will put
me to the expense often thousand "said 1's," and " said he's," and " he told me's," and " I
mid him's," and <<he like ; but I shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can gather
them out of my memory, from what they related to me, and from what I met with in '
my commuting with them, and wilh the plnce.

In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligilnly as I can, I must go back to the
circumstances in which 1 left the island, and in which the persons were of whom I am
to spank. And first, it is necemry to repeal: shat I had sent away Friday's father and
the Spaniard (the two whose lives T lml rescued from the savages) in n large canoe to
the main, as I then thought it, to fetch over the Spaniawl's compnnions that he loll; behind
him, in order to save them from the like calamity that he had been in, and in order to
succour them for the present ; and that, if pmwible, we might; together find some way
for our deliverance afterwards.

When I sent them away, I lwml no visible appearance of, or the least room to hope
for, my own deliverance, any mom than I had twenty years before--numb less had I
any foreknowlme of what afterwards happened, I mean, of an English ship coming on
allure there to fetch me of? ; and it could not in! but at very great surprise to them, when
they came back, not only to find that. I was gone, but to'flnd three strangers lefi on the
spot, possessed of all that I had left- behind me, which would otherwise have been their
own.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, leabI might begin where T left of,
was of their own part; and I desired the Spaniard would give me a. particular account
ot'his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, when I sen!- liim lo fetehthem over.
He told me there was little variety in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to
them on the. way, having had very calm weather, and a smooth sen. As for his cmanry-
men, it could not be doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to see him (it seems
he was the principal man among them, le captain of the vessel they 11ml been ship-
wrecked in having been dead some time) : they were, he said, the more surprised to see
him, because they knew that- he was fallen into the lwlds of the savages, who, they were
satisfied, would devour him, as they did all the rest. of their prisoners; that when he told
them the story of his deliverance, and in what. manner he was furnished for carrying
them awey, it was like a, dream to them, and their asmnislnnenl, he said, was somewhat
51'" that Of Joseph's. brethren, when he told them who he was, and the story of his
exnlmion in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed them the arms, the powder, the
hall, and provisions, that he brought them for their journey or voyage, they were
restored to themselves, teak a. jnst share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately
prepared to (some own; with him.

Their first business was toget canoes 5 and in this they were obliged not to stick so
"'lwh "P011 the honesty of it, butto trespaas upon their friendly Samoa, and to borrow
two large canoes, or peringuas, on pretence of going out n fishing, or for pleasure. In

:28
 

 

 

CRUSOE "'IILCDMED 131' 'K'NV. SYMMRD.

films they came away the next momiw. IL seems whey wanted no time to get then>>

' selves ready ; for they had no hugme, neither clothes, nor provisions, nor anything in
file world but what: they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to '
make their bread.

They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily for them, I had
t-he occasion ofi'cwd for my escape, 9.5 I mentioned in the other pa rt, and to get ofl' from

2:the inland, leaving three of the most impudent, hardener), ungovernable, disagreeable
villains behind me, that any man could desire to meet with; to the poor Spaniard!
great grief and disappointment you may he sure.

The only just thing the rogues did was that. when the Spaniard>>; came ashom, they
gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions, aura other relief, as 1 had ordered
Lhmn to do ; also they gave them the long paper of directions which T had left with
them, containing the particular method>> which I took for managing every part of my life
there; the way lbnhecl my lunaul, hrccl up tauie goats, and planted my corn; how 1
cured my grapes, made my poLs nnd, in a. word, everything I did ; all this being written
down, they gzlA'e to the Smniards (two of whom understood English well enough) : nor
did they refuse to accommodsw the Spaninrds with anything else, for they greed very
well for some time. They gave them an equal admission into the house, or cave, and
they began to live very sooinbly ; and the hood Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of'
my methods, and Friday's father together, managed. all their affairs ;. but as for the
Englishmen, they did nothing but xmble about the island, shoot parrot>>, and catch
tortoiges 5 and. when they came home at night, the Spaniards provided their supper?! fol"
them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the others but let them alone,
wliich, however, they could not find in their hearts to do long; but, like the (log in
(he nmngcr, they would not out themselves, neither would they let the others eat. The
differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth misting, but at
last it hrokc out into open war : and it began with all the rudeness and insolcnce that.
can he imagined--without reason, without provocction, contrary to nature, and, indeed,
to common sense; and though, it is true, the first mimics. of it came from the Spaniards-
themselvos whom i. may call the accusem, yet when I came to examine the fellows, they
could not deny a. word of'it.

But before T come to the particulars ofthis part, 1 must supply adcfcct in my former
relation ; and this was, I forgot to set down,cmong the rest, that just as we were-
weighing the anchor, to set sail, there happened n little quarrel on board of our ship, which
I was once afraid would have turned to a second mutiny ,- nor was it apponscd till. the

_ caplnin, rousing up his courage, and taking us all to his assistance, pnrtcd them by force,
and, making two of the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons : and so
they had been active in the former disorders, and lot fall somcugly, dangerous wordy,
thc second time he threatened to carry them in irons to England, and have them hanged
there for mutiny, and running away with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain
did not intend to do it, frightened some other men in the ship ; and some of them hml
put it into the heads of the resi, that the captain only gave them good words for the
present, till they should come to some English port, and that then they should be all put
into gsml, and tried for their lives. The mute got intelligence of this, and acquainted u>>
with it 1: upon which it was desired that I, who still passed for n great man mnong then),
should go down with the mate, and stoixfy the men, and tell them that they might. 1m
stunned, if they behaved well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for tin; timo past.
should be pardoned. So I went, and utter passing my honour's word to them, they
appeared easy, and the more so when I caused the two men that were in irons to he
released and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night ; the wind also fallng
mini next morning, we found that our two men who had been laid in iron; haul:
fitolon each of them it musket, and some other weapons (what powder or shot they had

230CONDUCT OF THE ENGLISH.

we knew not), and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and run
away with her to their companions in roguery on shore. As soon as we found this T
ordered the long-innit on shore with t-weive men and the mate, and away they went to
seek the rogues ; but they could nnither find them nor any of the rest, for they all fled
into the woods when they saw the bout coming on shore. The mete. was once resolved,
in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their plantation>>, burned all their house-
hold stufi' and furniture, and left them to shift without it; but having no orders, he let
it all alone, left everything as he found it, and, bringing the pinnacc away, came on hoard
without them, Those two men made their number five 5 but the othcrthree villains
were so much more wicked than they, that after they had been two or three days Loguther
they turned (he two new-comers out of doors to ehiftl'or themselves, and would have
nothing to do with them ; nor could they, for 9. good while, ln: pertuaded to give the-m
any food : as for the Simnia-rdr, they were not yet come. -

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to go forward: the
Spaniards would have permsdcd the three English brutes to have taken in their country-
men again, that, as they snicl, they might be all one family ; but they would not hear of
it: so the two poor fellows lived by themselves ,- and finding nothing but industry and
application would make them live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore
of the island, but. it little more to the west, tobe out of danger of the savages, who always
landed on the east parts of the island.

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay up their
magazines and stores in ,- und the Spaniards liming given them some corn for seed, and
some of the pens; which I had left them, they dug, planted, and enclosed, after the
pattern I had set for them all, and began to live pretty well. Their first crop of corn
war>> on the ground ; and though it was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at
first, having had but alittle time, yet it was enough to'reliove them,a.nd find them with
biend and other eutnbles; and one. of the fellows heing the cooks inatt- of the ship, was
very ready at making soup, pudding and such other preparations as the rice and the
milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished him to do. '

They were going on in this little thriving position when the tlimo unnatural rogues,
their own countrymen too, in more humour, and to insult then), came and bullied them,
and told them the island was theirs 5 that the governor, meaning me, had giyen them
the possession of it, and nohody else had any right to it ; and that; they should build no
houses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent for them,

The two mun, thinking they were josting at first, asked them to come in and sit
down, and see what; fine houses they were that; they had built, and to tell them what
rout they demanded ; and one of them merrily said, if they were the ground-laudlonla,
he hoped, if they built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they would,
according to the custom of landlords, {fight a long lease: and desired they would get a.
scrivoner to draw the writings. One of the three, cursing and raging, told them they
should see they were not in jest 3 and going to a little place at. a. distance, where the
honest men hud made a. fire to dress their viccua-ls, he tukes a. fircbraml, and claps it to
the outside of their hub, and very ihirly set it on lire ,' and it would have been all
burned down in a. few minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him
away, and trod the fire out with his feet, 9.an that. not without some difficulty too.

The fellow was in such a. rage at the honest man's thrusting him away, that he
returned upon him, with a. pole he had in his hand, and had not the man avoided the

blow very ninihly, and run into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade,
23:seeing the danger they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they came both
out with their mnskets, and the man that was first struck at with the pole knocked the
' fellow dew" that began the quarrel, with the stock of his musket, and that before the
other two could come to help him 5 and then, seeing the rest come at them, they stood
together, and piesenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade them stand 032

The others had fire-arm with them too; but one of the two honeat men, bolder than
his comrade, and made desperate by. his danger, told them, if they ofl'crcd to move lmnd
or foot, they were dead men, and holdly commanded them to lay down their ms. They
did not, indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute, it brought; them to n. v
I):u'll',y, and they couxenwd to take their wounded man with them and be gone ; and,
indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded sull'zcimtly with the blow. However, they were
much in the wrong, asince they had the advantage, that they did not disarm them
ofl'eel-uslly, as they might have done, and have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and
given them an account how the rogues had hinted them ; for the three villains studied
nothing but revenge, and every day gave them some intimation that>> they did so.

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser port of their roguerieo, such
as treading down their corn ; shooting three young kids and a shegoai, which the poor
men had got to brood up tame for their store 5 and, in n word, plaguing them night and
day in this manner 5 it forced the two men to such a desperation, that they resolved to
light them all three, the. first time they had a firir opportunity. In order to do _
this, they resolved to go to the castle, asthey called. it (that Vine my old dwelling), where '
the three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending to have :-
fair battle, and the 51mm should. stand by to see fair play ; so they got up in the
morning before day, and came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their nmnes,
telling a Spaniard, that answered, that they wanted to speak with them.

It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having been in the woods, had
seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for dist-motion, 1 called the honest men, and he
had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with
from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their plantation, and destroyed
their corn that they had laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed the miloh-goat
and their three kids, which was all they had provided for their sustenance ; and that if
he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not. assist them again, they should he
starred. When the Spaniards came home at light, and they were all at supper, one of
them took the freedom to l'eprove the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and
mannerly tcl'mfl, and asked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmlong
inoffensive fellows; that they were putting themselves in a. way to subsist by their
labour, and that it had cost them a. great deal of pains to bring things to such perfection
as they were then in. .

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, "Whal. had they to do there? that
they eame on shore without leave ; and that they should not plant or build upon the
island ; it was none ol' their ground." " Why," says the Spaniard, very calmly, " Seignior
Ingleae, they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a rough-hewn tnrpauling,
" They "lightstarve; they should not plant nor build in that place." " But what must
they do then, seignior 2'" said the Spaniard. Another ofthe bmtes returned, " Do? they
should be tenants, and work for them." "But how can you expect that of them '1"
says the Spaniard ; " they are not bought with your money ; you have no right to make
them servants." The Englishman answered, "The island was their>>; the governor had
given it '0 them, and no mm had anything to do there but themselves ;" and with that,

232
 

 

.__------
THE PHIA'l'E "RING- TK'E HUT.

swore by his Maker that they would go and burn all their new huts; they should build
mom: upon their land. " Why, seignior," smys the Spaniard, " by the same rule, we mwst
be your servants Loo." "Ay," says the bold dog. " and no you shall, (00, before we have
done with you ;" mixing two or thwo melts in the proper intervals of his speech. The
Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him no answer. However, this little discoume
had heated them ; and starting up, one says to the other (I think it was be they called
"Will Atkins), " Come, J ask, let's go, and have t'other brush with them 5 we'll demolish
their castle, I'll wax-mm. you ; they shall plant no colony in our dominions."

Up0u this, they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, a. pistol, and a.
Edvard, and muttered some insolenb things among themselves, of what they would do to
the Spaniard)! too, when opportunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so
perfectly understand them as to know all the particulars, only that, in general, they
threatened them hard for taking the two Englishman's pare.

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening, the Spaniards
said they did not. know; but it seems they wandered about the country, part of the
night, and then, lying down in the place which I used to call my bower, they were
wen-y and overslept themselves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till
midnight. and so to take the two poor man when they wore axlccp, and as they

233
acknowledged afterwards. intended to set fire to their huts while they were in them,
and either burn them than or murder them as they came out. As malice seldom
sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have been kept. awake.

However, as the two men had aim a design upon them, as I have said, though a
much fairer one than that of burning and murdering, it' happened, and very luckily for
them all, that they were up and gone abroad before the hloody'mindcd rogues (mine to
their h uts,

When they name there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, it PS0!!ng was the
forwardest man, called out to his comrade, " Ha, Jack, here's the nest, but the birds are
flown." They mused awhile, to think what should he the Occasion of their being gone
abroad so soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards bed'givcn them notice of it ;
and with that they shook hands, smd swore to one another that they would lm rovrmged
of the Spaniards>> ' Ar soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work with
the poor men's habitation ; they did not set fire, indeed, to anything, but they pulled
down both their houses, and pulled them so limb' from limb that they left not the least
stick standing, or emrce any sign on the ground where they stood ; they tore all their
little collected household stuff in pieces, and threw everything about. in such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards found some of their things a mile off their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up all the young hoes which the poor men had
ylunted ; pulled up an inclosm'e they had made to secure their cattle and their corn 5
and, in 9. word, sacked and plundered everything as completely as a. horde of Tamar;
would have done.

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them cut, end had resolved to
fight them wherever they hsul been, though they were but two to three ; so that, had
they met there certainly would have been bloodshed among them, for they were all very
stout, resolute fellows to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they themselves could do
to meet; for, as if they had clogged one another, when the three were gone thither, the
two were here 3 and nflorwards, when the two went back to find them, the three were
come to the old habitation again : we shall see their different conduct presently. When
the three mime hawk like furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they
had been about had put; them into, they come up to the Spaniard; and told them what
they heel done, by way of scoff and bravado ; and one of them stepping up to one of the
Spaniards, as if they had been a couple ol' boys at play, takes hold of his hot as it was
upon his head, and giving it a twirl about, flooring in his face, says to. him, "And you,
Seiguior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend your mannem"
The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man, was as brave a. man as could he, and,
withnl, a strong, well~made man, looked at him for a good while, and than, having no
Weapon in his hand, stopped gravely up to him, and, with one blow of his list, knocked
him down, as an ex is felled with a polemic ; at which one of the rogues, as ineolent as
the first, fired his pistol at the fipanim'd immediately: he missed his body, indeed, {01'
the bullets Went through his hair, but one of them touched the Lip of his ear, and he bled
pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he really
Wee, Mid that put him into some heat, for before he acted all in a perfect calm ,' but now,
resolving to go through with hie work, he stooped, and tool: the fellow's musket whom
he had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man who had fired at him, when
the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot,
they stopped in, secured the other two, and took their arms from them.

23-:THE ENGLISHMEN DISARMEI).

When they were thus diam-,merl and found they had made all the Spaniaids their
enemies, as \1 oil as their own countrvnnen, they began to cool, and, giving the $111111de
hu' tor words, would have hail their arms again , but the Spanimds considering the feud
that was between them and the othm two Englishmen, and that it would he the best
method they could talco to keep them from killing one another, told them they would do
them no harm , and if they would live peaceably, they would be very willing to assist
and associate with them, as they did harm-1; , but that they 0011111 not think of gii ing
them their arms again while they appeared so resolved to do misehiefwish themto their
own wunh'ymen, and had even threatened them all to make them thci1 2111111111151.

The rogues w are now no men: (nimble to hear 101110.011 than to act with 16:1:4011' , but
how" 1e71'used their :11 1113, they went Luring 1L1vu1,and raging like madman, $111 calouing
what they would do, though they had no firem-nm. But the Spaniards, despising then
threatening, told 11111111 they should (use care how theyofl'ored any injury to their plant:-
tion or cattle ; for if they did, they would shoot them'ns they would ravenous l)\'ASlix,
Wherever they found tl1e1n;s.n1.l if they fell into their hands alive, they ashould certainly
be hanged. Howevel, this 11 as far from cooling them, but away they went, raging and
swearing like furies of helL As soon as they new gone, the two men came back,' in
p: itsion and rage enough also, though of anothei kind; for having heena ttheir planta-
(ion, 11.1111 finding it all demolished and. destmyed as above, it will easily be supposed
ti 951 had p1ovoe~16ion enough They 001 dd scarce have room to tell their tale, the
Spaniards were so auger to tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to find that
three men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment. at. all.

The Spnnimxls, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus disarmed them,
made light of their threatenings ; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy
ngni 11st them, what- peins soever it coat to find them out. But the Spaniards interposed
here too, and told them, that as they had disarmed them, they could not content that
they (the two) should puisue them with fire-11.111113 9.1111 perhaps lrL-l them. " But," said
the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, " we will endeavour to make them do you
justice, if you will leave in tons : for there is no doubt but they will come to us again,
when their passion is over, being not able to subsist. without our assistance. We pmmiso
you to make no peace with thorn without having 51 full satiefiwtion for you 5 and, upon
film condition, we hope you will promise to use no violence with them, other than in
your own defence," The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, 111111 with
great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested that they <<liel it only to keep them from
blmnlshed, and to 111:1.lco them all easy at last "For," said they, " we are not so 1119.11)-
of 11s ; hove is room enough for us all, and it is 9. great pity that we should not be all
good fi'iencls." At length they cliil consent, and waited for the issue of the thing, living
far some days with the Spaniards ,' for their own habitation was destroyed.

In about five (luys' time, the finer. vaginu'w, tired with wondering, and almost
starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtlos' eggs all that while, came back to
tho gore; and fin-cling my 54111111321111}, who, as I have said, was the governor, and two
more with him, walking by the side of the oreelr, they came up in a very submissive,
humble man 111w, and begged to be received again into the family. The Spaniards 11ml
them civilly, but told them they had acted so unnaturally to their countrymen, and so
very grossly to them (the Spaniards), that they eouhl not come to any conclusion without
omisulting the two Englishmen and the rest 3 but, however, they would go to them and

, dixwuxse about it, and they should know in half an hour. It may he guessed that they
Wort-1 very hard put to it ; for, it seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an answer,
335
 

 

 

 

they bugged they would send them out some breed in the mean time, which they did.
sending, at the name time, a large piece of gmt'e flesh, and a boiled parrot, which they
ate very heartily, for they were hungry enough.

After half an hour's consultation, they were rolled in, and a long (Jaimie ensued, their
two countrymen charging them with the ruin of all their labour, and 0. design to murder
them; all which they owned befom, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the
whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators between them ; and as they had obliged the
two Englislnneu not to hurt the three while they were naked and unarmed, so theyuow
obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one to be of the sumo and the
other of larger dimensions than they were before; to fence their ground again whom
they haul pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the
land again for planting corn where they lwi spoiled it, aux-l, in u. word, to restore every
thing to the some state as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it could not
he the sewn for the corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges, not being possible to
be moovered.

W'ell, they submitted to all this ; and as they had plenty of prorixiomg given them
all the while, they grew very orderly, and the whole society begun to live pleasantly and
agreeably together again ; only that these three fellows could _never be persuaded to work
--T mean for themselves--~excopi- now and than a little, just as they please-l ; however,
the Spaniards told them plainly, that if they 'would but live sociably and friendly togn~
titer, and study the good ofthe whole plantation, they would be content to work for them,
and let them walk about and he ens idle us they pleased ; and thus, having lived pretty
well together {or a mouth or two, the Spsmiunla gave them arms again, and gave them
liberty to go abroad with them as before.

It was not- above a. week after they had these arms, and went abroad, before the
ungrateful creatures began to be as iusolenl. and troublcxome as ever 5 hut, however, on
accident happened presently upon thin which endangered 'thc imfety of them all ; anal
they were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to the preservation of their
lives. '

Tt happened one night that the Spanish governor, us I call him--flint is to my, the
Spaniard whose life I had saved--who was now the captain, or leader, or governor of
the rest, found himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep :
he wax perfectly well in body, :6. ho (old me the story, onlyr found his thoughts tumul-
tuous ,' his mind ran upon men fighting and killing one another; but he was broad awake,
and could not by any means get any sleep ; in short he lay a great while, but, growing
more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so many of them, on

,gout'skins laid thick upon such couches and pads as they made for themselves, and not
in hammocks and shipbecls as I slid, who was but one, 30 they had little to do, when they
were willing to rise, but to get upon their feet, and perhaps put on a coat, such as it was,
and their pumps, and they were ready for going any way that their thoughts guided
them. Being thus got up, he looked out 5 but, being dark, he could see little or nothing 3
and, besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former account is described, and
which were new gwwn tall, interoeptecl his sight, so that he could only look up, and see
that it was a clear sturlight night, and, hearing no noise, he mturned and laid him (lowu
Again 3 but it was all one 2 he could not sleep, nor cauld he com pose himself to anything
like rest ; but his thoughts were ('0 the last degree uneasy, and he knew not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and wulkiug about, going out and coming ll],
another of them winked, and, calling, asked who it was that was up. The governor told

:36
 

 

Tl": VAGRANTS l.\' THE WOODS.

him how it, had been with him. "Say you so?" says the other Spaniard ; "such
'things are not. to he .slighted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief
working near "9;" and presently he asked him, "Where are the Ehglishmen?"
"They are all in their huts," says how "safe enough." It. seems the Spaniards
haul kept, possession of the main upxmmcut, and had made a place for the three
Englishmen, who, since their last mutiny, were always qum'tcred by themselves,
and could not come at the rest. "Well," says the Spaniard, "where is
somevhing in it, I am persuaded, from my own experiencm I am satisfied
our spirits embodied have- a converse with and receive intelligence from
the spirits uuembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world; and this friendly
notio" is given for our advantage, if we knew how to make use of it.
237
Come,"says he, "let us go and look abroad 5 and if we find nothing at) nll in it to justify
the trouble, l'll tell you a story to the purpoeva, than shall convince you of the justice of
my proposing it" '

In 9. word, they went out, to go up to the top of the hill, when: I nsml to go} but
they being strong, and a good company, non aloud, us I was, used none of my cnntions,
to go'up by the ladder, and pulling it up after them, to g1) up :4. swmnl sing.>> la) the top,
but were going round through the grove, unconcerned nnd unwary, when they were
surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a, very little way off from them, and hedging tho
voices of men--nob of one or two, but of a. great number.

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the island, it was my
ooustsni. (are to prevent them making the leash discovery of there being any inhahiinnt
upon the plane ; and when by any occasion they came to know it, they felt; it; so cfl'cetn-
ally that they that getaway were scarce able to give any scoounL of ii. ; for we disappeared
As soon as possible; nor did over any tlmlhsd smn me, wept: to tell my one else, exuepli
it was the three savages in our last encounter, who jumped into the host; of whom, I
mentioned, I was sil'nicl they should go home and bring more help. Wichhcr it was
the consequence of the escape of those men that so great a. number come now
fiogethcr, or whether they tame ignomstly, and by accident, on their usual bloody crmnd,
the Spaniards could not, it seems, understand 5 hut, whatever it was, it. had been their
business either to have concealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all, much less

_ to have let the ravages have seen that there were any inhabitants in the place ; or to have
fallen upon them so efl'ectnally as that; nol- a man of them should have escaped, whirch
could only have been by gelling in between them and their bull ls : but. this presence of
mind was wanting to them, which ms the ruin ol' their tranquillity for a great while.

W'e need not doubt but that the governor and the man with him, surprised with this
sight, inn hack immediately and raised their fellows, giving them on account of the
imminent danger they were all in, and they again as readily tool: the alarm ; but it was
impossible to persuade them to stay close wivhin where they were, but. they must all run
out- to see how things stand.

-W'hi':e it "rm dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had opportunicy enough,
for mma honm, to view them by the light; of three fires they had made at a distance from
one smother ; whnt- they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not. For, first, the enemy were too many ; and, secondly they did not keep
together, but were divided into several parties, and were on shore in several places

The Spunimds were in no small consternation ad. this sight ; and, as they found that
the fellows ran straggling all over the shore, they made no doubt but, first. or last, some
of Lhmn would chop in upon their habitation, or upon some ovlier place where they would
see the token of inhabitants ; and they were in great perplexiby also for fear of their flock
of goats, which would have baeu little less than starving them, if Lhny should. have been
destroyed ; so the first thing they unsolved upon was to ("spell/ch three men away before
it was light, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats away to the great,
valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to drive them into the very cave itself.
Could they have soon the savages all together in one body, and M. a dismncn from chi-it
canons, they resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have nttuckod them ; but
that could not, be obtained, for they were some of them two miles od' from the others;
and, as ll: appeared nfr'erwnrds, were of two different nation

A "or having mused a great while on the course they should tnko, and boating their
brains in considering their present circumstances, they resolved, _at last, while it was still

238A FIGHT BET\VEEN THE SAVAG ES.

dark, to send the old savage, Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, ifposaiblo, mmething
concerning them--as what they came for, what they intended to do, and the like. The
old man rnmlily undertook it ; and stripping himself quite naked, as most of she savages
were, away he went. After he hall been gone an hour or two, he brings word that. he
had been among them undiscovered ; that he found they were two parties, and of We
several nations, who hail war with one another, and had hall a great butcle in their own
country ; and that both sides having had several prisoners taken in the fight, Lhoy were,
by more chance, landed all on the Same island, for the devouring their prisoners and
making merry ; but their naming so by chance to the some place had spoiled all their
mirth--[hut they were in a great mge at one another, and were so near, tlmt'he believed
they would fight again as soon 2&5 daylight began to appear , but he did not perceive
that they had any notion of anybody being on the island but themselves He had hardly
made an end of telling his story, when Lhey could pereeive, by the unusual noise they
made, that. the two little armies were engaged in e bloody fight.

Friday's tether used all the angumeuts he could bu perms/la our. people to lie close,
and not be seen 5 he told them their safety consisted in if, uxul tlmt they had nothing to
do but lie still, and the savages would kill one another to their bends, and then the rest
would go away ,- nnd it was so to s. tittle. But it was impeneible Lo prevail, especially
upon the Englishmen ; their curiosity me; so imporlunate upon their prudentinls that
they must run out and see the battle 3 however, they used mime canteen, too 5 they did
not go openly, jus; by their own dwelling, but went farther into the woods, and placed
themselves to advantage, where they might securely see them manage the fight, and, as
they thought} not be seen by them ; but it seems the savages did see them, as we shall
find hereafteh

The battle was very fierce ; and, if T might believe the Englishmen, one of them said
he could perceive that some of them wore men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and
of great policy in guiding the fight. The battle, they said, held two hours before they
could guess which part-y would be beaten; but then that pa-rby which was nearest our
people's lmbiLatiou began to appear weakest, and tiller some time more, some of them
began to fly 5 and this put; our men again intoa greet consternation, lestnny one of those
that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and thereby involun-
tarily discover the pince; and that, by consequence, the pursuers would (lo the like
in Score-l1 of them. Upon this, they resolved L-lml- they would stand :u'meil within the
wall, and whoever came into the grove, they resolved to sally out over the wall and kill
them, so "Dbl, if possible, nob one should return to give an smount. of it ; theyr ordered
also that it should be done with their swords, or by knocking them down with the xtocks
of their muskcts, but; not by shooting them, for fear of raising an alsrm by the noise.

As they expected it fell out ; three of the routed army fled {or life, and eroming the
creek, ran directly into the plzico, not. in Lhe lean). knowing whither they went, bu;
running as into a thick wood for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad gave
notice uf this within, with this addition, to our men's great autisl'action, rim, that the
conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were gone ; upon this, the
Spanimd governor, a. man of humanity, would not sufl'er them tekill the three fugitives,
but sending three men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in
behind them, and aurprise and take them prisoners ; which was (lone. The residue of
the conquered people fled to their cannery and got 011' to see. ; the victors retired, made
no pursuit, or very little, but drawing themselves into a. bed y together, gore (we grant
screaming shouts, which they supposed was by way of triumph--and so the fight ended .

"3'39
and the some clay, about three o'clock in the afternoon, they also marched to their
canoes. And thus the Spaniards hml the island again free to themeelVea, their fright.
was over, and they saw no savages for several yum after.

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, and viewing the field
of bottle, they found about two-and-thirigr men rlnaxl on the spot ; some were killed with.
great long snows, some of which were found shaking in their bodies ; but most of them
were killed with great WWllIHI swords, sixteen or nevenlmn of which they found in the
field of battle, and as many hows, with a. grim many arrows. These words .wox'o strange,
great unwieldy things, and they must be very strong men that} used them ; most of
those men thit were killed with them had their heads mashed to pieces, as we may say,
or, as we call it in English, their brain>> knocked out, and several their arms and legs
broken 3 so that- it is evident they fight with inexpressible rage and fury. We found
not one man than was not stone dead ; for either they stay by their enemy till they have
killed him, or they can}- all the wounded men that are not, quite dead away with them.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while ; the sight haul. fillnul them
with horror, and the consequences appeared terrible to the lust degree, especially upon
supposing that some time or other they should fall into the llauuls of those weaturee, who
would not only kill them as enemies, but; kill them for foorl, as we kill our cattle ; and
they professed to me that the thoughts of being omen up like beef and mutton, though
it was supposed it was not to he till they were dead, had something in it so horrible
that it nnusented their very stomachs, made them sick when they thought of it, and.
filled their minds with such unusunl terror, that they were not themselves for some weeks
after. This, 9s. I mid, tamed even the three English hmtos I have heenapeaking of;
and for a great while after they were tractable, and went about. the commonlousineas of
the whole society well enough ---plonted, sowed, reaped, and hogan to be all naturalised
to the country. But some time after this they fell into such s'mple measures again, as
brought them into a great deal or tmuble.

They had taken three prisoners, as I observed; and those three being lusty, stout:
yuung fellows, they made them sen-ranks and taught them to work for them ; and as
slaves they did well enough ; but they did not take their measures with them as I did
by my man Friday, \'l7.., to begin with them upon the principle of having saved their
lives, and then instruct them in. the rational principles of life, much less of religion----
eivilising and reducing them by lcind we and afi'ectionm'e urgnmenga ; but as they
gave them their food every day, so they gave them their work too, and kept them fully
employed in drudgery enough 5 but they failed in this by it, that they never had them
to assist; them and fight for them as I had my man Friday, who was as true to me ssthe
Very flesh upon my bones.

But to come to the family pin-t. Being all now good friends, fnrcmnmon danger, as,
I said above, had eil'ectunlly reconciled. them, whey begun to consider their general cir--
cumstances ; and the first thing that came under comidemtion was whether, seeing the
savages particularly haunted that side of the island, and that there woi'o more remote
and retired parts of it. equally adopted to their way of living, and manifestly Lo their
advantage, they should not mther move their habitation, and plant in some more proper
place for their safety, and especially for the security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, all-er long debate, iv. was concluded that they would not remove their
habitation ; because that, some time or other, they thought they might hear from their
governor again, meaning me ; and if I should send any one to seek them, I should be
Sure to <<limfl- llK-m in that side, where. if they should find the place demoliflhcd, the-v

24oTHE Sl'ANlARDS SECURE THEIR PROPERTY.

 

 

THE SPANIARD PROTECTING TILE SAVAGE

would mncludu the savage; had killed us all, and we were gum), and so our
supply would go too. But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove
them into the valley Where my cave was, when), the bud was as proper for both,
and where, indeed, there was laud enough; however, upon second thoughts, they
niLm'ed one pin-i; 01' their resolution inn, and resolved only to remove part. of
their cattle thinhei', and phnit part of their com there; and so if one part was
dam-eyed, the other might be saved. And one part of prudence they use-l,
Which it was very well they did, that- they never trusted these three savages,
which they had when prisoners; with knowing :lnyi-lling of the phqu-Mion WY
had made in that Valley, or of any cattle they had there, much less of the cave
there, which they kepl, in (w of uucesgihy, an: a. safe retreat; and thither they
carried also the two barrels of powder, which 1 had sent them at. my coming
away. But, howewr, they resolved not- to change their lmbimtion; ye: (hey

agreed, that as 1 had carefully eoverml i'. first with a. wall or t'ortilimtiou.
If) 24,
 

and then with a, grove of trees, so seeing their safety consist/ed entirely in their
being concealed, of which they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover
and conceal the place yet more effectually than before. For this purpose, as I
planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew up to be tree; for
some good distance before the entrance into my apartments, they went on 'm the some
manner, and filled up the rest of that whole space of ground from the trees I had
set quite down to the side of the creek, where, as 1 said, I landed my floats, and
even into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to land,
or any sign that there had been any landing Lhcrmhouts: these stokes also being of n. '
wood very forward to grow, as 1 have noted formerly, they took care to have them
generally much larger and teller than {hose which I had planted ; and as they grew
apace, so they planted them so very thick and close together, that when they had been
three or [our years grown, there was no piercing with the eye any considerable Way
into the plantation ; and as for that. part which I had planted, the trees were grown as
thick an; a man's thigh, and among them they placed so many other short (men, and so
thick, that, in n word, it stood like a palisado a. quarter of a mile thick, and it was next
to iiuipossihlo to planet-mu: it, but with a. little army to out. it all down--for a. little dog
could hardly get between the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all 5 for they did the smile by all the ground to the mm; hand and
to the left, and round even to the side of the hill, leaving no way, not so much as for
themselves, to come out. but by the ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then
lifted up, and placed again from the first stage up to the top ; and when the ladder was
taken down, nothing but what had wings or witchcraft to wish it could come at them.
This was excellently well contrived ; nor was it less than what they afterwards found
occasion for, which served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority of
Providence to justify ii, so it has doubtleas the direction of Providence to set it to work ;
3.11de we listened carefully to the voice of it, I am persuaded we might prevent mnny
of the disasters which our lives are now, by our-own negligence, subjected to.

I retain to the story. They lived two years after this in perfect. retirement, and had
no more visits from the savages. They had, indeed, an dorm given them one morning,
which put them into a. great consternation; for, some of the Spaniards being out early
one nioming on the west side. or rather end, of the island (which was the: end where I
never went, for fear of being discovered), they were surprised with seeing above twenty
canoes of Indians just- coming on shore. They made the best of their way home in
hn-i'ry enough ; and, giving the alarm to their comrades, they kepigclosc all that day and
the next, going out only at night to make theirobscrmtion 3 but they had the good luck
to be mistaken, for wherever the savages went, they did not-land that time on the island,
but pursued some Other (lexign.

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; one of whom, it most
turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the three slaves, whom i mentioned they had
taken, because the fellow had not donesomething right which he bid him do, and seemed
a. little unbeatable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a. froghclt, in which he
wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor sewage, not to correct him, but to kill him.
One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a. barbarous out. with the
hatchet, which he aimed at hi3 head, bnt- struck into his shoulder, so that he thought
he had cut the poor creature's arm off, route him, and entrenting him not to murder the
poor man, placed himself between him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The
follow, being enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and

242THE SPANXARDS AND ENGLISH.

swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage 3 which the Spaniard por-
ceiving, avoided the blow, and with a, shovel which he had in his hand (for they were all
working in the field about their corn land) knocked the brute down. Another of tho
Englishmen, running at the same time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down ;
and then two Spaniards morecumc in to help their man, and a third Englishman fell in
upon. them. They had none oi'them any firearms or any other weapons but. hnwhets
and other tools, except this third Englishman ; he had one of 'my rusty cutlusses, with
which he made at the two last Spaniards, and wounded them both, This {my set the
whole family in an uproar, and, more holp coming in, they tool: the three Englishmen
prisonexs. The next question Wus, What should be done with them 7 They hnd been so
often mutinous, and were so very furious, so dcapcmto, and so idle witlml, they knew
not what course to take with them, for they were mischievous to the highest degree, and
cared not what hurt they did to any man ,- so that, in short, it was not safe to live with
:thom.

The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many words, that if they had been
hf his own country, he would have lumed them ; for all laws and all govornors were to
preserve society, and those who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out
uf' it; but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kindness of an
Englishman that" they all owed their preservation and delivorance, he would use them
with all possible lenity, and would have them to the judgment of the other two
i-lnglishmen, who were their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired it might not.
he left to them--" For," says he, "I am sun-one ought to sentence them to the gallows 3 "
and with that he gives an account how Will Atkins one of the three, had proposed to
haVe all the five Englishmen join iogether, and murder all the Slmniurds when they
were in their sleep.

mien the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will A thins, "' How, Soignior
Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you to say to that l " The hardened
villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was true, and swore they would do it
still before they had (lone with them. " Well, but Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard,
" what hswe we done to yOu that you will kill us? And what would you get by killing
us? And what must we do to prevent: your killing us? Must we kill you, or you kill
us? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Soignior Atkins P " says the Spaniard,
very calmly, and smiling. Seignior Atkins was in such nmge at the Spaniard's making
ajcst of it, that, hud he not been held by three men, and witlml had no weapon near
June, it was thought that he would have attempted to kill the Spaniard in the middle of
all the company. This heir-brain cm-ringo obliged them to connider ashrioixaly what was
to be done,- the two Englishmen, and the Spaniard who saved the poor sevnge, were of

' the opinion that they should hang one of the three, for on mmple to the rest, and that
particularly it should be he that had twice attempted to commit murder with his
hatchet ; nml indeed, there was some reason to believe t-hni'. he had alone it, for the poor
savage was in such it miserable condition with the wound he had received, that it was
thought he cuuld not live. But the governor Spaniard still said no ; ii. was an Englixlh
man that had saved all. their lives, and he would never consent to put 2m Englishman
to death, though he had murdered half of them ,' nay, he said, if he had been killed
himself by an Englishnmn, and had time left to speak, it should be that they should
pardon him.

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that there was no gain-

:43
 

saying in ; and as merciful counsels are most apt to prevail, where they are so eorncstly'
pressed, so they all came into it ;. but than it. was to be considered wlmt should he done
to keep them from doing the mischief they designed ; for all agreed, governor and all,
that means were to be used for preserving the society from danger. After a long
debate, it. was agreed, first, that they should be disarmed, and not. permitted to have
cELhor gun, powder, shot, sword, or any weapon ; and should he turned out of the society,
ancl loll. to live where they would, and how they could, by themselves 5 but that. none of
tho rest, either Spaniards or Engh'ah, should converse with themfipeak with them, or have
anything to do with them : that. they should he forbid to come within a certain distance
of the place where the rest dwelt ; and if they ofl'ered to commit any disorder, so as to
spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle
belonging to the society, they should die without mercy, and they would shoot. them.
wherever they oculd find them.

The governor, 3.1mm of great humanity, musing upon the sentence, considered 9.
little upon it. ; and turning to the two honest Englishmen, said, "Hold; you must
reflect. Lhal. it will ho long are they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and they
must not starve; we must therefore allow them provisions." So he caused to he added,
that. they should have a proportion of corn given them to lost them eight months, and
for seed to sow, by which time they might. be Supposed to misc some of their own ; that.
they should have six much--goats, four lie-goats, and six kids given them, as well for
present subsistence as for 9. store 5 and that- they should have tools given them for
their work in the fields, such as six hatchets, on mine, a saw, and the like ; but they
should have none of' these tools or provisions unless they would swear solemnly that
they would not. hint or injure any or the Spaniards with lem, or of their fellow-
Englishmen.

Thus they dismissed them the society, and. turned then) out to shift. for themselves.
They went. away sullen and refractory, as neither conlenL in go away, nor to stay ;' but,
as there was no remedy, they went, pretending to go and choose a place where they
would senile t-hemrselven ; and some provisions were given them, but. no wenpous,

About four or five days after, they came again for some vicLuals, and gave the
governor an account} where they had pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a
habitation and plankation, and it. Wis a very convenient place indeed, on the leiiiotest>>.
part of the island, N.E., much about Lhe place where l provldmllifllly landed in my first
voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the Lord knows whither, in my foolish attempt.
in snil round Lhe island.

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them inmnanner like
my first. habitation, being close under the side of a hill, having some trees growing
aiready on three sides of it, so that by planting others it would be very easily covered.
from the sight, unless narrowly usaruhed for. They desired xome dried goat skins, for
beds and covering, which were given them; and "1101] giving their words that they
would not discurh the rest, or injure any of their plantations, they gave them hummus,
and what other tools they could spare ; some pens, barley, and rice, for sowing, and, in
a word, anythingv they wanted, except. arms and mnnmnilion.

They lived in this separate condition about. six months, and had got in their first.
harvmt, though the quantity was but small, the parcel of land they had planted being;
but little; for, indeed, having all their plantation to form, they had in great. deal 0|
work upon their hands; and when they (nuns tn nmko lmau'la and pots, and such
things, they were quite out of their element, and could make nothing ofit ; and when.

34--1
 

the rainy season came on, for want of a cuvo in the earth, they could not keep their
grain dry, find it was in grcaL danger of spoiling _: and this humbled them much : so
they came and hugged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily (lid; and
in four days worked a great hole in the xide of the hill for them, big enough to smmm
their corn mid other things from the min : but if, was a poor place, at best, compared
to mine, and especially as mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged il,aud
made several new armrbmonts in it

About three quarters of a year after thiu reparation, a new frolic took these rogues,
which, together with the former villuny they hnd committed, lmought mischief enough
upon them, and had very near been the ruin of the whole colony. The three new Meo-
ciates began, in seems, to ho weary of the laborious life they led, and that. without hope
of hollering their circumstances : and a whim lock them that they would make a.
voyage to the continent, from-whence the ravages came, and would try if they could.
scizc upon some prisoners among the natives there, and bring them home, so as to-
mnke them do the laborious part of the work for them.

The project was not so prqmstcmus, if they had gone no fin'thcr. But they did
nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief in the design or mischief in the
event. And if I may give my opinion, they seemed to be under in blast from Heaven ;
for if we will not allow a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how elmll we reconcile-
thc events of things with the Divine justice? It was certainly an apparent. vengeance
on their crime of mutiny and piracy that brought them to the state they were in ; and

' they showed not the least remorse for the crime, but added new villnnics to it, such as.
the piece of monstrous cruelty of wcmxding a pour slave because he did not, or perhaps
could ml, urn-lummnd In do what he was directed. and to wound him in such a manner
nsmmle him u crippleall his life,and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be
had for his cure ,' and, what mus still \vorsn, the murderous intent, or, to do justice to
the criuiu, the: intentional murder, for such to be sure it was, we wafi RTWN'BMS the
formed design they all laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their sleep.

But I leave observing, and return (0 the story. The three follows came down to the-
Spauienls one morning, and in very humble terms desired to be admitlod to speak with
them. The Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which was this :--
That they were tired of living in the manner they did, and that they were not handy
enough to make the memories they wanted, and that having no help, they found they
should be starved; but if the Spanismls would give them leave to take one of the-
canoes which Lhcy came over in, and give them arms anal ammunition proportional to
their defence, they would go over to the main and seek their fortunes and so deliver
"them from the trouble of supplying them with any other provisions.

Tho Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but. very honestly represented.
to them the certain destruction they were running into; told them they had sule-cd
such hardships upon that vary spot, that they could, Without any spirit of prophecy,
tell them they would be starved or murdered, and bade them <<insider of it.

The men replied, nuduciously, they should be starved if they stayed here, for they
Could not work, and would not' work, and they could but be starved abroad ; end if
they were murdered, there was an end of them ; and, in short, insisted importunntoly

. upon their demand, declaring they would go, whether they gave them any arms or no.

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, thnt if they were resolved to go, they
should not go like naked men, and he in no condition to defend themselves 5 and that,
though they could ill spore their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they

245
 

would let them have two mindsets, a. pistol, and n eullusa, and each man s. hatchet,
which they thought was sufiicient-fiw them. In a word, they accepted the 0131'" ; and
having baked bread enough to serve them a mum-h, and given them as much gonta' flesh
as they could em:- while it was sweet, and :4. great. bushel. of dried gmpes, a pot of fresh
water, and a. young kid olive, they boldly set out in the canoe for a voyage over the sea,
where in was at 181151 forty miles brmd. '

Tho bout, indeed, was a, large one, and would very well have carried fifioon or twenty
men, and therefore was rather too big for them to manage 3 but ostvhey had a fair breeze.
and flood-tide with them, they did well enough. They had "le0 a must of a long
pole, and :1 soil of four large goat-skins driml, which they had sewed or laced together ;
and away they went merrily enough. The Spaniards called after them, " Btm ocymjo .' "
and no man ever thought of seeing them any more.

The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and to the two honest Englishmen
who remained behind, how quiefly and comfortably they lived, now these three turbulent
fellows were gone. As for their coming again, that was the rmotest thing from their
thoughts that could be imagined; when, behold, after two-and-twenty (layo' almanac, one
of the Englishmen, being abroad upon his planting work, noes three strange men coming
towards him at a. distance, with guns upon their shoulders.

Away runs; tho Englishman, as if he was bowiwhod, comes frightened and animal
to the governor Spaniard, and tolls him they were all undone, for there were strangers
upon the island, but could not. tell who they were. The Spaniard, pausing a while,
says to him, " How do you meauflyou cannot tell who 3 They are the savugcn, to be
sure." "No, no," says the Englishman ; " leoy are men in clothes, with arms." " Nay.
then," says the Spaniard, "why-are you so concerned 'l If they are not savages, they
must he frienclk, for there is no Christian nation upon earth but. will do us good
"other than harm." .

"73.219. they were debuting thus, came the three Englishmen, and, standing without.
the wood, which was new planted, hallooed to them. They presently knew their
voices, and so all the wonder causal Bnl. now the admiration was turned upon
another Question :-----Wlmt could be the matter, and what} mndo them come back
again E

it was nor. long before they brought. the men in, and inquiringwhere they had been,
and what they had been doing, they gave them a. full neoounL of their voyage in a few .
words :--thnt they reached the land in two days, or something less ; but finding the
people alarmed all; their coming, and prepared with bows and arrow>> to fight. them, they
cluist not go on shore, but- sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till they came
to a. great opening, by which "they perceived that the land theyrsaw from our island was
not the main but an island. Upon entering that opening of tho sou, they saw another
island on the right hand, north, and scvmnl more wont. 3 mad being mlvecl to land
Somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on
shout; that they found blio people very courieoua and friendly to blnam ; and that they
give several roots and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable ; and the women, as
vial) as the mm, were very fonmrd to aupply them will anything they could get for
them to eat, and brought in to them a. great way upon their heads.

They continued here four days, and inquired, as well as they could of them, by signs,
what nations were this way and that. way, and were told of several fierce and terrible
people that lived admost every way. who, as they made known by signs to them, used to
eat men : but- as for themselves, they said, they never my men or women, except only

24.7
such as they took in the wars , and than, they owned, they made u- gruut feast, and ate
their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of that kind 3 and they told
them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon and to two fingers ; and that their
greet king had two hundred prisoners now, which he hnd (<<hen in his war, and they
were Feeding them to make them fut for the next feast, The Englishmen seemed might}r
desirous of seeing those prisoners; but the others mistaking them, thought they were
desirous to have some of them to carry away for their own eating. So they beckoned
to them, pointing to the setting of the sun,nnd than Lo the rising ; which was to signiiy
thin. the next morning at sun-rising they would bring some for them ; and, accordingly,
the-next morning they brought down five women and eleven men, and gore them to the
Englishmen, to carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows
and oxen down to n sea-port town to viotunl a ship. -

As brutish and barbarous 9.5 those fellows were at home, their stomachs turned at this
sight, and they did not know what to do. To refuse the prisoners would have been the
highest affront to the savage gentry that could be offered them ; and what to do with
them they knew not. However, after some debate they resolved to aooept of them ;
and, in return, they gave the savages that brought them one of their hoteliers, an old
key, a knife, and six or seven of their builets; which, though they did not understand
their use, they seemed mticulnrly pleased with; and then tying the poor creatures'
hands behind- them, they dragged the prisoneis into the hunt for our men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they haul them, or else they
that gave them this noble present. would certainly have expected that they should have
gone to work with them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, and,
perhaps, have invitod the donors to dinner. But having taken their leave, with all the
respect and thanks that could well pass between people, where, on either side, they
understood not one word they eouid shy, they put olT with their boat. and came beck
towards the first island ; where, when they arrived, they set eight 0:" their prisoners at
liberty, there being too many of them fou- their occasion.

In their voyage they endeavoured to have some communication with their prisoners ;
but it was impossible to nmko them understand anything. Nothing they could say to
them, or give them, or do for them, butwns looked upon as going to nnuder them. They
first of all unbound them; but the poor creatures ecremnrxl at that, especially 1-11.,
women, as if they had just felt the knife at their tin-outs; for they immediately con.
cluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed. If they gave them anything to exit,
it was the some thing ,- tbey then concluded it was for fear they should sink in flesh, and
so not he int enough to kill. If they looked at one of them more particularly, the party
presently concluded it. was to see whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first ;
my, after they had brought. them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and treat
them well, still the}r expected every day to make a. dinner or supper for their new
masters.

When tho three wanderer; had given this unanoountsblo history or jouruetl of their
WAY-"g6. the Spaniard asked them where their new firmily was; and being told that
they had brought them on shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come
up to beg some victunls for them, they (the Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen,
that is to my, the whole colony, resolved to go all down to the place and see them ; and
did so, and Friday's {other with them.

W'lieu they came into the hut, there they sat, all hound ; for when they had brought

1'. [S3' ..:\L".l "Lu-32.
them on shore, they bound their hands, that they might not take the boat and make-
thoir incline ; there, I say, they eat, all of them stark naked. First, thorn were three
men, lusty, comely fellows-1, woil'slntpod, straight and fair limbs, about thirty to thirty-
live years of age; and five women, whereof two might be from thirty to forty; hm
more not above four' or live and twenty 5 and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about
sixteen or seventeen. The women were welthvom'cd, agreeable persons hath in shape
and features, only tawny 5 and two of them, hand they been perfectly white, would have
passed for vmy lnmdsomc women, even in London itmlf, having Pleau'wnt, agreeable
oountenan'ces, and of-'a very modest behaviour 5 especially when they come afterwards
lo he cloth-1d and (ironed as they called it, though that dress) was Very indifferent, it
must he confessed.

The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to 0111' Spaniards, who were, to
g1 vc them a. just character, men of the best behaviour, of the most calm, sedate tempers,
and perfect good humour, that over I met with g and, in particular, of the most modesty ;
I say, the sight was very uncouth, to see three naked men and fire naked women, all
together bound, and in the moat 111mbla circumstances that human nano could be
supposed to be viz, to be expecting every moment to ho dmgg cad out, and have their
brains knocked 011t,1md then to be eaten up like a. calf that' 1.; killed for s. dainty.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's father, to go in, and.
see, first, if he knew any of them. and then if he understood any of their speech. As
soon as the old man came in, ho looked seriously at them, but know none of them ;
neither could any of_tl1om understand a word he said, or a sign he could make, except
one of the women. However, this was enough to answer the end, which was to mtifiy
them that the men into whose hands they were fallen were Chm'stizms 5 that they
abhon'ed eating men or women ; and that they might be sure they would not be killed.
As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such a. joy, med by such awkward
gestures, several ways, as is hard to describe; for it seems they we1e of several untions.

The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place, to ask them if
they were willing to he servants, and to work for the men who lml brought them
away, to save their lives ; at which they all fell 3 dancing ; and presently one PS311 to
taking up this, and mother that. anything that lay next, to may on their shoulders, ix>>
intimate they were willing to work.

'lhc governor, who found that the having women among them would p1 esunvly be
attended Wltll some inconvenience, and might occasion some strife, and p: -rhsps blood,
asked the three men what they intended to do with these women, and how they
intended to use them, whether as servants or as wives? One of the Englishmen
answered, very boldly and readily, that they would use them as both 3 to which the
governor said, " I am not going to restrain you from it--yon are your own mostors as
to that; but this I think is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrel)! among you,
and I desire it of you for that reason only, viz :--Tlmt you will 11!]. engnge, that if any
of you tokc any of those \\ omen as a wife, that he shall take but one, and that, having
taken one, none else shall touch her, for though we cannot marry any one of you, you
it is but reasonable that, while you. stay here, the woman any of you takes shall be
maintained by the man that takes her, and should be his wife--J menu," says he,
" while he continues hero, and that none else shall have anything to do with hex. "
All this appeared so just, that cve1y one sgx eed to it \11thoutnny difficulty
Then the Englishmen asked the Spanimds if they designed to take any of them,

But ov cry one of them answered, " No. " Some of them said they had \\ ives in Spain,
250THE CHOICE or WIVES.

and the others did not like women that were not Christians; and all together declared
that; they would not. touch one Of them, which was an instance of such virtue as 1 have
not met with in all my travels 0n the other hand, to be short, the five Englishmen
fuck them every one a wife--that in to say, a temporary will: ; and so they set up a new
form of living ; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in my old habitat-ion, which
they had. enlarged exceedingly within. The three sex-rants which. were taken in the
last bottle of tho mvnges lived with them ; und these carried on the main part of the
colony, supplied all the rest with food, and assisted them in anything as they could, or
as they found necessity required.

But the wonder of the story was, how live such refractory, ill-matched fellows should
agree about these women, and that two of them should not choose the some woman,
especially seeing two or three of them were, without comparison, more agreeable-
tlian the others ; but they took a good way enough to prevent. quarrelling among
themselves, for they set the five women by themselves in one of their huts, and the}r
went all into the other huts, and drew lots among them who should choose first.

He that drew to choose first went. away by himself to the hut when-e the poor naked
creatures were, and fetched out her he chose ; and it was worth observing, that- he that.
chose first took her that was reckoned the homeliml; and oldest! of the five, which made
mirth enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards Laughed at. it, 5 but; the fellow
considered better than any of them, that it was application and business they were to-
expest assistance in, as much as in anything else ; and she proved the best. wife of all
the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves set: in a row thus, and fetched out one by
one, the terrcns of their condition returned upon them again, and they firmly believed:
they were now going to be devoured. Accordingly, when the English sailor came in.
and fetched om'; one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung about her,
and took their leave of her with such agonies and affection as would have grieved the
hardest. heart in the world ,- not was ii; possible {or the Englishmen to satisfy them that
they were not. to be iuuuedlstely murdered, till they fetched the old man, Friday's fat-how,
who immediately let them know that the five men, who were to fetch them out one by
one, had chosen them for their wives.

When they had done, and the flight the women were in was a little over, the men
want to work, and the Spaniards came and helped them 5 and in a. few hours they had
hnilt them every one a new hut- or tent for their lodging span-t. ; for those they had.
already were crowded with their tools, household stuff, and provisions. The three
wicked ones had pitched fart-hast ofl', and the two honest ones nearer, but both on the
north shore ofthe island, so that they continued generated as before ; and thus my
island was peopled in three places, and, as I might say, three towns were begun to he
built.

And here it is very well worth observing that, as it often happens in the world (what
the Wise ends of God's providence are, in such a disposition of things, T cannot say), the
two honest fellow had the two worst wives; and the three mprohntes, that. were scarce
Worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do themselves
good not any one else, had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious wives ; not that
the first two were bad wives, as to "1021' tompcr or hunmur, for all the five were most
willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but my
winning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious or industrious, or alike cleanly and.
neat.

251
 

Another ohseri'ntion I must make, to the honour of a diligent application on one
hand, and to the disgrace of a. slothi'ul, negligent, idle temper on the other, that when I
cmne to the place, and viewed the neural improvements, plantings, and management of
the several little colonies, Llie two men had so far ozimonc the three, that there was no
comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as much ground laid out for corn as- they
wanted, mid the reason wse, because, according to my rule, nature dictated that it wue
to no purpose to sow more'com than they wanted ; but the difl'orenoe of the cultivation,
of the planting, of the fences and, indeed, of eVerything else, was easy to be seen at
first View.

The two men had innumerable young treee planted about their huts, so that, when
you came to the place nothing W8 to be seen but o wood ; and though they had twice
had their plantation demolished, once by their own countrymen, and once by the enemy,
as shall he shmvu in its place, yet they had restored all again, and everything was
thriving and flourishing about them: they hm! grapes planted in order, and managed
like it vineyard, though they had themaelvee never seen anything of that kind 5 mid, by
their good ordering their vines, their grapes were am good again as mi y of the others
They had slaw found themselves out a. retreat in the thickest part of the woods, where
though there was not a natural care, as I had found, yet they made one with incessant
labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief which followed happened, they
secured their wives and children so as they could never be found: they having, by sticking
innumerable stakes and poles of wood which, as I said, grew so readily, made the grove,
impasoble, except in home places, where they climbed up to get over the outside part,
and then went on by ways of their own leaving.

As to the three reprolmtes, as I justly call them, though they were much civilised by
their settlement compared to what they were before, and Were not so quorrelxnme,
having not the same opportunity, yet one of the certain companions of e profligatu
mind never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, they planted. corn, and
mode fences; but Solomon's words were never better verified than in them--" I won:
by the vineyard. of the slothi'ul, and it was all overgrown with thorns 5" for when the
Spaniards came to view their crop, they could not {see it in some places for weeds, the
hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had got in and eaten up the corn ;
perhaps hero and there a dead hush was crammed in, to stop them out for the present,
but it was only shutting the stable door after the steed was stolen : wherms, when they
looked on the colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and success
upon all they did ; there was not 1: weed to be seen in all their corn, or a. gap in any of
their hedges ; and they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's words in another place,
that "the diligent hand mnheth rich; " for everything grew and thrived, and they had
plenty within and without; they had more tome cattle then the others, more utensils
and necessaries within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too.

It is true, the wives of the three were vory handy and cleanly within doors ; and
having learned the English ways of dressing and cooking from one of the other English'
men, who, as I kid, was a cook's mate on board the whip, they dressed their husband's
vict-uzds very nicely and well ; whereas the others could not be brought to understand
it ; but then the husband, who, as I say, had been cook's mate, did it himself. But as
for the husbands of the three wives, they loitercd about, fetched turtles' eggs, and cough!
fish and birds; in a word, anything but labour ; and they fired neoordingly. The diligent
lived well and comfortably, and the ulothful hard and heggarly 5on1 so, I believe,
generally speaking, it is all over the world.

2 5::THE SAVAGES DISCOVER THE INHABITANTS.

 

 

 

SElZURB Di! SLRKPING SAVAGE.

But 1 now come to a scene different from all that; had happened before, either
to them or to me ; and the origin of the 'etory was this z--Eerly one morning, them
came on shore live or six ounces of Tudians or savages--call them which yon please
--o.nd there is no room to doubt they came upon the old errand of feeding upon
(heir SIDYCS,' but that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men
too, that they did not concern themselves about it as I did: but having been made
sensible, by (heir experience, find; their only business was to lie concealed, and that if
they were not seen by any of the savages they would go off again quickly, when their
business was done, having, as yet, not the least. notion of there being any inhabitants
in the island 3 I say, having been nude sensible of this, they had nothing to do but
give novice to all the three plantations to keep within doors, and not show them-
selves, only placing a scout in epwper place, to give notice when the hon-ts went
to sea again. This was without doubt, very right ,- but a. disaster spoiled all these
measures, and made it known among the savages that there were inhabitants there ;

253
 

which vine, in tho end, the desolation of almost 1';GC whole colony. After the canoes
with the serge; were gone oil, the Spaniards peeped abroad again ; and some of them
had. the curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to 'soe what they had been
doing. Here, to their great surprise, they found three savages left behind, and lying
first Asleep upon the ground. It was supposed they had either been so gorgcd with
their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they were fallen asleep when the others want, or
they had wandomd into the woods, and <<lill not come back in Lima to be token in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly at a long what to
do. Tho Spanieh governor, as it happened, was with them, and his advice was asked,
but he professed he knew not what to do. As for slaves, they had enough already ; and
as to killing them, there were none of them inclined to do first : the Spaniard governor
told me, they could not think of shedding innocent blood; for as. to them, the poor
creatures had dono them no wrong, invaded "one of their property, and theythought
they haul no just quarrel against them to take away their lives. And here I mnsi, in
justice to those Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Eipamish cruelty in Mexico
and Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen men of any notion whatsoever,
in any foreign country, who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very
good-humonred, and so courteous, as these Spaniards: and as to cruelty, they had
nothing of it in their very nnturo: no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous pmeiom;
nnd yet all of them men of great courage and spirit. Their temper and calmness had
appeared in their hearing the insufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their
justice and humanity nppcnro-l now in the case of the savages, is above. All-or some
wimfltat'ion, they resolved upon this: that they would lie still a while longer, till, if
pagiblo, these three men might be gone. But then the governor Spaniard recollected that
the three snvgres had no boot,- aml if they were left to room about the ishmd, they
would certainly discover that than: were inlnbitonts in it ; and so they should be
undone Lind; way. Upon this, they went back again, and there lay the fellows. fast
asleep still, so they resolved to awaken them, and take them prisoners 3 and they did so.
The poor fellows were strangely frightened when they wore seized upon and bound ; and
afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten: for it seems, those
people think all tho world do as they do, eating men's flesh 5 but they were soon mule
easy as to that, and away they carried them.

It was very happy for thorn that they did not marry them home to their castle--l
moon, to my palace under the hill ; bub they carried them first to the bower, where was
the chief of their country work, such as keeping the goals, the planting the corn, Am. 5
and afterwards they carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.

Here they were not to work, though it was not much they ilml for them to do ; and
whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or that they thought tho follows could
not mend themselves, I know not, but one of them ran away, and, ta-ln'ng to the woods.
they could never hear of him anymore.

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after in some other boots
or canoes of savages who came on shore three or four weeks afterwards, and who,
carrying on their I'cvelsas usual, went off in two days' time. This thought terrified them
exceedingly; for they concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if this
follow came home: safe omong his comrades, he would certainly giro them an account.
that there were people in the island, and also how few and weal: they were; for this
savage, as observed before, had never been told, and it was very happy he had not, how
many there were, or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any of

154
their guns, much leer had they shown him any of their nthcn'otirod places; such as the
cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the two Englishmen handmade, and the like.

The first testimony they had tlmt this follow had given intelligence. of them was, that
about two months after this, six canoes of mimges, with about seven, eight, or ten men in
.a canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island, where they lmrer used to come
before, and landed, about an hour after sun--rise, at :1. convenient place, about a. mile from
the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had hem. kept. As the
Spaniard governor said, had they been all there, the damage would not have been so
much, for not 3 mm of them would have camped ; but the ease differed now,
very much, for two men to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the happiness
to dixcover them about u. league all, so that it was above an hour before they landed ;
.nnd as they landed a. mile from their huts, it was some time before they could come at
them. Now, having great reason?>> believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they
did'was to bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two of the three man whom
they brought with the women (who, it seems, proved very faithful to them) to lend them,
with their two wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, to their retired
pincer in the woods, which 1' have spoken of above, and there to bind the two fellows
hand and foot, till they heard further.

Tn the next place, seeing the ravages were all come on shore, and. that Lhey had bent
their course directly that way, they opened the fences when: the milch cows were kept,
and drove them all out ; leaving their goats to struggle in the woods whither they pleased,
that the savages might think they were all bred wild 5 but the mgne who come with
them was too cunning for that, and gave them an account of it all, for they went
directly to the place. _

When, the two poor frightened men had secured theirwives and goods, they sent the
other slave they had of the three who came with the women, and who was at their place
by accident, away to the Spaniards with all speed, to give them the nlam, and desire
speedy help, and, in the meantime, they took their arms, and what>> ammunition they
haul, and retreated towards the place in the wood where their wires were sent ; keeping
:ot a distance, yet so that they might see, if possible, which way the savages took.

They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could see the little nriny
of their enemies come on directly to their habitation, and, in a. moment more, could "see
.nll their huts and household stuff flaming up together, to their great grief and mortifica-
tion ,' for they haul a. very great loss, to them irretriovnlnlo, 21!. let it for some time.
They kept their station for a. while, till they found the snvnges, like wild beasts, spread
themselves all over the place, rummaging every way, and every place they could think
of, in search of prey; and in particular for the people, of whom now it plainly appeared
they had intelligenm. '

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure where they stood, _
because it was likely some of the wild people might come that my, and they might come
100 many together, thought it proper to make another retreat about half a mile
humor 3 believing, as it afterwards happened, that the fiwthcr they strolled, the fewer
would be together.

Their next lmlt was at the entrance into a. very thick-grown part of the woods, and
where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and vnsily large ; and in this tree
they both took their standing, resolving to see there what might offer. They had not stood
there long before two of the ravages appeared running directly that way, as if they
already had notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack them; and a little

255
may further they espied' three more coming after them, and five more beyond them, all
coming the seine way ; besides which, they saw seven or eight: more at a distance, running
another way; for, in a. word, they ran every way, like sportsmen heating for their
game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they should stand and keep
their postiu'e, or fly ,- but, alter a very short debate with themselves, they considered,
that if the savages ranged the country thus before help came, they might perhaps find
out their retreat in the woods, mid then all would he lost ,' so they resolved to stand them
there, and if they were too many to deal with, then they would get up to the top of the
tree, from wheuoo. they doubted DOK- to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as their
ammunition lasted, though all the savages that were lamlml, which was near fifty, were
to attack them.

Having refiolvod upon this they next considered whether they should firent the first
two, or wait for the three, and so take the middle party, by which the two and the live
that followed would be sepsrated , at length they resolved to let the first two 133$ by,
unless they should spy them in the tree, and come to attack them. The first two
sa'mges confirmed them alxe in this resolution, by tuming a little from them towards
smother port of the wood ; 'out the three, and the live after them, came forward directly
to the tree, as ii they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them come so
straight immrds them, they resolved to take them in a line as they enmc ; and as they
resolved to fire but. one at a time, perhaps the first shot. might hit them all three 3 for
which purpose the man who was to fire put. three or four small bullets into his piece;
and having a fair loop--hole, as it were, from a. broken hole in the tree, he took a sure
aim, without. being seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so
that he could not- mi'sl -

While they were thus waiting, and the savages come on, they plainly saw that. one
of the three was the runaway savage that had escaped from them 3 and they both knew
him diotiuctly, and resolved that, if possible, he should nor, escape, though they should
both fire I so the other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the first
shot, he should he sure to have 9. second. But the first was too good a marksman to
miss his aim 3 for as the savages kopt near one another, a little behind in a line, he fired,
and hit two of them directly : the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head ; the
second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot through the body and fell, but wasuot
quite dead ; and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball
that; went through the body of the second; and being dreadfully frightened, though not
so much hurl, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.

The fire that Were behind, more frightened with'the noise than sensible of the
danger, stood still at first 3 for the woods made the sound a. thousand times bigger than
it reallSSr wan, the echoes rattling from one side to another, and the {owls rising from all
Parts, screaming, and every sort making a different noise, sceorcling to their kind 5 just.
as it was when I fired the limb gun that perhaps was over shot 03' in the island.

However, all being silent. again, and they not knowing what the matter was, came
on unconcerned, till they came to the place where their oomyunions lay in a. condition
miserable enough : and here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were
Within reach of the same mischief, stood altogether over the wounded man, talking, and,
"3 may be Supposed, inquiring of him how he come to be hurt: and who, it is very
mdoml to believe, told them, that a. flaxh of fire limit, and irunediately after that
thunder from their gods,hud killed those two and wounded him : lhla, I say, in rational;
256THE INDIANS KILLED BY THE ENGLlSH.

 

 

TILE ENGLISIIMEN BIND THE SAVAGE TO A TREE

for nothing is more certain than that, as they new no man near them, so they had never
heard a gun in all their lives, nor so much as hum] of a. gun ; neither knew they
anything of killing and wounding at a. distance with fire and bullets : if they had, one
might reasonahly believe they would not have stood so unconcerned to view the fate of
their fellows). without some apprehensions of their own.

Our two men, though, a: they confessed to me, it grieved them in he obliged to kill
so many poor creatures, who, at the same time, had no notion of their danger ; yet,
having them all thus in their power, and the first having to load his piece again, resolved
to let fly both together among them ; and singling out, by agreement, which to aim at,
they shot together, and killed, or very much wounded, four of 1.1mm; the filth, frightened
even to death, though not hurt, fall with the rest ; so that our men, seeing them all fall
together, thought they had killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed, made our two men come boldly out from
the tree before they had charged their guns, which '7'" a wrong )3th 5 and they were
under some surprise when they came to the place, and found no less than four ol' them
alive, and of them two very Iii-tie hurt, and one not at all: this obliged them to fell
upon them with che stocks of their musket; ; and first they made sure of the runauvay'
savage, that had been the cause of all the mischief, and of another that was hurl: in the
knee, and'put'them out of their pain ; then the man that was not hint at all came and
launched down to them, with his two hands held up, and made piteons moans to them,
by gestures and signs, for his life, but could not any one word to them (but they could

17 5'57
 

understand. However, they mode signs to him to sit down at the foot>> of otree hard by 5
and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twine, which he haul by great chance
in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him, and there they left him ; and with what
speed they could made after the other two, which were gone before, fearing they, or any
of them, should find their way to the covered place in the woods, where their wives
and the {ow goods they had left hwy. They came once in eight of the two men, but it
was at a. great distance ,- however, they had the wtisl'ect'ion to see them Cm over a
Volley towards the see, quite the contmry way from that which led to their retreat,
which they were afmid of; and being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree
where they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, um: delivered by his wrote/dos, for
he was gone, and the two pieces of rope--yarn, with which they had bound him, lay just
at the foot of the tree.

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what course to take, or
how near the enemy might be, or in what number ; so they resolved to go away to the
place. where their wives were, to see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who
were in fright enough to be sure ; for though the savages were their own countrymen,
yet they were most. terribly afmid of them, and perhaps the more for the knowledge
they had of them.

When they come there, they found the sm'ages had been in the wood, and very mm
that place, but had not found it 5 for it was indeed ilmcceesible, from the trees standing
so thick, unless the persons seeking it had been directed by those that knew it, which
these were not; they found, therefore, everything very safe, only the women in a terrible
fright. While they worehere, they had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards
come to their assistance; the other ten, with their servants, and old Friday (I mean
Friday's {other}, were gone in embody to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle
that were kept there, in case the savages should have raved over to that side of the
country 5 but they did not spread so far. With the seven Spaniards came one of the
three savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners formerly 3 and with them also came
the savage whom the Englishman had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for
it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the
eighth, and brought him along with them 3 where, however, they were obliged to bind
him again, as they had done the two others who were left. when the third ran away.

The prisoners now began to be a. burden to them ; and they were so afraid of their
escaping, that they were once resolving to kill them all, believing they were under an
abrolute nwoesity to do so for their own preservation However, the Spaniard governor
would not consent to it, but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent out of
the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard
them, and give them food for their subsistence, which was done; and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged, that they could
not satiety themselves to stay any longer there ; but taking five of the Spaniards and
themselves, with four muskete and a pistol among them, and two stout quarterstaves,
away they went. in quest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where
the men lny that had been killed; but it was easy to see that some more of the
savages had been there, for they had attempted to carry their dead men away, and had -
dragged two of them a. good way, but had given it over. From thence they advanced
to the first rising ground, where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and
where they had the modification still to see some of the smoke ; but neither could they

' 258
hero see any of the savages. They then mlvoil, though with all possible caution, to
go forward towards their mined plaiilutiou; but, a little before they came thither,
coming in sight of the seashore, they saw plainly the savagm all embarking again in
their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry, at first, tlmt there was no way
to come at them, to give them a parldng blow; hut, upon the whole, they were very
Well satisfied to he rid of them.

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their improvements destroyed
the rest all agreed to come and help them to rebuild, and assist- them with needful
supplies. Their three countrymen, who Were not yet noted for having the least ineli-
nation to do any good, yet as soon as they heard of it (for they, living remote eastward,
know nothing oi'thc matter till all was over), came and offered their help and assistance.
and did, very friendly, work for several days to restore their habitat-ions, and make neces-
saries for them. A ml thus in a. little time they were set upon their legs again.

Ahont two days after this they had the farther satisfiwtion of seeing three of tho
.sarages' onions come driving on shore, and, at some ("8an from them, two drowned
men, by which they had reason to believe that they had met with a, storm at sea, which
had overeat some of them ; for it had blown very hard the night alter they went off".

However, as some might miseorry, so, on the other hand. enough of them escaped
to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as of what had happened to them, and
to whet them on to another enterprise of the same nature, which they, it seems, resolved
to attempt, with sufficient force to carry all hel'oxe them 3 for except whet the first mam
had told them of inhabitants, they could say little of it of their own knowledge, for
they never saw one man; and the fellow being killed that had atlinned it, they had no
other witness to confirm it to them. _

Tl. was live or six months after this before they heard any more of tho mvugets in
which time our men were in hopes they had either forgot their former burl luck,
or given over hope>> of better; when, on a sudden, they were invaded by a most
formidable fleet of no less than eightcand-twenty enticing full of savages, armed with
bow and shows, great clubs wooden <<Verde and such like engines of war; and they
brought such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our people into the utmost
consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side of the island, our
men had that night to consult and consider what to do; and, in the limb place, knowing
that their being entirely concealed was their only safety before, and would be much
more so now, while the number of their enemies would he so great. they therefore
resolved, first of all, to take down the huts which were built for the two Englishmen.
and drive away their goals to the old cove ; because they supposed the savages would
go directly thither, as soon as it Wes day, to play the old game over again, though they
did not now lsmd within two leagues of it. Tn the next place, they drove away all the
flocks of goats they had at the old' bower, as I called it, which belonged to the
Spaniards ; and, in short, left as little appearance of- inhnhitmito anywhere as W218
ponihle ,- and the next morning early they posted themselves with all their force, at
the plantation of the two men, townit for their coining, As they guessed, so it hop.
pcued: these new invaders leaving their canoesnt the east end of the island, came
ranging along the shore, directly towards the place, to the number of two hundred and
fifty, as near as our men could judge. Our army was but small, indeed ,- but, that which
was worse, they had not arms for all theirnumber neither. The whole account, it
seeing stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five Englishmen, old Friday

25?
(or Friday's father), the three slave>> [when with the women, who proved very filithful,
and three other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards. To arm these, they had eleven
muskets, {ivo pistols, three fowling-pieces, five muokels or fowlingpioces, which were>>
taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced, two swords, and three old
halberte.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee ; but they had each m
hnlbert, or a. long stuff, like a. quarter-skiff, with a great spike of iron fastened into each
and of it, and by his side a hatchet 5 also every one of our men had a hatchet Two
of the women could not be prevailed upon, but they would cot-2e into the fight, and
they had how; and arrows, which the Spaniards hadtoken from the emerges when the-
first action happened, which i have spoken of, where the lndians fought with one
another ; and the women had hatehets too.

'l'he Spaniard governor, whom 1 described so often, emnmnnded the whole 5 and
Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful ('(dlow for wickedneg was n. most (la-ring, hold
fellow, comnmndcd under him. The mmgcs came forward like lions ; and our men,
which was the worst of their fate, had no mlvantage in their situation ; only that Will-
.-\Lkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind-
a. small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to let the first of them
peas by, end then lire into the middle of them, and m soon as he had fired, to make hie
retreat as nimbly 0.3 he could round a. pm of the wood, and so come in behind the-
Spaniardx, where they stood, having a thicket of trees before them.

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way in heaps, out of'
all manner of order, and "Fill Atkins let obout fifty of them pass by him ; then seeing
the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders three of his men to fire, having loaded,
their muskets with six or seven bullets apiece, about as big as large pistol hullcts. How
nnmy they killed or wounded they knew not, but the consternation and surprise was
inexpressiblc among the surges ; they were frightened to the last degree to hear such-
a dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and otheiehurt, but see nobody that did it ;.
'wlum, in. the middle of their fright, \Vill Atkins and his other three let fly again among
the thickest of them; and in less than a minute, the first three being landed again,
gave them a third volley.

Had W'ill Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as they had fired, Sm
they were ordered to do, or had the rat of the body been at hand, to have poured in-
their shot continually, the savages had been effectually routed ; for the terror that was.
mnong them came principally from this, that they were killed by the gods with thunder
and lightning,- nnd could see nobody that hurt them 3 but Will Atkins, staying to load
again, discovered the cheat : some of the savages who were at a. distance spying them,
came upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired at them also two or
three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they could, yet they wounded
Atkins himselg and killed one of his fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did
afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who come with the women.
'l'hie slave was a most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing live of them.
With his OWu hand, having no weapon but one of the armed staves and c hatchet.

Our men being thus herd laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other men killed,
retreated to a rising ground in the wood 3 and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys
upon them, retreated also ; for their number was so great, and they were so desperate,
that though above fifty of them were killed, and more than as nmny wounded, yet they
eeme on in the tooth of our men, lhiirleas of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud ,.

7.60In $511.43
 

 

and it was observed that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made.
ontmgcoua by their wounds, and fought like madman.

VVhon our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and Englishman that were killed
behind them 3 and the savages, when they came up 1.0 them, killed them over again in
a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden
swords, like true savages ; but finding our men were gone, they did not seem to pursue-
them1 but drew themselves up in a ring, which is, it seems, their custom, and shouted.
twice, in token of their victory _: after which, they had the modification to see several
of their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spuniunl governor having drawn his little body up together upon a rising
ground, Atkins, though ho "is wounded, would have had them march and charge again
altogether'at once: but the Spaniard replicd--"Seignior Atkins, you see how their
wounded men fight ; lot them alone till morning; all the wounded men will be still
and sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood ; and so we shall have the
fewer to engage." This advice was good :, but Will Atkins replied merrily, " That is
true, soignior, and so shall I too; and that is the reason I would go on while I am
warm." " Well, Seignior Atkins," ssys the Spaniard, " you have behaved galiantly,.
and done your part ; we will light for you if you cannot come on 3 but I think it best,
to stay till morning :" so they waited.

' But as it was a. clear moonlight night, and they found the savages in great disorder
about their dead and wounded men, and a. grant noise and hurry among them where
they lay, they afterwards resolved to fell upon them in the night; especially if they could
come to give them but one volley before they were discovered, which they had a. fair oppon-
tunity to (lo: for one of the Englishmen in whose qnnrteril. was where the fight began.
led them round between the woods and tho neavside westward, and than turning short;
south, they came so near where the thickest of them lay, that, before they were seen or
heard, eight. of them fired in upon them. and did dreadful execution upon them ,' in halt"
a. minute more, eight others fired after them, pouring in their small shot in such a
quaint-Sly, that abundance were killed and wounded; find all this while they were not
able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.

The Spaniards charged will with the utmost. expedition, and then divided them-
selves into three bodies and resolved to fall in among them all together. They had in
each body eight. persons, that is to say, twenty~two men, and the two women, who. by
the way, fought (imperatoly, They divided the fire-arms equally in each Imrty, as well as
the halberds and stoves. They would have had the women kept. hawk, but they said they
were )esolved to die with their husbands, Having thus formed their little army, they
marched out from among the trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting
and hallooing as loud as they amid ; the savages stood all together, but were in the
aims". confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting from three quarters together :
they would have fought if they had seen us ; for as soon as we mine near enough to be
soon, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not dim-
gerously 3 but our men gave them no time, but, running up to thorn, fired among them
three ways, and then fell in with the butbends of their muskets, their swords, armed
stoves, and hateheis, and laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
summing and howling, flying to rave their lives which way soover they could.

Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally 'woundcd in the two
fights about one hundred and eighty of them; the rest, being frightened out of their
wits, scoured through the Woods and over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble

252
 

feet. could help them to _; and as we did not. trouble ourselves much to pursue them,
they gel. ell togeLhcr to the seaside where they landed, and when: their ("more lay.
But their disaster was not at an end yet ; for it. blew it terrible storm of wind that
evening from the see, so that it was impossible for them to go 011'; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night, when the tide come up, their canoes were most of them driven by the
surge of the am so high upon the shore than; it required infinite mil in gel: them off;
and some of them were even dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.

Our men, though glwd of their victory, yet get little :rest- that night- ; but having
refreshed themselves as well as they could, they resolved to march to that part of the
island where the ravages worn fled, and see what posture they were in. This linens.
eerily led them over the place where the fighe had been, and where they found several
of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovering life 3 a. sight disagreeable
enough to generous minds, for a truly great man, though obliged by the law of lxwtle to
destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery. However, there was no need Lo
give any orders in this case ; for their own savages, who were their servnnts, deqmtchod
these poor creatures with their luminous.

At length they came in'view of the place where the more miserable remains of the
m'mgos' army lay, where there appearml about 9. hundred still 3 their posture was gene-
rally sitting upon the ground, with their knees up towards their mouth, and the head
put between the two hands, leaning down upon the knees.

When our mon came within two musket--sham oi them, the Spaniard governor
ordered two mmkets to be fired, without ball, to alarm them ,- this he did, that. by their
countenance he might know when to expect, whether they were still in heart to fight,
or were so heartily beaten as to be (lispirited and discouraged, and so he might manage
accordingly. This stratagom took : for as soon as the saragew heard the firm gun, and
saw the flash of the second, they started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation
imaginable 3 and as our men advanced swiftly towards them, uhey all ran screaming and
yelling away, with a kind of howling noise, which our men did not underrtand, and had
never heard before ,' and thus they ran up the hills ink) the country.

At first, our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and they had all
gone away to see 5 but they did not then consider that this might pinbably have been
the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes as not to be resisted, or, at last,
to come so many and so often as would quite Ihtsolaie the inland, and starve them.
W'ill Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound, kept always with them, preved
the best counsellor in this case; his advice was, to take the advantage thul. offered, and
step in between them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of ever
returning any more to plague the island.

They consulfted long about this ,- nnd some were against it for fear of making the
wretchce fly to the Woods and live there desperate, and go they should have them to
hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir out about their business, and have their plan-
tations continually rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, he reduced in
a life of continual distress.

Will Atkins: told them they had better have to do with a hundred men than wit).-
a hundred nations; that us they must destroy their hosts, so they must dean-0y the
men, or be all of them clesu'oyed themselves. In a word, he showed the necersity of it.
so plainly elm they all come into it ; so they went to work immediately with the
boats, and getting some dry wood together from a. dead tree, they tried to set some of
them on fire, but they were so wet that they would not burn; however, the fire so

263
burned the upper part that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the am as boats.
When the Indians saw what they were about, some of them came running out of the
woods, and coming as near as they could to our men, kneeled down and crial, " 0a, 03,
Wammokoa l" and some other words of their language, which none of the others under-
stood anything of ; but am they made pitiful gesturm and strange noises, it was easy to
understand they begged to have their boots spnred, and that they would be gone, and
never come there again. But ourmcn were now satisfied that they had no way to preserve
themselves, or to save their colony, but effectually to prevent any of these people from
ever going home again, depending upon this, that if even so much as one of them got
hook into their countryto tell the story, the colony was undone; so that, letting them know
that they should not have my memy, they fell to work with their canoes, and destroyed
every one that the storm had not destroyed before; at the sight of which the savages
raised a. hideous cry in the-woods, which our people heard plain enough, after which
they run about the island like distracted men, so that, in a word, our men did not really
know what at first to do with them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence,
consider that while they made those people thus desperate, they ought to have kept a
good guard at the same time upon their plantations; for though it is true, they had
driven away their cattle, smiths Indians did not find out their main retreat--I mean
my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the valley--yet they found out my plantation
at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting about it; trod
all the corn under foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe, and
did our men an inestimable damage, though to themselves not one farthing's worth
of service. I _

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet they were in no
condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down; for an: they were too nimble of
foot for our men when they found them single, so our men durst not go abroad single,
for fear of being surrounded with their numbers. The best was, they had no Weapons ;
for though they had hows, they had no arrows left, nor any materials to make any;
nor had they any edge-tool or weapon among them.

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and indeed deplorable ;
but, at the same time, our men were also brought to very bad circumstances by them;
for though their retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and their
harvest spoiled, and what to do, or which my to turn themselves, they knew not. The
only refuge they had now was the stock of cattle they had in the valley by the cave,
and some littlc com which grew there, and the plantation of the three Englishmen,
Will Atkins and his comrades, who were now reduced to two; one of them being
killed by an arrow, which struck him on the side of his head, just under the temples, so
that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable that this was the some harbm-ou:
fellow that out the poor savage slave with his hatchet, and who "(terminals intended to
have murdered the Spaniards

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than mine was at any
time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and-rice, and got into the manner of
planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle ; for now they had, as I may say, a
hundred wolves upon the island, which would devour everything they could come at,
yet could be hardly come at themselves _

When they saw what their circumstencoswcre, the first thing they concluded was,
that they would, if possible, drive them up to the farther part of the island, southwest,
that if any more savaga came on shore they might not find one another; then, that

26.1"'11.; ATKnx'S' TKm;
 

 

they would daily hunt and harass them, and kill an many of them m they could come
at, till they lml reduced their number ; and if they could at last tome them, and bring
them to anything, they would give them corn, and teach them how to plant, and live
upon their daily labour.

In order to do this, they so followed them, and so terrified them with their guns, that
in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit'him, yet he
would fall down for fear ,- ond so dreadfully frightened they were that they kept out of
sight farther and further 5 hill, at last, our men following them, and almost every day
killing or wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods or hollow places so much
that it reduced them to the utmost misery for want of food ; and many were aflcrwords
found deed in the woods, without any hurt, absolutely starved to dentin

W'lxon our man found this it made their hem-ts relent, and pity moved them, espe-
cially the Spaniard governor, who was the most gentlemandike, generoue-minded man
that T ever met with in my life ; and he proposed, if possiblgto take one of them alive,
and. bring him to understand what they meant, so fat as to be able to act as interpreter,
and go among them and sec if they might be brought to some eonditions that might
be depended upon, to save their lives and do us no harm.-

Itwaa some while before any of them could be taken; but being weak and half--
starvml, one of them was at last surprised and made a prisoner. He was sullen at first,
and would neither can nor drink; but finding himelf kindly used, and victuale given-
to him, and no violence ofl'erod him, he at last grew Noble, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told him how kind
the others would be to them all 5 that they wenld not only save their lives, but give
them part of the inland to live in, provided they would give sofisfiwtion that they would
keep in their own bounds, and not come beyond it to injure or prejudice others ; end,
that they should have corn given them to plant and make it grow for their bread, Andi
some bread given them for their present subsistence: and old Friday bade the fellow
go and talk with the met of his countrymen, and see what they s'nid to it; assuring them
that, if they did not agree i nnnotliutely, they ehould be all destroyed.

The poor wretchee, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number to about thirty-
seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer and her: gged to have some food given
them; upon which, twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed with three
Indian slams and old many, marched to the place where they were. The three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of breed, some rice boiled up to cnkes and dried
in the sun, and three live goats ; and they were ordered lo go to the side of a hill,
when: they sat down, nte their provisions very thankfidly, and were the most faithful
[allows to their words that could he thought of ; for, except when they came to beg
victuuls and directions, they never came out of their hounds ; and there they lived when
I Come to the island, and I went to see them.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tome goats, and milk
them : they wanted nothing but wives, and they soon would have been a nation. They
were confined to anneal: of land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying
plain towards the see before them, on the south-eat corner of the island. They had
land enough, and it was very good and fruitful ; about a mile and a half breed, and
three or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for myself, and gave-
among them tw elvo hatchete and three or four knit-Hg and there they lived the must
subjected, innocent meotures that ever were heard of.

366\VILL ATKINS' TENT,

__ .__.. _.----. .N _. .l -- w...>>.. I

 

After this, the colony enjoyed a. perfect tranquillity, with respect to the savages, till
I came to revisit them, which was about two yearn after 5 not but. that, now and then,
some canoes ol' savages came on shore for their triumphed, unnatural feasts ; but as
they were of xeveral national, and perhaps had never heard of those that came before, or
the rmon of it, they did not make an y search or inquiry afwr their countrymen ; and
if they had, it would have heou very hard to have {cum} them out.

Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that happened to them till my
return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indians or savages were wonderfully
civilised by them, and they frequently wcnb among them ; but forbid, on pain of death,
any of the Indians coming to them, because they would not have their Selihlemenc
betrayed gain. One thing was very remarkable, viz., that they taught the savages in)
make wicker-work, or mum: but they soon outdid their marshals ; for they mule abun-
dance of most ingenious things in wicker-work, particularly of all sorts of baskets, sieves,
him-cages, cupboards, doc. 3 as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance of
other things ; being very ingenious at such work, when they were once put in the way of it.

My coming was A funicular relief to those people. because we furnished them with
knives, scissors, spadm, shovels, picknxes, and all things of that kind which they could
want With the help of those tools, they were so very handy that they came at last to
huild up their huts or houses very handsomely, middling or working it up like basket-
work all the way round ; which was a very utmordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked
very odd, but was on exceeding good fence, as well against heat as wainst all sorts of
vermin 3 and our men were so taken with it, that they got the wild savages to come
and do the like for them ; so that. when I came to see the two Englishman's colonies,
they looked, at a distance, as if they all lived like bees in a hive. As for Will Atkins,
who was now become n. very industrious, useful, and sober fellow, he had made himself
such a tent of banketrwork ah, I believe, was never seen ; it was one hundred and
twenty paces round an the ouieide, osl measured if, by my steps ; i-he walls were as close
worked as a basket, in panels or square: of thirty-two in number, and very strong,
standing about seven feet high ; in the middle was another not above twenty-two paces
round, but built stronger, being octagon in its form, and in the eight corncm atood eight
very strong posts ; round the top of which he laid strong pieces; pinned together with
wooden pins,- from which he raised a pyramid for a roof of eight rafters, very handsome,
I assure yarn, and joined together very well, though he haul no nails, and only a. few
iron spikes, which he made himself too, out of the old iron that I had left. there ; and,
indeed, this fellow showed abundance of ingenuity in several things which lie had no
knowledge of : he made him a forge, with a. pair of wooden bellows to blow the lire ; he
made himself chm-coal for his work 3 and he Formed out of the iron crows a middling
good anvil to hammer upon: in this manner he made many thing>>, but especially hooks,
staples, and epikcs, halts mid hinge>>. But to return to the house : after he had pitched
the roof of his innermost. tent, he worked in up between the rafters with basket-work,
no firm, and thatched that. over again so ingeniously with rice straw, and over that a

' large lcnf of a tree, which covered the top, that his house was as dry as if it had been
tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the snvagm had made the husketrwork for hiun
The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long
rafters lay from the thirty'two angles 1'0 the top [mats of the inner house, being about
twenty fact distant, so that there was a. sumo like a walk within tho outer wicker-wall,
and without the inner, near twenty feet wide.

The inner place he partitionul oil with the Same wicker-work, but much fairer, and

267
divided into six apartments, so that he had six rooms on a floor, and out of everyone of
filing>> there was a. door 5 first into the eolfiry, or coming into the main Lent, another door
in to the main (out, and another door into the space or walk that was round it; so that
walk was also divided into six cquol parks, which served not mxly for a retrmt, but to
store up any necessaries which the family had occasion for. These six space>> not taking
up the whole circumference, what. other apartments the outer circle had were thus
ordered : As soon asyou were in no the door oi'the outer circle, you had a. short [mange
semighl bcfore you to the door of the inner house ; but on either xixlc mm a wicker pur-
tition, and a door in it, by which you went first into a. large room, or storehouse, tu'onliy
i'enb wide and about thirty feet long, and throgh that into another not quite so long,
so that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to be come
at. through the apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets or retiring-rooms to
the respective chambers of the inner circle 5 and four large warehouses, or barns, or
wlml. you please to call them, which went- through one another, lcwo on either hand of
the Imssagc, that led through the outer door to the inner tent.

Such n piece of bzwltel.-work, I believe, was never seen in the world, nor a house or
tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. In this great hoe-hive lived the three
families, that is to any, Will Atkins and his oomymnion ; the third wars killed, but. his
wife remained with three. children, for she was, it seems, hig with child when he died :
and the other two were not at all backward to give the widow her full share of aver '-
thing, I mean as to their corn, milk, grapes, he, and when theykillcd a. kid, or found 9.
turtle on the shore 3 so that>> they all lived well enough 5 though, it was true, they were
not- so industrious as the other two, as he"! been observed already.

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz.,t.hal. as for religion, I do not know that
there was anything of that kimi among them ; they oflen, imlcml, put one another in
mind that there was a. God, by the very common method of seamen, swearing by his
name: nor were their poor ignorant; savage Wivees much better for having been married
to Christians, as we mnsb coll them ; for as they knew very little of God themselves, so
they woro utterly incapable of entering into any discourse with their wives about. a God,
or to toll: anything to them concerning religion.

The utmost. of an the improvement which I can soy the wives haul made from them
was, that they had taught them to spank English pretty well 3 and most of their
children, who were near twenty in all, were taught to spook mlish too, from their firsfi
learning to speak, though they at first. spoke it in a. very broken msnncr, like their
mothers. There was none of those children above six years old when I. Came thither, for
it was not much above seven years since they had fetched these five savage ladies over,-
but whey had all been pretty fruitful, for Lhcy had all children, more or less: I think the
cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth child; and the mothers were all a. good sort: or
well-governed, quiet, laborious women, modes'cuml uln-ccnb, helpful to one another, mighty
observant and subject in their masters (I cannot call them husbands), and wanted nothing
but to be well instructed in the Ghiistian religlun, and to he 1%3113; married 5 both which
were happily brought about afterward>> by my means, or at least in consequence of my
oomnig among them.

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty much of my run-
agate English, I must say something of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the
family, and in whose story there are some incidents also remarkable enough.

I had a great many discourses with them about (hair circumstances: when (alley were '.
among the savages. They told me readily that. they had no instances to give of their

268cncson AND THR swmmxns CON'MKSMG 'I'Ofim'umk.

application or ingenuity in that country; that. they were a poor, miserable: dejected
handful (if people; that if means lmrl been put into their hands, they had yet so abandoned
themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of their migforhuie, that they thouglfl.
of nothing but starving. One of them, a. grave and sensible man, told me 110 was con--
vinccrl they were in the wrong ; Limb it. was not the pnrt of wise men to give themselves
up to their misery, but always to take hold of the helps which reason ofl'ered, as well for
present support. as for future deliverance: he told me that; grief was the most senseless,
inaignificnnt passion in tlxe world, for that it regarded only things past, which were
generally imp0SSiblc to be recalled or to be remedied, but had no vinw's of thing: to
come, and lunl no slum,- in nnything that looked like deliverance, lnut rather added to the
76;affliction than proposed a. remedy; and upon this he repented u- Spanish piovorb, which,
though I cannot repent in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I remember I
made it into an English prova'b of my own, thus 2----

"In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled."

He ran on then in remarks upon (ill the little improvements I had made in. my
-solitudc 3 my unwan'iod application, as he called it ; and how I had made A condition,
which in its civcmnstanoos was at first much worm than theirs, a thousand times more
happy than theirs was, even now when they were all together. He told me it was remark-
able that Englislunon had a greater presence of mind in their distress than any pmple
that ever he met, with 5 that their unhappy notion and the Portuguese were the worst
men in the world to struggle with misfortunes ,' for that their first step in dangers, after
the common efforts were over, wasto despair, lie down under it, and die, without rousm
their thoughts up to proper Medics for escnpa

I told him their case and mine difl'ecred exceedingly ; that they were cast upon the
Shore without nceemriea, without supply of food, or present sueteumce till they could
provide for it: that, it was true, I had this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone 3
but then the asupply 1 had providcntizlly thrown into my hands, by the unexpected
driving of the ship on shore, was such a help as would have cncouraged any creature in we
world to have applied himself as I had done. " Scign'ior," says the Slplninrd, "had we
poor Spaniards been in your case, we should never have got half those things out of the
ship, as you did : my," says he, "wo should never have found means to have got a raft
to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore without boat or soil ; and how much less
should we have done if any of us had been alone !" Well, I desired him to abate his com-
pliments, and go on with the history of their coming onshore, where they landed. He mid
me they unhappily landed at a place where limre were people without provisions: whereas
had they had the common sense to put oli' to sea. again, and gone to another island a little

- fart-her, they had found provisions, though without people ; there being on island that way,
as they had been told, Where there were provisions, though no people ; that is to any, that
the Spaniards of 'l'ninidnd had frequently been there, and had filled the island with gents
and hogs at several times, where they had bmd in such multitudes, and where turtle and'
sen--fowls were in ouch plenty, that they could have hoen in no want of flesh, though they
had found no broad ; whereas, here, they were only sustained with a. few roots and herbs,
which they undenstood not, and which had no substance in them, and which the in<<
habilunts gave them sparingly enough ; and they could trait them no better, unlesu they
would turn cannibals, and out men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their country.

They gave me an account how many wn-ys they strove to civilian the savage>> they
were with, and to tench them rational customs in the ordinary way of living, but in
vain; and how they rctorted it upon them, as unjust, that they, who came there for
:nssistnuno and support, should attempt to set up for instructoxs of those that gave them
food ,1 intimuting, it seems, that none should set up for tho instructors of others but
those who could live without them. .

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they won: driven to ; how some-
times they were many days without my food at all, the island they were upon being
inhabited by a sort of savages that lived more indolent, and for that reason were less
supplied with the necessaries of life than they had reason to believe others were in the
same part of the world : and yet they found that these savges were less ravenous and

220
 

voracious than those who had better supplies of food. Also they added, they could not
but see with what demonstmtions of wisdom and goodness the governing lymvidence of
God directs the cyonte of things in this world : which, they said, appeared in their cir-
cumshmccs ; for if; pressed by the hardships they were under, and the barrenness oi' the
country where they were, thcyhad searched after a heister to live in, they had then been
out of the way of the relief that happened to them by my mesa-e

They then gave me an account how the savages whom they lived among expected
them to go out with them into their were ; and, it was true, that as they had fire-arms
with them, had they not had the disaster to lose their ammunition, they could have been
serviceable not only to their friends, but have made themselves tcrrihlo both to friends
and enemies ; but being without powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they could
not. in reason deny to go out with their landlords to their were ; so when they came into
the field of battle, they were in a worse condition than the savages themselves, for they
had neither bows nor arrows, nor could they nae those the surges gave them ,- 50 they
could do nothing but stand still and he wounded with arrows, bill they came up to the
teeth of their enemy 3 10nd then, indeed, the three halberds they had were of uric to them;
and they would often drive a whole little army before them with those halbcrds, and
sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their muskete : but first, for all this, they were
sometimes surrounded with multitudes and in great danger from their arrowg (ill at
last they found the my to make themselves large targets of wood, which they covered
with skim of wild basalts, whose names they know not, and these covered them from
the arrows of the savage; : that, not-withstanding these, they were sometimes in great
danger ,2 and five of them were once knocked down logathei'wilh the clubs of the savages,
which was the time when one of them was taken prisoner, that is to any, the Spaniard
whom l relieved: that at first they thought he had been killed ; but. when they anor-
wards heard he was token prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable, and
would willingly have all ventured their lives to have rescued him.

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of their company
rescued them, and stood over them fighting till they were come to themselves, all but
him who they thoughthad been dead ; and then they made their way with their helberde
and pieces, standing close together in a. line, through ahady of above a thousand savages,
beating down all that came in their way, get the victory over their enemies, but. to their
great sorroW, because it was with the lose of their friend, whom the other party, finding
alive, carried oil', with some others, as I gave an account before.

They described, most affectionately, how they were surprised with joy at the return
of their friend and companion in misery, who they thought had been devoured by wild
beagle of the worst hind--wild men; and yel, how more and more they were surprised
with the account he guy-e them of his errand, and that there was a Christian in any place
near, much more one that was able, and had humanity enough, to contribute to their
deliverance

They described how they wore astonished at the sight of the relief I sent them, and
at the appearance of loaves of breed--41mins: they had not seen since their coming to
that misomhlo lilacs, how oftm they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from
heaven; and what a rcV ivmg cordial it was to their spirit-s to taste it, as also the other
things I had sent for their uupply , and, after all, they would have told me something
of the joy they were in at the sight of a. host and pilots, to carry them away to the
person and place from whence all these now comforts came: but it was imponsihle to
express it by words; for their excessive joy naturally driving them to unbecoming

27x
 

extravagenoee, they had no way to describe them, but by telling me they bordered upon '
lunacy, having no way to give vent to their passions suitable to the sense that was upon
them ; that in some it worked one way, and in. some another ; and that. some of them,
through n. surprise of joy would burst into tears, others he stark mad, and others
immediately faint. This discourse extremely afi'ectod me, and called to my mind Friday's
ecstwy when he met his father, and the poor people's ecstaey when I took them up at
see after their ship was on fire ; the joy of the mate of the ship when he found himself
delivered in the place where he expected to perish ; and my own joy, when, after twenty--
eight ycors' captivity, I found a good ship ready to carry me to my own country. All
these things made me more sensible of the relation of these poor men, and more affected
with it.

Having thus given or View of the state of things as I found them, I must relate the
heads of what I did for these people, and the condition in which I left them. It was
their opinion, and mine too, that they would he troubled no more with the savages, or
if they were, they would be able to cut them oii', if they were twice as my as before ;
no they had no concern about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with the
Spnmul, whom I call governor, about their stay in the island 5' for as I was not come
to carry any of them off, so it would not be just to carry ofl' some and leave others, who,
perhaps, would he unwilling to stay if their strength was diminished. 0n. the other
hnnd1 I told them I came to establish them there, not to remove them ; and then
I let them know that I had brought with me relief of sundry kind for them ; that I haul
been at agreeit charge to supply them with all things necessary, as well for their conve-
nience as their defence 5 and that I had such and such particular persons with me, as well.
to increase and recruit their number, as by the particular noctssery employments which
they were bred to, being ortificers, to assist them in. those things in which at present
they were in want.

They were all together when I talked thus to them ; and before I delivered to them
the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forget and
buried their first nnimonities that had been among them, and would shake hands with
one another, and engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, that so there might
he no more misunderstandings and jenloueien.

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said they had met with
afiliciion enough to make them all eober, and. enemies enough to make them all friends ;
that, for his part, he would live and die with them, and was so for from designing any-
thing against- the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing to him but What his
own mad humour made necessary, and what he would hove done, and perhaps worse, in
their eerie ; and that he would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and hrutish
things he had done to them, and was very willing and desirous of living in terms of
entire friendship and union with them, and would do anything that lay in his power to
convince them of it; and n3 for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither
these twenty years,

The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first diam-med and excluded Will Atkins and
his two countrymen for their ill conduct, as they had let me know, and they appealed to
me for the necessity they were under to do so ; but that Will Atkins had behaved himself
so bravely in the great fight they had with the savages, and on several occasions since,
and had showed himself so faithful to, and conoemed for, the general internal; of them
all, that they had forgotten all that was passed, and thought he merited us much to be
trusted with arms and supplied with necessaries as any of them ; and they hnd testified

272A SUM PTUOUS FEAST.

   

 

 

cwsoz's FAREWELL ADVICE.

their satisfaction in him by committing the command to him next to the governor
himself; and as they had entire oonfidanm: in him and all his countrymen, so they
:mknowledged they had merited that confidence by all Elm methods that: honest men
could merit to be valued and trusted 5 and they most hear-hi 1y embraced the occasion of
giving me this assurance, that they would nevm- have any interest, separate from one
another.

Upon thew frank and open declarations oi friendship, we appointed the next day to
dine all together ; and, indaed, we made a splendid feast. I caused the xhip's cook and
his mam to come on shore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mafia we had on sham
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beet'and fuur [deem of pork, our; of
the ship's pmvisim'm, with om- pnm:h-bowl, and materials to fill i6 ; and, in particular, I
gave them ten homes of Erenoh elm-cc, and ten bottlol of Engliah beer; things that
nah-hm- the Spaniards nor the English had tastml for many yam, and which it- may be
augposed they were very glad of. The Spaniards added to our that five whole kids,
which the cooks roasted ; and three of them were sent, covered up close, on board the
ship to the seamen, that. they might feast on fresh meat from on share, as we did with
their salt meat from .on board.

After this feast, at which we Were very innocently merry, I brought my cargo of
goods ; wherein, that there might, he no dispute about dividing, I showed them
that, there was a sufficiency for them all, desiring that, they might all take an equal

18 273
quantity of the goodstlmt were for wearing; tlzul: la Lo say, equal when made up. A s, first,
T dixfributed linen mficienr- (so make every one of them four shirts and, at the Spaniard's
rcqucsl, afterwards nwlc them up six ; these were exceeding comfortable to 'uhem,
11."!ng been what they had long since forgot- the use of, or what iL was to wear them.
I allotted the thin English sLull's, which I mentioned before, to make every one a light
com, liks u (rock, which I judged fittesc for the heat of the season, (2001 and loose 3 and
ordered that whomever they decayed, they should make more, as they thought lit ,1 the
like for pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, kc

I cannot express what pleasure, whac satisfaction, sat upon the countenances of all
these poor men, when they saw the care I hszl taken of them, and how well I had
furnished them. '1"th Lohl me I was a father to them ,' and (has having such a corres-
pondent as I was in so remote a part of the world, in would make them, forget that they

\vera left in a desolate place 5 and they all voluntarily summed to me not to leave the
place without my consent.

Then I pmsanmI {70 them the people I had brought with me, Imrticularly the tailor,
thcsmith, and the two carpenters, all of them most necessary people ; but, above all, my
general artifioer, than whom they could not name anything that was more useful to
them; and the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work inunodiately, and,
"12-11 my have, made them every one a shirt, the first thing he (lid 5 and, what was still
more, he taught; the women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but
made them assist to make the shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were ; for they took to
piccox, all my clumsy, uulmndy things, and made clevcr convenient tables, stools, bedsteads,
cupboards, lockers, shelves, and everything they wantcxl of that kind. But. to let them
sec how Nature mmhe artifioel's at- first, I curried the carpenters to see Will Atkins'
basket--house, as I called it, ; and they both owned they never saw an instance
of such natural ingenuity bofltro, nor anything so regular and so handily built,
at lensb of its kind ; and one of them, when he saw it, after musing :1. good while,
turning about to me, ~" 1 am sure," says he, " that man has no need of us; you need do
nothing but- give him too ."

Then 1' brought. thcm out all my store of tools, and gave every man a digging-sunk,
a shovel, and a nuke, for we had no barrows or plough ; and (.0 every separate plcce'a.
pickaxe, a Crow, a broad axe, and a saw ,' always appointing, than as ollen as any were
l-roken or worn out, they should be supplied, without grudging, out of Lhe general stores
that T 1a.": behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors, and all
sorts of iron-work, they had without reserve, as they required ; for no man. would take
more than he wanted, mu] le must} be a fool that would waste. 0r spoil them on any
account whatever; and for the use of the smith I left two tons of unwrought iron
for a supply.

My magnxine of powder and arms which 1 brought- chem was such, even to profusion7
that tlxvy could not but rejoice at them 5 for now they could march, :25. I used to do, with
u musket upon each shoulder, if there was Occasion ,' and were shlu; to fight a. thousand
savages, if Lin-y hnd lmr', some liLiale advantages of situation, which also they could not;
miss, if they had occasion,

I carried on shore with me the young inn-n whose mother was sun-veil to death, and
tho maid also ,- she was :i sober, well educated, religious young woman, and behaved so
incfl'on-ively that every one gave her it. good word, she had, indeed, an unhappy life
with us, Llnore being no woman in the ship but herself, but she here it with patience.

2:4.ADDITIONS TO THE COMMUNITY.

Altar a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon my
island, and considering that they had neither business nor acquaintance in the East
indies, or reason for taking so long a voyage, both of them came to me, and desired I
would give lemu leave to remain on the island, and be entered among my family in; they
called it. I. agreed to this readily ; and they had a little plot of ground allotted to them,
where they hall three tents 01' house: set up, surrounded with a basketrwork, willie-adored
like Atkins', adjoining to his plantation. Their rents were contrived so that they had
each of them a room apart to lodge in, and a middle Lent like a great Hlnruhouse, to lay
their goods in, and to cal; and (ln'nk in. And now the other two Englishmen removed
Lheir habitation ('0 the same place 3 and so the island was divided into three colonies,
and no more--viz, the Spaniards, with old Friday and the first servants, at my old
habitation under the hill, which was, in a, word, the capitol cit-y, and where they had so
enlarged and extended their works, as well under as on the outside of the hill, that they
lived, though peifectly concealed, yet full at large. Never was there such a little city
in a. wood, and so hid, in any part. oftho world ; for I verily believe that a. thousand men
might have ranged the island for a mouth, and, if they had not known there was such a
thing, and looked on purpose for iL, they would not have found it 5 for the trees stood
so thick and so close, and grew so fast woven one into another, that. nothing
bun cutting them down first could discover the place, except the only two narrow
entrances where they went in and out could be found, which was not very easy ; one Of
them was close down at the water's edge, on the side of the creek, and it was afterwards
above two hundred yards to the place : and the other was up a ladder at twice, as T have
already described it; and they bod also a. large wood, thickly planted, on the top of the
hill, containing shove an acre, which grew apnea, and concealed the place from all dis-
covery there, with only one narrow place bet-ween two trees, not <<wily to be discovemd,
to enter on that side.

The only colony war: that of Will Atkins, whore l-lmre were four families of English--
man, I mean those 1 had left there, with their wives and childrmi ; three swsges that
were 8')l\'6\', the widow and the children (if the Englishmen that was killed, the young
man and the maid, and, by the way, we made a. wife of her before we went away. There
were also the two carpenters and the. fuller, whom I brought, with me for (alum) : also
the smith, who was a very necesnu-y man to them, especiallyascgunsmith, to take care
of their arm ; and my orher man, whom I called .l'ack'oliall-hmlos, who was in himself
as good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a, very ingenious foliaw, hut a very
merry follow, and before T went. <<way we married him to the honest maid that came
with the youth in the ship I mentioned before.

. A ml now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally tosay something of tho French
ecclesiastic that I had brought with me out of the ship's crew whom I took up at sea.
It is true this man wax a Roman, and perhaps it may give offence to some hereafter
it" I leave anything extraordinary upon record of 3. man whom, before I begin, I must (to
set- him out in just colours) represent, in terms very much to his disadvantage, in the
account of Protestant>> ; as, first, that he was a Pnpist ,' secondly, a l'opish priest; and
thirdly, a French Pnpish'pricsh But justice deu'mnds of me to give him a due elm-ace
tor ; and I must say, he wins a grave, sober, pious, and most religious person ; exact in
his life, extensive in his charity, and exemplary in almmh everything he did, W'lmt.
than, can any one say against heing very sensible of the value of such a man, notwith-
standing his profession ? though it may be my, opinion, perhaps, as well as the opinion
0f others who shall read this, that he was mistaken.

27S
 

 

GROUP OF HUTS UNDER THE HILL

The first hom- that I began to convexse' with him, after he had agreed to
go with me to the East anficsg I found reason to delight exceedingly in his con-
vemalion; and he first. began with me about religion in the most obliging manner
imaginable. "Sir," Says he, "you have not only under God (and at that he
cmssod his breast) saved my life, but you have admitted me to 31) this voyage in.
your ship, and, by your obliging civility, have taken me into your family, giving
me an oppozuiwgit.)r of free ecuvenaahion. Now, sir, you see by my habit. what, my
prufession is, and I guess by your nation what yours is; I may think it. is my
duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost eudauvourg on all occasions, to
bring all the soul: I cm: to the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace tho
Catholic doctrine; but as I am here under your permission, and in your fiamily,
I am bound in jualjue [.0 your kindness, as well as in decency and good manners,
to be under your government; and therefore 1 shall not, without your leave,

276COURTESY OF THE PRIEST.

 

enter into any debate on the points of religion in which we may not, agree, Eartha).-
than you uhxll give me leave."

i told him his carriage was so modest that I could not-hub acknowledge it ; that it
was true we were such people as they called heretics, but that he was not the first Catholic
I had convened with, Without falling into inconveniences. or carrying tho questions to
any height in debate; that he should not find himself the worse used for being of a.
different opinion from us, and if we did not converse without {my dislike On either' side,
it should be his fault. not cure.

He replied that; ho thought all our conversation" might ho easily separated from
disputes} that it was not his business to cap principles with every man he convorsud
with ; and that he ru-Lhor desired me to converse with him as a gentleman than as a.
re 'Nionist 5 and that, if I would give him leave at any time to discourse upon religions
subjects he would readily comply with it, and that ho (lid not doubt but I would allow
him also to defend his own opinions as well as he eould 5 but that, without my learn,
he would not. brook in upon mo with any such thing. He told me, fin'thcr, that he would
not cease to do all that became him, in his allies as a priest, as well as a. private Christian,
to procure the good of the ship, and the safety of all that was in her; and though,
perhaps, we would not join with him, and he could not pray with us, he hoped he
might pray for us, which he would do upon all occasions. Tn this manner we con-
versed ; and as he 4mm of tho most obliging, gentlemanlike behaviour, so he was, if I
may he allowed to any so, a man of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learning.

He gave me o. mosl; diverting account of his life, and of the many extraordinary
events of it ; of many adventul'es which had hefallcn him in tho few yen-rs that he had
been abroad in the world ; and particularly it was very remarkable, that in the voyage
he was now ongged in, he had the misfmtuna to ho five times shipped and unshipped,
and never to go to the place whither any of the ships he was in at. first designed. That
his find; intent was to have gone to Martinico, and that he went on board a. ship bound
thither at St. Mnlo 5 but, lacing forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship received
some damage by running aground in the mouth of the river Togas, and wns obliged to
unload her cargo there; but finding a. Portuguese ship there bound to the Mudeiros, and
ready to sail, and supposing he should easily meet with a. vessel there hound to Mar.
'tvinioo, he went on board, in order to sail to the Mndeiraa; but the masier of the Portu-
guene ghip, being but an indifcrcnt mariner, had been out of his reckoning, and they
drove to Fynl 5 where, however, he happened to find a. very good market for his cargo,
which was com, and therefore resolved not to go to the Modems, but; to load salt at
the Isle of May, and to go away to Newfoundland. He had no remedy in this cxjgcnce
but to go wii-h the ship, and had a. pretty good voyage as for as the bunks (so they call
the place where they catch the fish), where, meeting with a. Fiench ship bound from France
'to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from thence to hurt-lake, to carry provisions,
he thought he should have an opportunity to complete his first. design ; but when he
came to Quebec, the master of the ship died, and the vessel proceeded no further; so
'the next voyage he shipped himself for France, in the ship that was burned when we
took them up at son, and then shipped with us for the East Indies, an I have already
said. Thus he had been dieoppointed in five voyages, all, as I may call it, in one
voyage, besides what I shall have occasion to mention further of him.

But, I shall not make digression into other men's station, which have no relation to
.my own 3 I return i0 what concerns our affairs in the island. He came to me one
morning (for be lodged among us all the while we were upon the island), and it lup-

:77
penod to he just when I was going to visit the Englishmcn's colony, at the farthest purl;-
of the island ,- I say, he came in me, and told me, with a very grave countenance, that
he had for two or three clays desired an opportunity of some discourse with me, which
in! hoped would not he (lisplensing in me. because he thought it. might in some measure
correspond with my general design, which was, the prosperity of my new colony, and
perhaps might out. it, at. least more than he ycl. thought it- wns, in the way oi'God's
blessing.

I looked a. little surprised at the his: part of his discourse, and turning a lihlle short,
" How, sir," said I, " canit be said that we are not in the way of God's blessing, after much
visible "instances and dolivcmnces as we have seen here, mid of which I have given
you a. large accoun'L-l" "11" you had plowed, air," said. he, with a world of modality,
and yet great readineus, " to have heard me, you would have found no room to have been
displeased, much has to think so hard of mo, Lhnii 1 should suggest that you have not-
haxl wonderful assistance; and delivemuces ; and I hope, on your behalf, that you are
in the way of God's blessing, and your design is exonoding good, and will prosper: hut,
sir, though it were more so than is even pmsiblc to you, yet there may be some among
you that are not equally right in their actions '. and you know, that iii-the story of the.
children of Tamil, one Achuu in' the camp removed God's blessing from them, and.
turned his hand'so againsh them, that six-and-thirty of them, though not. concerned in
the crime, were the objects of Divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that punish-
merit."

I was sensibly touched with his discourse, and told him his inference was so just,
and the whole design seemed so sincere, and was really so religious in its own namre,
that I was very sorry I l)9.d interrupted him, and begged him to go on ; and, in the
mean time, because it. seemed that. what we had both to say might take up some time,
I told him I was going to the Englishman's plantations, and asked him to go with me,
nncl we might discourse of it: by the way. He told me he would the more willingly"
wait on me thither, because there partly the thing was acted which he desired to speak
to me about 5 so we walked on, and I pressed him to be lime and plain with me in what.
he had to say.

"' W'hy, then, sir," says he, " be pleased to give me leave to lay clown a. low proposi-
tions, as the foundation of what I have to say, that we may not differ in the general
principles, though we may he of some differing opinions in the practice of particulars.
'Fiist, sir, though we (filler in some of the dominal articles of religion (and it is very
unhappy it is so, especially in theoase before us, as l shall. show aflorvmrcls), yet there
are some general principles in which we both agree--than there is a. God ; and that this

' God having given us some stated general rules for our service and obedience, we ought
not willingly and knowingly to offend him, either by neglecting to do what he has
commanded, or by doing What he has expressly forbidden. And let our difi'mnt
religions be what they will, this general principle is readily owned by us sill, that the
blessing of God does not ordinarily follow presumptuous sinning against his command;
and every good Christian will he nfl'ectionntely concerned to {uni-ant any that ure-
nnder hi>> care living in a total neglect of God and his commands. In is not your men
being Protestants, whatever my opinion may he of such, that discharges me from being
concerned for their souls, and from endeavouring, if it lies before me, that; they should.
live in as little distance from enmity with their Maker as possible, especially if you give-
me leave to meddle so far in your circuit."

I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him 1 granted all he had said

378SOME DEFECTS 1N GOVERNMliNT.

 

 

and thanked him that he would so for concern himself for m}, and begged he would '
explain the particulars of what he had observed, that like Joshua, to lake his own
parable, 1 might put away the occursod thing from us.

"Why, then, sir," says he, "I will take the liberty you give me 5 and there are
three things, which, if 1' am right, must. stand in the may of God's blessing upon your
endeavoum here, and which I should rejoice, for your sake and their own, to we
removed. And, sir, I promise myself filial; you will fully agree with me in them all, :18
soon as I name them ; especially, because I shall convince yon, "my every one of them
may, with grout ease, and very much to your satisfaction, be remedied. le'St) si r," says
he, "you hnvc here four Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the savages,
and have taken them as their wives, and how-c had many clrildron liy i-luzm all, and yet
are non married to thorn afior any stated legal manner, as the lows of God and man
rorplirc ; and therefore are yet, in the Home of both, no less thou foruimtm, if not living
in adultery. To this, air, I know you will object that. there was no clergyman or priest
of any kind, or any profeosion, to perform the ceremony; nor my pen and ink, or longer,
to write down a contract: of marriage, and have it signed between them. And I know
also, sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you, T mean, of the agreement that be obliged
them to make when they took those women, viz, that they should choose them out, by con-
sent, and keep scpnmlley to them ; which, by the way, is nothing of a marriage, no agcoo
ment with the women as river, but only an agreement among themselves to keep them
from quarrclling. But, sir, the essence of the sacrament. of matrimony (so he (mllal it,
being a. Roman) consists not only in the mutual consent of the parties to take one
another as mm and wife, but in the formal and legal obligation that there is in the
contract, to compel the man and woman, so all times, to own and acknowledge each
other; obliging the inn to abstain from all other womcn, to engage in no other contract
while these subsist ; and, on all occasions, as ability allows, to provide honestly for them
and their children 5 and to oblige idle women io the some or like conditions, "Mama's _
mutandis, on their Side. Now, sir," says 110, "these men may, when they please, or when
occasion presents, abandon those women, disown their children, leave them to parish,
and take other women, and marry them while these are living;" and here he added,
with some warmth, " How, sir, is God honoured in this; unlawful liberty! And how
shall n blming succeed your endeavours in this place, liowover good in themselves, and
however sincere in your design, while these men, who or- present are your subjects
under your obsolutc government. and dominion, are allovwd by you to live in open
adultery '2 "

I confess I was struck with the thing ilscll', but- much moro with the convincing
argumenla be suppoxmd it with ; for it was certainly true that, though they had no
clergyman upon the spot, yet 11 formal contract on both sides, made before witnesses, and
confirmed by any token which they had all ngrccd to be bound by, though it had
been but, breaking a stick between them, engaging the men to own these women for
their wives upon all occasions, and never to abandon them or their children, and the
women lo the some Will: their husbands, had been an effectual lawful marriage in the
rigid. of God 3 and il; was a grant neglect llmt it was not done. But I thought to bore
got 05' my young priest by rolling him that all that part: was done when 1 was not. there ;
and that. they had lived so many years with them now, that if it. was adultery, is was
pact remedy, nothing could be done in it now.

" Sir," snys ho, "asking your pardon for such floodom, you are right in this, that, it
being done in your absence, you could not be changed with that port of the crime; but,

:79 '
I beseech you, flatter not yourself that you are not, thcreforo, under an obligation to do
your utmost now to put an end to it. How can you think but that, lol. the lime past
lie on whom it will, all the guilt for the future, will lie entirely upon you? because in 13
certainly in your power now to put an end to il, and in nobody'a power but. yours"

I was so dull still that I did nui. understand him right; 5 but I imagined that, by
putting an end to if, he meant. that I should purl; them, and not suffer them to live
together any longer; and 1 said to him I could nut do that by any means, for that
would put the whole island into confusion. He seemed surprised that I should so for
mistake him. "No, sir," says he, "1 do not mean that you should now separar'e (hem,
hul. legally and efiechxally marry them ; and as, air, my way of marrying them may not
be easy to reconcile them to, though it. will be effectual, even by your own laws, so your
way may be as well before God, and as valid among mom I mean by a written con-
tnwi, sigma! by both men and woumn, and by all the witnesses presenl, which all the
laws of Europe would decree to be Wild."

1 was amazed to sea so much true piety, and so much sincerity of zeal, besides the
unmsual impartiality in his discount: as to his own party or church, and such t-rue
warmth for preserving the people, that he had no knowledge of or relalinn lo 5 I say,
for preserving them from tronsgreasing the lows of God, the like of which 1 had, indeed,
not mob with anywhere. But rewllecling what he hurl said of marrying them by a.
wriLLon contract, which I knew he would stand to, I returned it back upon him, and
told him 1 granted all that he had said to be jun, and on his part very kind ,' that I
would discourse with the men upon the point now, when I come to them ; and I knew
no reason why they should seruple to let. him marry them all, which I. know well
enough would be granted to he as authentic and valid in England as if they were mar-
ried by one of our own clergyman. What was afterwards done in this matter, I shall
speak of by itselfi

1' then pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint which he had to make,
acknowledging that I was very much his debtor for the first, and thanked him heartily
("or it. He rold me he would use the some freedom and plninness in the second, and
Imped I would take it as well; and this was, that notwithstanding these English subjects
of mine, as he called them, had lived with these women almost seven years, had taught.
them to speak English and even to read it, and that they were, as he perceived, women
of tolerable undentanding, and capable of instruction, yet they had not, to this hour,
taught, them nnything of the Christian religion--no, not; so much as to know that there,
was a God, or a worship, or in whal. manner God was to be served, or that fiheir own
idolatry, and worshipping they knew not. whom, was fillse and absurd. This, he said,
waa'an unaccountable neglect, and when God would certainly call them in account. for,
and perhaps at loaf; take the work out. of their hands. He spoke this very affectionately
and warmly. " I am persuaded," my be, " had those men lived in the savage country
whence their wives came, the savages would have taken more pains to have brought
them to he idolctors, and to worship the devil, than any of these men, so far as 1 can
see, have taken will: chem to teach them the knowledge of the true God. Now, sir,"
said he, "though I do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we would be glad
to see the devil's servants, and the subjects of his kingdom, taught to know the general
principles of the Christian religion ; that they might, at: least, hear of God and a.
Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a future state--things which we all believe;
let they might, at least, he so much nearer coming into the bosom of the true church

hm they are now, in the public profession of idolatry and devil-worship."
7.30CRUSOE CONVERSING WITH THE PRIEST.
I could hold no longer: T. look him in my arms, and embraced him with an excess:
of passion. " llow fur," said I to him, " have I been from understanding the most
essential pal'L of a Christian, viz, to love the interest. of tho Christian church, and the,
good of other men's souls! I scarce have known what belongs to the being a Christian."
"0h, sir! do not say so," roplind he; "' this thing is not your limit." "No," said I :
"but \leydid l novcr lny it to henrt aw wull as you 'l" " It is nol: too late yet," snitl
he 3 " be not too forward to condemn yourself." " But what can be done now?" said I ;
"you see I am going away." "W'ill you give Inc leave to talk with these poor men
about il. 'l" "Yes, with all my heart," said I 5 "and. will oblige them to give heed to
when you say too." " A5 to that," said he, " we must leave them to the mercy of Christ ;.
but it is your business to assist them, enconmgo them, and instruct them ; and if you.
give me leave, and God his blessing. 1' do not doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be-
;u'onght home to the great circle of Christianity, if not into the particular faith we ull
embrace, and that- ovcn While you stay here." Upon this, I said, " I shall not only give-
you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it," What fiilloweil I shall mention in.
its place. i

I now pressorl him for the third article in which we were to blame. " Why, really,"
say; he, "it. is of the some nature. And I. will proceed, asking your leave, with the
some plohmess as before. Tr is about your poor savages, who'are, as I. may say, your-
conquered subjects It iii a maxim, air, that is, or oght to he, rcocivccl among all
Clu'ixtviuns, of what church or pretended church aocvnr, tht the Christian knowledge
ought to be propagated by all possible means, and on all possible occasions. It is on.
this principle find:- our Church-sends missionaries into Porsin, Indizr, and China; and.
that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in tho mono hmrdous
voyages, and the most dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians, to teach.
them the knowledge of the true God, Sud to bring them over to embrace the Christian
faith. Now, sir, you have such an opportunity here to have six or seven and thirty
poor savages brought over from a. state of idolatry to the knowledge of God, their-
)Iulser and leoumor, that I wonder how you can puss such an occasion of doing gomh
which is ranlly worth the expense of n. man's whole life."

I was now struck dumb indeed, and haAl not one word to say. I had here the spirit-
of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me, let his particular principles be of
what kind waver. A3 for me, I had not so much we onLortninecl a thought of' this in
my heart before, and I believe I should not have thought oi'it ; for I looked upon l:hese
among" as slaves, and peopls whom, had we not had any work for them to do, we would
huvo used as such, or would have been glad to have trumpet-ted them to any other part
of the world ; for our business was to get rid of them, and we would fill have been
$tisfied if they had been sent to any country, so they had never seen their own. I was.
confounded at his discourse, and knew not, what answer to make him.

He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disci'dor---" Sir," says he, "I shall be
vcry sorry if what 1 have said gives you any ofi'enm." "No, no," said I, " I am nfi'cndedi
with nobody but myreli' ; but I am perfectly confounded, not only to think timt- I should:
never take any notice of this hefore,'buh with reflecting what notice I am able to take-
of it now. You know, sir," said I, "what circumstances I am in ; I an: bound to the
Eat Indies in a ship freighted by merchants, and to whom it would he an insufferable
piece of injustice to detain their shin here, the men lying nil this while at Vichmlfl and
wages on the owners' account. It is true, I agreed to he allowed twelve days here, and
if I stay more, I must pay three Imunds sterling 7292' diam deniurrage'; nor can I.

282CONVERSATION WITH THE l'RiES'l"

stay upon demurruge above eight days more, and I have been here thirteen already ; so-
let I aim perfectly unable to engage in thin work. unless I would miller myself to be
left behind here again ,- in which case, if this single ship should miscarry in any part of
her vovnge, I should be just in the same condition that I was left in here at first, and
from which 'I have been so wonderfully delivered." He owned the. case was very hard
upon me as to my voyage; but laid it home upon my conscience, whether the blessing,
of saving thirty-seven goals was not worth venturing 9.11 1 had in the world fur. I was
not so sensible of that 9.: he was. I replied to him thus: "Why, sir, it is a valuable
thing, indeed, to be an instrument in God's hand In) convert leirLrSin'un lleubliena to
the knowledge of Christ, ,1 but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to the
work, 20 it. seems so nnhirally to fall into filie way of your profession ; lww is it, then:
that you do not rather offer yourself to unclerbi'ke it- uhzm 131-233 me to do it 1"

Upon this he faced nlmnl- just before me, as he walked along, and putting me to 2'.
full stop, mnde me a. very low bow. " I most heartily than}: God and you, sir," said be.
"for giving me so evident at call to so blessed a work ; and if you Lliiuk yourself dis-
charged from it, and desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do it, and think it. n
happy reward for all the hwds and difficulties of such a. broken, disappointed voyage
as I have met with, that I am dropped at; last; into So glorious in work."

T diwwerexl a>> kind of rupture in his face while he spoke this in me: his eyezx
sparkled like fire, his face glowed, and his colour came and went, as if he had been
falling into {its ; in .1 word, lie was fired with thcjoy of being embarked in web a work.
I pmxsecl a cunsidcrablo while below I could tell what to My to him ; for I was
really surprised to find 9. man of such sincerity and 7.931, :{ntl (isn'l'iul, out in his zeal
beyond the ordinary rate of men, not of his profession only, but>> even of any profession
whnkoevcr. Bul: after I had considered ibnwhile, I asked him serinmly if he was in
earnest, and that he would venture, on the single consideration of an attempt to converc
llwse poor people, to be locked up in an implanted island for, perhaps, hie life, and at, last:
might not know whether he should be able to do i-liem good or not.

He turned short upon me, and asked me wlmt-- I called a, 'vnnbure.' "Pray, air,"
said he, "what do you think I consented to go in your ship to the East Indies for!"
"Nay," raid I, "that I know not, mileas in was; to preach lo the Indimm." " Doubtlcs:
in was," said he ; "and do you think, if 1 can convert 'Lhese thirty-seven men in the
faith of: Jesus Christ, it is: not worth my time, though I should never be i'ebelierl oil the
island again 'i--nay, is it not infinitely of more worth to save so many souls than my
life is, or the life of (.wenliy more of the same profess'nui? Yes, sir," says he, " I would
give Christ and the blessed Virgin thanks all my clays if I could be made the happy
instrument of saving the souls of those poor men, though I were never to get. my
foot GIT this island, or see my native country my more But since you will honour mi-
\vii-h putting me into this work, for which I will pray for you all the day: of my life, l
have one humble petition to you besides." "W'l: Er ulna; 'i" said T. "Why." says he,
"it is, that. you will leave your man Friday with inc. (0 he my interpreter on them, and
to assist me ,- fm' without some help 1 cannot speak to them, or they to um"

I was sensibly tmichcd at his requesting Friday, bemuse I could not think of parting
with him, and that for many reasons : he had hem: Lho companion of my th015; he
Was not only faithful to me, but sincerely nfi'cctionnte to the last degree; and I llml
resolved to do something considumble for him if he outlived me, as in was probable he
would. Then I knew Limb, an: I had bred Friday up ('0 he a. Protestant, it would quite
confound him to bring him to embrace another religion ; and he would never, while his

283
 

 

 

 

CRUSOE AND THY. FRIEST.

eyes were open, believe that his 0ch master was a. herei'it', and would be damned ; and this
might. in the end ruin the poor fellow's principles, and so turn him back again to his
first idolatry. However, a sudden thought. relieved me in this strait>>, and it was (his:
1 bold him I could not my that I was willing to part. with Friday on any account
whatever, though a. work that to him was of more value than his life ought to be to
me of much more wflue than the keeping or parting with a. servant, But.
an the other hand, I wzw, persuaded that Friday Would by no means ages
to part with me; and I could not force him to it. without his consenk, without
manifest injustice; because I haul promised I would never send him away, and

284'E'Hli ENCLISHMEN AND THEIR WlVES.

he had promised and engaged to me that he would never leave me, unless I sent him
away.

He seemed Very much concerned at it, for he had no mtionnl access to these poor
people, seeing he did not; understand one word oi' their language, not they one of his.
To remove this diflicnlty, I told him Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I found
he also understood, and he should serve him as an inicz'prcicy. So his was much better
autisfied, and nothing could pemuwde him but he would stay and endeavour to convert;
them 5 but Providence gave another very happy (mix to all this.

I come heal; now to the lll'Si- part of his objections. When we came to the English--
men, I sent for them all together, and after some account given them of what I had
done for them, vim, when necessary things I had provided fur them, and how they won:
diquihumd, which they were very sensible of, and very thankful for, I begin to talk to
[them of the scandalous life lhny'lcd, and gave them a full account of the notice the
clergyman had taken of if. 3 and arguing how unuhrisliim and ineligious a life it was, I
first. asked them ifthey were married men or bachelors. They soon explained their
condition to me, and showed that two of them were widow-ears, and (-he other three were
single men, or buchelm's. I asked them with what; conscience they could take these
women, and call them their wives, and have so many children by (lien), and not; be
lawfully married to them.

They all tenure me the answer 1 expected, viz, the. them was nobody to marry
them ; that they agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives, and to innin--
min them and own them as their wives 5 and they thought, as Linings stood with them,
they were as legally married as if they had been hounded by a pumon, and with all the
formalities in the World.

I told them that no doubt. filmy were married in the sight tn" God, and were bound
in conscience Co keep them as their wives 5 but that the laws of men being otherwise,
they might rinse" the poor women and children hereafter ; and that their wives, being
poor desolate women, friendlees and moneyless, would have no way to help themselves.
1 thaei'ore told them shah, unless I was assured of their honest intent, I could do
nothing for them, but would take care that what i (lid should be for the women and
children without them 5 and that, unless they would give me some assurances that they
would marry the women, I could not think if, was convenient they should continue
together as 1mm and wife ; for filial it. was both ucuiulzllmls to men and offensive to God,
who they could not think would bless them if they went on thus.

All this went on as i. expected; and Lhcy told me, especially Will Atkins, who now
seemed to speak for the rest, that they loved their wives 95 well as if they had been born
in their own native country, and would not. leave them on any account whatever ; am]
they did verily believe that their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and did, to the
utmost of their skill, as much for them and for their children as any \vmncn could pos-
sihly do; and they would not part with sham on any account ,- and "fill Atkins, for
his own particular, added, that ifany man would take him away, and ofl'er to carry him -
home to England, and make him captain of the best man-of-wur in the navy, he
would not go with him if he might not carry his wife and children with him; and
if there was n clergyman in the ship, he would be married to her now with all his
heart. '

This mm just as I would have it. The priest was not with me at that moment, but
was not for ofl': so to try him further, I told him I had a clergyman with me, and, if he
was sincere, I Would have him married next morning, and bode him consider of it, and

285
talk with the rest. He said, as for himself, he need not coirsxder of it at all, for he was
very ready to do it, and was glad. I had a. minister wiLh inc: and he believed they would
be all willing also. I then told him that my friend, the minister, was 9. Frenchman,
and could not speak English, but I would act the clerk between them. He never so
much as asked me whether he was a rapist or Protestant, which was, indeed, what I
was afraid of; so we pnrlml : T went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in
to tall: with his comlmnone I desired the French gentleman not to say anything to
them till Lhe business was thoroughly ripe 5 null told him what answer the men haxl
given me.

Before I went from their quarter they all came to me, and told me they haul been
considering what I had said; that they were glad to hear I had a. clergyman in my
company, and they were very willing to give:- me the satisfaction I desired, and to be
formally married as amen an I pleased; for they were for from (lashing to part with
their wives, and that they meant nothing but what was very honest when they chose
them. So I appointed them to meet me the next morning; aml, in the meantime,
they should let their wives know the meaning of the marriage law; and that it was not
only to prevent any scandal, but also to o'uligo them that they should. not forsake them,
whatever might happen.

The women were easily made sexieible of the meaning of the thing, and were very
well satisfied with it, as indeed, they had reason to be: so they failed not to attend
altogether at my apartment next morning. where I brought; out my clergyman; and
though he had not on n minister's gown, after the manner of England, or the habit of n.
priest, after the manner of anm, yet having a black vest something like a cassock,
with a sash round it, he did not look very unlike a minister; and as for his language, I
was his inlcrprcter. But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and the scruples he
made of manying the women, because they were not baptised nnd profeged Christians
gave them an exceeding reverence for his perm" ; and there was no need, after that, to
inquire whether he was a clergyman or not. Indeed, I was afmid his scruploe would
have been carried so far as that he would not have married them at all ; my, notwith-
standing all I was able to my to him, he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily,
and at last refused absolutely to marry them, unles: he had fimi, talked with the men
and the women too ; and though at first I was a little backward to it; yet at last I
agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity at his design.

When he come to them, he let them know that I had acquainted him with their
cimumstnnces, and with the present (lexign 5 that he was very willing to perform that
part of his function, and marry them, as I lml'xlevired ; but that before he could do it
he must take the liberty to talk with them. He told them that in the srlght of all
indificrcnt men, and in the sense of the laws of society, they had lived all this while in
open fornication; and that it was true that nothing but the consenting to merry, or
<<factually separating them from one another, could now put an end to it ; hut there
We dificnlly in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony, which he
was not fully satisfied about, that of marrying one Lhnt is a profmd Christian to a.
savage, an idolulor, undo heathen--one that is not baptised and yet that- he did not
see that there was time left to endeavour to poisuade the women to be baptised, 01' to
profess the name of Christ, whom they had, he donhlvd, heard nothing of, and without
which they could not he baptised. He told them be doubted thew were but indiflerent
Christians themselves; that they had but liule knowledge of God or of his ways,
and therefme he could not expect that they had said much to their wives on that head

286
 

yet ; but that unless they would promixohim to use their endeavour>> with their wives
to persuade them to become Christians, and would, us well as they could, instruct them
in the knowledge and belief of God. Lhal. made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that
redeemed them, he Could not marry them ; for he would have no hand in joining
Christians with ism-ages, nor was it wnsistent with the principles of the Christian
religion, and'wns, indeed, expressly forbidden in God's law.

They heard all this very attentively, and l delivered it very faithfully in them PSrom
his mouth, as near his own words as I could, only sometimes adding something of my
room, Lo convince them how just it W9, and that T was of hi>>; mind ; and I always very
faithfully distinguished between What I said. from myselfi and what. were the clergymun'a
words. They told me it was very true what the genilenmn said, that- Lhoy were very
indifl'erent. Christians themselves, and that they hurl never talked to their wives about
religion " Lord, sir," says ~Will, Atkins, "how should we touch them religion 7
Why, we know nothing ourselves ; and besides, sir," said he, "should we bulk to them
of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell, it, would make them laugh or. us and
ask us what we believe ourselves And if we shOuId tell them that we believe all the
things We speak of to them, such as of good people going to heaven, and wicked people
to the devil, they would ask us where we intend (0 go ourselves, that believe all this,
.aml are such wicked follows as we indeed are. Why, sir, 'tin enough to give them a
surfeic of religion at first hearing; folks must have some religion themselves before they
pretend ('o teach other people." "Will Atkins," said I to him, "though 1 sun afraid.
that what. you any has too much truth in it, you can you not tell your wife she is in the
wrong 5 that there is a God, and a. religion betfier than her own ; that her gods are
idols; that they can neither hear nor speak; that there is a grout Being that made
all things and that can destroy all chat he has made ; that he rem-d8 the good and
punishes the had ; and that we are to he judged by him at. Lula for all we do here?
You are not so ignorant, but even Nature itself will teach you that all this is true ; and
1 am sulisfiecl you know it all to be true, and believe in yourself." "The: is true,
sir," said Atkins ,- " but with what [use can I say anthing to my wife of all this, when
she will tell me immediately it cannot be true?" " Not true 5" said I 5 "what do you
mean by that-l" "Why, sir," said he, "she will tell me it mun-oh be true that this God
1 slmll tell her of can be just, or can punish or reward, since I um um, punished and
.sent to the devil, that have 'been such a Wicked emulure as she knows I have been,
even to her, and k! everybody else 3 and Lhai. I should he suffered in live, that have
been always noting so contrary to who: I must tell her is good, and to what I ought to
have done." "Why, truly, Atkins," said 1, "1 am ufmid thou speakest too much cruel: ,"
and with that I informed the clergyman of What Atkins had said, for he was impatient
to lcnow. " 0h," said the priest, "tell him those is one thing will make him the heat
minister in fihe world to his wife, and tliat- is, repentance; for none teach repentance
like true pennants. He wants nothing but. to went, and then he will be so much the
better qualified to instruct, his wife ,- he will then be able to tell her that there in not
only a Gotham] tho-L'- he is the just ruwarder of good and evil, but that ho is a mercillil
Being, and, with infinite goodness and long--snfl'erhxg, forbears to punish those that ofl'end ;
waiting to be gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather that he should
return and live ; that oftentimes he suffers wicked men to go a. long time, and even
reserves damnation Lo the general day of retribution 3 that. it- is a. clan: evidence of God
and of a future state, that righteous men receive not their reward, or wicked men their
punishment, till chey come into another world ; and this will lead him to touch his wife

287
 

 

the doctrine of the man rreotion end of Elle lent-judgment>> Let him but repent himself;
he will be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife."

I repeated all this in Atkins, who looked very serious all the while, and who, we
could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily nfi'eeted with it; when being eager,
and hardly anfl'ering me to make an end--"I know all this, master," my>> he, "and a
great deal more ,- but I have not the impudenco to tell: thus to my wife, when God end
my conscience know, and my wife will be an undeniable evidence flgslnst me, that 1
have livml in: if I had never heard of a God or future slate, or anything about it 3 and
to (all; of my repainting, alas! (and with that he fetched in deep sigh, and I could see
that the team stood in his eyes) '153 post all that with me." "Past- it, Atkins? " said I :
"what dost thou mum by that?" " I know well enough what. 1' mean," says he ; " I
mean 'tis too into, and that is too true."

I hold the clergynmn, word forward, what he said : the poor, zealous priest--l must
call him so, for, be his opinion what it will, he liad'certainly a most singular affection
for Llw. good of other men's souls, and it would be hard lo ill-ink he had not the like [or
his own--I say, this affectionate man could not refrain from tears ; huh, recovering him-
self, mid to me, "Ask him but one question. Is he easy that it is too late; or is he
troubled, and wishes it were not so?" I put the question fairly to Atkins; and he
answered, with a great deal of passion, "How could any man be easy in acoudlliuu that.
must certainly end in eternal destruction? that he was far fmm being easy ; but that,
on the eonizmry, he believed it would one Limo or other ruin him." "Vi-"hat do you
mean-by that?" said I. "Why," he said, "he believed he should one time or OLhcr
out. his Lin-mil, to put>> an end to the terror of it."

The clergyman shook his head, with great concern in his face, when I told him all
this ; but turning quick to me upon it, says, " If that be his (also, we may assure him ii;
is not too late ; Chn'st will give him repentance But pray," says he, " explain this to
him; than as no man. is saved but by Christ, and the merit, of his passion procuring
Divine mercy for him, how can it be too late for any man to receive mercy? Does he
think he is able to sin beyond the power or reach of Divine mercyl Pray tell him
there may be a time when provoked memy will no longer strive, and when God may
mmse to hear, but that it is newn- too late for men to ask mercy; and we, film: are
Christ's sei'vxmte, are commanded to preach. mercy at all tinies, in the name of J esus
Christ, to ell those that sincerely repent : so that it, is never too late to repen "

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with greal' om'ncslnw 3 but it: seemed as if
he turned off the discourse to the rest, for he said to me, he would go and have some
talk with his wife ; so he wont; out awhile, and we talked to the rest. I perceived they
were all atupidly ignorant. as to matters of religion, as much as I was when I went
mumbling away from my father ; and yet there were none of them backward to hear
wlmi. had been said : and all of them seriously promised that they would talk with their
wives shout; it, and do their endeavours to persuade them to turn Christians.

The clergyman anu'lod upon me when I reported what answer they gave, but. said
not-hing a, good while 5 but at last, choking his head, "We that are Chrisn's solvents,"
says he, "can go no farther than to oxhort- and instruct ,' end when men comply, submit
to the mpmof, and promise what. we ask, 'tie all we can do ; we are bound to accept their
good words 3 but believe me, sir," said he, " whatever you may have known of the life
of that man you call "lill Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere convert among them ;
I will not despair of the rest; hub that man is apparently struck with the sense of his
past life, and I doubt. not, when he comes to talk of religion to his wife, he will tall:

288
1

\ "Six
'37s .

e

 

WILL ATKINS AND HIS W'IFE.
 

himself efi'eotuully into it: for al-lcmpting to teach others is sometimes the bar- way
of fondling ourselves. I know a man who, having nothing but u. summary notion of
religion himself; and being wicked and profilgnte to the last degree in his life, made a
thorough reformation in himself by labouring to convert a J ow. If that poor Atkins
begins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life for it he talks him--
self into a thorough convert, makes himself a penitent; and who knows what. may
follow 1"

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as above, to endeavour to per-
suade their wives to embrace Cln~isbianily, he married the other two couple ; but Will
Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, my clergyman waiting awhile,
was curious to know where Atkins was gone ; and turning to me, said, " I cntresn', you,
sir, let us walk out of your labyrinth here, and look; I daresay we shall find. this poor
man somewhere or other talking seriously to his wife, and teaching her already some-
thing of religion." I began to be of the some mind 5 so we Went out together, and I
carried him a way which none knew but; myself, and where the trees were so very thick
that it was notveetsy to see through the thicket of leaves, and for harder to see in than to see
our: when,.coming to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins and his fowny wife sitting
under the shade ofa bush, very eager in discourse ; I stopped short: till my clergyman
came up to me, and then, having shown him where they were, we stood and looked very
steadily at them n good while. "'0. observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to
the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens, and then clown \'o the earth, then out to
the see, then to himsell; then to her, to the woods, to the trees. " New," says the
clergyman, " you see my words are made good, the man preaches Lo her; mark him
now, he is telling her that our God has made him and her, and the heavens, the earth,
the sea, the woods, Lho trees, 6w." " I believe he is," said 1. Immediately, we perceived
Will Atkins start upon his feet, full down on his knees, and lift up both his hands. We
supposed he said something, but we could not hear him ; it was too far for shot. He
did not continue kneeling half e minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife, and
talks to her again ; we perceived then the women very attentive, But whether she said
snyching to him we could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees I could
see the tears run plentifully down my clengynmn's cheeks, and I could hardly fox-bear
myself : but is was a. great affliction to us both that we were not near 'enough to hear
anything leL passed between them. Well, however, we could come no nearer for four of
disturbing them 3 so we resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversation, and it
spoke loud enough to us without the'help of voice. He set down again, as I have said,
close by her, and talked again earnestly Lo her, and two or three times we could see
him embrace her most passionately; another time we saw him take out: his handker-
chief and wipe her eyes, end then kiss her again with a kind of transport very unusual ;
and after several of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump up again, and loud her
his hand to help her up, when immediately leading her by the hand a. step or two, they
both kneeied down together, and continued so about two minutes,

My friend could hear it no longer, but cries out aloud, '-' St. Pirul ! St, Paul! behold,
he pmyech l" T was afraid Atkins would hear him, therefore T entrented him to wit-h-
hold himself awhile, that we might; see an end of the scene, which to me, I must confess,
was the most affecting that ever I saw- in my life. Well, he strove wibll himself to:
awhile, but was in such ruptures, to think that the poor heathen women was become :1
Christian, (Just he was not able to contain himself 5 he wept several times, then throw

ing uphis hands and crowing his breast, said over several things ejzwuln'wry, and by the
290 -THE PRlEST'S CHARITY.

 

way of giving God thanks for so mimculonna testimony of the success of our endeavours;
some he spoko sofivly, and I could not well hear others ; some in Latin, some in Fronch ;
then two or three times the tears would interrupt him, that he could not speak at all 5
but I hugged that he would contain himself, and let us more narrowly and fully Observe
what was before us, which he did for a time, the scene not being near ended yet ; for
after the poor mm and his wire were risen again from their knees, we observed he stood
talking still eagerly to her, and we obser red by her motion, that she was greatly affected
w ith what he said, [W hen- frequently lifting up her hands, laying her hand to her breast,
and such other posturm as oxpres; the greatest seriousnm and attention; this con tinned
about half a. quarter of an hour' , and than they walked away so we could see no inorc of
them in that situation. I took this interval to ssy to the clergyman, first, that l was
glad to see the particulars we had both been witnesses to; that, though I was luml
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I begnnto think that it was all very sincere hero,
both in the man and his wife, however ignorant they might both be, and I hoped such
a beginning would yet hate n more happy and: " And who knows, " said I, " but these
two may in time by instruction and example, work upon some of the others 3 " " So-uo
of (hem l " said he, turning quick upon me , "any, upon all of them , depend upon it, if
those two savages--for he has been but little hcltei' as you relate it--should embrace
Jesus Christ, they will never leave till they work upon all the rest ; for true religion
is naturally communicative, and he that is once made a. Christian will never leave
a I'ugnn bchirul him, if he can help iL" I owned it was a most Christian principle
to think so, and a testimony of true mcl, as well as a. generous heart, in him. " But,
my friend," said I1 " will you give me leave to start. one difficulty here '2 I cannot tell
how to object the least thing against that afi'ech'onntc concom which you show for the
turning of the poor people from Lhcir Paganism to the Christian religion; but how does
this comfort you, While these people are, in your account, out of the pale of the Catholic
Church, without which you believe them is no salvation? so that you esteem these but
heretics, an effectually lost as the Pagans themselveo"

1'0 this ho answered with abundance of condom; thus : "Sir, I am a Catholic of the
Roman Church, and a priest of the order of St. Benodict, and I embrace all the principles
of the Roman faith 3 but yet, if you will believe me, and that I do not speak in oom-
pliment tojou, or in respect to my cimumstanoea and your civilities ; I say, nevertheless,
I do not look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, without acme oliurity: I dun:
not say (though I know it is our opinion in general) that you cannot be saved ; I will
by no means limit the mercy of Christ so for as think that he cannot receive you into
the bosom of his church, in a manner to us 'unperceivablo 5 and I hope you have the
same charity for us: I pray daily for your being all restored to Christ's church, by
whatsoever method he, who is. all-wise, is pleased to direct. In the meantime, surely
you will allow it consists with me, as a Bomnn, to (linking-nigh far hetweou s. "Protestant
and n Pagan ; hetween one that calls on J osus Christ, though in n. my which 1 do not.
think is accor cling to the true faith, and n. savage or a bmbnrion, that knows no Goal, no
Christ, no Redeemer , and if von are not within the pale of the. Catholic Church, we hope
you are new or being restored to it than those who know nothing of God or of his Church:
and I rejoice, thereioro, when I see this pooi man, who, you say, has been a profiligato,
and almost; a murdnmx; kneel down and pray in Josus Christ, as we suppose he did,
though not fully enlightened ; believing that God, from whomever-y such work proceeds,
Will sensibly touch his hem-i, and bring him to the further knowledge of that truth in
his own time; mid if God shall influence this poor man to convert and instruct the

1/."
 

 

ignorant savage, his wife, I can never believe that he shall be cost away himself. And 'r

lm'e I not reason, then, to mjoice, the nearer any are brought to the knowledge of
Christ, though they may not he brought quit-e home into the bosom of the Catholic
Church just at the time when I may dcsiro it, leaving it to the goodness of Christ to-
perlect his work in his own time, and in his own way? Certainly, I would rejoice if all,
the savages in America were brought, like this poor woman, to pray to God, though they
were all to be Protoslunte at first, rather than they should continue pagans or henthens;
firmly believing that he that had bestowed the first light on them would further illuminate
them with a beam of his heavenly grace, and bring them into the pale of his Church,
when he should see good."

1 was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this pious Papist, us much as I was
oppressed by the power of his reasoning 3 and it presently occurred to my thoughts, that
if such a temper was universal, we might be all Catholic Christians, whatever church or
particular profession we joined in ; that a spirit of charity would soon work us all up
into right principlu ; and as he thought that the like charity would make us all Catholics,
so I told him I believed, had all the members of his church the like moderation, they
would soon all be Protestants. And there we left that port 3 fox-we novor disputed at all.

However, I talked to him another way, and taking him by the hand, "My friend,"
says I, " T. wish all the clergy of tho Roxnish Church were blessed with such moderation,
and had on equal share of your charity. I am entirely of your opinion ; but I must tel'l
you, that if you should preach such doctrine in Spoin or Italy, they would put you into
the Inquisition." " It may be so," said he ; "I know not what they would do in Spain
or Italy ; but I. will not; say they would be the hotter Christians for that severity; for-
I am sure there is no heresy in ubounding with charity."

Well. a Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there was over, so we'
went back our own way ; and when we came back, we found them waiting to be called
in : observing this, I asked In y clergyman if we should discoverto him that we had seen
him under the bush or not 5 and it was his opinion we should not, but that we should.
tall: to him first, and hear what he would my to us ,~ so we called him in alone, nobody
being in the place but ourselves, and I began with him thus :--

" Will Atkins," said I, " prythee what education had you ? Vi'hat was your father 2 "

W A.-----A better man than ever I shall be 3 sir, my father was a clergyman.

11'. C--W'hnt education did he give you?

W. A,--.U.e would have taught- me well, sir, but I despised all education, instruction,
or correction, like a beast as I was.

It. (IF--Iris true, Solomon says, "He that despises reproof in brutixh."

W. A.--~Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed, for I murdered my father: for God's sake,
sir, talk no more about that; sir, I inurdered my poor father.

R. Cir--Ha! c murderer!

More the priest started (for I interpreted every word he spoke) and looked pole : it
seems he believed that Will had really killed his father.

' R. a--No, no, sir; I do not. understand him no : Will Atkins, explain yourself; you
did not kill your father, did you, with your own hands 3

W. A.--No, sir, I did not cut- his throat : but 1 cut the thread of all his comforts,

md shortened his days 5 I broke his heart by the most ungrateful, unnatural return for

the most tender and nfi'celionate treatment that over father gave, or child could receive.

R. 6'.---Well, I did not ask you about your father to extort this confession : I pray
God give you repentance for it, and forgive that and all your other sins ; but I asked you

292CONVERSATION \VITH WILL ATKINS.

'- ~_.._._.___._...__. ...... -- --

 

 

\\'ll.L ATKINS, CRUSOE, AND PXH'ET

because I see that though yo" have not much learning, yet you are not so ignomnt as

mm are in things that are good ; that you lam: known more of religion, a great deal,
than you have practised.

' W. A..--Though you, sir, do not extort the confession that I make about my fnther,
conscience does; and whenever we come to look back upon our lives, the sins against
mu indulgent parents are Wiminiy the first to touch us; the woundx they make lie
deepest, and the weight they have will lie henviat upon the mind, of all the aim: we
can commit

293
124 a--You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins ; 1 cnnnoo hear it.

llv'. A.--You bear it, master 3 I dare any you know nothing of it.

R. C'.----Yes, Atkins 5 every shore, ovary hill, nay, I may say every tree in this island,
is witness to the anguish of my soul for my ingmt-itude to, and heal uauge of; a. good.
tender father 5 a. father much like yours by ymu' description: and I murdered my
lather as well as you, Will Atkins ; but I think, for all that, my repentance is short of
yours too, by a great deal.

I would have said room, if I could have restrained my pardons; lint I thought this
poor nmu's repentance was so much sinccrcr than mine, that I was going to leave all
the discourse and retire ; For I was surprised with what he had said, and thought that
instead of my going about to teach and instruct him, the mun was made a. teacher
and instructor to me in a. most surprising and unexpected manner.

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly affected with it, and sum
to me, "Did I not my, air, that when this man was uonvortml he would preach to us all '.l

-I tell you, sir, if this one man be made n, true pcnitent, here will be no need of mo ; he
will make Christians of all 'in tho island."--But having a. little composed myueli', I
renewed my discourse with "'ill Atkins. " Pint Will," said T, "how comes the sense ot
this matter to touch you just now i "

W. A.----Sir, you have set me about it work that has struck a dart through my very
soul : I have been talking about God and religion to my wife, in order, as you directed
me, to mnkea Christ-inn of her, and she has preached such a sermon to me as I shall
never forget while I live.

It. 61--h" o, no, it is not your wife has preached to you ; but when you were moving
religious arguments to her, cochience has flung them back upon you.

W. A..-- Ay, sir, with such force as is not to be resisted.

R 0--va, Will, let us know what passed between you and your wife; for I know
something of it already.

W. A. --Sii, it is impossible to give you a full account of it ; I am too full to hold it,
and yotlmve no tongue to express it ; but let her have said what she will, though I
cannot give you an account ofit, this I can tell you, that I have resolved to amend and
reform my life.

If. OC--But. tell us some of it; how did you begin, Will '2 for this has been an extra,
ordinary case, that is certain. Shohas preached a. sermon, indeed, if hhe has wrought
this upon you.

W. A--Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about marriage, and what the
reasons were' that men and women were obliged to enter into such compacts as it was
neither in the power of one nor other to break 3 that otherwise, order and justice could
not be maintained, and men would run from their wives, and abandon their children,
mix mnfiuedly with one another, and neither families he kept entire nor inlierilnnco';
be Settled by legal descent,

1' '--~Yon talk like 9. oivilinn, Will. Could you make her understand whnt you
meant by inheritance nnd families? They know no such things among the savuges, but
marry anyhow, without ngard to relation, consanguinity, or family ,' brother and aisicr,
nay, as I have been told, oven the thither and the (laughter, and the son mid the mother.

W. A.u--L believe, sir, you are misillfoi'lxiotl, and my wife mores me of the contrary,
and that they abhor it- ,- perhaps, for any further relotionr, they may not be so exact as
we are; but she tellu me never in the near relationship you speak of.

13. C'.-----I'Vell,' what (lid she say to whztt you told her?

<<on
 

W. A .--She Said she liked it vex): well, as iv was much better than In her country

13. C.---Bul~ did you tell her whim mm rings was?

MAP--Ly, ay, there hogan all our dialogue. I asked her if she would be married
to me our way. She asked me what way that was. I told her mmu'iuge was appointed
by God 5 and here we had a. strange talk together, indeed, as ever man and wife had,
I believe.

N. B.--Tliis dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife I took down in writing, just.
after he had told it me, which was as follows

"Hit--Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God in your country?

N". .-i.---Yex, my dear, Gml is in every country.

ll'v'o--No your God in my country 5 my country have the great old Benomuvk'co
Gm'l.

ll". A.--C'liild, I am very unfit to show you who God is 5 God is in heaven, and made
the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that in them is

Wyn--No makes do earth ; no you God mokee do 09.th 5 no makee my comm-y.

'Will Atkins longhod'n little at her expression of God not making her country.

Wi/h--No laugh ; why laugh me? This nothing to laugh.

He was jusdy removed by hi: wife, for she was mom sarious than he at. first.

W. A.--That's true, indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dam.

li'ffie.--T~V'degh_v, you say you God mnkcc all '3

W. A.--Ye5, child, our God made the whole world, and you, and me, and all things ;
for he is the only true God, and there is no God hul- him ; he lives for ever in heaven.

"Win--"my you no tell me long ago ?

W. A.----~Tlmt'e (rue, indeed; but I have been a wicked wreteh, and have not only-
forgotten to acquaint thee with anything hefono, but. have lived without God in the
world myself". _ _

Wyli--W'hat, have you a great God in your country, you no know him i No say
Oh ! to him 2 No do good thing for.- liim ? That. no possihle.

H". A.--Tt is true, though, {or all that ; we live as if there was no God in heaven,
or that. he had no power on earth.

"rah--But why God let. you do so ? Why he no mulcco you good live?

W. A.------lf; is all our own fault.

Wzfi.---But you say me he is great, much great, have much great power, can mukee
kill when he will, why he no mnkee kill when you no serve him i No snv Oh I to him,
no be good man

W; A --'l'lmt; is true, he might. strike me dead; and I ought to expect it, for I
have been a. wicked wretch, that is true; but God is merciful, and does not. deal with
us as we deserve. '

Wife--But- then you do not. tell God lhankee for that too?

W. A .---No, indeed, I have not thanked God for his mercy, any moro than I have
feared God for his power.

Wife--Then you God no God; me no think believe he be such one, great much
power strong: no mahee kill you, though ymi make him much migrv

W. i .--.Wlmi2 will my wicked life hinder you from believing 111 God? Whats.
dreadful creature am I! and what a sail trubh' 1: it, that. the humid lives of Christians
hinder. the conversion of henthens !

Wefi.----How we think you have great much God up there [she lmim's. up to heaven],
and yet. no do well, no do good thing '2 Can he tell 7 Sure he no tell what you do 'i

295
 

if. A.--Ym, yes, he knows and sees all things ; he hem us speak, sees what we do,
knows what we think, though we do not speak.

WE '8.--Wllilhl he no hear you curse, swear, speak do great damn?

H". zit--Yes, yes ho hears it all.

Wilh--Where be then the much great power strong '2

W. A.--Hc is merciful, that is all we aim any for it; and this proves: him to be the
true God ; he in God, and not man, and therefore we are not consumed.

How: Will A thins told us he was struck with horror, to think how he could tell his
wife so clearly that God sees, and beam, and knows the secret thoughts of the heart, and
all that we do, and yet that he haul dared to do all the rile things he had done.

_ll'ij'e--h{ercifidl What you call thut'! '

W. A.--He is our father and maker, and he pitics and sgmrcs ux.

Wi 6.--SO then he never makec kill, ncvor angry when you do Wicked ; then he no
good himself, or no great able.

W. xiv--Yes, yes, my' (lean; ho is infinitely good and infinitely greet, and able to
punish ton ; and sometimes, to show his justice and vengeance, he lets fly his singer to
destroy sinners and make examples ; many are cut off in their sin>>.

"flier--But no malice kill you yet ; then he tell you, may he, that he no makee you
kill: so you nxsihee de bargain with him, you do haul thing, he no be angry or; you when
he be angry at other um>>;

W. A.---No, indeed, my sins are all preauzuptions upon his goodness ; and he would
be infinitely just if he datroyed me, as he has done other men.

Wi e.----Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead,- wlmL you isxy to him for that 'l
You no toll him thankee for all that too i

W. A.----1 am an unthankful, ungrateihl dog, flint is true.

"rifle--~Whj' he no mnkae you much good better '3 you say he makes you.

IV. A.--Fl'u made me as he made all the world ; it is l have deformed myself, and
abused his goodness, and made myself an abominable wretch.

Wife-4 wish you mnkcc Goul know me. 1 no maker: him angry--I no do bud,
wicked thing.

Herc Will Atkins mid his heart- sunk within him, to hear 9. poor untenght creature
denim to be taught to know God, :uul he such a wicked wretch that he could not say one
word or her about God, but what the mproach of his own carriage would make most
irrational to her to believe ; nay, that already she had told him that she could not believe
in God, because he, that was so wicked, was not. destroyed.

W. A.---My dear, you menu, you wieh I could tench you to know God, not God .'0
know you ; for he knows you already, and every thought in your heart.

ii'ifa--W'hy, then, he know what T anyto you now : he know me Wish to know him.
How shall mo lmow who mokec mo '2 '

' W. A..--Poor creature! he musttench thee : I cannot tench thee. I will pray to him
to teach than to know him, and forgive me, that am unworthy to teach thee.

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to make her know God,
and her wishing to know him, that he said he fell down on his knees herons her, and
prayed to God to enlighten her mind with the saving knowledSSe of Jesus Christ, end'to
pin-don his sins, and accept of his being the unworthy instrzuuont of instructing her
in the principles of religion : sfrer which ho sat- down by her again, and their
dialogue went on. This was the time when we saw him kneel down, and hold up his
hands. V

296PRIEST AND NEGRO

 

WOMAN.
 

Wife--What you put down the knee for? What you hold up the hmclibr ? What
you say? Who you speak to? "'1an is all that?

ll'. A.--My dear, I how my knees in token of my submission to him that made me
I said 0h 9 to him, as you cell it, and as your old men do to their idol Bennmuckee ; that
is, I prayed to him.

W7 ei--W'lmt say you Oh: to him for?

ll". A.--I pisiycd to him to open your eyes and your understanding, that you may
know- him, and be accepted by him.

"rift--Gm he do that Lee?

W. xi.--ch, he can: he can do all things.

Willa--But now he hear what you any 'l

ll". A.--Yee, he has bid us pray to him, and promised to hear us.

ll'ifis.~~l$i<l you pray '2 When he bid you :2 How he bid you? \Vhat yo" hear him
speak l

W. A.---No, we do not hear him speak; but he has revealed himself many ways
to ms

Here he was at a. great loge to make her understand that God has revealed himself Ln
my by his Word, and What his W'ord was ; but at last he told it her thus :--

1V. A.----Go<l has spoken in some good men in former days, even from heaven, by plain
word>> ; and God has inspired good men by his Spirit 3 and they have written all his lows
down in a hook.

Wife.~Me no understand that ; where is book?

75". .Il.---Ala5! my poor creature, T have not. this book ; but I hope I slmll one time
or other get it for you, and help you to read it.

Here he embraced her with great alf'ectiou, but with inexpresaible grief that he had
not a Bible.

' W-ifiz.--->>But how you malice me know that God teacher: them to write that book '1

ll". xii--By the same rule thet we know him to be God.

Wife--What rule l "What way you know him '2

W. .'l.--Becn,usc he teaches and commands nothing but what is good, righteous, and
holy, and tends to make us perfectly good, as well as perfectly happy 3 end because he

' forbids, and commands us to avoid, all that is Wicked, that is evil in itself. or evil in its.
coneeqncnmu.

Wife. ---Thst me would understand, that me fein see ; if he teachce all good thing, he
mekoe all good thing, he give all thing, he hear me when I say Oh E to him, as you dojust
now 3 he makee me good, if .[ wixh to be good ; he spare me, no mail-tee kill me, when T
he be gom'l : all this you say he (10, yet he be great God: me take, think, believe him to
be great God: me sayphl to him with you, my dear.

Here the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised her up, made hm- kneel by
him, find he prayed to God aloud be instruct her in the knowledge of himself, by his Spirit 3
and that by some good providence, if possible, she might, some time or other, come to
have a Bible, that she might read the W'ord of God, and he taught by it- to know him.
This Was the time that we saw him lift her up by the herd, and saw him kneel down
by her, as ohm-e. I

They had several other discourses, it seems after this, too long to be set down here ,1
and particularly, she made him promise that, since he confessed his own life had been a.
wicked, abominable course of provocation against God, that he would reform it, and not.
make God angry any more, lest he should make him dead, as she called it, and their uh>>

298BAPTISM OF ATKINS' Wu'fei.

would be left. alone, and never betnught to know this God hotter '. and lest he should be
minerablo, as he had told her wicked men would be, after death.

This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both, but particularly to the your g
clergyman ; he was, indeed, wonderfully surprised with it, but. under the gran Lest olilic.
ticu imaginable that. he could not talk to her, that he could not speak English, to make
her understand him 3 and as she spoke butvery broken English, he could not understand
her 5 however, he turned himself to me, and told me that. he believed that there must be
more l.o do with this woman than to marry her. I did not unders'u'md him at first; but
at length he explained himself; viz, Lind. she ought to be baptized. I ogieed with him
in that pan: readily, and wished it to be done presently. "No, no ; hold, sir," said he 5
" though T would have hcrbe baptized, by all men as, for I must observe that Will Atkins,
llm' husband, has indeed brought her, in a. wonderful manner, to be willing to embrace a
religious life, and has given her just ideas of the being of a God, of his power, justice,
and mercy ,1 yet I desire to know of him if he has said anything to her of Jesus Christ,
and of the salvation oi'einners; of the nature of faith in him, and redemption by him ;
of the Holy Spirit, the reemrection, the last judgment, and the future slate."

I called \Vill Atkins again, and asked him ; but the pour fellow fell immediately
into tears, and told us he had mid something to her of all those things, but that he was
himself so "ticked a. creature, and his own conscience so rcproached him with his horrid,
ungodly life, that lie trembled at the apprehensions that her knowledge of him should
lessen the attention she should give to those things and make her rather conlcmn
religion then receive it ; but he was assured, he said, that her mind was so disposed to
receive due impressions of all those things, and that if I would but dimoursc with her,
she would make it appear to my satisfiwtion tlmt my labour would not be lost upon her.

Accordigly, I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter between my religious
priest and the women, I contented him to begin with her ; but sure such a, sermon was
never preached by a I'opish priest in these latter ages of the world ; and, as I told him,
I thought he had all she zeal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Chriatian, without
the error of a Roman Catholic 5 and that 1 tool: him to be ouch a clergyman as the Roman
bishops were before the church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty over the con-
wienees of men. In a. word, he brought; the poor woman to embrace tho knowledge of
Christ, and of redemption by him, not with wonder and astonishment only, as she did
the first notions of a God, but with joy and finch ; with an inflection, and a surprising
dame of understanding, source to be imagined, much her to he expressed; and, at her
own request, she was baptised.

"'hen he was preplu'iug to baptise her I entreatod him that he would perform that;
office with some mution, that the man might not perceive he was of the Roman Church,
if possible, because of other ill conaequonccs which might attend a difl'erence among us.
in that very relgion which we were instructing the other in. He told me that as he-
llud no coimecraied chapel, nor proper things for the oliice, I should see he would do in
in a. manner that. I should not know by it. that he was a Roman Catholic myself, if I had
not known it before; and so he did 5 for saying only some words over to himself in Latin,
which I could not understand, he poured a. wliolo (lishful of water upon the woman's
hes/ll, pronouncing in h'cneh, very loud, " Mary (which was the name her husband
desired :no to give her, for I was her godfather), I baptist: thee in the name of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost ; " so that none could know anything by it What
religion he was of. He gave the benediction afterwards in Latin, but either SVill Atkins
did not know but it was French, or else did not- take notice of it at that time.

299
 

As soon :13 this was over, we married them ; and after the marriage was over, he
turned to Will Atkins, and in a very afl'ectionntc manner nxlmrted him, not only to per-
uevere in that goal diepouition he was in, but to support the convictions that were upon
him by a resolution to reform his life ; told him it was in vain to my he repented if he
did not forsake his crimeu: represienmd to him how God had honoured him with being
the instrument. of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the Clu'ieetian religion, and that

' he should he cur-nful he should not (lishonour the grace of God 3 and that if he did, he
would nee the heathen a. hotter Christian than himself; the savage converted, and the
instrument can away. He said a great many good thing? to them both; and then,
recommending them to God's goodness, gave them. the benediction again, I mpmfing
everything to them in English 5 and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most
pleasant and agl'letull)lfl day to me that ever I passed in my whole life,

But my clergyman had not done yet : his thoughts hung continually upon the cou-
versiou (if the thirty-seven savages, and fuin he would have stayed upon the island to
have undertaken it ; but 1 convinced him, first, that his undertaking was impracticable
in itself; and, secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a way of being done in his
'ahscuco to his satisfictinn.

Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a. narrow compass, l was preparing
to go on board the ship, when the young uum I had taken out of the famiahed ship's
company came to me, and told me he underalood I had a clergyman with me, and that I
had caused the Englisluueu to be married to the savages ; that he had a match too, which
he desired might be finished before I wont, between two Christian; which he hoped would
not be disagreeable to me.

I knew this mus:- he the young woman who was his mother's servant, for there wax
no oler Clll'lahljtn woman on the island : so I began to persuade him not. to do anything
of that kind mshly, or because he found himself in this nolilnr}r circumstance. I repre-
sented to him that he haul some considerable substance in the world, and good friends,
as I understood by himself, and the maid also ; that the maid was not. only poor, and a.
servant, but was unequal to him, she beig six or seven and twenty years old, and he not
above seventeen or eighteen ; that he might very probably, with my assistance, make 9.
remove from this wilderness, and come into his own country again ; and that then it would
'be a thousand to one but he would repent his choice, find the dislike of that circumstance
might be disadvantageous to both: I was going to any more, but ha iulemxpted me,
smiling, and told me, with a grant deal of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses ; that
he had nothing of that. kind in his thoughts ; andhe was very glad to hear that I had
an intent of putting them in :1. way to sec their own country gain 5 and nothing should
have made luim think of staying there, but that the voyage T was going was so exceeding
long and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the reach of all his friends; that
he had nothing to desire of me, but that I would settle him in some little property in the
island where he was give him a. servant or two, and some few necessaries, and he would
live here like a planter, waiting the good time when, if ever I returned in England, 1
would redeem him; and hoped I would not he unmindful of him when I came in
England: that he would give mo some letters to his friends in London, to let them know
how good I had been to him, and in what part of the world, and what circumstzmces l
had loft. him in: and he promised me that wheneverI redeemed him, the plantation, and
all the improvements he had made upon it, let the value be what it would, should be

, wholly mine.

His discourse was very prettily' delivered, conmlering his youth, and was the more

300AN INTENDED MATCH.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CXUSOE GIVES ATKINS A BIBLE-

agrmble to me, because he told me positively the malach was not for himself. I
gave him all possible mumnccs that if I lived to come safe to England, I
would deliver his letters, and do his business efi'ectually; and that he might
depend I should never forget the circumstances I had lei); him in; but still I was
impatient to know who was the person to be married; upon which he told me it.
was my Jackmf--nll-tradee and his maid film. I was mmt agreeably surprised
when he named the match ; for, indeed, I thought it very suitable. The chnmctar
of that man I have given already; and 'as for the maid, she was a very
V11
 

 

honert, modest, sober, and religious young woman ; had a. very good share of sense, who
agreeable enough in her person, spoke \'ory handsomely and to the purpose always with
decency and good manners, and was neither too backward to speak when requisite,
nor impertinently forward when it was not her business ; very handy and housewifely,
and an excellent manager 5 fit, indeed, to have been governess to the wholeisland 5 and
she knew i-ery well how to behave in every respect.

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them the mine day 5, and as
T wasfether at the altar, and gave her awny, so I gave her :1. portion ; for I appointed
her and herh11shan<lalumd1wn1e large space of ground for their plantation 3 and, indeed,
this match, and the proposal the young gentleman made to give him a. smell property in
the island, put me upon parcelling it out muogst them, that they might not quarrel
afterwards shout, their situation.

This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who was now grown a sober, V
gmve, managing fellow, perfectly refisrmed, exceedingly pious and religious5a11d, as i211
as I may be Allowed to spank positively in such a. case, 1' verily believe he was; a true
ponitent. He divided things so justly, and so much to every one's setisfaction, that
they only desired one gonoml writing under my hand for the whole, which I caused {.11
he llxuwn up and signed and settled, setting. out the bounds and situation of every man'u
plantation, and leatiljving that I gave them thereby severally :1 right to the whole pus.
session and inheritance of the respective plantations or forms, with their improvement;
to 1.1112111 and their heirs, reserving all the rest of the island as my own property, and .1,
certain rent for every particular plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one from me,
or in my name, came to demand it, producing an attested copy of the mine writing.

.21: to the government and laws among them, I told them I was not capable or"
giving them better rules than they were able to give themselvm; only I made them
promise me to live in love and good neighbourhood with one another ; and so I prepared

to leave them.

One thing I must not. omit, and that is that being now settled in a kind ofeommon--
u aalth among themselves, and having much business in hand, it wee odd to have seven
and thirty Indians live" in a. nook of the island independent, and, indeed, unemployed ;
for, excepting the providing themselves food, which they had difficulty enough to do,
sometimes they had no manner of business or property to manage I proposed, there-
fore, to the governor Spaniard, that he should go to them with Friday's father, and
propose to than to remove. and either plant for themselves, or be taken into their
soveml families on son'ants, to he maintained for their labour, but without lioi 11g abro-
lute slaves ; for I would not permit them so make them slaves by force, by any means ;
because they had their liberty given them by capitnlntinn, as it wore articles of sur-
render, which they ought. not to break.

They most willingly cmbmeml the proposal, and came all very cheerfully along with
him : so we allotted them Iancl and plantations, which three or four accepted of, but all
the rest chose to be employed as rel-mute in the several tamilies we had settled ; and
thus my colony wne'in a manner settled as follows :----The Spaniards possessed my
original hehitwiion, which was the capital city, and extended their planterimm all along '
the side of the brook, which msula tho crook that I have so often described, as for as
my bower , and as they increased their culture, it went alwnva uastw: Li (I. The English
lived 1n the nortlvewst pint, where W ill Atkins and his comrades began, and come on
southward and south--west, towards the hack port of the Spaniards, and every plant.>> I
tion had a g1 vat addition of land to toke1n,i1' they found occasion, so that they need

302"run i'RESENT or A BIBLE

 

:notjostle one another for "unit of room All the east. end of the island was left unin-
habited, that if any of the flanges should come on shore them only for their usual
<<customary barbarities, they might come and go 5 if they disturbed nobody, nobody
would disturb them 3 and no doubt but they were nfmn ashore, and went away again,
for T never heard tho: the planters were ever attacked or disturbed any more.

It now came into my thoughts thet I had hinted to my friend the clergyman that
the w'ork 0f converting the savages might perlmpa be set on foot in his absence to his
satisfaction, and I told him that now I thought. that if; was put in a fair way; for the
savages, being thus divided among the Ghristiangit' they would but every one of them
do their part with those which came under their hands, I hoped it might; have a very
good effect>>.

He agreed presently in that, if they did their part. " But how," says he, " shall W6
obtain that of them?" I told him we would call them all together, and leave it in
charge with them, or go to them, one by one, which he thought beet ; so we divided it,
----.he to speak to the Spaniards, who were all Pupisla, and I to speak tn the English,
who were all Prot$tunto ; and we recommended it earnmtly to them, and made them
promise that they would never mnlm any diatinction of l'npist or Protestant in
their cxlmrting the savages to turn Christians, but teach them the general knowledge
of the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ 5 and they lilugwhse yromisod us that
they would never have any differences or disputes one with another about religion.

When I came to Will Mining's house (I may call it so, for such a. house, or such n
piece of basket-work, I believe was not standing in the world Again), there 1 found the
young Woman I have mentioned above and Will ALlcixm's wife were become intimates 5
and this prudent, religious young woman had perfected the work Will Atkins had begun 5
and though it was not above {our days afi'or whiit I have related, yet the new-baptised
savage woman was made such a Christian as I have seldom heard of in all my observe.
tion or conversation in the world,

It came next. into my mind in the morning before 1 went to them, that amongst all the
needfnl things I had to leave with them, I had not left them a Bible> in which I showed
myself less considering for them than my good Mend the widow was for me when she
sent me the cargo of a. hundred pounds from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles
and a prayer--book. However, the good woman's charity had a greater extent than ever
.she imagined, for they were reserved for the comfort and instruction of those that made
much better use of them than I had done.

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I name to \l'ill Atkins's mm, or
house, and found the young woman. and Alkims's baptised wife had been disoouming of
religion together--for W'ill A thins told it me with a gneat deal ofjoy-- I naked if they
were together now, and he said, yes 3 so I went into the house and'he with me, and we
found them together very earnest in discourse. "Oh, sir," any: "rill Atkins, " when
God has sinners to reconcile to himself, and aliens to bring home, he never wants o.
messenger; my wife has got a new instructor: I knew I was unworthy, as I was
incapable of that work,- that young woman has been Bent hither from heaven ; she is
enough to convert a whole island of savages" The young woman bluaherl, and rose up
to go away, but I desired her to hit grill ,- I told her she had a good work upon her
hands, and I hoped God would blew her in it,

We talked Mime, and I did not perceive that they had any book among them,
though I did not ask ; but I put my lumul into my pocket, and pulled out my Bible,
" Here," said I to Atkins. " I have brought you an assistant that perhaps you had 1108

303 I
before" The mm was so confounded, thatlie was not able to spank for some time; hub
recovoriiig'himself, he takes it with both his hands, and turning to his wife, "" Here,
my Rear," says he. " did I not tell you our God, though he lives above, could hear what
we have said? Here's the hook I prayed for when you and l knoeled down under the
bush 5 now God has heard us, and sent it." When he had said so, the man fell into
anuh transports of passionate joy, that between the joy of having it, and giving God
thanks for it, the tears mu down his face like a child that was: crying.

The woman was surprised, xmd was like to have run into a. mistake that none of us;
were nwaro of, for she firmly believed God had sent the hook upon her husband's
petition. It is true that providentially it was so, and might be taken so in a. con-
sequent sense ; but i believe it would have been no difficult matter at that time
to have persuaded the poor woman to have believed (hat an express messenger come
from Heaven on purpose to bring that individual bunk; but it was too serious a. matter
to sufl'er uny delusion to take place, so I turned to the young woman, and told her we
did not claim to impose upon the new convert in her first and more ignorant under--
>>lnnding of things, and begged her to explain to her that God may be very properly said
to answer our petitions, when, in the course of his providence, such thing>> are in a par--
ticnlsr manner brought to pass as we petitioned for :Ibut we did not expect returns from
Heaven in a mirnculou>> and particular manner, and it is a mercy that it is not so.

This the young woman did afterwards efl'eotually, so that there was, I assure you, no
prieswmfi used here 3 and I should have thouglxl- is one of tlu'. most. unjustifiable frauds
in the world to have had it so. But the surprise ofjoy upon Will Atkins is really not
to be expressed; and there we msy be sure was no delusion. Sure no man was ever
more thankful in the world for anything of its kind than he was for the Bible; nor, I
believe, never any mm was glad of a Bible flour a, better principle 1 and though he haul
been A most prodigate creature, headstrong, furious, and desperately wicked, yet this 1mm
in n standing rule to us all for the well instructing children, viz, that parents should never
give over to teach and instruct, nor ever despair of the success of their endeavours, let
the children he ever so refractory, or, to appeumim, insensible to instruction; for, i! ever
God, in his providence, touches the conscience of auch, the force of their education
returns upon them, and the early instruction of parents is not lost, though it. may have
been many years laid asleep, but. some time or other they may find the benefit of in
Thin: it was with this poor man: however ignomnt he was of religion and Christinu
knowledge, he found he had some to do with now more ignorant tlmn hiuisoli; and that.
the least part ot'the inutmction of his good father that now come to his mind was of use
to him.

Among the rest, it occurred to him, he said, how his father used to insist so much on.
the inoxprcssible value of the Bible, and the privilege and blessing of it to nut-ions,
families, and persons; but he never entertained the least notion of the worth of it till
now, when being to talk to heslhens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted the help of the
written oracle for his assistance. '

The young woman was glad of it also for the present occasion, though she had one
and so had the youth, on board our ship, among their goods, which were not yet brought
' on uhorc' And now, having said so many things of this young women, I cannot omit
telling one story more of her and myself, which has something in it very instructive and
remarkahla .

I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was reduced--how her
mistmnn was starved to dead), and died on board that unhappy ship we met at sea, and

304

,WHAT IT IS TO S'l'ARVE.

 

how the shiy'n mmpcny were reduced to the lost extremity. The gentlewoman, and her
'son, and this maid, were first hardly used as to provisions. and at last totally neglected
and starved--that is to my, brought. to the lust extremity of hunger. One day, being
(llacouming with her on the extremities they sull'eretl, I wilted her if she could describe,
by what aha had felt, what it was to slnrve, and how il: appoarod. She told me she
believed she could, and she told her talc very distinctly thus :--

" Final, sir," raid she, " wo had for some days fin-eel exceeding haul, and suffered vex":
great hunger 3 but at last we were wholly without food of any kind, except sugar, and 9.

.litllo wine~and~waton The first dny'after .1.th received no food at all, I found myself,
towards evening, first empty and sick at the utomnch, and nearer night much inclined to
yawning and sleep. I lay down on Lheonuch in tho grout cabin to sleep, and slept about
three hours, and awaked a little refimhed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay down;
after being about three hours awake, it being about five o'clock in the morning, I found
myself empty, and my stomach sichiah, and lay down again, but could not sleep at all,
being very film and ill ; and thus I continued all the second (lay with a. strange mriety
--first hungry, then sick gain, with retohings to vomit. The second night, being
obliged to go to bed again without any food, more than a drought, of fresh water, and
being sleep, I dreamed I was at Barbarians, and that the market w'os mightily stocked
with provis'ong--thnt I bought some for my mistrcm. and went and dined very healthily.
I thought my stomach was as full after this as it would have been arm a. good dinner;
but when I awaited, T was exceedingly sunk in my spirits to find myself in the extremity
of famine. The last glass of wine we had I drank, and put sugar in it, because of its
having some spirit to supply nourishment , but there being nosnbstance in the stomach
for the digesting oflioe to work upon, I found the only eli'eot of the wine was to raise (lis-
ngmmble fumes from the stomach into the head; and I lay, as they told "H's 5WD" and
senseless, as one drunk, for some time. The third day, in the morning, after a. night
of strange, confused, and inconsistent dreams, and rather dozing than sleeping, I
awaited mveuoua and furious with hunger; and I question, had not my understanding
returned and conquered it, whether, if I had been a mother, and had had a. little child
with me, its life would hm'o boon safe or not. This lasted about three hours during
which time T was twice raging mad as any creature in Bedlam, as my youngmael'er told
me, and as he can now inform you.

" In one of those fits of lunacy or distraction I fell down and struck my face against
the corner of a pallet-bod, in which my mistress lay, and with the blow the blood gruhed
out of my nose ; and the cabin-boy bringing me a little basin, I sat down and bled into
it a, great deal ; and as the blood came from me, I come to myself, and the violence of
the flame or fever I was in abated, and so did the ravenous part of the hunger. Then
I grew sick, and retchcd to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my stomach to
bring up. ,

" After 1 had bled some time I swoonorl, and they all believed I was dead;
but I come to myself soon after, and then had a. most dreadful pain in my stomach not
to he describod~not like the colic, hutngnnwing, eager pain for food ; and towards night
it went off with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food, something like, as I suppose,
the longing of a. woman with child. I took another draught of water with sugdu' in it ;
but my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again 5 then I took a drought
of water without sugar, and that stayed with me ; and I laid me down upon the bed,
praying most heartily that; it. would please God to take me away; and composing my
mind in hopes ofit I slumbered awhile, and than waking, thought myselfdying, being light

:0 305 '
with vapours from an empty stomach. I recommended my soul then to God, and
earnestly wished that somebody would throw me into the sea.

"All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expiring, but bore it with
much more patience than I,---gave the last bit of bread she had left to her child, my young
master, who would not have taken it, hutshe obliged him to eat it 5 and I beliei'c it saved
his life.

"Towards the morning I slept again ; and when Iuwoke I fell into a violent passion
of crying, and after that had a second {it of violent hunger. I got up ravenous, and in
a, most dreadful condition 5 had my mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, 1 am
certain I should have coten n piccecl' hcr (huh with as much relish andos unconcerned as
ever 1 did eat the fleeh oinny creature appointed for food; and once or twice I was
going to bite my own arm. At last I saw the basin in which was the blood I had bled
at my nose the day before : 1 ran to it, endswnllowed it with such haste, and such a
greedy appetite, us if I wondered that nobody had taken it before, and afraid it should
be taken from me now. After it was down, though the thoughts of it filled me with
horror, yet it checked tho fit of hunger, and I took another draught of water, and was
composed and refreshed for some houm after. This was the fourth day; and thus I kept.
up till towards night, when, within the compam of three hours, I had all the seaward
circumst'ancw over agni n one other another, viz, sick. sleepy,cngcrly hungry, pnin in the
stomach, than ravenous again, then sick, then lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again,
and so every quarter of an hour, and my strength wasted exceedingly ; at night I lay mo
down, having no comfort but in the hope that I should die before morning.

" All this night. I had no sleep ; but the hunger was now turned into adisceoe; and I
had a terrible colic and griying, by Wind, inatead of food, having found its way into the
hmvcls ; and in this; condition 1 lay till morning, when I we: surprised by the cries and
lamentations of my young master, who called out to me that his mother was dead,
I lifted myself up a little, for I lmxi not strength to rise, but found ehe was not dead,
though she was able to give very little signs of life.

" I had then such conmlsions in my stomach, for want ofsomc sustenance, as I cannot
describe 5 with such frequent throes and pangs of appetite, no nothing but the tortures
of death can iinlmtc; and in this condition I was when I heard the seamen above or}r
out, 'A null .' a nail !' nnd hulloo and jump aboutas il' they were distracted.

"I was not able to get oli' from the bed, and my mistress much less ; nnd my young
master was so sick that I thought he had been expiring ; no we could not open the cabin
door, or get any account what it was that occasioned such confusion ; nor had we had any
conversation with the ship's company for two days, they honing told us that they had
not a mmithfnl ol'anything to eat in the ship; and this they told us allerwurdrg--they
thought we had been dead. It was this dreadful condition we were in when you were
sent to save our lives: ,~ and hour you found "In sir, you know as well as I, and better
too."

This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of starving to death as, I
confess, I never met with, and was exceeding entertnining to me. I sun the rather apt
to believe it in he a. one account, because Lhc youth gave me on account- of n. good part
of it ; though i must own, not so distinct and so feeling as the maid ; and the mther,
because it seems. his mother fed him at the price of her own life: but the poor maid,
though her constitution being stronger than that of her mistress, who was in years, and
a weakly woman too, she might struggle harder with it ; I my, the poor maid might be
supposed to feel the extremity something sooner than her mistrws, who might be allowed

306
 

_..._..,--._.'_--_.----------------------"

to keep the last hit; something longer than she parted with any to relieve the maid. No
quart-ion, as the case is here related, if our ship, or some other, had. not so providentially
met them, a. few days more would have ended all their liver, unless they had prevented
io by eaiiug one another ; and that even, M their case atood, would have served them
hut a little while, they being five hundred leagues from any land, or any possibility of
relief, other than in the miraculous manner it happened: but, this is by the way I
return to my disposition of thing; among the people.

And, first, it is to be observed here, that for many reasons I (lid not think fit to lei:
thorn lumw anything of the sloop T had framed, and which I thoght of setting up among
them ; for I found, at, least at my first coming, such seeds of division among them, that
i. saw plainly, had I sol; up the sloop, and left it among them, they would, upon every
light disgust, have separated, and gone away from one another ; or perhaps have turned
photos, and so made the ishtnd a. den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober and
religious people, an I intended it 5 nor did 1' leave the two pieces of brass moon that I
had on hoard, or the two quail-hemlock guns that my nephew book extraordinary, for
the same reason : I thought it was enough to qualify them for a defensive wax agaian
any that should invade them, but not to not them up for an offensive wnr, or to go abroad
to attack others ; which, in the end, would only bring ruin and destruction upon them :
I reserved the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service another way, as I shall
observe in its place.

Having now done with the island, 1 left them all in good circumstances, and in n.
flourishing condition, and went on hoard my ship again on the 6:11 of May, having been
about twenty-five days among them ; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the
island till I come to remove them, I promised bosend them further relief from the Bmziis,
if I could poseihly find an opportunity; and particularly I promised to send them some ,
cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and c0ws. As to she two cows and calves which I brought
from England, we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for
went of hay to feed them.

The next clay, giving them a. salute of five guns of. putting, we subsoil, and arrived
at the boy of All Saints in the Brazils in about twenty-two days, meeting nothing
remarkable in our passage but this: that. about three days after we had soiled, being
becolmed, and the current setting strong to the E.I\'.E., running, as it were, into a boy,
or gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of our course, and once or twice
our men cried out, " Land to the eastward l" but whether it was the continent or islands
We could not fell by any means. But the third day, towards evening, the res. smooth,
and the weather calm, we saw the sec," it were, covered towards the land with something
very block 5 not being able to discover what it. me, till after some time, our chief mate,
going up the mahrshrouds o. littleway, and looking at; them with, a perspective, cried out
it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an army, and thwarted him a.
little hastily. "Nay, sir," says he, "don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet. too ;
{OPT believe there are st thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle along, for they
are coming towards us apnce."

I was a. litole surprised then, indeed, 'and so was my nephew, the captain; for he had
heard such terrible stories of them in the island, and having never been in those seas
before, that he could not tellwhat to think of it, but said, t'wo or three times, we should
.ull he (levouued. I must confess, considering we were hccolmed, and the current set strong
mWa-rdx the shore, I liked it the worse ; however, I bade them not be afraid, but bring
the ship to an anchor as soon as 'we came so near an to know that wc must engage them.

. 307
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FARER ELL 2'0 TILE ISLAND.

The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards us ; so I gave orders
to come to an anchor and furl all our sails. As for the mvsgms T told them "my had
nothing to fear but fire, and therefore they should-get their boats out, and Gaston them}
one close by the. head, and tho: other by the stern, and mail! them both well, and wait the
issue in that pasture; this T did: that tho men in the boats might) be ready with
sheets and buckets to put out any fire (hmc savages might endeavour to fix in the
outside of the ship. '

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came up with 113;.
but never was such horrid sight seen by Christians: though my mate was much.
-inismken in his calculabinn <<if their number, yet when they came up we reckoned about
a hundred and twenty-six ; some of them had aixt'cen or seventeen men in them, and
some more, and the leuat six or seven,

\Vhen they came nearer to us, they aeemul to he struck with wonder and
astonishment, as at a. sight. which douhflm they had never seen hefiwc; nor could
they at first, as we afterwnrds understood, know what to make of us 5 they came
boldly up, however, very near to us, and seemed. to go about to row round as ; but
we called to (rm-men in the hunts. nut r'A) let them come too near them. This very
order brought us to an engagement. with them, withmxt our designing it. ,' for five or
six of the large canoes (:8.an so near our lcng-hont, that our men beckoned with
their hands to keep them back, which they understood very well, and went; bank;
but, 32'; their retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and one
of our men in the longvlmut was very much wounded. However, I called to them
not to fire by any means ; but we handed down some final beams into the bong

308 Ii-- 1.314? or axons.
 

and the carpenter presently set up in kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them.
from thonrrows of the savages, if they should shoot again.

About. half an hour afterward>> they all came up in a. body 05me of us, and go near
that we could easily diagram what they were, though we could not tell their daign ; and
I easily found they wore some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been
"nod to engage with ; and in'o, short time more they rowed a little furl-heron!) to son, till'
they came directly broadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon us, till they
name so near that. they could hear us spank 5 upon this T ordered all my men to lump-
olosc, lest they should shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns ready ; but being
:50 near as to be Within lit-Ming, 1 made Friday go out upon the dock, and call out aloud
to them in his language, to know what they meant; which accordingly he did. Whether
they understood him or not, that I knew not; ; but as soon as he had called to them, six
of them, who were in the foremost or highest boat to us, turned their canoes from us,
and stoopiug down, showed us their naked hooks ; whether this was s. dnfianeo or chal-
lenge we knew not, or whether it. was done in mere contempt>>, or as a Signal to the rest :
hm. immediahuly Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhuppily for him, poor
fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and, to my incaqirezuible grief,
killed poor Friday, no other man being in their sight The poor fellow was shot-with
no less than three mowa, and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky
marker-nun they were 2

-I was so emxged at the less of my old trusty servant and companion, that 1' home--
diately ordered five guns to be loaded with annual] shot, and four with great, and gave
them such a biwlsidc as they had never hen-rd in their lives before, to be sure. They
were not- shove half a. wlnlo's length ofi' when we firod; and our gunners book hheir aim
so well, that three or four of their canoes were ovemet, as we had reason to believe, by
one shot only.

The ill manners of turning up their bare backs to us gave X15 no great afi'cncc 5
neither did I know for certain whether that. which would puss for tho grmtest contempt
among us might be understood. so by them or not. ; therefore, in return, I had only
resolved ~10 halve fired four or five guns at them with powder only, which T knew would
frighten them sufiicienlly : but. when they shot; at us directly with all the fury they were
capable of, and especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved.
and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought. myself not only justifiable-
before God and man, hut would have been very glad if I could have oversee every canoe
there, and drowned every one of them. I

I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we wounded at this broadside,

t. sure ruck a fright. and hurry never were seen among such in multitude 5 there were-
thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split and oy'emet in all, and the men all set. mxwim-
ming : the-rest, frightened out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking
but littlecare w save thosewhose boats were split or spoiled with our shok ; no I suppose
that many of them were lost ; and our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his
life, above an hour after they were all gone.

The small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a grant many 5 but, in
short, we never know how it went, with them, for (hey find so fast than in three hours.
or thereuboulu, we could not see above three or four struggling canoes, not dill We ever
so>> the rest. any more ; for a breeze of wind springing up the same evening, we Weighed,
and set sail for the Brozils

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that. he would

310FAREWELL T0 FRIDAY.

neither eat nor npeak, and we all fancied ho would stsrre himself to death : but I took
:7. way to cure him ; for I made them take him and turn him into the long-bout, and
make him believe they would t'me him into the see again, and so have him where they
found him, if he would not speak : nor would that do, but they really did throw him
into the sea, and came away from him 5 and then he followed them, for he swam like a
cork, and called to them in his tongue, though they knew not one word of wlmt he said ;
however, at lest, they took him in again, and then he began to he more tractable: nor
did I ever design they should drown him.

We were now under sail again, but I was the most disconsolnte creature alire for
want of my man Friday, and would have been very glad to have gone back to the island,
to have taken one of the rent from thence for my occasion, but it could not be : no we
went on. \Ve had one prisoner, as. l have said, and it- was a long time before we could
make him undexntand anything; but, in time, our men taught him some English, and
he began to he 9. little timetable Afterwards, we inquired what countryho eume from,
but could make nothing of who: he said 3 for his speech was so odd, all guttumls, and he
spoke in the throat in such a hollow, odd manner, that we could never formaword afier
him ; end we were all of opinion that they might Speak that language as well if they
were gagged as otherwise ; nor could we perceive that they lnul any occasion either for
tooth, tongue, lips, or palate, but formed their wordsjust as u huntingdiom forms a tune
with an open throat. He told us, however, some time after, when we had taught him
to speak a. little English, that they were going with their kings to light a great battle.
W118" 110 said kings, We asked him how many kings. He said they were five nation (we
could not make him understand the plural s), and that they all joined to go against two
nation. We asked him what made them come up to no He said, " To nmkee to great
wonder look." Here it is to he observed, that all those natives, as also those of Africa,
when they learn English, always add two e'x at the end of the words where we use one;
and thexr place the accent upon them, as makec, tukeo, and the like nny, 1 could hardly
make F1 niay leave it off, though at last he did

And now I name the poor fellow once more, 1 must take my last leave of him.
Poor honest Friday ! We buried him with all the decency and solemuity pomible, by
putting him into a eofliu, and throwing him into the see ,: and 1 caused them to fine
eleven guns for him; and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and
most affectionate servant that over man had. .

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in about twelve days' fime we
made land, in the latitude of live degrees south of the line, being the north--easternmost
hind of all that part of America. we kept on S. by E., in sight of the shore Four days,
when we made Cape St. Anguastino, and in three days came to an anchor 011' the boy of
All Saints, the old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good and evil
Shin.

Never ship came to this pen that had lees business than I had, and yet it was with
. great dileulty that we were admitted to hold the leaet corraspmulemce on shore : not my
partner himself, who was alive, and made a great figure among them ; not my two mer-
chant--trustees ,- not the fame of my wonderful preservation in the island, could obtain me
that favour; but my partner, remembering that I had given five hundred moidores to
the Prior of the Monastery of the Augustines, and two hundred and seventytwo to the
Poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was to go to the governor,
and get leevo for-vine personally, with the explain end mu: more, besides eight women, to
come on shore, and no more ; and thin upon condition, absolutely capitulated for, that

3nwe should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away with-
out licence. They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods, that it was with
extreme difficulty that I got on shore three bales of English goods, such as fine broad-
clotha, atufi's, and some linen, which J. had brought for a present to my partner.

He was a very generous, open--hearted man ; though, like me, he began with little
at first; ; and though ho know not that, I had the least design of giving him anything, he
sent me on board a. present of fresh provisions, wine, and swoetmcots, worth above thirty
moidores including some Enhmzu, and three or four fine medals of gold: but I was even
with him in my present, which, as I have said, consisted of fine broadcloth, English stuffs,
lace, and fine Hollands ; also, T delivered him almut the value of one hundred pounds
sterling, in the same goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set up (he sloop, which
T had brought 'with me from Englmul, as I have. said, for the use of my colony, in order
to send the refreshments I intended to my plantation.

Awn'dingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a. very few days, for she was
already framed; and I gave the master of her such instructions that he oould not miss
the plain); nor did he, as I had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him soon
loaded with the fimall cargo-I sent them ; and one of our seamen, that had been on shore
with me them, offered to go with the sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the gover-
norSpaninrd, i7.) allot him a sufliciont quantity of land for a. plantation, and giving him
some clothes and tools for his planting work, which he said he understood, having been
an old planter at Maryland, and a. buocnneer into the bargain. I encouraged the follow
by gmnfing all he desired; and, as an addition, I gave him the savage whom we had
taken prisoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered the governor Spaniard to give him
his share of everything he wanted with the rest.

When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me there was a. certain very
honest follow, a Brazil planter of his aequaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure
of the church "I know not what the matter is with him," says he, " but, on my
conscience, I think he is a heretic in his heart, and he has been obliged to conceal him-
self for fear of the Inquisition 3 " that he would ho very glad of such an opportunity to
make his eseape, with his wife and two daughters; and if I would let them go to my
island, and allot them a. plantation, he would give them a, small stock to begin with----
for the officers of the Inquisition had seized all his effects and estate, and he had
nothing loll. but a little household stuff, and two slaves. " And," adds he, " though I hate
his principles, yet I would not have him fall into their hands, for he will he assuredly
burned alive if he does."

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with them ; and we concealed
the man, and his wife and daughters, on board our ship, till the sloop put out to go to
sea. 3 and then, having put all their goods on board some time before, we put them on
board the sloop after she was got out of the bay.

Our savanna was mightily pleased with this; new partner; and their stocks, indeed,
were much alike, rich in tools, in preparations, and a farm,--but nothing to begin with,
except as above: however, they carried over with them what was worth all the rest,
some materials for planting sugar-canes, with some plants of canes, which ho--I moon
the Portugal man--understood very well.

Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the island, I sent them by the
sloop three milch cows and five calves, about twenty-two hogs among them, three sows
big with pig, two mares, andastono--horse. For my Spaniards, according to my promise,
I engaged three Portugal women to go, and recommended it to them to marry them

312rm; Ri'mu. ml nuns).
 

 

and use them kindly. I could have procured more women, but I remembered that the
Wor prosecuted man had two daughters, and that there were hut live of the Spaniards
lhat wanted--the rest. had wives of their own, though in another coruxtry.

All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, was very welcome to my
old inhabitants, who were new, with this addition, between sixty and seventy people, besides
little children, of which there were a grant. many. l fouml letters no London from them
all, by way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, of which I shall also take some-
notice immediately.

I have now done with the island, and all manner of discourse about it- : and whoever-
rands the rest of my memoramlnnm would do well to from his thoughts entirely from it,
and expect to read of the follies of an old man, not warned by his; own harms, much lam
by these of other men, to beware ; not cooled by almost forty years' miseries and dis-
appointments; not satisfied. with prosperity beyond eximemtion, nor made cautiOus h)"
afflictions and distress beyond imitation.

I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a man at full liberty has to go
to the turnkey at Ncwgatc and desire him to lock him up among the prisoners there, and
starve him. Until I taken in. small vessel from England, and gone directly {.0 the island ;
had I loaded her, as I did the other vow-ll, with all the necessarim for the plmitation, and
for my people ; taken a patent from the Government here to have secured my property
in "Ideal-ion only to that of England ; haul I carried over cannon and ammunition,
servants and people to plant, and taken poescmion of the place, fortified and strengthened
it in the name of England, and increased it with people, as I might easily have done ;,
had I then settled myself there, and sent the ship heel: laden with good rice, as I might '
also have done in eix months' time, and ordered my friends to have fitted her out agtin
for our supply,----hnxl I done thin, mnl stayed there myself, I had at least acted like A
man of common sense : but I was poeswsed ofawnndering spirit, and seemed all advan-
tages : I pleased nxysell'with being the patron of the people 1 placed there, and doing for
them in a. kind of haughty, majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch, providing for
them as if 1 had been father of the whole family, as well as of the plantation : butlnever-
so much so pretended to plant in the name of any government or nation, or to acknow-
ledge any prince, or to call my people suhjeole to any one nation more than another : nay,
I never so much 3: gave the place a name, but, left it asI found it, belonging to nobody,
ancl the people under no dieeipline or government but my own ; who, though I had ill--
fluence over them as a father and benefactor, had no authority or power to not or com.
mand one way or other, familiar than voluntary consent moved them to comply; yet.
even this, had I stayed there, would have done well enough : but as I rambled from them
and came there no more, the last letters I had from any of them were by my partner's.
means, who afterwards sent. another sloop to the place, and who uent me word, Vliougll I
haul not the letter till I got. to London, several years after it was written, that they went-
on but poorly ; were discontent with their long stay there ; that W'ill Atkins was dead ,'
that five of the Spnnir , dis were come away ; and though they had not been much-molested
by the savages, yet they had had some skirmishes with them ; and that they bogged of
him to write to me to think of the promise I haul made to fetch them away, that, they
might see their country again before they died. I

But I was gone a. wildgoose chase indeed l and they that will have any more of we
must be content to follow meintoa new variety of felling, hm'dxliips, and wild Mlventums,
wherein the juetice of Providence may bezdnly observed; and we may see how easily
Heaven can gorge us with our own desires. make the strongest of our wishes be on!"

3'4VOYAGE TO THE EAST INI'HES.

nfilicla'on, and punish us most severely with those very things which we think it would be
our utmost happiness to he allowed in. W'hether T hail business or no business, away 1
went : it is no time now to enlarge upon the unison or absurdity of my own conduct
but to come to the history--1 was embarked for the voyige, and the voyage I went.

I shall only add a. word or two concerning my honest Popish clergyman ; for let-
tlmir opinions of mg and all other hemlien in general, as they call 11.5, be as unulmrilnhle
as it may, I verily believe this man was very sincere, and wished the good of all men ;
yet T hvliove he wan) upon the mam-re in many of his expressions, to prevent giving
me offence 5 for l scarce. heard him once call on the Blessed Virgin, or mention St. Jngo,
or his guardian angel, though so common with the rest of hham ; however, I say, I had
not. the low. doubt of his sincerity and pious intentions ; and I am firmly of opinion,
if the rest of the Popish missionaries were like him, thcy would strive to visit even the
poor Tar-vols and Laplanders, where they have nothing to give them, as well as covet
to flock to India, Persia, Chins, Alli.) the most wealthy of the heathen countries 5 for if
they expected to bring no gains to their church by it, it may well be admired how
they came to admit the Chinese Confucius into the calendar of the Christian saints.

A ship being ready to $le for Lisbon, my pious priest asked me leave to go thither 3
being still, as he observed, lmuml never to finish any voyage he began. How happy it
had been for me if 1 had gone with him ! But it was too late now : all things Heaven
appoints for the best: had T gone with him, I haul never had so many things to be Lhnnld'ul
for, and the reader had never heard of the second part of the travels and adventures of
Robinson Crusoe 5 so I must here leave exclaiming at myself, and go on with my
voyage. From the Bmzils, we made directly over tho Atlantic Seato the Capo of Good
Hope, and had a tolembly good voyage, our couiso generally south-east, now and then a
storm, and some contrary \vimls: but my disasters at. sea. were at an end--my future
rubs and cross events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land was as
well prepared to be our scourge ax ihe em.

Our ship was on a trailing voyage, and had a snpercargo on board, who W3 to
direct nil her motions otter she m-rirecl at the Cape, only being limited to a certain
number of days for stay, by charterparty, at the several port's she was to go to. This
was none ofmy business, neither (lid I meddle with it 3 my nephew, the captain, and
(he superca rgo, adjusting all those things between them as they thought fit.

We slayetl at tho Cope no longer than was needful to take in fresh water, hut made
the lust of our way for the coast of Commando}. "'9 were, indeed, informed thai. a.
French man'of-vmr, of fifty guns, and two large merchant ships, were gone for the
Indies ; and as I knew we were al. war with France, I had some apprehensions of them ;
but they went their own way, and we heard no more of them.

I shall not pester the reader with z. tedious description of places, journals of our
voyage>>, variations of the conqxuss, lxiitmlesg trade-winds, (lac. ; it- is enough to name
the ports and places which we. touched M, and what. occurred to us upon our pnssnge
from one to another. We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where, though
the people are fierce end treacherous, and very well armed with Liners and bows,
which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile;
they treated us very civilly ; and for some trifles which we gave them, such as knives,
scissors he, they brought- us eleven good t'nt bullonks of n middling size, which we took
in, partly for frish provisions for our present spending, and the rest to salt for the
ship's use.

We were obliged to stay here some time alter we had furnished ourselves with

3 l5
 

 

7H2 CAPE OF GOOD HOPES.

provisions; and I, who was always Loo curious to look into every nook of the world
wherever I came, womb on shore as oflnm as 1 could. TI; wax on the east side of the
island that we went; on shore one evening; and the people, who, by the way'
are very numerous, came thronging about us, and stood gazing at us nt- 2. distance;
but as we had tmded freely with them, and had been kindly used, we thought ourselves
in no danger. When we saw the people, "'0 out. three boughs out of (1 tree, and
stuck them up at. a. distance from us ; which, it. seems, is a. mark in that country,
not only of n truce and friendship, but when it is accepted, the other side set up
three poles or boughg which is n signal that they accept the truce, too; bub then
this is a known condition of the truce, that you are not to pass heyond their three
poles towards them, nor they to come past, your three poles, or boughs, towards you;
so that you am perfectly secure within the three poles, and all the space between
your poles and theirs is allowed like a market for free converse, traffic, and commerce.
'When you go them you must not, carry your weapons with you: and if they come into
316CRUSOD ARK
that. space, they stick up their jawellnfl and James all at the flush poles and sumo
on unarmed; but if anyuriolence is ofl'cred them, and the truce thereby broken, away
they run to the poles, and lay hold of their weapons, and the truce is at an end.

It happened one evening, when we went on allure, that a. greater number of their
people came down than usual, but all very friendly and civil ,- and they brought- several
kinds of provisional, for which we untisfied them with such toys as we had ; the women
also brought us milk and room, and several things! very acceptable to us, and all was
quiet, and we made us a. little tent or hut of some houghs or trees, and lay on share all
night.

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satisfied to lie on shore
as the rest; and the bout riding at anchor at about a rumo'r cast from the land,
with two men in her to take care of her, I made one of them come on shore ; and
getting some lxmghs of trees to cover as also in the bout, T "proud the sail on the
Tbottom of the boat, and lay under the cover of the branches of the trees all night in
the bout.

About two o'clock in the morning, we heard one of- our men make a terrible noise
(in the shore, calling out for God's rake to bring the boat in, and come and help them,
for they were all like to be murdered; git the same time, I heard the fire of live
muskcts, which. was the number of gum; they lmtl, and that three times over; for, it
seems, the natives here were not so easily lightened with guns as the savages were in
America, where I had to do with them. All this while I knew not what was the
matter, but, rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused the bout to be
thrust in, and reached, with three fusees we had on board, to land and assist our men.

"'e got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in 600 much haste ; for lining
come to the shore, they plunged into the water, bogeb to the hunt with all the expedition
they could, being pursued by between three and four hundred men. Our men were
'but nine in all, and only live of them had fusees with them ; the root had pistols and
swordg indeed, but they were of small use-to them.

W's took up seven of our men, and with difiiculty enough too, three of them being
very ill wounded; uncl that. which was still worse was, that while we stood in the boat
to take our men in, we were in as much danger as they were in on share 5 for they
poured their arrows in upon us so thick that we were glad to barricade the side of the
Tlmnt up with the benches, and two or three loose lmnrtls, which, wom- great satisfaction,
'we had by mere accident in lthe boat. And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it
seems, such exact marksman, that if they could have seen but the least part of any of
us they would have been sure of us. We had, by the light of the moon. a. little sight.
of them, as they sumrl poking us from the shore with darts and :m'owu ; and having got
ready our fire-arms, we gave them a volley, that we could hour, by the cries of some of
them, had wounded reveal ; however, they stood thus in brittle army on the shore till
break of day, which we supposed was that. they might see the better to take their aim
at us.

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our anchor, or set. up our
sail, because we must needx stand up in the boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we
were to hit a bird in a. tree with small shot W'e made signals of distrees to the ailu'p,
and, though she rode a league off, yet. my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and
by glasses perceiving the posture we lay in, and that. we fired towards the shore, pretty
well understood us ; and weighing anchor with all apcnll, he stood as near the share as
he {trust with the Bhip, and then sent another boat, with ten hands in her, to assist us;
318THE ISLAND'OF MADAGASCAR.

 

hut we called to them not to come too near, telling them what condition we were in ;
however, they stood in near to us and one of the men taking the end of e. tow-lino in
his hand, and keeping one boat between him and. the enemy, so that they could not
perfectly see him, swam on board us, and mode fast the line to the boat 5 upon which
"we slipped out a, little cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of
reach of the arrows ; we all the while lying close behind the barricade we had made.

As soon as we were got- from between the ship and the share, that we could lay her
side to the shore, she ran along just by them, and poured in a broadside among them,
loaded with pieces of iron and lead, smell hulleLg and such atufi', besides the great shot,
which made 0. terrible havoc among them.

"rhcn we were got on board, and out of danger, we had time to examine into she
occasion of this fray , and, indeed, our supercargo, who haul been often in those parts,
put me upon it ; for he said he we>> sure the inhabitants would not have touched us
alter we had made a truce, if we had not (lone something to provoke them to it. At
length, it come out that an old woman, who had come to sell us some milk, had brought
it within our poles, and a young woman with her, who also brought some roots or
herbs ; and while the old women (whether she was mother to the young women or no
they could not tell) was aelling us the milk, one of our men oli'ered some rudeness to
the \VEDUll that was with her, at which the old woman ' made a. great noise: however,
the sennmn would not quit his prim, but carried her out of the old woman's sight
among the trees, it being almost dark ; the old woman went away without her, and, as
we may suppose, made an outcry among the people she came from j who, upon notice,
raised this grani- army upon us in three or four hearts, and it was great odds but. we had
all been destroyed.

One of our men was killed with n lance thrown at him just at the beginning 0!
(he nttan, as he sallied out of the tent they had made; the rest came oil free, all but
the fellow who was the occasion of all the iniisohief, who paid dear enough for his
black mistress, for we could not hear what became of him for a. great while. We lay
upon the shore two days after, though the wind presented, and made signals for
him, and made our host rail up shore and down shore seveml leagues, but in vain;
so we were obliged to give him over 3 and if he alone had sufi'ered for it, the loss
had been less.

1 could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on ashore once more7 to try if
I could learn nnything of him or them ; it was the third night after the notion that I
haul in great mind to learn, if I could by any means, what mischief we had done, and
how the game stood on the Indians' side. I was careful to do it in the dark, lest we
should be attacked again: but I ought, indeed, to have been sure that the men I went-
with had been under my command, before I engaged in a thing so hum-dons and
mischievous as I was brought into by it, without design.

\Vc took twenty :19 stout follows with us as any in the ship, besides the supercargo
.nncl myself, and We landed two hours before midnight, at the some place where the
Indians stood drawn up on the evening before I landed here, because my design, as I
have said, was chiefly to see if they had quinted the field, and if they had left. any marks
behind them of the mischief we had done them 3 and I thought, if we could surprise
one or two of- them, perhaps we m'ghtl get our man again by way of exchange.

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two bodies, whereof the
bontswain commanded one, and I the other. We neither snw not heard anybody stir
when we landed ; and we marched up, one body at a distance from the other, to the

$19
place 3 but at first could see nothing, it being very dark 3 till by (madny our boatswnin,
who led the first party, stumbled and fell over it dead body. This made them halt
(while 3 for knowing by the circumstances that they were at the place where the
Indians had stood, they wsi ted for my coming up there. ""0 concluded to halt till the
moon began to rise, which we know would he in his>> than an hour, when we could
easily discern the lisu'oc we had made among them. "'0 told thirty-two bodies upon
the ground, whereofnwo worn not. quite dead 3 game had an arm and some a leg idiot
ofl, and one his head -, those (hut were wounded, we supposed, they had curried away.

When we had made, su- T thought, a full discovery of all we could come to the
knowledge of, I resolved on going on board 3 but the hoatswain and his party sent me
word that they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs,
:6 they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with them 3 and if they could
find them, as they still funnh'd they should, they did not doubt of getting a good booty ;
and it might he they might find Tom Jefl'ry there; that was the man's name we
had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough what answer to have
givon them 3 for I should have commended them instantly on board, knowing it was
not a. humid fit for us to mm, who had a, .ship and ship-loading in our charge, and
a voyage to make which depended very much upon the lives of the men 3 but as
they sent me word they were resolved to go, and only asked me and my compsmy to go
along with them, I posit ely refused it, and more up, for I was sitting on the ground,
in order to go to the bout. One or two of tho men began to importune me to go ; and
when I refused, began to grumble, and say they were. not under my command, and they
would go. "Come, Jack," says one of the men, " will you go with me? I'll go for
one." Jnck said he would,--aud then nnother,--~aud, in a word, they all left me but
one, whom I persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the boat. So the supercurgo and I,
with the third man, went hack to the bout, where we told them we would stay for
them, and take care to take in as many of them as should he left 3 for I told them it
was a mud thing they were going about, and supposed most of them would have the
fate of Tom J cm-y.

They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would come ofl' again, and
they would take care, (lie. 3 so away they went. 1 entrcatod them to consider the ship
and the voyage, that their lives were not their own, and that they were entrusted with
the voyage, in some measure 3 thnl. if they miscarried, the ship might be lost for want-
of their help, and that they could no: answer for it to God or man, But I might as
well ha've talked to the mninmast ol' the ship 3 they were mad upon their journey:
only they gave me good words, and begged I would not he angry 3 that they did not.
doubt but they would be back again in about an hour at fax-than: ; for the Indian town,
they said, was nor; above half 9. mile 03', though they found it above two miles before-
they got to it.

"fall, they all went away, and though the attempt was desperate, and such as none
but madman. would have gone about, yet, to give them their due, they went about it as
wnrily as boldly; they were gallontly armed, for they had every man a fusee or musket,
a. bayonet, and a pistol 3 some of them had broad cutlusses, some of them had hangers,
and the boatswain and two more had poleaxes; besides all which, they had among them
thirteen hand guenadocs 3 holder fellows, and hatter provided, never went about any
wicked work in the world.

When they went out, their chief design was plunder, and they were in mighty

320THE SAILORS IN SEARCH OF PLUNDER.

 

 

 

 

BURNING THE VILLAGE.

hopes of finding go" there ,' but 9. circumstance which none of them ware awm-c m"
sci: them on fire' with revenge, and made dchIn of them all.

When they came to the few Indian houses which they thought had been
the town, which was not above half a. mile off, Lhuy were under a great dis-
appointment, for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses; and where
-- (he town was, or how big, may knew not. They consulted, therefore, what 1'0
do. and were game time before they could x-eaulre; {01' if they fell upon mesa,

21 321
they must cut all their throats ; and it was ten to one but some of them might escape,
it being in the night, though the moon was up ; and if one escaped, he would run and.
raiee all the town, so they should have a whole army upon them : again, on the other
hand, if they went away and left those untouched, for the people were all asleep, they
could not tell which way to look for the town : however, the lust was the best advice,
so they reeolved to leave them, and look for the town as well as they could. IThey want
011.94 little way, and found 9. cow tied to a. tree 3 this, they presently concluded, would.
be a. good guide to them ; for, they said, the cow certainly belonged to the town before
them, or the town behind them, and if they untied her, they should see which way she-
wcnt: if she went back, they had nothing to say to her 5 but if she went forward, they
would follow her: so they cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags, and the cow
went on before t-llem, directly to the town ; which, as they reported, consisted of above-
two hundred houses or huts, and in some of these they found sevenil families living
together.

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly uocul'e as sleep could make them: 9nd,.
first, they called another council, to consider what they had to do; and, in a word,
they resolved to divide themselves into three bodice, and so not three houses on fire in.
three palm; of the town ; and us the men came out, to seize them and bind them (if any
resisted, they need not ho asked what; to do then), and so to Search the rest of the
houses for plunder. But they resolved to march silently first through the town, and see-
whot dimensions it was of, and if they might venture upon it or no.

They did so, and desperately rmlvcd that they would venture upon them; but

' while they were animating one another to the work, three of them, who were'o. little-
before the rest, called out aloud to them, and told them that they had found Torn.
J efl'ry : they all ran up to the place, where they had found the poor fellow hanging up-
nnlzed by one arm, and his throat out There was an Indiun house just by the tree,
where they found sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indium; who had th
concerned in the fray with us before, and two or three of them woundml with On.
shot; and our men found they were awake, and talking one to another'in that house,
but knew not their number.

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, so. hofore, that they swore-
to one another they would he revenged, and that not an Indian that came into their-
hzmds should have any quarter; and to work they went immediately, and yet not. so
madly as might be expected from the rage and fury they were in. Their first care
was to get something that Would soon take fire ,' but, after a. little search, they found
that would be to no purpose ; for most of the housts were low, and thatched with flags
and rushes, of which the country is full ; so they presently made some wildfire, as we
call it, by wetting a little powder in the palm of their hands, and in a quarter of an
hour they set tho town on fire in four or live pieces, and particularly that house
where the Indians were not gone to bed.

As soon as the fire begun to blow, the poor frightened creatures begun to rush out
to save their lives, bur, met with their fate in the attempt ; and especially at the-
door, where they drove them back, the hontswuin himself killing one or two with his
poleaxe. The house bong large, and many in it, he (lid not care to go in, but onlled
for a hand grenade, and threw it among them, which at first frightened them,
but, when it burst, made such havoc among them that they cried out in a hideous.
manner. In short, most of the Indians who were in the open pm of the house were
killed or hurt with the grenade, except two or three more who pressed to the door.

322BURNING THE NATIVES' HOUSES.

 

which the boatswsiu and two more kept, with their bayonet: on tho muzzles of their
pieces, and dispatched all that came in their way ,- but there was another apartment in
the house, where the prince or king, or whatever he was, and several others, were ; and
these were kept in till the house, which was by this time all in a light flame,- fell
in upon them, and they were smothered together.

All this while they fired not a gun, because they would not woken the people-fistu-
than they could muster them ; but the the began to waken them funk enough, and om:
fellows were glad to keep a little together in bodies ; for the fire grew so raging, all. the
houses being made of light comlnmtible stuff, that they could hardly bear the street;
between them; and their business was to follow the fire, for the surer execution.
As 1313!; as the fire either i'oroixl the people out of those houses which were burning, or-
frightened them out of others, our people were ready at their doors to knock them
on the head, atill calling and hullooing one to another to remember Tom J effry.

While this was doing, I must confm I was very uneasy, and especially when I saw
the flames of the town, which, it being night, seemed to he'just by me. My nephew:-
the captain, who was roused by his men, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not
knowing whut the matter was, or what (longer I was in, especially hearing the guns too,
{or by this time they began to use their firearms ; n thousand thoughts oppres=e<PS
his mind concerning mo and the supmoargo, what. would become of us ,- soul at last,
though he could ill spare any more men, yet not knowing what exigence we might be
in, he takes another heal, and with thirteen men and himself comes ashore to me.

He was surprised to see me and the supemargo in the bout with no more than two
men ; and though he was glad that we were well, yet he was in the same impatience;
with us to know what was doing ; for the noise continued, and the flame inereued ; in
short, it. was next. to an impossibility for any men in the world to rcshnin their
curiosity to know what had happened, or their concern for the safety of the men : in in
word, the captain told me he would go and help his men, let what would come.
I argued with him, as 1 did before with the men, the safety of the ship, the danger of
the voyage, the intcieut of the owners and merchants, Joe, and told him I and the two
men W011" g0: and only see if we could at a distance learn what was likely to he the
event, and come back and tell him It was in vain-to talk to my nephew, as it was to
talk to the rest before; he would go, he said; and he only Wished he had left but;
ten men in the ship, l'm' he could not think of having his men lost for want of
help; he had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life, and all ; end away
he went. '

I was no more able to stay behind now then I was to persuade them not to go ;
so, in <<hart, the captain ordered two men to row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve
men more, leaving the long-boat at an anchor ;, and that, when they came back, six
men should keep the two hoahg and six more come after us ,- so that he left; only
sixteen men in the ship; for the whole ship's company consisted of sixty-five men,
whereof two were lost in the late quarrel which brought this mischief on.

Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of the ground we trod on;
and being guided by the fire, we k'ept no path, but went directly to the place of
the flame. If the noise of the guns was surprising .to us before, the cries of the
poor people were now quite of another nature, and filled us with honor. I must
confess I was never at (he sucking a city, or at the taking a town by storm. I
had heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing man, woman.
and child ; and 1 had reall'of Count Tilly sacking the city of Mugdebourg, and

323
cutting the throats of twenty~two thousand, of all sexes; but I never had an idea
of the thing ireelf' imfore, nor is it poesihlc to describe it, or the horror that was
upon our minds at hearing it. However, we went on, and at length came to the
town, though there was no entering the streets: of it for the fire. The first object we
met with was the ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the house was
consumed; and just before it, plainly now to be seen by the light of the fireglley four
men and three women killed, and, us we thought, one or two more lay in the
heap among the fire ; in short, there were such instances of rage, altogether barbarous,
and of a fury something beyond what was human, that we thought it impomible
our men could be guilty of it 5 or, if they were the authors of it, we thought they
ought to be every one of them put to the worst of deaths. But this was not all : we
saw the fire increased forward, and the cry went on just as the fire went, on; so that
we were in the utmost confusion. We advanced a little way flirther, and behold, to our
astonishment, three naked women, and crying in a most dreadful manner, came flying
as if they had wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the
some terror and consternatiOn, with three of our Englieh butchers in the rear, who,
when they could not overtake them, fired in among them, and one that was killed by
their shot fell down in our eight, When' the rest suw us, believing us to be their
enemies and that we would murder them as well as those that pursued them, they set
up a most dreadful shrielg especially the women; and two of them fell down, as
if already dead, with the fright.

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins, when I new
this; and l believe, hail the three English sailors that pursued them cmm'. on, 1 had
made our men kill them all; however, we took some means to lot the poor flying
creatures know that we would not hurt them ; and immediately they came up to us,
und kneeling down, with their hands lifiml up, made piteous lnmentation to us to saw
them, which we let them know we would ; whereupon they crept together in a. huddle
close behind us, as for protection. I left my men dmwn up together, and, charging
them to hurl; nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of our people, and see what devil
it was possmsed them, and what they intended to do, and to command them ofi' ;
assuring them that. if they stayed till daylight they would have a hundred thousand
men about their ears : I say I let! them, and wont among those flying people, taking
only two ofnur men with me; and there was, indeed, a piteous spectacle among them.
Some of them had their feet terribly humed with trampling and running through the
fire ; other>> their hands hurnod ,- one of the women had fallen down in tho fire, and
was very much burned before she could get out age-in ; and two or three of the men
had cute in their hacks and thighs, from our men puisuing ; and another was shot
through the body, and died while I was there.

I would rm have learned what the occasion of all this was; but I could not under:-
stand one word they said; though, by signs, I perceived some of them knew not what
was the occwsion themselves I was so terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous
attempt, that 1 could not stay there, but went back to my own men, and rmlved to go
into the middle of the town, through the fire, or whatever might be in the way, and put
on end to it, cost. what it. would ; accordingly, as I came hack to my men, I told them
my resolution, and. commanded them to follow me, when, at the very moment, ca'me
four of our men, with the boamwnin at their head, roving over heaps of bodies they had
killed, all covered with blood and duet, as if they wanted more people to massacre,
when our men halloood to them as loud as they couhl hulloo; and with much

3:>>:
 

 

ndo one of them made them hear, so that they knew who we were, and come up
to us.

As soon as the hoatswain saw us, he set: up u halloo like a shout of triumph, for
hating. as he thought, more help come 5 and, witlmur, waiting to hear me, " Captain,"
says he, " noble captain! I am glad you are eomo ; we have not half done yet.
Villnnons, hell.hound dogs! l'.' ll kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his
head : we have sworn to spare none of them ; we'll root out the very notion of them
from the earth." And thus he run on, out of breath, toe, with action, and would not
give us leave to speak a word.

Ab last, raising my voice, that. I might nilenco him a little, " Bnrbnrous dog ! " said
I, " what are you doing? I won't have one creature touched more, upon pain of
death : I charge you, upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you ore
a dead man this minute." " Why, sir," says he, "do you know what you do, or what
they have done? If you. want a reason for what we have done, come hither." And
with that he allowed me the poor fellow hanging, with his throat cut.

I 60an I was urged then myself, and at another time would have been forward
enough; but I thought they had carried their rage too for, and remembered Jacob's
words to his sons Simeon and Levi: " Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and
their wrath, for it was cruel." But 1 had now a. new task upon my hands ; for when
the men I carried with me saw the sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to
restrain them as J. shouid have had with the others; nay, my nephew himself full in
with them, and told me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for fear of the
men being overpowered; and as to the people, he thought: not one of them ought to
live ; for they land all glutted themselves with the murder of the poor man, and that
they ought to be used like min-dorms. Upon these words, away no eight of my men,
with the boatswnin and his crew, to complete their bloody work ; and I, seeing it quite
<<ml; of my power to reaLmin them, come away pensive and sad ; for I could not hear the
sight, much less the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretchcs that fell into their
hands.

I got nobody to come buck with me but the uupercsrgo and two men, and with
these walked back to the. bout, TL was a very great- piece of folly in me I oonfess, to
venture back as it were alone ; for as it began new to be almost. day, and the Mann had
run over the country, there stood about forty men tinned with lnnccs and hows, at the little
place where the twelve or thirteen houses stood, mentioned before ; but by accident I
missed the place, and come directly to the see-side ; and by the time I got to the see.-
side, it was broad day : immediately 1 took the pinnnce and went on board, and sent
her book to axial; the men in what might happen.

I observed, about the time that I came to the bout-side, that the fire was pretty Well
out, and the noise nhsxtml ; hnl. in about hnll' an hour after I got. on board, I heard a.
volley of our men's fire-arms, and saw a great smoke : this, as I understood afterwanls,
was our men falling upon the men who, as I said, stood at the few houses on Lhe way.
of whom they killed eixtccn or seventeen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not
meddle will] the women or childmn.

By the time the men go: to the shore again with the pinnaeo, our men began to
"DEWEY! they came dropping in, not. in two bodies as theywenh, but straggling here
and there in such a manner, that a small force of resolute men might have cut them all
oil: Bul; the dread of them was upon the whole country ; and the men were surprised,
and so frightened, that I believe a hundred of them would lmvo (led at the sight of but

335
 

five of our men ; nor in all this terrible action was there a. mo that made any consider-
able defiance ; they were so :uxrprised between the terror of the fire and the sudden. attack
of our men in the cloth, that they knew not which way to (-ul'n themselves ; for if they
fled one way. they were met by one party 3 if bat-l: again, hyenother: so that they Were
everywhere knocked down ; nor did any of our men receive the least hurt, except one
that sprained his foot, and another that hnd one of his hands burned-

I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and indeed with all the men, in
my mind, but with him in particular, as well for his acting so out of his duty as com-
mander of the ship, and having the clutrge of the voyage upon him, as in his prompting,
rather than cooling, the rage of his blind men, in so bloodyand cruel an enterprise. My
nephew answered me very respectfully, hnc told me that when he saw the body of the
moor somnan whom they had murdered in so cruel and barbarous a manner, he "his not
master of himself, neither could he govern his passion : he owned he should not
have done so, as he was commander ofthe ship ; but as he was a man, nndnaturo moved
<<him, he could not hear it. As for the rent of the men, they were not subject to me at
all, and they knew it well enough 5 so they took no notice of my dislike.

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it Our men differed in the
amount of the number they had killed ; but according to the best of their accounts, put
all together, they killed or destroyed about one hundred and fifty people--men, women,
and children, and lefi not a house standing in the town. As for the poor fellow Tom
Jefl'ry, as he we; quito dead (for his throat was so cut that his head was half oil), it would
<<lo him no service to bring him away; so they only took him down from the tree where
lie was hanging by one hand. I

However just our men thought this action, I was against them in it, and I always
after that time told them God would hlast the. voyage ; for T looked upon all the blood
they shed that night to be murder in them. For though it, is true that they had killml
"Tum J eil'ry, yet J cfi'ry was the aggressor, had broken the truce, and had. violated o young
woman ol'theirs, who come down to them innocently, and on the faith of the public
capitulntion.

The boatawain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on board. He said
it was true that we sommzd to break the truce, but really had not; and that the war was
begun the night before by the natives themselves, who had shot at us and killed one of
our men without any just provocation ; so that as. we were in o capacity to fight
them now, we might also he in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon them in on
extraordirmry manner; that though the poor man hail taken a little liberty with the
wenoh, he ought not to have been murdered, and that in such a vilhmous manner ; and
that they did nothing but what was just, and what the laws of God allowed to be done
do murderers;

One would think this should have been enough to have warned us against going on
shore mnongut headicns and barbarians; but it is impossible to make nmnlcind wise
but at their own expense ; and their experience seems to he olwxys of most use to them
when it in dearest bought.

We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence to the coast of Coro-
-mandel, only to touch at Surat ; but the chief of tho supercsrgo's design lay at the Boy
of Bengal ; where, if he missed his business outweml-hound, he was to go up to China,
.nnd return to the coast as he came home.

The first disaster that befell us was in the Gulf of Pelvic, where five of our men,
venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the gulf, were surrounded by the Aiahimms.

326A THREATENED MUTINY.

 

and either all killed or carried away into slavery ; the rest of the boat's crew were not
able to rescue them, and had but just time to get all their boat>> I began to npbrsid
them with the just retribution of Heaven in this case; but the hoaiswain very
warmly told me, he thought I went farther in my conoums than I could show any
warrant for in Scripture; and referred to Luke xiii. 4, where our Saviour intimates
that these men on whom the Tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the
Galileans: but that which put mo to silence in the case was, that not- one of these
five men who were now lost were of those who went. on shore in the mnsaacre of
Madagascar~so I always called it, though our men could not bent to hear the word
. mlwmmre with any pntiencc.

But my firequent preaching to them on this subject had worse consequencefl than
I expected; and the bootswain, who hail been the hood of the attempt, came up
boldly to me one time, and told me he found that I brought that ail'air cou--
timmlly upon the stage; that I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the
men very ill on that account, and himself in particular ; that as I was but 9. passenger,
.22.an lml no command in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were not obliged to
bear it ; that they did not know but I might have some ill design in my head. and
perhaps to call them'to an account for it when they came to England ; and that,
therefore, unless I would resolve to have done with in. and also not to concern myself

.ony further WiK-ll him, orany of his :Lfi'airs, he would leave the ship; for he did not
think it. safe to sail with me among them.

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him that I confessed
I had all along opposed the manners of Madagascar, and that I had, on all occasions,
spoken my mind freely about it, though not more upon him than any of the rest ; that
as to having no command in tho ship, that was true ; nor did 1 exercise any authority,
only tool: the liberty of speaking my mind in things which publicly concerned us all ;
and what concern Lhad in the voyage was none of his business 5 timid was a. considerable
owner in the ship. In that claim, I conceived I had a right to speak even further
than I had done, and would not be accountable to him or any one else, and ban
to bea little worm. with him. He made but little reply to me at that time, and I
thought the affair had been over. ""8 were at this time in the road at Bengal ; and
'heing willing to see the place, I went on shore with the supercsrgo, in the rhip's host,
to divert myself; and towards evening was; preparing to go on board, when one of the
men came to me, and told me he would not have me trouble myself to come down to
the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on heard any more. Any one my guess
what a. surprise I was in at so inwlent a message ; and I asked the man, who bade him
deliver that message to me. He told me the coxswnin. I said no more to the fellow.
but bade him let them know he lmd delivered his message, and that I had given him
no answer to it.

I immediately went and found out the supermrgo, and told him the story, adding,
what I presently foresaw, that there would be a muriny in the ship ; and eutrcnted
him to go immediately on board the ship in an Indian hour, and acquaint- the captain
of it. But 1 night have spared this intelligence, for before I had' spoken to him on
shore, the matter was effected on board. The hoatswain, the gunner, the carpenter,
and all the inferior ofiicers, as soon as T was gone off invthe host, came up, and desired
to speak with the captain; and there the boatswain, making u long luau-angle end
roweting all he had said to ma. told the captain in a few words, that as I was now gone
peaceably on shore, they were loth to use any violence with me, which, if T luul not

337'1"! :>>tL'T|.v\-CRUSOE LEFT AT BENGAL.

'. gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone. They
tlmml'um thought fit. to tell him, that as they shipped themselvee to mn'vn in the shiy
under his command, they would perform it well and faithfully 3 but if I would not quit
the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit. it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no
farther with him; and et that word aft, he turned his face towards the mninmase,
which was, it seems, the signal (igrccd on between them, at which, the seamen, being
got together there, cried out, " One and all .r' one mad all I "

My nephew. the captain, was a man of xpirit and of great presence of' mind ;
and though he was surpriaerl, you may he sum, at the thing, yet he told them
calmly that he would consider of the matter; but- that he could do nothing in
it. till he had spoken to me about it He used some arguments with them, to
Show them the unreasonableness and. injustice of the thing ; but it was all in vain ',
they swore, and shook hands round before his face, that they would all go on ehore,
unless he would engage to them not Ln sull'ur mo Lo comn any more on board the ship.

This was a. hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me, and did not-
lmow how I might take it 5 so he began to talk smm'Lly to them; told them that I
was a very consideru-ble owner of the ship, and that, injustice, he could not put me
out of my own house; that this was next door to serving me as the famous pirate
Kidd had done, who made a mutiny in the ship, set the captain on shore on an
uninhabited island, and ran away with the ship ; that; let them go into whzst ship they
would, if ever they came to England gain, it would c081; them very dear ; that the
ship was mine, and Lion; he could not put me out. of it; and that he would miller
lose the ship, and the voyage (00, than dieoblige me so much ; so they might do as
they pleased. - However, he would go on shore and talk with me, and invited the
inauswain to go with him, and perhaps they might accommodate the matter with me.
But they all rejected the proposal, and said they would have nothing to do with me
any more; and if I came on board, they would all go ashore. "\Vall," said the
captain, "if you are all. of this mind, let me go on shore and tall: with him." So
mm)- he mum to me with this account, n little after the manage had hecn brought.
to me from the coxswain.

I was very glad to sec my nephew, 1 must confess; for 1 was not without-
apprehonsions that they would confine him by violence, set sail, and run away with
the ship ; and then I haul been stripped naked in 9. remote country, having nothing
to help myself ; in short, I had been in a. worse case than when I was alone in the-
ixlaml. But they had not come to that length, ii. seems to my satisfaction; and
when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and how thcyhnd sworn and
shook hands, that they would, mm and ail, leavc the ship, if I was suif'erecl to come on.
board, I told him he should no: be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore. I
only desimd he would take care and send me all my necessary thi%s on shore, and
leave me a sullicient sum of money, and I would find my way to England as wall as I
could.

This rm: a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no way to help it
but to comply ; so. in short, he \vonL on hinml the ship again, and satisfied the men that
his uncle had yielded to their importunity, and had sent for his goods from on board :'
the ship ; so that the matter was over in a few hours, the men returned to their duty, .-
nncl I began to consider what course I should steer.

.l was now alum in the most remote part of 1.le wmld, as I think I may call it, for
I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther ofi' from England than I was at. my

329
 

island ; only, it. is true, I might travel here by land over the Great. Mogul's country to
Surat, might go from thence to Bassom by sea, up the Gulf <<)l'Pexni:c and take the way
-of the caravans, over the desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Sounder-con: from (hence
by sea again to Italy, and so overland into France ; and this put together, might at '
least be a full diameter of the globe or more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait; for some English ships, which were
coming to Bengal from Achin, on the Island of Smnnua, and get passage on heard them
for England. But. as 'I came hither without any concern with the East India. Company,
so it would be difiienlt to go from hence without their licence, unless with great
favour of the captains of the ships, or the company's factors; and to both I was an
'utter stranger.

Here I had the mortilicntion lo see the. ship set sail without me 5 a treatment I-
think a man in my circumstances scarcely ever met with, except from pirates running
away with a ship, and setting those that would not>> agree with their villauy on shore,
indeed, this was next door to it both ways; however, my nephew left me two servants,
<<or rather, one companion and one servant 5 the first was clerk to the parser, whom he
engaged to go with me, and the other was his own servant. I took me also a good
lodging in the house of on Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged, some
French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one Englishman. Here I won handsomely
enough entertained 3 and that I might not be said to run rnshly upon anything, I
'stayed hero above nine months, considering what course to take, and how to manage
myself. I hnd some English goods with me of value, and a considerable sum of
money 5 my nephew furnishing me with 9. thousand piccos-of--eight,and a letter of
credit for more, if T had occasion, that I might not be straitened, wlmtevcr might
happen.

I quickly disposed of my goods to admnt'agegnnd, as I originally intended, I
bought here some very good diamonds, which, of all other thin gs, were the most propul'
for me in nay-present circumstances, because T, could always can-ymy whole estate
about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to England, but
'none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who lodged with mo, and whom I
had contracted an intimate acquaintance with, came to me one morning 1 "Country-
man," says he, " I have a project to communicate to you, which, as it suits'with my
thoughts, may, for ought I know, suit with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly
considered it Here we are posted, you by accident), and I by my own choice, in a part
(if the world. very remote from our own country ; but it is in a country where, by us,
who undmslmul'tnule and business, A great deal of mmmy is to he got. If you will
put one thousand'pnuuds to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first
we can get to our minds ; you shall be csptain, I'll be merchant, and we'll go a trading
voyage to China ; for what. should we stand still for? The whole world is in motion,
rolling round and round; all the creu hire" of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, are busy
and diligent; why should we be idle? There are no drones in the world but men : why
should we be of that number l"

I liked this proposal very well ; and the more so because it seemed to he expressed
with so much goodwill, and in so friendly a. manner. I will not my but that I might,
:'uy my loose, unhinged circumstances, be the litter to embrace A proposal for trade, or
indeed, anything else,- othm-wise, trade was none of my clement. However, I might.
aperlmps ray with some truth, that if trade was not my element, rambling was ; and no

33degA NEW VOYAGE. '

proposal for seeing any part of the world which I haul never seen before could possibly
come amiss to me.

It was, however, some time before we could gel- a ship to our minds, and when we
Lhad got a veSSCI, it was not- easy (0 get English sailors ; that is to say, so many as were
necessary io govern the voyage and manage the sailors which we should pick up
there. Alter some time we got a mu, 3. boallswsin, and a gunner, English 3 a Dutch
carpenter, and three foremost man. With these we found we could do well enough,
having Indian seamen, such as they were, to make up

There are so many t-mvellens who have wriumi a history of their voyages and
travels this my, that it would he very little diversion to anybody to given. long account
of the places we wool; to, and Um. [maple who inhabit there ; then things I. leave to
others, and refer the reader to those journals and travels of Englishmen, of which
many 1 find are published, and more promised every day ; it is enough for me in tell
you that we made this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from thence to
Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium and some arrack 5 the first a
commodity which bears a. great mice among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was
much wanted there. In a. word, we went up to Sunken, made a very great voyage,
were eight months out, and returned to Bengal ; and I was very well mtisficd with my
adventure. I observe that our people in England often admire how officers, which the
Company send into India, and the merchants which genexnlly stay there, get such very
great estate: as they do, and sometimes come home worth sixty or seventy thonswd
pounds at a time 3 but it is no wonder, or at least we shall see so much farther into it,
when we consider the innumerable ports and places where they have n free commerce.
that it will be none F and much less is will he so when we consider that at those places
and ports whom the, English ships come, there is such great and constant demands for
the growth of all other countries}, that, there is a certain vent for the returns, as well as
a market abroad for the goods carried out. .

In short, we>> made a very good voyage, and I got so much money by my first
.adrenmm,nnd such'nn insight inln the method ofgetting more, that'- had I been twenty
years younger, I should have been tempted to have stayed here, and sought no further
for making any fortune ; but what was all this to a man upwmuls of Lhrmscore, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a. restless desire of seeing the
world than a comma desire of gaining by it? And, indeed, I think it is with-great
justice I now call it restleisx desire, for it. was so. When I. was at home, I was restless
t-z) go abroad 5 and when l was abroad, 1 was rabies to be at houm. I my, what was
this gain to me? I was rich enough ah'emly, nor had 1 any uneasy desires about
gutting more money ; and therefore tho profit, of the voyage to me. was of no great force
for the prompting me forward in farther undertakings: hence, I thought that by this
voyage. T lmd made no program at all, because I was (mine back, as 1 night hell it, to
the. place from whence 1 came, as to a home : whereas my eye, like that which Solomon
speaks of; was never satisfied with seeing. I was come into 0. part of the world which
I was never in before, and that. pnrt, in particular, which I had heard much of, and was
l'owlved to see as much of it as I could : and then I thought. T might say I had seen all
the world that was worth seeing.

But' my fellow-timeller and I had different. notions: I do not name this to insist on
my own, for I acknowledge his were the mostjusL and the more suited to the end of a
.inerchant's life : who, when he is shroud upon adventures, is wise to stick to that, as
the best thing for him, which he is likely to get the most'money by. My new friend

33l
 

kept himself to the nature of the thing, and would have been content Lo have gone like
a carrier's home, always to bl": same inn, backward and forward, provided he could, as
he called it, find his account in it. On the other hand, mine was the motion of a mud,
rumbling boy, that never cares to see a thing twice over. But this was nol. all : I had
a kind of impatience upon me to be nem'er home, and yet the most unsettled resolution
imaginable which way to go. In the interval of these consultation my friend, who '
was always upon the search for business, proposed another voyage to me among the
Spice lesmds, and to hring home a loading of cloves from the Mnnillns, or tlnn'enbonls ;
places, indeed, where the Dutch mule, but islands belonging partly to the Spaniards ;
though we went not so far, but to some other, where they have not the whole power, as
they have at Batovin, Ceylon, &c.

"he were not long in preparing for this Voyage ; the chief difficulty was in bringing
me to come into it; however, at last, nothing else offering. and finding that really
stirring about and trading, the profit being so great, end, as I may say, certain, had
more pleasure in it, and hell more satisfaction to my mind, than sitting still, which, to
me especially, was (he unhappieat part of lifgI resolved on this voyage too, which
we made very successfully, touching at- Bornoo, and several islands whose names I do
not remember, and came home in about five months. We sold our spice, which was
chiefly cloves and nubmcgs to the Fenian merchants, who curried them away to the
guif ; and making near five of one, we really got a great deal or money.

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me: " Well, now," said he, with
a. sort of agreeable insult upon my indolent temper, "is not this better than walking
about here, like n. man with nothing to do, and spending our time in storing at the
nonsense and ignorance of the pagans l " " \Vhy, truly," snys I, "my friend, I think it
is, and I begin to hen convert to the principles of merchandising ; but I must tell you,"
said I, "by the way, you do not know what I am doing; for if I once conquer my
buckwordnean, and embark heartily, as old as I am, 1 shall harass you up and down the
world till I tire you ,- for I shall pursue it so eagerly I shall never let you lie still."

But, to be short with my speculations, s. litelc while after this there came in a, Dutch
ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not rm European trader, of about two hundred
ton>> burden 3 the men, as they pretended, having been so sickly that the captain had.
not hands enough to go to sea with, he lay by all: Bengal ; and having, it seem, got
money enough, or lmlllg willing, for other reasons, to go for Europe, he gave public
notice he would sell his ship. This came to my ears before my new partner heard of
it, and T hurl a great mind to buy it; so I went to him and I told him of it. He
considered awhile, for he was no rush man neither ; but musing some time, he replied,
" She is a little too big ; buf, however, we will have her." Accordingly, we bought the
ahip; and agreeing with the master, we paid for her, and took posscition. When we
had done so, we resolved to engage the men, if we could, to join with those we had, fur
the pursuing our business ; but, on a sudden, they having received not their wages, but
their share of the money, as we afterwards learned, not one of them wuss to be found ;
we inquired much about them, and at length were told that they were all gone together
by lxmd to Agni, the great city of the Mogul's residence, and from thence to travel to
Smut, and go by the 3951,14) the Gulf of Persia.

Nothing had so much troubled me a. good while, as that I should miss. the oppor--
tunity of going with them ; for such a. rumble I thought, and in such company as would
both have guarded and diver-bed me, would have suivell mightily wit-h my great design ;
and 1 should have both seen the world, and gone homeward too: but 1 was much

,33:CRUSOE BUYS A DUTCH VESSEL.

 

 

 

 

SAZIANG THROUGH THE STRAP! 01' MALACCA.

better Eatisfied a few days after, when I came ('0 know what sort of fellows they were ;
for, in short, their history was, that this man they called captain was the gunner only,
not the commander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which they had been
attacked on show by some of the Malays who had killed the captain and three of his
men 5 and chat, after the captain was killed, these men, eleven in number, had resolved
to run away with the ship, which they did, and brought. her to Bengal, leaving the
mate and five men more on shore.

Well, let them gal; the ship how they would, we came honestly by her, as we
r-lxoughc', though we did not, I confess, examine into things so exactly as we ought;
for we never inquired anyLlling of the seamen, who would certainly )mvo faleered
in their account, contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted chemlves;

133
somehow or other we aliould have had. reason to have suspected them; but the mun
showed us a. hill of snlc for the ship, to (me Flinnnnel Clostershoven, or some such, name,
for I suppose it was all a fm'gery, and called himself by that name, and 'we could not
cunt-i'adict- him ; and witlml, having no suspicion of the thing, we went through with
mu~ bargain.

W'e picked npflome more English sailors here after this, and some Dutch ; and now we
\'sxolved on a second voyage to the southeast for cloves, rho. ; that is to say. among the
Philippine and Molucca isles ; uud, in short. not to fill up this part 0!" my swry with
allies, when whim; is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first, to last, six years in.
this country, trading from port h) port, bmckmird and forward, and with very good
succesq, and was now the last year with my new purifier, going in the ship above men-
tioned, on a voyage to China, but designing first to go to Sinm, to buy rice.

In this voyage, lining by contrary Winds obliged to beat up and down a great) while
in the Straits of Malacca, and among the islands; we were no sooner got clear of those
difficult lit->55, than we found Our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all:
our industry, to find out. where it was. This forced us to make some port 5 and my
partner, who knew ilie country better than I did, directed the captain in put into the
iirer of Cambodia ; for I had made the English. mate, one Mr. Thompson, cnptnin, not.
lwing willing to take the charge of the ship upon myself. This river lies on the north
side of the great buy or gulf which goes up to Siam. ""hile we were here, and going
often on shore for refimhment, there comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was,
it seems, a. gunuer'a mute on board an English East. India ship, which rode in the same-
river, at or near the city of Cambodia. What brought him hither, we knew not ; but
he comes to me, and speaking English, "Sir," says he, " you are 9. stranger to me, and I
to you ; but I have something to tell you that very nearly euucm'nu you."

I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at first I had known him ;
but 1 did noL " Tf' it very nearly concerns me," amid I, "and noi~ yourself, what moves
you to tell it to me ? " " I am moved," says he, " by the imminent danger you 'are in,
and: for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it." " 1 lmow no danger I am in," says.
I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out 3 but I intend to lay he: aground
to-mnrrow, to see if I can find it." " But, sir," says he, "leaky or not leaky, find ii. or
not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you hear
what I hive to any to you. Do you know, air," said he, "the town of Cambodia lies
about'fifteen lmgues up this river ; and there are two large English ships almut live leagues
on this. side, and three Dubai: 7" "\Vell," said I. "and what is that to me?" "\'lr'hy=
sir," said he7 "in it for :1. mm: that is upon such adventureh as you are to come info a
pnrl, and not cxmnine first what ships there are there, and whether he is able to (lanl
with them 1 I suppose you do not think you are a. match for them?" I was amused
very much at his discourse, hut not aimed at it, for I could not conceive what. he
meant 5 and I turned short upon him, and said : "Sir, I wish you would explain your-
5'5"; I Oil-unfit imagine. what reason I have to be afraid of any of the Company's ships,
or Dutch ships. 1 am no interloper. W'hut can they have to my to me 2" He looked
like u man half angry and half pieuxed, and puiwing awhile, but smiling, "'Vell, sir,"
says he, " ifyou think yourself secure, you must take your chance ; i am sorry your
fate should blind you againut good advice ,- but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked by five long-boats full of men, and
perhaps, if you are taken, you will be hanged for a. pirate, and the particulars be
examined afterwards. I thought, sir," added he, "i :liould have met with a belie!"

33+ '
 

reception than thin for doing you a, piece of service of such importance" " I can never
be ungrateihl," said I, " for any service, or to any man that offers me any kindness ,' but
it is past my comprehension what. they should have. nueh a design upon me for ,' how-
ever, since you say there is: no time to he lost, and that. there is some vilhmoue design,
on hand against me, I will go on board this minute, and put to sen, immediately, if my
men can stop the leak, or if we can swim without stopping it ; hut, sir," said 1, "shall
I go away ignorant of the cause of all vhis'? Con you give me no further light link) it 1 "
"I can tell you but. part of the story, air," says he ; " but I have a Dutch seamen
here with me, and I believe I could puxnumle him to lull you the rest, though there is
scarce time for it. The short of the story is this--the first part; of which I suppose
you know well cnoxgh'fimh you were with this ship m. Sumatra; that there your
captain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men ; and that. you, or name 01"
those that were on board with you, mu away with the ship, and are uince turned pirates.
This is the sum of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure you, and
executed with very little ceremony 5 for you know men-ohant ships show but little law
to pirates if they get them into their power." " Now you speak plain English," said 1,.
" and I thank you 3 and though I know nothing that we have done like what you toll:
of, for 1 am sure we came liones'oly and. fairly by the ship, yet seeing such a.
work is doing, as you say, and that; you seem to mean honewly, I will be upon my
gunrd." " N ny, sir," says he, " do not talk of being upon your guard ; the beat- defence
I is, to he out 'of the danger. Tf you have any regard for your life, and the lives of all.
your men, put to son without PS3111 at high water; and as you have a whole tide before:
you, you will be gone too for out beforeihey can come down 5 for they will come away
at. high water, and as they have twenty miles to come, you will gel; near two hours 0;
them by the difference of the tide, not reckoning the leigth of the way ; baides, us they
are only boots, and not ships, they will not venture to follow you fiu' out in sea,
espeeially if it blown" "W'ell," said I, " you have been very kind in this : what Hlmll
T do for you to make you amends 2'.' " Sir," says he, " you may not be willing to make-
me any amends, because you may not. be convinced of the truth of it. I will make an
ofi'er to you: I have nineteen months' pay due to me on board the ship , which I
came out of England in 5 and the Dutchman that is with me has seven months' pay (luv:
to him. If you will make good our pay to us, we will go along with you ; if you find
not-hing more in it, we will desire no more ; but if we do convince you that we have
saved your lives, and the ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will leave the resL
to you."

i cemented to this readily, and wonl. inunodinlely on board, nnd the two men with
me. As soon as I came in the ship's side, my partner, who was on board, came out on
the quarter-(leek, and called to me, with n great deal of joy, " Oh, ho ! Oh, ho! we han-
smpped the leak--we have stopped the leak I" " Say you so i " said I ; "thank God !
hut. weigh anchor, then, immediately." "'Weigh!" says he ; "whatdn you mean by
that? What is the matter?" " Ask no questions," said I 3 "but all hands to work.
and Weigh without losing a. minute." He was surprised; but, however, he called the
captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got, up 3 and though the tide \vna
not quite down, yet a. little land-breeze blowing, wu >21li out to sea. Then I called
him into the cabin, and told him the story ; and we called in the men, and they told us
the rest of it; but as it took up a grealdeel of time, before we had done, a semnan
comes to the cabin door, and called out to us chat the captain bade him tell us we were
chased. " Chasm! !" says I ; "by whntl " " By five sleeps, or bouts," says the fellow,

335tun-1515') LY NCAENGAGEMENT AT SEA.

" full of nien." "' Very well," said 1, " then itisnpparom'. there is something in it." in
the next place, I ordered all our men to be called up, and told them that there was a.
design to seize the ship, and to take us for pimtos, and asked them if they would stand
by us, and by onennothm- ; the men answered clmerfully, one and all, that they would
live and die with us. Then I. asked the captain what way he thought best for us to
manage it fight with them ; for resist them I was resolved we would, and that to the
lest drop. He said readily, that the way was to hoop them ofi' with our great shot as
long as we could, and then to fire at them with our small arm, to keep them from
boarding us: but when neither of these would do any longer, we would retire to our
eloee quarters; perhaps they had not materials to break open our hulk-heads, or get in
upon us.

The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns to bear fore and aft,
cut of the steerage, to clear the deck, and load them. with musket-bullets and small
pieces of old iron, and what came next to hand; and thus we made ready for fight:
but all this while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats at A
distance, being five large long-boats, following us with all the sail they could make

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were English) had outsnilcd the
rest, were near two leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us considerably, so that we
found they would come up with us ,' upon which we fired a gun without bull, to
intimate that they should bring to: and we put out a fing'of truce, as a signal for
pnrlay ; but they came crowding after us, till they came within shot, when we took in
our white flag, they having made no answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and fired at
them with a. shot. Notwithstanding this, Lliey came on till they were near enough to
call to them with a apeaking-tmmpet which we had on board ,- so we called to them,
and bade them keep all at their peril.

It was all one ; they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come under our stem
so as to board us on our quarter; upon which, seeing they were resolute for mischief
and depended upon the strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so
that they lay upon our broadaide ; when immediately we flied flvo guns at them, one of
which had been levelled so true as to carry away the stern of the hindemiost boat, and
bring them to the necessity of taking down their soil, and running all to the head of
the boat, to keep her from sinking ; so she lay by, and had enough of it ,' but seeing the
formnoet boat crowd on after us, we made randy to fire at her in particular. While this
was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other two,
made up to the boat- which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take
out the men : we called again to the foremost boat, and ofl'ei'ed s. truce, to parley again,
and to know what her businees was with us ; but had no answer, only she crowded
close under-our stern. Upon this, our gunner, who wens u very dexterous fellow, ran
out his two chase-guns, and fired again at her, but Lhe shot missing, the men in
the heat shouted, wnvcd their caps, and came on: the gunner, getting quickly ready
again, fired among them a second time, one shot of which, though it missed the boat
itself, yet fell in among the men, and we could easily see had done a. great deal of mischief
among chem; but we took no notice of that, were the- ship again, and brought our
quarter to bear upon them, and firing three guns more, we found the boat was almost
split to pieces ; in purtienlui', her rudder and a piece of her stern were shot quite away ;
so they handed her sail immediately, and were in great disorder. But, to oomplete
their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at them again 5 where he hit them
we could not tell, but we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men already in

22 337
 

the water: upon this, I immediately mnnnal out our piuuoce, which we had kept- clean
by our side, with orders to pick up home of the men, if they could, and save them from
drowning, and immediately to come on hosrd :ship with them, because we saw the rest
of the boats began to come up. Our men in the pinnaoe foilowecl their order", and tool:
up three men, one of whom wasjust drowning, and it was a good while before we could
recover him. As soon as they were on board, we crowded all the nail we could make,
and stood farther out to sort 5 and we found that when the other three hosts came up
to the first two, they gave over their chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger which, though I lmcw not the reason of it), yet
seemed to he much greater than I apprehended, I resolved that we should change our
<<ammo, and not let any one know whither we were going : no we stood out to sea east--
ward, quite out of the course of all European ships, whether they were bound to China
or anywhere else, within the commerce of the European nations.

When we were at sew. we began to consult with the two seamen, and inquire
what the waning of all this should be; and the Dumhman let us into the secret
at once1 telling 118 that the follow that sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a
thiefthar. had run away wilh her. Then he told us that the captain, whose mime too
he mentioned, though I do not remember it now, was treacherously murdered by the
natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his men--and that he, this Dutchman,
and four more, got into the woods, where they wondered about a. great while, till at
length lu', in particular, in it miraculous manner, made his escnpe, and swam 015' to
a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way from China, had sent their host
on shore {or fresh water; that ho din-st not come to that part of the shore where
the boat was, but made shill; in the night. to take the water farther off, and swim-
ming a great while ; at last the ship's hoot. took him up.

He then told us that he went to Butavia, Where two of the semen belonging to the
ship had arrived, luring deserted the rest in their travels, and gave an account that the
fellow who had run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set oi'pimtes, who were
gone acruising in her, and that they haul already taken an English ship and two
Dutch ships very richly laden.

This latter part we found to coneern us direeLly, though we knew it to be false ;
yet, as my partner said, very justly, if We had fallen into their hands, and they hull
had such a. proposseseiou ,gniust us beforehand, il- had been in min for us to have
defended ourselves, or lo hope for any good quarter at their hands 5 and especially,
considering that our nocusers had been our judges, and that we could have expected
nothing from them but what rage would have dictated, and an uugovemed passion
have executed ; and therefore it was his opinion we should go directly back to Bengal,
from whence we came, without putting in at any port whatever; because there we
could give a. good account of ourselves, could prove where we were when the ship put
in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and, what was more than all the rest, if
we were put upon the necessity of bringing it. before the proper judges, we should
be sure to have some justice, and not be hanged first, and judged allonrnrtls.

I was some time of my partner's opinion ; but after a little more serious thinking,
I told him I thought, it. was a very great hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengal,
for that we were on the wrong side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if the alarm
was given, we should be sure to be way-laid on every side, as well by the Dutch at
Batcwia' as the English elsewhere: flint if we should he taken as it were running
away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there would want ne'more evidence to

338THE BAY OF 'l'ONQUlN.

destroy us. I _also asked ehe English sailor's opinion, who said he was of my mind, mid
that we should certainly he' taken. This danger a little startled my partner, and all
the ship's company, and we immediately resolved to go away to {he coast of Tonquin,
and so on to the coast of China ,2 and, pursuing the first design as to trade, find some
way or other to dispose of the ship, and come hack in some of the vessels of the country,
such as we could get, This was approved of us the best method for our smnrity ; and
accordingly we stem-0d away KNEW keeping a-hm'e fifty lwgnes off from the usual
emu-so. to the eastward. This, however, put us to some inconvenience ; for, first, the
winds, when we came that distance from the shore, seemed to he more steadily against
us, blowing almost trade, as we call if, from the E. and ENE, so that we were a long
while upon our voyage, and we were but ill pmvirled wit-h viotuuls for so long a run;
.aml, what, was still worse, them was some danger that those English and Dutch ships,
whose home pursued us, whereof some were hound that way, might have got in before
us, and if not, some other ship bound to China might have information of us from
flicm, mulpnrsue us with fihe smne vigour.

1.1mm confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, including the late
ear-<<ape from ihe long-bouts, to have been in the most dangerous condition that ever I was
in through all my past life 3 for whatever iil circumstances l had been in, I was never
pursued for a ihief before; nor had I ever clone anything that merited the name of
dishonest or fraudulent, much less ehievish 5 I had ohielhr been my own enemy, or, as
I may rightly say, I had been nobody's mien-y but my own; but now I Wm: mnlmrmused
in the wm'sc condition imaginable; for though T was perfectly innonent, I was in no
mondition to make that innononce appear; and if I lmd been taken, it haul been
under a supposed guilt. of the worst kind--nit least, n crime esteemed so among the
people I had to do with. This made me very anxious to make an escape, though
which way to do it I knew not} or what. port or place we should go to. My partner
seeing me thus (injected. though he was the most concerned at first, hogan to
encourage me, and describing to me the . voral ports of that coast, told me ho
would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the Bay of Tomlnin, intending aileru
wax-<<ls to go lo Macao, an {own once in poasession of the Portuguese, and where still a
.gront many European families resided, and particularly the missimmry priests usuall)r
went thither in order to their going fm-warcl to China.

Hither, then, we resolved to go; and accordingly, though <<The>>: a tedious and
"irregular course, and very much stmitenctl for provisions, we came within sight of the
coast Very (mrlyin the morning; and upon reflection on the past circumstances we
were in, and the danger if we lml not escaped, we resolved to put into a. small river.
which, however, had depth enough of water for us, and to see if we could, eilhcr ave)>>
land Or by the ship's pinnzwe, come (/0 know what ships were in any port thereaboutu,
This happy seep was, indeed, our deliverance ; for though we (lid not immediately set:
any European ships in the Bay of 'Tonquin, yet the next morning there came info the
hay two Dutch ships ; and a third, without any colours sprawl out, but which we
believed to be a Dubcluuan, passed by at about two leugues' distance, steering For the
coast of China, and in the afternoon went. by two English ships steering the. same
course 3 and i-hus we thought we saw ourselvus beset with enemies hath one way and
Elie other. The place we were in was wild and lmrbarous--t-hc people thieves, even by
~0C0upafion or profession ; and though, it is true, we had not much to seek of them, and,
except getting a few provisions, aired not how little we lmtl to do with them, yet it- was
with much difficulty that. we kept ourselves from being insulted by them several wnj's

339
"'0 were in a small river of this country, .within a few leagues of its utmost liming
northward ; and by our boat we coasted northeast, to the pninl. of land which opens
the great Bay of Tonquin ; and it was in this heating up along the ahore that we
discovered we were surrounded with enemies The people we were among were the
most. barbarous of all the inhabitants of the coast, having no correspondence with any-
other nation, and dealing only in fish and oil, and such gloss commodities ; and it may"
be pm-ticulurly seen that they are the most barbarous of any of the inhabitants. Among
other customs, they have this one--chm. if any vessel has the miafortnne to be ship-
wrecked upon their const, they presently make the men all prisoners or slaves 5 and it was
not. long before we found a piece of their kindness this way, on the occasion following.

I hnve observed above, that- our ship sprung a leak at sea, and that we could not
find it out; and it'huppcnod that, us 1 have said, it was stopped unexpectedly, in
the happy minute of our being tohe seimd by the Dutch and English ships nenr the Buy
ofSiam ; yet, as we did not find the ship so perfectly tight and sound an we desired, wo-
resolved while we were at this place to lay her on shore, and take out whnt heavy-
things we had on board, and clean her bottom, if possible, to {indont where the-
leaku were. Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns and
other momhlcs to cm side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her
bottom; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her on dry ground, neither-
eould we find out. a proper place for it. '

The inhabitants who had never been acquainted with such :1 sight, came wondering-
down the shore to look at us; and seeing the} ship lie down on one side in such u.
manner, and heeling in towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who were at. work
on her bottom with atagesmnd with their home. on the ofl-side, they presently concluded.
that the ship was cast away, and lay fast on the ground. On this supposition, they all
came about us in two or three hours' time, with ten or twelve large bouts, having some
of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on bond and
plundered the ship, and if they found us there, to have carried us away for slaves.
to their king, or whatever they call him, for we knew nothing of their governor.

When they came up to the ship, and began in row round her, they discovered us all
hard at work on the outside of the ship's bottom and side, washing, and gmving, and
stopping, as every seafaring man knows how. They stood for a. while gazing at as, and
we, who were a littlo surprised, could not imgiue what their design was; but being
willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and others.
to hand down arms and ammunition to those that. were at work, to defend themselves
with, if there should be occasion ; and it was no more than need--for in less than
a quarter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship was. really a.
Wreck, and that we were all at work endeavouring to save her, or to save our lives by
the help of our boats; and when we handed our arms into the bout, they concluded, by
that motion, that we were endeavouring to save some of our goods: upon this, they
took it for granted we all belonged to them, and away they come directly upon our men,
as if it had been in n line of battle.

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for we lay but in an ill
posture to fight, and cried out to us to know whnt they should do. I. immediately
called to the men that worked upon the stages, to slip them down, and get up the side-
into the ship, and bade those in the boat to raw round and come on board ; and the few
who were on bound worked with all the strength and hands we had to bring the ship to
rights; but, however, neither the men upon the stages not those in the bout: could do as

3-7-0ENCOUNTER WITH THE CHINESE.

 

 

 

STOPPINI} LEAKS IN THE SHIP.

Huey were ordemfl before the Cochin Chinese were upon them ; and two of their boats
bani-rial our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the man as their pfiaonms.

The first man Llacy laid hold of was an English scamnn, a. stout, strong fellow,
who having a muxkcb in his hand, never ofl'erod to fire it, but laid it". down in the boat,
like a fool, as 1 clmughe ; but. he understoud his business better than I could teach lxim,
for he gmppled the pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their boat into ours,
where, taking him by the can he beat his hcml so against Llic bout-'3 gumml, let the
fellow died in his hands ; and, in the meantime, n Dutchman, who stood next}, took up
the musket, and will. the buti-~end of it 9n [nix] about him'. first he knocked down five
oft-hem who attempted to enter the boat. But this was doing little towards resisting
thirty or fox-Ly men, who, flawless because ignorant of their danger, began to throw
themselves into the long~bont, wlmrc we lle but five men in all to defend it; however,

3:"
 

 

the following accident, which deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete
riclm'y.'

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as well us to pay the
seams whore he lmxl (:uulhcd her to stop the leulm, had got two kettles just let>> down
into the boat, one filled with boiling pitch, and the other with resin, fellow, and oil, and
such sturl' as tho. Nliilywrigllts use for that work ; and the man that attended the:
carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand, with which he supplied the men that were
at work with the hot smfi'. Two of the enemy's men entered the boat just. when; this
fellow stood, being in the fore-shear ; he immediately sululeul them with n. lndleifull of
the stud, boiling hot, which so burned and sealded them, being half-naked, than; they
roared out like bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped both in to the sea. The-
cm-peulser saw it, and cried out, "Well done, Jack 3 give them some more or" it 1" and
stepping forward himself, Lakes one of tho mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and
his man threw it among them so plentifnlly that, in short, of all the men in the throw
boats, there was not out; that <<scoped being scalded and burned with it, in a most
frightful, pitiful manner, and made such a howling and crying (but I never heard a.
worse noise : for in is worth observing that, though pnin naturally makes all people cry
out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclamation, and make a noise as dill'crcnt-
one from nnotlwr as their speech. I cannot give the noise these #:reuturos made 9. better
name than howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it>> ; for I never heard
anything more like the noise of the wolves which, as I have said, I heard howl in the-
forest on the frontiers of Languedoc.

I was never better pleased with a victory in my life 5 not only as it was a perfect
surprise in me, and that our danger was imminent before, but as We got this victory
Without any bloodshed, except of that man the fellow killed will: his 1181de hands. and
which I was very much concerned at 5 for I was sick of killing such poor amigo
wretches, even though it was in my own defence, knowing they came on errands which
they thought just, and knew no better 3 and that though it may he a just thing, because:
neccsgry (for Hum-e is no necessary wickedness in naan), yet I thought it was a sad.
life, when we must he always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to preserve our--
selves ; and. indeed, I think so still ; and I would even now suffer a great deal, rather
than I would take away the life even of the worst portion injuring me ; and I believe-
all considering people, who know the value of life, would be of my opinion, if they
entered neriously into the consideration of it.

But to return in my story :--A.lJ, the while this was doing, my partner mid I, who-

unnaged the rest of the men on hem-(l, had with great dexterity brought the ship almost.
to rights, and having got the guns into their planes again, the gunner called to me to-
bid our boat get out. of the wsy, for he would let fly among them. I called back again
to him, and bid him not can to fire, for the eirpenter would do the work without him;
but bid him heal. another pitch-kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of.
The enemy was so lerrifiml with what. they had met with in their first attack, that,
they would not come on again 5 and some of them who were farthest ofl', seeing the ship
swim, as it were, upright, began, as we suppose, to see their mistake, and gave over the
enterprise, finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this merry fight ;
and having got some rice, and some roots and brand, with about sixteen hogs, on board,
two days before, we resolved to stny here no longer, but go forward, whatever came of
it; for we mudc no doubt but we ahonhl be surrounded the next day with rogues
enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would diapore of for us, 'We theiefore got-

342AN OLD PORTUGUESE l'lLO'l'.

 

all out things on hoard the some evening, and the next morning were ready to sail : in
the meantime, lying at anchor at some distance from the shore, we were not so much
concerned, being now in a fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any enemy
had presented. The next day, having finished our work within board, and finding our
ship was perfectly healed of all her leaks we set sail. We would lam-c gone into the
Bay of Tonquiu, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to be known concerning
the Dutch ships that had been there; hut. we din-3b nob cloud in there, because we
had seen several ships go in, as we supposed, but a little before ; so we kept on NB,
towards the island of h'ormosy us much afraid of being seen by 2: Dutch or English
merchant ship, as a butcher English merchant ship in the Mediterranean is of an
Algerine mmrof--war. '

When we were thus got to sea, we kept. on N.E,, an if we would go to the Manills.'
or the Philippine Islands; and this we did um we might not. fall im'o the way of any
of the European ships; and thou we steered north, till we came to the latitude of 22 -
degrees 20 minutes, by which means we made the island of Formosa directly, where we
came to an anchor, in order to get water and free): provisions, which the people there
who are very courteous and civil in their manners, supplied us with willingly, and dealt
very fairly and punctually with us in all their agreements and bargains 3 which is what
we did not find among other people, and may he owing to the remains of Christianity
which was once planted here by a. Duich missionary of Protcatants, and is a testimony
of what I have often observed, viz, that the Christian religion always cirilises le
people and reforms their manners, where it is received, whether it works saving efi'ects
upon them or no.

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at an equal dis-
tance, till we knew we were beyond all the pox-ta of China where our European ships
usually come 3 being resolved, if poceihle, not to fall into any of their hundr, especially
in this country; where, as our circumstances wera, we could not fail of being entirely
ruined.

Being nowcome to the latitude of 30 dogma, we resolved to put into the first
trading port we should come at; and standing in for the shore, 'a boat came off two
leagues to us with on old Portuguese pilot on board, who, knowing us to be a
European ship, came to offer his scrvico, which, indeed, we were glad of, and tool: him
on board 3 upon which, without asking us whither we would go, he dismissed the boat
he came in, and sent it back.

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man carry us whither
we would, that I began to tall: to him about currrhg us to the Gulf of Nunquiii, which
is the most northern purl; of the coast of China. The old man said he know the Gulf
of Nanquin very well ; hut; smiling, .zslzcd us what we would do there. i told him we
would sell our cargo and purchase China. wares, calicocs, raw silks, tea, wrought. silks,
Am; and so would return by the same course we come. He told us our host. port
would have been to put in at Memo, where we could not have failed of a. market. for
our opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money have purchased all sorts of
China. goods as cheap as we could at. Nanquiu.

' Not being able to put the old man out of hi>> talk, of which he was very opinionated
or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as Well as merchant's, and that we had 9.
mind to go and see the great; city of Pokin, and tho fhmous court of the monarch of
China. " Why, then," says the old man, " you should go to N ingpo, where, by the river
which runs; into the sea there, you may go up within five leagues of the great canal.

343T.'.'.!Rl'lPS: Tm: m4AN UNPLEASANT COKVERSATION,
This canal is a. navigable stream, which gone, through the heart of that vast empire of
China, crosses all the riven's, passes some considerable bills by the help of sluiees and gates,
and goes up to the city of I'ekin, lining in length near two hundred and seventy lemon"

"\Vell," said I, "Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our husinea'. now ; the great
question is, if you can carry us up to' the cit-y of anquin, from whence we can tmve'
to Pekin afterwards " He said he could do so very well, and that there was a great
Dutch ship gone up that \vayjust before. This gave me n little shock, for a Dutch
ahi 1) was now our terror, and we haul much rather have met the devil, at least. if he had
not come in (no frightful a figure 3 and we depended upon it. that a Dutch ship would
be our destruction, for we were in no mndition to fight them 5 all the ships they trade
with into those park lming of great burden, and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern when he named a.
Dutch ship, and said to me, " Sir, you need be under no appv-elieusinns of the Dutch ;
I suppose they are not now at War with your nation? " "No," said T, "that's true ;
but I know not what liberties men may add: when they are out of the reach of the lows
of their own country." "Why,"uays he, "you are no pirates,- what need you fear?
They will not meddle with peueilnle merchants, sure."

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at. that word, it was
hindered by some stop in the veaa-zls appoint/ed by nature to circulate if, for it put me
into the greatest disorder and confusion imaginable ,2 nor was it possible for me to
conceal in so, but the old man wily perceived it.

" Sir," says he, " I find you are in some disorder in your thoughts at my (all; ; pray
be pleased to go which way you think fit, and depend upon it, I'll do you all the service
I can." " Why," seigniar," said I, " it is true I am a litle unsettled in my resolution,
at this time, whither to go in particular; and. I am smoothing more so for what you
said about pirates. I hope. there are no pirate! in these seas. We are but. in an ill
condition to meet with them, for you see we have but a small force, and are but very

weakly manned." " 0h, sir," says he, "don't be concerned ; I do not; know that there
hit-V8 been any pinata in these sens these fifteen years, except one, which was seen, as I
hear, in the Boy of Siam, about a. month since ; but you may he assured she is gone to
the southward ,- nor was she a ship of any great force, or fit for the work. She was not
built for n privaloer, but was run away with by n reprohate crew that was on hoircl,
after the explain and some of his men had been murdered by the Malzryans, at or near
the island of Sumatra." " What!"said I, seeming lo'know nothing of the matter, " did
they murder the contain '3 " " No," said he, " I don't understand they mnrdemd him ;
but, as they alter-wards ran away with the ship, it is generally believed that they betrayed
him into the hands of the Molnyans, who did murder him, and perhaps they procured
them to do it" " Why, then," said 1, " they deserve death as much as if they had done
it themselves." " Nay," says the old man, " they do deserve it ; and they will certainly
have it, if they light. upon any English or Dutch ship 5 for they have all agreed
together, that if they meet that rogue, they'll give him no quarter." "But," said I
to him, "you say the pirate is gone out of these seas ; how can they meet with him,
than i" "\Vhy, that's true," says he, "they do say so ; but he was, a); I tell you, in the
Bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia, and was discovered there by some Dutchman who
belonged to the ship, and who were left on shore when they ran away with her ; and
some English and Dutch traders heing in the river, they were within a. little of taking
him 5 n:v.y,"snid he, "if the foremost boats had been well seconded by the rent, they had
certainly token him 3 but be,- finding only two boats within reach of him, tanked about,
345 '
 

and fired at those two, and disabled them before the other: came up, and ulzcn standing
off to sea, the others were not shin to follow, and so he got away 5 but they burn all:
so exact a description of the ship, that they will be sure to lcnow her ; and wherever
they final her, they have vowed to give no quarter either to the captain or seamen, hut
to hang them all up at ihe yard--9.1m." " Wham ! " said I, " will they execute (hem, right
or wrong? hung chem firstfilnd juilgcthcm afterwards 2" " Oh, sir," says the old pilot,
"there is no need to make a formal business of ii, with such rogues 'as Lhasa 5 let them
tie them hawk to hack, and set them a diving--Wis no more than they righnly deserve."

i knew 1 had my old man fish on board, and. that he could do no harm, so that I
turned therb upon him. " Well, now, xeignior," said I, " this is the very reaeon why T
would have you carry us u}; to Nanquin, and not put back to Macao, or to any other-
pam of'the country where the Englixh or Dilicll ships come ; for _be it known to you,
soignior, lesc captains of the English and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud,
insolont follows, that. neither know what belongs to justice, nor how to behave thum-
selves as the laws of God and nature direct ; hut hiring proud of their offices, and not
m-idcmumcling theirpower, they would act, the mm'derersfio punish robbers ; would Lake-
upmi them to insult men falsely accused, and determine them guilty Without- duo-
inquiry ; andperhapx l mny live to bring some of them to account for it, when they
may he taught. how justice is to he executed, and than no man ought to he treated
as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the crime, and that he in the man." .

'With this I Lold him that this was the very ship they attached, and gave him a full'
account of the skirmish we had with their boats and how foolishly and cowardly they
behaved. I told. him all the story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen
fierved ms. I told him the reasons I had to believe the story of killing the master by
the Mnluynns was true as also the runningaway with the ship; but is was all .9.
fiction or" their own to suggest. that the men had turned pirates, and they ought to have
been Sum it was so before they ventured to antuok us by surpriso, and oblige us to resist
them 5 adding that they would have ehe blood of those men whom we killed there in
junk defence to :rnswor for.

Tho old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were very much in the
right to go away to the north ; and tlmL, if he might advise us, it should he to sell the
ship in China, which we might very well do, and buy or build another in the couniry.
"Aiicl,"'suhl he, " though you will not get so good a ahip, yet you may get one able
enough to carry you and all your goods hack again to Bengal, or anywhere else." I
Lold him I would fake his advice when I came to any port. where I could find n ship
{or my turn, or get any customer (0 buy-this. He replied I should meet with cuutomcrs
enough for the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would servo me very well ('0-
go back again; and that he would procure me people both to buy one and sell the
other. " "'ell, bur, seignior," said I, " as you say they know the ship so well, 1
may, perhaps, if I. follow your mmures, be inxtruinental to bring some honest>>, innocent
man into a terrible broil, and perhaps to he murdered in cold blood ; for wherever they
find the ship they will prove the guilt upon the men, by proving this was the ship ; and
so innocent; men may probably be overpowered and murdomd." "Vi'lny," says the old
man, " 1:11 find out a way to prevent that also; for as I know all those commanders
you speak of very well, and shull see them all as they pass by, T will be sure (at) set
them to rights in the thing, and let them know that they had been so much in the
Wrong ,' that though the pnople who were on board at first might run away with the
whip, yet", it was not true that they had turned pirata; and that, in particular, these

' 346A CHINESE PORT.

were not the men that first. went 08' with the ship, but- innocentl y bought her for their
trade ; and I sun pemuaderl chey will so far believe me as at least. to act more cautiously
for the time to come."

While there things were passing between us. by way of discourse, we went forward
directly for Nunquin, and in about thirteen (lays' sail came to an anchor at. the south-
west point of the great Gulf of Naoquin ; where. by the way, I came by accident to
understand that- Lwo Dufch ships were gene the length before me, and that: I should
certainly fall into their hands. I consulted my partner again in this; exigcncy, and he.
was as much at a lens as I was, and would very gladly have been safe on shore almost
anywhere 5 however, I was not in such perplexity neither, but I asked the old pilot if
there was no creek or harbour which I might put imp and pursue my business with the
Chinm privately, and be in no danger of the enemy. He told me if I would sail to-
the southward about forty-two leagues, there was a little purl: called Quinchang, where
the fixthel's of the mission usually landed fi-om Macaw, on their progress to teach the
Christian religion to the Chinese, and when: no European ships ever put in ; and if I
thought to put in there, I might consider what farther course to fake when I was on
shore. He confmed, he said, it. was "not 2'5 place for memllunlee, oxcept that at some
certain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the merchants from Japan came over
thither to buy Chinese xuerclnuulifles.

"'9 all agreed to go back to this plane ; the name of the port, as he called it, I may
perhaps spell wrong, for I do nos pun-icnlnrly remember it, having lost Lhis, {Agatha-
with the names of many other places set down in a little pocket-book, which mspoilecl
by ehc water hymn accident, which I shall relate in its order ; huh (his T remember, that
the Chinese or Japanese merchants we corresponded with called it by a difi'orcnb name
from that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pmnounced it as above, Quinchang.

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we weighed the next
day, having only gone twice on shore where we were. to get fresh wnter ; on both which
occasions the people of the country were very civil to us {ind brought abundance oi'
things to sell to us ; 1 mean of provisions, plants, roots, ten, rice, and some fowl:- ; but.
nothing without money.

We did not. came to the other pork (the wind being contrary)'for five days; but. it.
was very much to our satisfaction 5 and I was joyfixl, and I may say thankful, when I
set my fuel: on shore, resolving, and my partner too, that if it; was posihie to dispose of
ourselves and 017st any other way, though not every way to our satisfaction, we would
never set one foot: on board that unhappy vessel more ; and indeed, I must acknowledge,
that of all the circumstnnces of life thnt ever I had any experience of, nothing makes
mankind so completely miserable as tlmt of being in constant fear. Well does the
Sen'pture say, " The fear of 1mm bringeth a snare :" it is a life of (leach, and the mind
in so entirely oppressml by it, that it is capable of no relief, and all the vigour of Nature-
which usually supports men under other afflictions, and is present with them in the
greatest exigencies, fails them here.

Nor did is fail of ils usual operations upon the fancy, by heightening every danger;
representing the English and Dutch captains to be men inoilmblc of hearing reason, or
of distinguishhmg between honest men and rogues; or between a story calculated for our
own Luru, maul>>: out of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a. true genuine account cl"
our whole voyage, progrocxs and design ; for we might many way: have convinced any
reasonable cranium that we were not pirates ; the goods we had on board, the course
we steered, our frankly showing muesli-"ex, and entering into such and such ports ,: and

317FEARFUL APPREHENSION&

 

even our Very manner, the force we hail, the number of men, the few arms, the little
ammunition, shoi'l. provisions; all time would have served to convince any men that we
won: no pirates. The opium and ether goods we had on board would make it appear
the ship had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen, who, it was said, had the names of all
the men that were in the ship, might easily see that we were a. mixture of Englinh,
Portuguese, and Tndinns, and but two Dutchmen on hoard. These, and many other
1Nu'tlculur circumstances might have made it evident to the undemtmiding of any
commander, whore hands we might fall into, that we were no pirated. But fear, that
blind, uselmz passion, worked another way, and throw us into the vapours ; it be-
wildered our understandings, and set the imagination at work to form n thousand
terrible things that perhaps might never lmppen. We first supposed, as indeed every-
hmly hnd related to us, that the seamen on board the Engliah and Dutch ships, but.
ex-pecially the Dutch, were so enraged at the name of a pimte, and especially at our
banning oll' their boats and escaping, that they would not give themselves leave to
inquire whether we were pimtes or no, but would execute us all hand, without giving
us any room for in. defence. \V'e reflected thnt there really was so much apparent
evidence before them, that they would scarce inquire after nny more; as, first, that the-
ship was certainly the same, and that some of the seamen among them know her, and
haul been on boaul her 5 and, secondly, that when we haxl intelligence at the river of
Cambodia that they were coming down to examine us, we fought their boats and fled ,-
ao that we made no doubt but they were as fully satisfied of our being pirates as we
were satisfied of the contrary; and, us I often said, I know not but I nhouhl have
been apt in have taken those circumstances for evidence, if the tables were tuned, and
my case was theirs ; and have made no scrapie of cutting all the erew to pieces, without
believing, or perhaps considering, wlmt they might have to offer in. their defence.

But let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions; and hoLh my partner
and I scarce slept as night without dreaming of linkers and yanl-arms, that is to any,
gibbon; ; of fighting, and being taken 3 of killing, and being killed ,- and one night I
was in such a fury in my dream, fimcying the Dutchmen had boarded us, and I was
knocking one of their semnen down, that I struck my double fist against the side of the
mlen I lay in wlbh such a force as wonndal my hand grievously, broke my knuckles,
nncl cut and bruised the flesh, so that it awaited me out of my sleep.

Another apprehension I had was, the cruel usage we might meet with from them if
we fell into their hands ; then the story of rimhoyna came into my head, and how the
Dutch might perhaps tux-Lure us, as they did our countrymen there, and make some oi"
our men, by extremity of torture, confess those crimes they never were guilty of, or own
Lhmnsulves and all of us to he pinitcs, and so they would put, us to death with a formal
appearance of justice 5 and that they might be tempted to do this for the gain of our
ship and cargo, which was worth four or live thousitnd pounds allegether.

These thixgs tormented me, and my partner too, night and tiny ; nor did we consider
that the captains of ships. had no authority to net thus 5 and if we had surrendered
prisoners to them, they could not answer the destroying us, or torturing us but would
be accountable for it when they came to their country; this, I say, gave me no satis--
faction ; for if they were to not thus with us, what. advantage would it be to us that they
should he called to rm account for iti or if we were first to be murdered, what antis-
fzwtion would it he to us to have them punished when they came home 2

I cannot refrain inking not-ice here what reflections I now had upon the vast variety
of my particular circumstances 3 how hard I thought it was that I, who had spent forty

349
 

 

yew; in a life of continual difficulties, and was :15. hm come, as it- were, in the port- or
haven which all men drive af, viz, to have rest and plenty, should be a. volume/eel- in
new sorrows by my own unhappy choice ; and that I, who had escaped at) many dangers
in my youth, should now come to be hanged in my old age, and in so remote a place,
for a crime which I was not in the least inclined to, much lose guilty of.

After these thoughts, something of religion would come in ; mid I would be con-
sidering lelz- lids seemed to me to be a disposition of immediate Providence, nnd
I ought. to look upon it. and submit to it as such ; that although I was innocent as to
men, I was far from being innocent as to my Maker; and l. ought Lo look in and
-ex9.mine what other crimes in my life were most obvious to me, and for which Pro~
vidence might justly inflict this punishment as a. retribution; and that l ought In
submit to this just as I would to a shipwreck, if it had pleased God to have hronglu;
such a disaster upon me.

In its turn, nnturnl coumgo would sometimes take its place, and then I would he
talking myself up to vigorous romluiions 3 that; I W0uld not he taken to he linrlmrously
used by a parcel of merciless notches in cold blood ; that it were much better to have
'fallcn into the hands of 'Lhe lineages, though T was sure they would feast- npou me when
they had taken me, than those who would perhaps glut- their mge upon me by inhuman
Loriures and harhurities ; that in the case of the savages, I always resolved in die
fighting to the last; grasp, and why should I not do so now, seeing it was much more
dreadful, to me at least, to think or falling into these men's hunch, than ever it was to
think of being eaten by men 1 for the savages, giro them theirdne, would not out a man
till he was killed and (lead, but these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of
death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure to put myself into a kind of
fever-with [no agitation of a supposed tight- ; my blood would boil, and my eyes sparkle,
as il' l was engaged, and I always resolved to take no quarter at their hands ; but. even,
at last, if I could resist no lower, I would blow up the ship and all thsL was in her, and
leave them but little booty to boast of.

The greater weight the am leaf-es and perplexitics of'thcse things were to our thoughts
while we were at sea, the greater wus our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on shore ;
and my partner told me he dreamed that ho llflll a very hear}P load upon his hawk, which
he was to carry up n hill, 9nd found that he was not able to stand longer under it ; but
that the Portuguese pilot came and took if. off his back, and the hill (iiaappem-ed. the
ground before him appearing all smooth and plain : and truly it ms so ; they were all
like men who had a loud taken all their backs. For my part, T had a weight taken ufl'
my heart that it was not able any longer to hear ; and as I said above, we resolved to
go no more lo sea. in that ship. When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now
our friend, got: us a. lodging and a. warehouse for our goods, which, by the way, was much
""3 some i it was a'liblzle house, or hut, with a. larger homemljoining to it, all built. with
canes, and palisndood round with large canes, to keep out pili'ering thieves, of which, it
seems, them were not- a few in that country : however, the magistrates allowed us a little
guard, and We had a soldier with n. kind of halherd, or lmlflpike, who stood sentinel at
our door; to whom we allowed a pint of rice, and a little pines of money, about the
value of threopence, per day, so that our goods were kopi. very safe.

The fair, or mart, usually kept at this. place, had been over some time : however, we
found that; there were three or four junk: in Lhe river. and two J apnnners I mean ships
from Japan, with goods which they had bought in China, and were not gone away,
having some J'opnneue merchants on shore.

35"0N SHORE IN CHINA.

 

The first thing our old Portguosc pilot did [or us was, to gel; us acquainted with
three iixisiionary Romish priests who were in the town, and who hurl been there some
time converting the people to Christianity 5 but. we thought ihey made but poor work
of it, and made them but sorry Christians when they had clone : however, that, was
none of our business. Ouc of those W888 Frenchnmu, whom they called Father Simon ;
another was a Portuguese; and the third o Genoese; but Father Simon was courteous,
easy in his manner, and very agreeable company; tho other two were more reserved.
seemed rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the work they came aboui, viz,
to talk with and insinuate themselves among lino inhabitants, wherever they had
opportunity. We oflen ate and drunk with those men; and though, I must confess,
the conversion, as they call it, of the Chinese f0 Christianity is so for from the true
conversion required to bring heathen pacplo to the faith of Christ, that it seems ix)
amount to list-lo more than letting them know the name of Christ, and say some prayers
to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which they understand not, and to cmss
themselves and the like; yet it must he confessed that the roligionists, whom We call
missionaries, have a firm belief thafi these people will be sored, and that they are the
instruments of in; and on leiB account, they undergo not only the. flzfigne of the voyage,
and the hazards of living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, and the most>> violent
tortures, for the sake of this work.

But. to return to my story :---This French priesi, Father Simon, was appointed, it
seems, by order of the chief of the mission, to go up to l'elrin, the royal soul; of the
Chinese emperor, and waited only for anonhcr priest, who was ordered to come to him
from Macao, to go along with him 3 and we roams over moL together but its was inviting
me to go that journey; telling me how he would show me all the glorious things of that
mighty empire, :i.,ml among the rest, the greatest city in the world; 'i a. city," said ho,
" that your London nnd our Paris put together cannot be equal to." This was the city
of Pekin, which, I confess,i is very great, and infinitely full of maple; but, as I looked
on those things with difl'crent era from those of other men, so I shall give mv opinion
of them in a. few words, when I come in the course of my tmvals Lo speak more par-
ticularly of them.

But firs'r, T come to my i'riu-r or mimioumry. Dining with him one (lay, and being
very merry together, I showed some little inclination to go with him ; and he pressed
me and my partner very lmrd, and Wit-l). a. great many persuasion, to consent. "Why,
Father Simon," says my partner, "should you desire our company so much? you know
we are heretics, and you do not love us, nor cannot keep us company with any pleasure."
" 0h," says he, "you my perhaps be good Catholics in time ; my business hero is to
convert. heathen; and who knows but I may convert you too?" " Very well, Father,"
said T, "so you will preach to us all the may?" "T will not. he troublesome to you."
says he; "our religion does not. divest us of good manners; insides we are here like
countrymen ; and no we are, compared Lo the place we are in g and if you are Hugueuola,
and I a Catholic, W9 my all he Christians at last; at least we are all gentlemen, and
we may converse so, without being uneasy to one anotlmr.". I liked this part of his
discourse very well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest that I had lei'c in Elm
Bmzila; but this Father Simon did not come up to his cllzu'acbor by a. great deal ; for
though Father Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity in him, yet, he had not
that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere afl'ection to religion, that my other
good ccclesiostic had.

Bub to leave him a little, although he never lci'c us, nor soliciting us to go with

351TRADING IN CHINA.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE CITY OF NAXKXN.

him; we had something else before us at (hat, for we had all this while our ship and
our merchanaisc to dispose of, rmd we began to he very doubtfixl what we should do,
for we were now in a place of very little business ; 9nd once I was about to venture
to sail fur the river of Kilmn. and the city of quuin; but Providence seemed now
more visibly, as T thoughh than over, to concern itsnlf in our uflllirs ; and I was
unchanged, from this very time, to think I should, one way or other, gen out of this
entangled circumstance, and 1m bmught- home to my own country again, though I had
not the least View of the manner. Providence, I say, begun here to clear up our way
a litl-'ne ; and the first hhing that offered was, our old Portuguese pilot; brought a Japan
merchant to us, who inquired what goods we haul; and, in the first place, he bought;
all our opium, and gave us a very good price for it, paying-us in, gold by weight, some
small pieces of their own coin, and' some in small wedges, of ahout ten or twelve ounces
23 353
 

each. While we were dealing with him for our opium, in come into my head that
he might perhaps desl for the ship, too, sud I ordered the interpreter to propose
it to him ; he shrunk up his shoulders at it, when it was first preposed to him;
but in a. few days after he came to me, with one of the missionnry priests for his
interpreter, and told me he had it proposal to make to me, which was this: he had
bought. a great quantity of goods of us, when he lml no thoughts of proposals made to
him of buying the ship ; and that, therefore, he had not money to pay for the ship ,-
hut if I would let the same men who were in the ship navigate her, he would hire the
ship to go to J apan; and would send them from thence to the Philippine Islands with
another loading, which he would pny the freight of before they went fi'om J npnn ; and
that) at their return he would buy the ship. I hogan to Baton to his proposal, and so
eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I could not but begin to entertain a
notion of going myself with him, and so to set sail from the Philippine Islands away to
the South Seas ; accordingly, I asked the Japanese merchant if he would not hire us
to the Philippine Islands and discharge us there. He mid no, he could not do that, for
then he could not have the return of his cargo 5 but he would (Recharge us in Japan,
at the ship's return. Well, still T was for taking him at that proposal, and going
myself; but my partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing the
dangers as well of the sees as of the Japanese, who are a false, cruel, and treacherous
people; likewise those of the Spaniards ut' the Philippines, more false, cruel, and
treacherous than they.

But to bring this long turn of our afi'airs to a conclusion; the first thing we had to
do was, to consult with the captain of the ship, and with his men, and know if they
were willing to go to Japan ; and while I was doing this, the young man whom my
nephew had left with me as my companion for my tnwels came to me, and told me that
he thought that voyage promised very fair, and that there was a. great prospect of
advantage, and he would be very glad if I undertook it ; but that it I would not, and
would give him leave, he would go as a merchant, or as I pleased to order him; that. if
ever he came to England, and I we there and alive, he would render me a faithful
account of his success, which should be as much mine as I pleased. I was really loth
to port with him; but considering the prospect of advantage, which really was consider-
able, and that he was A young fellow as likely to do well" ui it as any I knew, I inclined
to let him go; but I told him I would consult my partner, and give him an answer the
next day. My partner and I discoursed about it, and my partner made a most
generous offer: "You know it has been an unlucky ship," said he, "and we both
resolve not to go to new in it again 5 if your steward (so he called my man) will venture

'the voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him make the host of it ;
and if we live to meet. in England, and he meets with success abroad, he shall account
for one half of the profits of the ship's freight to us ; the other shall be his own"

Ifmy partner, who was no way concerned with my young nian,'1nade him such an
offer, I could do no less than ofl'er him the some ,- and all the ship's company being
willing to go with him, we made QVer half the ship to him in property, and took
a writing from him, obliging him to awonnt for the other, and away he went to J npnn.
The Japan merchant. proved a very punctual, honest- inen to him 3 protected him at
Japan, and got him a license to come on ehore, which the Europeans in general have
not lately obtained ; paid him his freight. very punctnully 5 went him to the Philippines,
loaded with Japan and China. wares, and a supercargo of their own, who, trafficking
with the Spaninn'ls, brought back European goods again, and e great-qrmntiiy of cloves

354CRllSOE PARTS \Vl'l'l--l THE SHIP.

 

and other spicee 3 and there he was not only paid his freight very well, and at a very
good price, but not being willing to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods
on his own account; and with some money, and some spices of his own which he
brought with him, he went back to the Mnnillas to the Spaniards, where he sold his
cargo very well. Here, having got a good acquaintance at Mauilla, he got his ship
made a. free ship, and the governor of Manills hired him to go to Acapulco, in America,
on the coast oi Mexico, and gave him a licence to land here, and to travel to Mexico,
and to pass in any Spanish ship ix.) Europe with all his men. He made the voyage to
Acapulco very happily, end there he sold his ship ; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bella, he found means, somehow or other, to get to
Jamaica. with. all his treasure ; and about eight- ymm al'ccrcnmc to England, exceeding
'rich ; of which I shall take notice in its place 5 in the meantime I return to our pm>>
titular afihirn

Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, it came before us, of course, to
consider what recompense we should give to the two men that gave us such timely
notice of the design against us in the river Cambodia. The truth was they had done
us a very considerable service, and deserved well at our hands ,- though, by the way,
they were a. couple of rogues too 3 for, as they believed the story of our being pirates
and that we had really run away with the ship, they came down to us, not only to
betray the design that was formed against us, but to go to sea. with us as pirates ; and
<<me of them confessed afierwx-ruln that nothing elae but the hopes of going a-roguing
brought him to do it ; however, the service they did us was not the less, and therefore,
as I had promised to be grateful to them, I first ordered the money to be paid them
which they said wns due to them on board their respective ships ; over and above that,
I gave each of them a. small sum of money in gold, which contented them very well ;
then 1 made the Englishmen gunner in the ship, the gunner being now made second
mate and pnrser ; the Dutchman I mule bontswsn'n; so they were both very well
pleased, anal proved very serviceable, being both able seamen, and Very stout fellows.

W e were now on shore in China: if I thought myself lxsnished, and remote from
my own country at Bengal, where I hml many ways to get home for my money, what
could I think of myself now, when I was got about a thoumnd leagues further off fron1_
home, and perfectly destitute of all nmnner of prospect of return? All we had for it
was this, that in about four months' time there was to be another fair at the place where
we were, and then we might be able to purchase all sort>>; of the umiiuflicturas of the
country, and withnl might possibly find some Chinese junhs or normals from Tonquin
that would be to he sold, and would carry us and our goods whither we pleased. This
1' liked very well, and resolved to wait,- besides as our particular persons were not
obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might have an
opportunity to load our goods, and get pmssge to some other place in India. nearer home
Upon tineee hopes, we resolved to continue hero; hut, to divert oun'wlves, we took two
-or three journeys into the country. First, we went ton (lnys'jonrneyto the city of
Nnnquin, at city well worth seeing, indeed ; they say it has a million of people in it ; it
is regularly built, the streets all exactly straight, and cross one another in direct lines.
which give>>: the figure of it great advantage. But when I come to compare the miser.
able people of these countries with ours, their fabrics, their manner of living, their
government, their religion, their wealth, and their glory, ns some cell it,I must confess.
that I scarcely think it worth my while to mention them here. It is very observable
that we wonder at the grandeur, the richer, the pomp, the ceremonies the govemment,

355
the mennllwlnres, the commerce, and conduct of chase people; not that it is to im-
wondered at, or,iudeod, in the least. to be Egon-led, but because, having u true notion of
the box-badly of those countries, the rudeness and the ignorance that prevail there, wedom
nnl. expect to find any such thing so far off. Otherwise, what are their buildings 60 the
palaces and royal buildings of Europe? What their trade to the universal commerce of '
England, Holland, France, and Spain? W'hnl. are leir cities to ours for wealth,
strength, gaiety ofeppnrel, rich furniture, and infinite vuriety'l What are their ports,
xupplied with a few junior and berks, to our navigation, our merchant fleets, our large
and powerful nm'iesl Our city of London has more trade than half their mighty
empire; one English, Dutch, or French mzm-ofiwur of eighty guns, would be able to
light almost all the shipping belonging to China; but the greatness of their wealth,
their trade, the power of their government, and the strength of their armies, may he a
little surprising to us, because, as 1 have said, considering them as e. barbarous nation of
Page", little better than snvsges,'we did not expect such thigs' among them 5 and this,
indeed, is the advantage with which all their greatness and power is represented to us ;,
otherwise, if. is in itself nothing at. all ; for what I have said of their ships may he said
of their armies and troops ; all the forces of their empire, though they were to bring
two millions of men into the field together, would he nble to do nothing but ruin the
country, and starve themselves, if they'wcre to besiege a strong town in Flanders,
or in fight a disciplined army; one good line of German cuiraaaiers, or of French
camlry, might withstand all the horse of China; a million of their foot would not>>
mind before one embattled body of our infantry, posted so as not to be surrounded,
though they were not to he one to twenty in number 5 nay, I do nob boast if I
ray that thirty thousand German or English foot, and ten thousand horse, well
managed, oould defeat all the forces or China. And so of our fortified towns, and
of the m of our engineers in aasaulting and defending towns ; there is not a
fortified town in China could hold out one month against the batteries and attacks
nf an Euinpoan army ; and, at the some time, all the armies of China could never
take such o town as Dunkirk, provided it was not starved; no, not in a ten years'
siege: They had lirwxrms, in is true, hul. they are awkward and uncertain in their-
going off; and their powder has but little strength. Their armies are badly disciplined,
and want skill in attack, or temper to retreat; and therefore, i must confess, it sccmol
Strange to me, when I came home, and heard our people say such fine things of
the power, glory, magniGCence, and trade or the Chinese; because, as for as T new,
they appeared to he a conlexuptible herd or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, sub-
jected to a government qualified only to rule such a people; and were not>> its
dixtunce inconoeivably great from Mnscnvy, and the Muncovibe empire in a manner
a>>; rude, impotent, and ill governed as they, the Czar of Mnscovy might with ease
drive them all out of their cmmlry, and conquer them in one campaign ; and haul
the Our (who is now a. growing prince) fallen this way, instead of attacking the
warlike Swedes, and equally improved himself in the art of war, as they say he has
done, and if none of the powers of Europe had envied or interrupted him, he might
by this time have been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the King of
Sweden at Narm, when the killer was not one to six in number. As their strength
and their grandeur, so their navigation, ennmmrce, and husbandry, are very imperfect,
compared to the some things in Europe; also, in their knowledge, their learning, and in
their skillin the sciences, they are either very awkward or defective, though they
have globe: or spheres, and a. smattering of the mathematics, and think they know more-

356
than all the world besides ; but they know liutle of the motions of the heavenly bodies ;
and no gros'dy and ahanrdiy ignorant are their common people, tied. when the sun is
eclipsed, they think a great dragon. has smulted it, and is going to run away with it ;
and they fall a cluttering with all the drums and keteles in the country, to fright the
monster envoy, just as we do to hive n swarm of been.

As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have mule in all the accounts II
hau'e given of my travels, so I shall make no more such ; it is none of my business, nor
any pars-of my design; hm to give an account of my own adventures through a. life of
inimitable wanderings, and u. long variety of changes, which, perhaps, few that. come
:afier me will have heard the like of 34 I shall thereibrc say very little of all the mighty
places, desert countries and numerous peoole, I have yet to pass through, more than
relates to my own story, and which my conuern among them make necessary.

I was now, as nem- as I can compute, in the heart of China, about thirty degrees
north of the line, for we were returned from Nnnquin. I had, indeed, a mind to see
the city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon importuned me
daily to do it At length his time of going avmy being set, and the other mimionnry
'who was to go with him being arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we should
resolve either to go, or not ; so I referred it wholly to my lei-trier, and left it wholly
tohis choice, who at length resolved it in the affirmative, end we prepared for our
journey. We set out with very good advantage, as to finding the way; for we goL
leave to travel in [he retinue of one of their mandamus, a kind of Viceroy or principal
magistrate in the province where they reside, and who take grout state upon them,
travelling with great attendance, and great homage from the people, who are someLimes
greatly impoverishul by the"), heing obliged to furnish provisions for them and nil
their attendants in their journeys. That which 1 particularly observed in our

travelling with his baggage, was this, that though we received. sufficient provisions
both for ourselves and our horse: from the country, as belonging ('0 Lho'nmndsrin, yet
we were obliged 60 pay for everything we lnul, alter the market price of the country.
and the umndxrin's steward. collected in duly from us; so that our travelling in the
retinue of the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to us, was not such a
mighty fixvour in him, but was a great advantage to him, considering there were above
'thirty other people travelled in Lhe 55mm manner heaida us, under the protection ol~
his retinue ; for the country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him, and yet he
tool: our money for them.

\Ve were twenty-five days travulling h) Pokin, through a pount-ry infinitely populous,
'bun I think badly cultivated ; the husbandry, the ccnnmny, and the way of living miser~
able, though they boast so much of the industry of the people ; I my miserable, if
compared with our own, but not so to these p001- wretches, who know no other.
The pride of the people is infinitely gl'lml', and exceeded by nothing but their poverty,
:in some parts, which adds to that which I call their misery ; and I numb needs think
:Lho native savages of America live much more happy than the poorer sort; of these,
because as they have nothing, so they desire nothing; whereas, those are proud and
insolent, and in the main are in many parts more beggar.) and drudgees; their ostentation
.is inexpresible; and, if they can, they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves,
which is to the lost degree ridiculous, as well an the contempt of all the world but
.thcmsclvfl.

1 must confess I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the deserts and vast. wilder-
menses of Grand Tartary than here, and yet the roads here are well paved and well kept,

35?
 

and very convenient for tmvellers ; but nothing was more awkward to mo than to see
such a. haughty, imlmrious, insolenb people, in the midst of tho smear-ht simplicity and

ignorance 5 and my friend Father Simon and I. used to be very merry upon these
occasions, to see the lnggarly pride of these people. For example, coming by the honsn

of a country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues oli' the city of'
Kenquin, we had first of all the honour to ride with the master of the house about two

miles; the state he rode in was a. perfect Don Quixotisin, being a mixture of pomp

mid poverty. Hia habit was very. proper for 9. maramonch, or merry-andrew, being a

dirty calico, with hanging sleeves, tnssels, and cuts and slashes almost. on every side: it.
covered a. tail'ety rest, as greasy am it butcher's, and which testified ulmt his honour must
be it most exquisite sloven. His horse was but a poor, starved, hobbling crcetum, 'and he
had two slaves followed him on foot to drive the poor creature along ; he had a whip
in his hand, and he helaboured the beast as fnso about the head as his slaves did about
the tail; and thus he rode by us, with about. ten or twelve servants, going from the-
city to his country seat about half a. league before us. We travelled on gently, but
[his figuro of 9. gentlemen rode away before us ; and as. we stoppnil at a village about
an hour to refresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great man, we saw him.
in a little place before his door, eating a repast. It was a. kind. of garden, but he was
easy to be seen ; end we were given to understand that. the more we looked at him the
better he would be pleased. He set under a. tree, something like the palmetto, which
ell'occually shaded him over the hood, and on the south side ; but under the tree was
placed it largo umbrellas which made that port look well enough. He sat lolling back
in a-great elbow-chair, being a. heavy, corpulenx. nun, and hail his meat brought him by
two women slaves. He had two more, one of whom fed the squire with n spoon, and the-
other held the dish with one hand, and scraped off what he let fall upon his worship's.
beau-cl and tnfl'ety vast.

Thus leaving the poor Wi'etch to please himself with our looking at him, as if wo-
admired his pomp, though we really pitieil end contemned him, we pursued our journey ;
only Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to inform himself what duinlies the counh')'

'justiee had to feed on in all his state, which he had the honour to taste of, and which
was, I think, a mess of boiled rice, with a. great piece of gnu-ho in it, and a. little 1mg-
fillod with green pepper, mnl another plant which they have there, something like our
ginger, but smelling like musk, and tasting like mustard ; all this was put together, and a,
small pieee of lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his worship'a repsst. Four or five
smants more attended a}; a distance, who we Supposed were to eat of the some after
their master.

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, ho was respected as a king, stir--
rounded. always with his gentlemen, and attended in all his appearances with such pomp,
that i saw little of him but at in distance. But this I observed, that. there was not a.
horse in his retiuue but that our carriers' packhorses in England seemed to me to look
much hettur ; though it wax hard to judge rightly, for they were no covered with
oquipagc, mantles, trappings, the, that we could source see anything but their Feet and
their heads as they went along.

I was new light-hearted, and all my trouble and pcrplexity that I have given an
account of being over, I had no anxious thoughts about me, which made this journey
the pleasant" to me 5 nor had 1' any ill accident attended me, only in passing 0r fording
a small river, my horse fell, and manic me free of tho country, as they coll ilk-that. is to
my, threw me in. The place was not deep, but it vetted me all over. I mention it

358ARRIVAL IN PEKIN.

because it spoiled my pocketbook, wherein I had set down the names of several people
and places which I had occasion to remember, and which not taking due care of, the:
leaves rotted, and the words were never after to be read, to my great loss, as to the
names of scum of the places I touched at in this journey. I

At length we arrived at Pekin. I had nobody with me hm. the youth whom my
nephew the captain hail given me to attend me as a servant, and who proved very trusty
and diligent; and my panner had nobody with him but one servant, who was a. kins-
insn. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the court, we bore his
charges for his company, and to use him as an interpreter, for he understood the
language of the councry, and spoke good French and a. little English; and indeed
this old man was in most useful implement. to us everywhere; for we had not been
above n week at Pekin, when he come laughing. " Ah, Seignior Ingleso," says he, "I
have something to tell will make your heart glen ." "My heart. glad," says I ; "WIN-i4
can chat he? I don't know anything in this country can either give me joy or grief
in any great degree." 'i Yes, yes," my>> the old man in hmken English, "make you
glad, mc sorry." "Why, said I, " will it make you sorry i" " Because," said he,
"you have brought me here twenty--five dnys' journey, and will leave me no go beck
alone; and which way shall. I get to my part drawer-dis, without a ship, without a.
horse, without pmxc?"----so he called money, being his broken Latin, of which he
had obundnnce to make us merry with. In short, he told us there was it great caravan
of Musmvite and Polish merchants in the oily, preparing to 521; out on their journey
by land to Muscovy, within four or five weeks 5 and he was sure we would take the
opportunity to go with (hem, and leave him behind to go back alone.

I confm I wasg'rcotly surprised with this good news. and had seams power to speak
to him for some time ; but all lost I turned to him. " How do you know this 'i " said
I : "ere you sure it is true?" "Yes," says he; " I moi: this morning in the street an
old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is among them. He came last from
Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin, where I formerly knew him, but has
shared his mind, and is now resolved to go with the camvan to Moscow, and so down
the river W'olga to Astrocnn." "Well, Scignior," says I, "do not he messy aliens
being left. to go back alone ; if this he 2) method for my return to England, it. shall be
your fault if you go back to Macao at all." We then went to consult together what
was to be done; and I asked my partnerwlwt he thought of the pilot's news, and
whether it would suit with his affairs? He told me he would do just as I would 3 for
he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left; his ed'eois in such good hands,
that as we had made a good voyage here, if he could invest. it in China. silks, wrought
and raw, such as night be worth the carriage, he would ho content to go to "England.
and then make his voyage hack to Bengal by the Company's ships.

Having, resolved upon this, we agreed Islmt if our Portuguese pilot would go with us,
we would hear his charges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleased ; nor, indeed, were
we to he esteemed over-generous in that eivhor, if we had not rewarded him further, the
service he had done us being really worth more than that; for he had not only been a.
piles to us {it sen, but he had been like a. broker for us on shore; and his procuring for
us the Japan merchnno was some hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted
together about it, and being willing to gmtify him, which was hub doing him justice,
and very willing also to have him with us besides, for he was a most 11%er man on
all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity of coined gold, which, as I compute it,
came to about one hundred and sevent alive pounds sterling, between us, and to bear all

359m.
sDEPARTURE FROM PEKlN.

his chargea, both for himself and horse, excent only a. horse to carry his goods. Having
settled this between ourselves we called him to let him know what we had resolved. T
told him he had complained of our being willing to let him go back alone, and I was
now about to tell him we were resolved he should not go back at all 5 that as we lwl
msolved to go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us; and
that we called him to know his mind. He shook his heed and said it wasa long
journey, and that ho had no pecan: to carry him thither, or to subsist himself when he
came there. "'8 told him we believed it. wag so, and thcrcfin'c we had resolved to do
something for him that should let him see how senoible we were of the ucrvice he had

' dune us, and also how agreeable he was to us; and then I told him what we had resolved
to give him here, which he might lay out as we would do our own ; and that as for his
charges, if he would go with ms we would not him safe on shore (life and casualties
excepted) either in Mnscovy or England, which he would, at our own charge, except
only the carriage of his goods. He received the proposal like a man transported, and
told us he would go with us over the whole world ; and so we all prepared for our
journey. However, as it was with us so it was with the other merchants ; they had
many things to do, and. instead of being ready in five weeks it was four months and
some days before all things were got together.

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out firom Pekin. My
partner and the old pilot had gone maprcss hack to the port whem we had first put in,
to dispose of game goods which we had left there ; and T, with a Chinese merchant
whom I had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pukin on his own nflhim,
went to Nanquin, where I bought ninety pieces office dainnsks, with about twohmulmd
pieces of other very fine silks of several aorbs. some mixed with gold, and had all these
hrought to Pekiu against my partnor'si return ; besides this, We bought a very largo
quantity of raw aillc, and some other goods, our cargo amounting, in these goods only, to
about three thousand five hundred pounds sterling ; which, ungether with be>>. and some
fine calico'es, and three cnmels' loads of nntnmgs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels
for our share, besides those we rode upon ; which, with two or three spare horses, and two
horses loaded with provisions, made us in short,twcnty-six camels and humesin our retinue.

The company was very great, and, us fur as I can remember, made between three
and four hundred horse, and upwards of one hundred and twenty men, very well armed,
and provided for all month; for as the Earhart: caravans are subject to be attacked by
the Arabs, so ure these by the Tartar: 3 bnt'they are not altogether so dangerous as the
Arabs, nor so her-harms when they prevail.

The company consisted of people of several nations ; but there were about sixty of
them merchants or inhabitants of Moscow, though of them some were Livonirms ; and
to our particular satisfaction, 'five of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of
great experience in business, and of very; good substance

\thn we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were five in number,
called all the gentlemen and merchants--that i>> to my, all Lhe pusengem except the
servants--('0 a great council, as they called it. At this council, every one deposited a
certain (pun-tit}! of money to a common stock, for the necesnry expense of buying fonigc
on the wily, where it \viLs not ntherwiae to he haul, and for satisfying the guides, getting '
horses, and the like ; and here they constitnm'd the journey, as they cull it, viz, they
named captains and ofiCers to drnw us All up, and give the word of command, in case of
an attack, and give every one their turn of command; nor was this forming 'u'u into
order any more than what we found noedful on the way, as uhull be observed.

' 361
The road all on this side of the country is very populous, and is full of potter: and
with--makers" that i3 to say, people that temper the earth for the China ware ; and as
I was coming along, our Portugal pilot, who had always something or other in any to-
make us' men-y, came snowing Lo me, and told me he would show me the greatest unity
in all the country, and Unit I should have this to my of China, after all the ill-humoured
things that I had said of it, than: I had seen One thing which was nor. to be seen in all
the world beside. I was very importunate to know what in was 5 at last he told me it
was a gentleman's house buiit with China ware. " W'ell," says I, "are not the materials
of their buildings the product of lheir own counbry? and so it- is all China ware, is it
not 1 " "No, no," aays he, " I mean it is a house all made of China ware, such <<2531):!
mil it in England, or as it is called in our country, porcelain." " Well," says 1,. " such
a. thing may ho. How big is it? Can we carry it in a box upon a camel? If we can,
"'0 will buy it." "Upon a camel l" says the old pilot, holding up both his hands 5,
<< why, there h; a family ol'thirLy people lives in it."

I was then curioua indeed, to see it ; hut whon I ca-Iue to it, it was nothing but.
this: it was a timber house, or a house built, as we call it. in England, with lash and
plaster; but all this plastering was rmllyClxiuu ware--that is to say, it was plastered
with the earth that makes China ware The outside, which the sun shone hot upon,
was glazed, and looked very well, perfexztly white, and painted with blue figures, es the
large Claim ware in England is painted, and hard as if it had been burned. A3 to the
inside, all the walls, instead of Wainscot, were lined with hardened mid painted tiles;
like the little square tiles we call galley-tiles in England, all made of the finest China,
and the figures exceedingly fine indeed, with exh'aordinary variety of coloum, mixed
wish gold, many tiles making but one figure, but joined so artificially, the mortnr being
made of the some earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles melt The floors of
the rooms were of the same composition, and as hard as the earthen floors we have in
me in several purl-3' of England ; as hard as stone, and smooth, but not burned and
painted, except some smaller rooms. like closets, which were all, as it. were, paved with
the same tile ; the ceiling and rdl the plmmiing work in the whole house were of the-
szune earth ; and, <<Tier aid, the roof was covered with tiles of the same, bus of a deep
shining black. This was a China. warehouse indeed, truly and literally to be called :50,
and had 1 not been upon the journey, I could have stayed some days tosee and examine-
Ll:e porticulars of it. They told me there were founmius and fislrponds in the garden,
all paved on the bottom smd sides with the name ; and fine statues setup in rows on the -
walks, entirely formed of the porcelain earth, and burned whole.

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be allowed to excel in it 3
but I am very sure they excel in their accounts of i: ; for they told me such incredible
things of their perforumnce in crockery-ware, for such itis, that I care not to relate, as
knowing it could not be true. They told mo, in particular, of one workman that 1mm.)
a. ship, with all its tackle, and masts, and sails in earthenware, big enough to carry fifty
men. Tl' they had told me he humchcd it, mid made a myuge to Japan in it, I might
have said something to it indeed : but as it was, I knew the whole of the gory, which
was, in nllorl}, asking pardon for the word, that the fellow liml ; so T. smiled, and said
nothing to it.

This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan: for which the leader of it "or
the day fined me about; the value of three shillings, and told me if it had been three
:lays' journey without the wall, as it was three days within, he must have lined me four'
times us much, and made me ask pardon the next council day. I promised to be more
362 'THE GREAT \N'ALL OF CHINA.
orderly ; and, indeed, I found ulteiwnrda the orders made for keeping all together were
absolutely necessary for our common safely. -

In two days more we passed the great Chino wail, made for a fortification against
the Tar-tars 3 and a. very great work it in, going over hills and mountains in a needless
track, where the rocks are impassable, and the predpioes Such as no enemy could
possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could hinder them.
They tell us its length is near a thousand English miles, but that tho country is five
hundred in n stmight measured line, which the wall bounds; without measuring the
windings and turnings it takes; it is about four fathoum high, and as many thick in
some placex.

I stood still an hour or chemabouts without trespaSSing our orders (for so long the
mnmn was in passing the gate), to look at it on every side, near and far ofi', T mean
what was within my view ; and the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it for
the wonder of the world, was mighty eager to hm? my opinion of it. I told him it was
a. most excellent thing to keep out the Tartan; which he happened not to understand
as I meant ify and so took it for a compliment ; but the old pilot laughed, " 0h, Seignior
inglese," says he, "you speak in colours." "In colours 2" mid I ; "what do you mean
by that l " " Why, you speak what looks white this way, and black that way--gay one
way, and dull another. You toll him it is a good. will W keep out. Taitum ; 'ou tell me
by that ibis good for nothing but to keep out Tartars. I understand you, Seiguior
lnglese, I undemtund you 3 but Seiguior China>> understood you his own way."
"Well," says; 1', "scignior, do you think it would stand out an army of our country
people, with a good train of artillery? ur om- engineem, with t-wo (xu'npnnies of miners?
\Vould not they hatter it down in ten days, that an army might enter in hattuliai or
blow it up in the air, foundation and all, that; there should he no sign of it left?"
" A y, ay," says he, "I know tho i" The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I mid,
and. 1 gave him leave to tell him a few days miter, for we were then almost; out of their
country, and he was to leave u>> u little time ai'wr this; but when he knew what i said,
he mus duinh all the rent of the way, and we heard no more of his fine story of the
Chinese power and greatness, while he stayed.

After we paged this mighty nothing, called a. wall, something like the Picta' wall,
so famous in Northumhorhmd, built by the Remains, we began to find the country thinly
inhabited, and the people rather confined to live in ibn-ified towns or cities, us being
subject-to the inroads and depiudotions of tho Tartan), who rob in great armies, and
therefore are not to be resisted by the naked inhabituuls of an open country. And here-
I. began to find the necessity of keeping together in a caravan as we tnwclled, for we-
snw scvcml troops of Tau-tars roving about 5 but when I came to see them distinctly, I
wondered more that the Chinese Empire could be conquered by such contomptiblo
follows; for they are a mom horde of wild follows, keeping no order, and understanding
no discipline or manner of fight. Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing,
and fit for nothing; and this we found the {inst day we saw them, which was after we
entered the wilder put of the country. Our leader for the day gave leave for about
sixteen of us to go a-huuting was they call if- g and what was this but hunting of sheep !
Howevel', it may he called hunting, too, for the creatures are the wildest. and swiflest of
foot- that; ever I saw of'their kind; only they will not run' a great way, and you are sure
of sport when you bagin the chase, for they appear generally thirty oi: forty in u. flock,
and, like true sheep, always hoop together when they fly.

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our imp to meet with about forty Torlmw,

363
 

 

 

THE GREAT WALL 0V CHXNL.

Whether they were hunting mutton, as We were, or Wuethar they looked for another
"kind of prey, we know not ; but as soon as they saw us. one of them blew a kind of
how) very loud, but with a barbarous wand that I had never heard before, and, by me
way, ncvm'cam to hear alga-in. We an supposed leis was to call their friends; about
them, and so it was; for, in less than ten minuhxg a. troop of forty or fifiy more
appaawd, at about a mile distance 5 but our work was over mat, as it. happened.

One of tho Seats merchant of Moscow happened to be amongst us and as soon as
he heard the horn, he told [u shaf- we had nothing to do but. to charge them immo-
fliMely, without loss of time ; and drawing us up in a line he asked if we were resolved.
We WM him we were ready to follow him ; so he rode directly towards them. The)"

364
stood gazing at us; like a. mere crowd, drawn up in- no order, nor showing the face of any
order at all ; but as soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows, which, how-
ever, missed us, very happily : it. seems they mistook not their aim, hut-their distance ;
for their arrows all fell a littleshort of us, but. with so true an nim, that had we been
about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several man wounded, if not killed.

Immediately we halted, and though it was at a great distance, we fired, and sent.
them lcoden bullets for wooden-arrows, following our shot full-gallop, to {all in among
them sword in hand--for so our bold Scat. that led us directed. He was, indeed, but a.
merchant, but he behaved with such vigour and Maven! on this occasion, and yet with
.such cool courage too, that I never saw any man in act-ion fitter for command. As soon
as we came up to them, we fired our pistols in their faces, and Lhen drew ; but. they fled
in the greatest confusion imaginable. The only stand any of them made was on our
right, where three of them m1, and, by signs, called the rest to come back to them,
having a kind of scimitsr in their hands, and their bows hanging to their hacks Our
11mm commander, without. asking anybody to follow him, gallops up close to them, and
with his fusee knocks one of them oli' his horse, killed the second with his pistol, and the
third ran away; and thus ended our fight 5 but we haul this misfortune attunding it,
that all our mutton we had in chase got away. We had not :1 man killed or hurt ,- but
as for tho Tin-tars, their: were about five of them killed ; how many were \vouudml we
knew not ; but this we knew, that the oiher party were 510 frightened with the noise of
mu- guns, that they made off, and never made any attempt upon us

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the Tartars were not
.su hold as afterwards ; law in about five days we entered a vast, great, wild (10%":
which held us three days and nights' march ; and we were obliged to carry our water
'with us, in great leather-n bottles, and to encamp ail night, just as I have heard they
do in the desert of Arabia.

I asked our guides whose dominion this was in, and they told me this was a. kind of
border, that might be called no man's land, being n. part. of Great- Knmkathy, or Grand
Tarts ry ; that, however, it was all reckoned as belonging to China, but that. there was no
-carc taken here to preserve it. from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned
the worst desertl in the whole march, though we were to go over some much larger.

In passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful to me, we saw, two or
three times, little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed V) be upon their own ailhirs,
and to have no design upon us 5 and so, like the man who met the devil, it they had
nothing to soy 1'7) us, we had nothing to say to them : we let: them go. Oncc, however,
a party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us : whether ii. was to consider
it" they should attack us or not, we knew not ; but when we had passed at some d'Lstnnce
by them, we made a rear-guard of forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the
caravan pass half a mile or {marathons before us 5 but after a while they marched ofi' ,'
only we found they saluted us with five arrows at their parting, which wounded a horse
so that. it. disabled him, and we left him the next day, poor creature, in great need of a
good fui'i'icr: they mlglll', shout more arrows, which might fall short of u}; ; but we
saw no more arrows or Tartar; that time,

We travelled near a month after this, the ways not being so good as at first, though
still in the dominions of the Emperor of China, but lacy for the most part in the villages,
some of which were fortified, because of the incursions of the Tin-ms. mien we were
come to one of these towns (it was about two days and a holf's journey before we came
to the city of Naum), I wanted to buy a camel, of which there are plenty to be sold all

366ATTACKED BY TARTARS.

 

the way upon that road, and horses also, sun}: as they are, because, so many caravans
coming (but way, they are often muted. The pardon that I spoke to to gel: mo a camel
would have gone <<ml fetched one for me, bol- I, like a fool, must he ofiicious, and go
myself along with him; the place wsw about two miles out of the village, where, it
seems, they kept the camels and horses feeding, under a guard.

I walked it on foot, with my old piiot and a. Chinese, being very desirous of a little
variety. W'heu we came to the plane, it was a. low marshy ground, Walled round with
a stone wall, piled up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a pork, with a halo
guard of Chinese soldiers at the door. Having boght a camel, and agreed for the price,
I came away, and the Chinese man that went with me led the camel, when on a sudden
came up five Tartar: on horseback, Two of tlmm seized the fellow and final: the camel
from him, while the other three stepped up to me and myold pilot, seeing ws, an it) were,
unarmed. for I. had no weapon about me but my sworn], which could but ill defend me
against three horsemen. The first thai came up stopped short upon my drawing my
sword, for they are in mint cowards 3 but a. second, coming upon my left, gal ve me a blow
on the bend, which I never felt; till allerwards and wondered, when 1 came to myself,
what was the matter, and where I was, for he laid me flat. on the ground; but my
never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (30 Providence, unlocked for, directs clclivemnces
from dangers which to us are unforeseen), lmxl n pistol in his pocket, which I knew
nothing of, nor the Tartan: either; if they had, I suppose they would not have almchcd
us ; but cowards are always boldest when there is no danger. The old man seeing me
down, with a. hold heart stepped up to the fellow that head struck me, and laying huhl of
his arm with one hand, And pulling him down by main force a little towards him, with
the other shot him in the head, and laid him dead upon she spot He then iunnerlisml_-,-
Stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I said, and before he could come forward
again, made a. blow at him with m Scimitar, which he aIWnys wore, but "fusing the num,
struck his horse in the side of his head, (rut one of the cars 06' by the root, and a great
slice down by the side of his fawn. The poor beast, em'dgud with the wound, was no
more to be governed by his rider, though the fellow nut well enough too, but away he
flow, and mrricd him quite out oi'the pilot-'1; reach ; and at some distaucn, rising upon
his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and foil upon him.

In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who haul lmb the camel, but he haul nu
weapon ; however, seeing the Tartar down, and his horse fallen upon him, away he
runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, some?
thing like a poleaxe, but not in polenxc neither, he wreuchorl it from him, and made
shift to knock his Tartarimi brains out with it. But. my old man had the third Tartar
to deal with still ; and seeing he <<lid not fly, as he expected, nor come on to fight him,
as he apprehended, but stood stock still, the old man stood still D00, and fell to work
with his (<<ch19 to charge his pistol uguin ; but, as soon as the antur saw the pistol,
away be secured, and lee'z- my pilot, my champion I called him afterwards, a complete
victory.

By this time T was a little recovered ; for I tlmughl, when 1 first began to walla,
that I had been in 'a sweet sleep ; but, as I said almvo, I. wondered where I was, how
1 come upon the ground, and what was the matter ,2 but a few moments after, as senxe
returned, I feh- 5min, though I (Rid not know where ; so I clapped my hand to my hand,
and took it away hlmxly ; than I felt my head ache ; and than in a moment memory
returned, and everything was present to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly,
and got hold of'my sword, but no enemies were in View ; 1 found a Tartar lying Good,

367
and his horse standing very quietly by him 3 and, looking further, l amw my champion
and dcliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had done; coming back with his
hunger in his lmlnl. The old man, seeing me on in}! feet, came rimming to mo, and
embraced me with n great deal of joy, being nfmid bofm-u that I had been killed ; and
seeing me bloody, wo..ld see how I was hurt 5 but it was not much, only what we call
fl. broken head ; neither did I afterwards find any great inconvenienco from the blow,
for it was well again in two or three days.

"'9 made no great gain, however, by thin victory, for we lost a camel and gained a.
, horse. But that which was remarkable, when we came back to the village, the man
demanded to be paid for the camel ,' I disputed it. and it was hronght to a hearing
before the Chinese judge of the place To give him his due, he acted with :i great deal
of prudence and impartiality 5 and, having henn'l both sides, he gravely asked the
Chinese man that went with me to buy the camel, whose servant he was? "1 am no
xermni," says he, " but went with the strangen" " Atwhose request 3" says the justice.
" At the stranger's request," says he " W by, then," says the justice, " you were the
stranger's sermnt for the time ; and the camel being delivered to his servant, it was
delivered to him, and he must pay for it"

I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to soy ,' hut, admiring to am
such just reasoning upon the consequence, and an accurate stating of the case, T paid
willingly for the camel, and sent for mother; but, you nmy observe, I did not go to

fetch it myself nnv morn, For I had had enmgh of that.
The city of Naum 18 a frontier of the Chinese Emniie; they call it fortified, and so

it is, as for tifications go them; for this I will venture to affirm, that all the Tari'ars in
Kmnhachay, which, i believe, are some millions could not batter down the walls with
their bows and arrows 3 but to call in strong, is" it were attacked with cannon, would be
to make those who understand it laugh at you.

We wanted, as I have said, above two days' journey of this city, when messengers
were rent express to every part of the marl to tell all tmvollms and caravans to halt
till they had 9, gum-d sent for them ; for that an unusual body of antang making
Lon thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the city.

This was very had news to travellers ; however, it was carefully done of the
governor, mid we were very glad to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly, two
days after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our
left, and three hundred more from the city of Nmnn, and with these we advanced
boldly ; the three hundred xoldiers fi'om Naum marched in our front, the two hundred
in our rear, and our men on each side of our camels, with our baggage, and the whole
caravan in the centre ; in this order, and well prepared for battle, we thought muselves
a. match for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tamale, if they had appeared ; but the next
dfll', When they did appear, it was quite another thing.

It was early in the morning, when marching from a well-situated little town, called-
Clm-ngu, we had 0. river to pass, which we were obliged to furry ; and, had the Tartan
had an) intelligence, then had been the time to lune attacked us, when the caravan
being OVEI, the near guard was behind; but they did not appear there. About three
hour 5 afier, when we were entered upon a. desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles orei,
behold by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an enem)r was at hand: and they were at.
hand, indeed, for they came on upon the spur.

The Chinm, our guard in the front, who had talked so big the day before, began to
slayer , and the soldiers frequently looked behind them, which is s_ certain sign in n.

368m l

FLIG
soldier that he is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of my mind ; and being
near me, called out: " Seignior Inglae," says he, "those fellows must be encouraged, or
they will ruin us all ; for if the Tartan come on, they will never stand it." " I am of
your min ," says I; "but what must he done?" "Donel" seys he, "let fifty of our
men advance, and flunk them on each wing, and encourage them, and they will light
like brave fellows in binvo company; but without this, they will every man turn his
boo ." Immediately, I rode up to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our
. mind; and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right wing, and fifty to the lefis, and.
the rest made a line of rescue ; and so we marched, leaving the last two hundred men
to make a body by themselves and to guard the camels,- ouly that, ifnced were, tlioy
should send a hundred men to mist the last lift-y.

In aword, the Torture came on, and on innumerable company they were; how-
nmny we could not tell, but ten thousand, we thought, was the least ; a party of them
came on find, and viewed our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our
line ,: end, as we found them within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them a. salvo on each wing with their shot, which was done ;
and they went off; I suppose back, to give on account of the reception they were
like to meet with ; and, indeed, that salute oloyed their stomachs, for they immediately
halted, stood awhile to consider it, and wheeling off to' the left, they gave over their
design, and said no more to us for that time ; which was very agreeable to our cir-
cumstances, which were but very indifi'oront for a. battle with such a number.

Two dayu after, we came to the city of N 9.1m, or Nauin : we thanked the governor
for his. care of us, and collected to the value of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts,
which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us ,- and here we rested one day This.
is a garrison indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here 5 but the reason
of it. was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them than they now do,
the .Vlusoovitcs hm-ingabsndonod that part of the country, which lies fi-om this city
west for about two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit for use; and more especially-
being so very remote, and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence 3 for we were
yet above two thousand miles from Musoovy, properly so called.

After thin we passed several great riveis, and two dreadful deserts ,- one of which
we were sixteen days passing over, and which, as I said, was to be called no mflll'g.
land ; and, on the 13th of April, we come to the frontiers of the Mnsooviee domi--
niona. I think the first town or fox-trees, whichever it may be called, that belonged
to the Gear of Mimovy, was called Arguna, being on the weal; side of the river Arguiia.

1 could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so soon arrived in, as.
I called it, 9. Christian country, or, at least, in a country governed by Christians ; for-
though the ){usoovites do, in my opinion, but just deserve the meme of Christians, yet-
xucli they pretend to be, and are very devout in their way. It would certainly
occur to any man who travels the world as I have done, and who had any power of
reflection, 'wlmt a blcsing it is. to he brought into the world where the name of God
and a Redeemer is known, adored, and worshipped ; and not where the people, given
up by Hunter: to strong delusions, worship Llie devil, and plow-ate themselves to
stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped animals, and statues or
images of monsiom. Nototowu or city we passod through but had their pagodas,
their idols, and their temples, and ignorant people worshipping even the works of their-
own hands Now we come whore0 at least, a. face of the Christian worship appeared ;
where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and whether ignonmtly or not, yet the Christian

37degTllE MUSCOVITE DOMXNIONS.

religion was owned, and the mnno of the true God wns called upon and adored; and
it made my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the bnwe Scots merchant I mentioned
above with my first acknowledgment of this ; and taking him by the hand, I said to
him, " Blamed he God, we are once again among Christian." He smiled and answered,
"Do not: rejoice too soon, countryman; these hluscovim are but an odd sort of
Christians ; and llllli for the name of it, you may see very little of the substance for
some months ficrther of our journey." "Well," says I, "but still it is hotter than
paganism and worshipping of devils." "Why, I will tell you," toys he, "except the
Russian soldiers in the garrison, and a. few of the inhabitants of the cities upon the
road, all the rest of this country, to: show! a thousand miles further, is inhabited by
the worst. and most ignorant of pagans." And so, indeed, we found it.

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if I understand
anything of the surface oi' the globe, that is to be found in any part of the world;
we had, at least, twelve thousand miles to the sea, eastward,- two thousand to tho
bottom of the Baltic Sea, westward; and above three thousand, if we loll that sen,
and went on west, to the British and French channels: we had full five thousand
miles to the Indihn or Persian See, south ; and about eight hundred to the Frozen
Sen, north. Nay, if some people may be believed, there might be no son north-east
till we come round the Pole, and consequently into the northwest, and so had a conti-
nent of land into America, the Lord knows where ; though I could give some reasons
why-I believe that>> to he a mistake.

As we entered into the Muacovite dominions a good while before we came to any
considerable towns, we had nothing to observe there but this : first: that all the rivors
run to the east; as I understood by the charts, which some in our caravan had with
them. it was plain all those rivers non into the great river Ynmour, or Gamour ; which
river, by the natural course of it, must run into the East Sen, or Chineee Ocean. The
story they tell us, that Lhe mouth of this river is choked up with huh--ashes of a monl
strous growth--viz, three feel: about, and twenty or thirty feet high--I must he allowed
to say, I believe nothing of it ; but, as its navigntion is of no use, heusuxso there is no
trade that way, the Tartan, to whom it alone belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle, no
nobody that ever I hoard of has been cur-ion>> enough either to go down to the mouth
of it in boots, or come up from the mouth of in in ships, as for as I can find ,- but this is
certain, that this river running cast. in the latitude of about 50 degrees, carries a vast
concourse of rivers along with it, and finds an ocean to empty itself in that latitude ;
so we are Sum of sea there.

Some league: to the north of this river, there are several considerable rivers, whose
streams run- as due north on the Yomonr runs east, and those are all found to join
their waters with the grout river Tartarus, named so iron: the northernmost nations of
the Mogul firms; who, as the Chineso any, were the first Tarts-rs in tho world ; and
who, as our geographers allogo, are the Gog and Magog mentioned in sacred history,
These rivers running all northward, as well as all the other rivers I am yet to speak
of, make it evident that the Northern Ocean bounds the lands also on that side 5 so
that it does not seem rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself to
join with America on that side, or that there is not a communication between the
Northern and Fostmn Ocean ,- but of this I shall any no more ; it was my observation
at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this place.

We now admnced from the river Argus. by easy and. moderate journeys, and were
very visibly obliged to the core the Cmr of Muscm'y has taken to have cities and towns

<<7'

.3:built in as many places as it is powible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison,
something like the stationary soldiers placed by the Romans in the remotest countries
of their empire; some of which 1 had read of were placed in Britain, for the security
of commerce, and for the lodging of travellers : and thus it was here 3 for wherever we
came, though at these towns and stations the gorrisnns and governors were Rusians
end professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were mere pagans ; sacrificing to idols,
and worshipping the sun, moon, end stars, or all the host of heaven ; and not only so,
but were, of all the heuthens and pagans that ever I met with, the most barbarous,
except only that they did not eat men's flesh, as our savages of America did.

Some instances of this we met within the country between Argunn, where we enter
the Muscovite (lominions, and a. city of Turners and Russians together, milled Norwi-
onsky, in which is a. continued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel
over. In a village near the last of these places, I had the curiosity to go and see
their way of living, which is most hmfish and ineufi'erable. They hurl, I suppose, a
great sacrifice that day; for there stood out, upon an old stump of a, tree, an idol made
of wood, frightful as the devil ; at 1mm, as anything we can think of to represent the
devil can be made 5 it had n head not resembling any creature that the world ever sew;
ears as hig as goaty' horns, and as high; eyes as big as a crown piece ,- o nose like a.
crooked rom's horn, and a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion, with hor-
rible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill : it was drained up in the filtlxiest manner
that you could suppose; its upper garment wee of sheep-skins, with the wool outward ;
a. great Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through it: it was about
eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, nor any other proportion of parts.

This scarecww was set up at the outer side of the village ; and when I came near
to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures--whether men or women I could not
tell, for they made no distinction by their habits--ell lying flat upon the ground round
this fomiidable block of shapolcss wood ; I saw no motion among them, any more than
if they had been all logs of wood, like the idol, and at first I really thought they had
been so 3 but when I came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised a
howling cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away, as if
they were displeased at our disturbing them. A. little way 011' from the idol, and at the
door of a. tent or hut, made all of sheep-skins and cow-skins dried, stood three butchers
---I thought they were such when I came nearer to them, for I found they had long
knives in their hands; and in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and
one young bullock, or steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that eenseles log of an
idol ; the three men were priests belonging to it, and the seventeen prostmled matches
were the people who brought the oifering, and were mining their prayers to that stools.

I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish worship of a hobgoblin
than ever I was at anything in my life,~--to see God's most glorious and best creature, to
whom he had granted so many advantages, even by creation, shove the rest of the
works of his hands, vested with n reasonable soul, and that soul adorned with faculties
and capacities adapted both to honour his Maker and to be honoured by him, sunk and
degenerated to a degree so very stupid was to prostrate itself to st frightful nothing, a
mere imaginary object dressed up by themselves and made terrible to themselven by
their own oontrivanco, adorned only with olonts and rage,-----und that this should he the
efi'eot of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself, who,
envying his Maker the homage and adoration of his creatures, haul deluded them into
such sordid and brutisli things as one would think would shock Nature itself!

372 -
 

But what. @nified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts? And thus it
was, and I saw it, before my eyes, and there was no room to wonder at iii, or think
in impossible; all my admiration turnod to rage, and I rode up to tho iumgo or
monster--call it what; you willmond with my sword made a stroke at the bonncu
that was on its head, and cut it in No; and one of our men that was with me
took hold of the sheepskin that. covered it, and pulled at ix when, behold, a. moss
hideous outcry and howling ran through the village, and two or three hundred people
came about my ears, so that I was glad to scour for it, for we saw some had some bows
and arrows ; hull wsolved fi-mn tint. moment to visit. them again.

Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about four miles 00', in
order to provide some homes which they wanted, several of the homes having Been
lamod and jaded with the hadnesa of the way and long march over the last desert;
so we had some leisure here to put my design in <<mention. I communicated it
to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of whose courage I had sufficient testimony; I
told him what I had seen, and with what indignat'on I had since thought. that
human nature could be so degenerate; I told him if I. could gel; hut- four or live
men wall armed to go with me, I was rcmlvcd to go and ilivslmy that vile, abomi--
nable idol, and let them see that it had no power to help itself, and consequently
could not he an object of worship, or to he pmycd to, much less help them that ofiered
sacrifices to it.

Illa laughed at me; says he, "Your zaal "my be good, but what do you propose
to yourself 'by it?" "Propose!" said 1', " to vindicate the honour of God, which is
insulted by this dovihworship." " But how will. it, vindicate the honour of God,"
said he, "while the people will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to that", and tell them so? and then they will fight- you, and beat
you, too, I assure you; for they are clmnmte fellows, and that especially in defence
of their idolatry." " Can we not" said I, "do it in the night, and then leave them the
reasons and the causes in writing in choir own language?" "Writing 1" said he ;
" why, there is not. a man in live nations of them that kuowsanything of a letter, or how
to read a word any way." " Wretched ignorance ! " said I to him ; " however, 1 have
a great mind to do ll; ; perhaps uni-um may draw inferencea from iL to them, to let them
see how brufish they are to worship such horrid things." "Look you, sir," acid he;
"ifyour zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you must do it ; but, in the next place, I
would have you consider these wild nations of people are subjected by force to the Czar
of Musicovy's dominion ; and if you do this, it is ten to Ono but Lhcy will come by thou-
sands to the governor of Nerfsinslmy and demand satisfimtion ; and if he cannot give
them snt-ial'xcbion, it. is ton to one but. they revolt, and it will occasion a new war with
all the Tartar: in the country."

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my hand for awhile; but I bar-pod upon tho
some string still ; and all than day I was; uneasy to put my project: in execution.
Towards the evening, the Scots merchant met me by accident in our walk about the
town, and dwired to speak with me. "I believe," said ho, "I have put you oi? your
gmd dwign. l have boon a little concerned about it since, for I abhor idolatry as much
as you can do." "Truly," said I, " you have pui, oil' a little tho execution of it; 5 but
you have not put it out of my thoughts, and I believe I shall do it before I quit this
pluco, though I were to be delivered up in them for satisthction." "No, no," said he ;
" God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of monsters! They shall not do
that; either; that would be murdering you, indeed." " Why," said I7 " how would they

373
 

_ use me 2" "Use you !" said he ; "I'll tell you how they served a poor Russian who
admnted them in their worship just as you (lid, and whom they tool: prisoner, offer
they had lamod him with an. arrow that he could not run away. They tool; him and
stripped him stark naked, and set him upon the top of the idol-monster, and stood all
round him, and shot as many arrows into him as would stick over his whole body 5 end
then they burned him, and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the idol."
"And wxs this the some idol 3" said I. " Yes," raid he, " the very same." " Well,"
said I, " I will tell you a. story." So I related the story of our men at Madagascar, and
how they burned and sucked the village there, and killed man, woman, and. child, for
their murdering one of our men,just as it- is related before , and I added that I thought
we ought to do so to this Village

He listened very attentively to the story 5 but when I talked of doing so to that
village, mid ho, " You mistake very much ,- it was not this village--it was almost a
hundred miles from this place 5 but it was the same idol, for they carry him about in
proeowion all over the country." " Well," said I, " than that idol ought to be punished
for it 5 and. it shall," said I, " if I live this night out."

Tn a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and told me I should not go
alone, but he would go with me, but he would go first and bring a stout fellow, one of
his countrymen, to go also with us ; "and one," said he, " as famous for his zeal as you
can desire any one to be against such devilish things as there." In a. word, he brought me
his comrade, e Scotsman, whom he called. Captain Richardson ; and I gave him a full
account of what I had seen, and also what I intended ; and he told me readily he would
go with me if it cost him his life. So we ngrccxl to go--only we three. I had, indeed,
proposed it to iny partner, but he declined it. He said he was ready to resist me to
the utmost, and upon all occasions, for my defence 5 but this was on ndventnre quite
out of his way ; so, I say, we resolved upon our work, only we three and my man--
servant, :md to put it in execution that night about midnight, withnll the secrecy
imaginable.

However, upon second thoughle, we were willing to delay it till the next night,
because the caravan being to set forward in the morning, we supposed the governor
iguld not pretend to give them any autiefucbion upon us when we were out of his power.
{he Scots merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enterprise as bold in executing,
brought. me a Turter's robe or gown of sheep-skins, end a bonnet, with a bow and
arrows, and hail provided the name for himself and his countrymen, that the people, if
they saw us, should not determine who we were.

All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter, with aqua. vitae,
gunpowder, and such other materials as we could get ,' end having a. good quantiey of
tor in a little pot, about an hour after night we set out upon our expedition.

We come to the place about eleven o'clock on night, and found that, the people had
not the least jealousy of (longer attending their idol. The night was cloudy 5 yet the
moon gave no light enough to see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place
that it did before. The people seemed to be all at their rest ; only thee in the great
but or tent, as we called it, where we saw the three priests, whom we mistook for
butchers, we saw a light, and going up close to the door, we heard people talking as if
there were five or six of them; we concluded, therefore, that if we eel. wildfire to the
idol, these men would come out immediately, and run up to the place to rescue it from
the destruction that we intended for it ; and whet we intended to do with them we
knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away, and setting fire to'it at a distant>>;

374THE TARTAR IDOL DESTROYEIJ.

 

 

but when we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our carriage 3 so we were at
a loss again. The second Scomumn was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and knocking
the creatures that were there on the heed when they come out; but I could notjoin
with that; I was against ln'lling them, if it were possible to avoid it. "Well, then,"
.seye the Scots merchant, " T will tell you what we will do : we will try to unite them
prisoners, tie their hands, and make them stand and see their idol destroyed."

As it happened, We had twine or puck--thread enough about us, which we used to tie
our firolochs together with 5 so we resolved to attul: these people first, and with
:a; little noise as we could. The first thing we did we knocked at the door, when one oi
the priests coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped his mouth, and tied
his hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where we gagged him that he might not
make a. noise, tied his feet alno together, and left him on the ground.

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would come out to see
'what the mutter was ,' but we waited so long till the third. man came back to us ; and
than nobody coming out, We knocked again gently, and immediately out mine We more.
and we served them just in the same manner, but were obliged to go all with them, and
lay them down by the idol some distance from one another; when, going back, we
found two more were come out to the door, and a. third stood behind them within the
door. We seized tho two, and immediately tied them, when the third, stepping back
and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after them, and taking out at composition we
hm} made Chet would only smoke and stink, he set fire to it, and throw it in among
them. By that time the other Scoteman and my man, taking charge of the two men

already bound, and tied together also by the arm, led them away to the idol, and lefo
them there, to see if their idol would relieve them, making haste back to us.

When the fnrze we had thrown in had filled the but with so much smoke that they
were almost eufl'ocatul, we then threw in a. small leather bag of another kind, which
flnmed like a candle, and fiillowing it in, we found there were but four people, and, as
we supposed, had been about some of their diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in
short, frightened to death, at least so as to sit trembling and atupid, mid not able to
spank either for the smoke.

In (L word, we tool: them, hound them as we had done the other, and all without
any noise. I should have said we brought them out of the house or hut first; for
indeed we were not able to bent the smoke any more than they were When we had
done this, we carried them all together to tho idol; when we come there, we fell to work
with him; and first we dnuhod him all over, nnd his robes also, with tar, and such other
stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed with brimetoue ; than we stopped his eyes, and
ems, and mouth full of gunpowder; then we wrapped up A great piece of wildfire in his
bonnet ; ma than sticking all tho'combustibles we had brought. with us upon him, we
looked about us to see if we could find anything else to help to burn him 5 when my
Scotsman remembered that by the tout or hut, where the men were, there ltty u heap of
dry forage, whether atmw or rushes I do not remember ; away he and the other Scots-
man ran and fetched their arms full of that. When we had done this, we took all our
prisoners, and brought them, having untied their feet and ungngged their mouths, and

made them stand up, and set them before their monstrous idol, and than sot fire to the
whole.

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or theimbouts, till the powder in the eyes.
and mouth, and ears of the idol blow up, and. as we oould perceive, had split and
deformed the shape of it ; and, in a word; till we saw it burned into a mere block or log

37$CRUSOE AND THE TARTAK IDOL.CRUSOE AND I'ARTY IN TARTAKY.

of wood 3 and setting dry forage to it, we found it would be soon quite consumed; so
we began to think of going away ; but the Scotsman said, " No, we must not; go, for
these poor deluded wretcheg will all throw themselves into the fire, and burn them-
selves with the idol." So we resolved to stay till the forage was burned down too, and
then come away and left them.

After the foal, was performed, wt: appeared in the morning among our fellow.
tluvellers, exceedingly busy in getting really for our journey 5 not could any mar.
a {gust that; we had been anywhere but in our hcfls, as travellers might be snppoxzecl to
be, to fit themselves for the fatigue: of the day's journey.

But the affair did not eml <<n ; the next day came a. great number of the country
people to the town gates, and in 11 most; Outrageous manner demanded satisfaction of
the Human governor for tlm insulting their priests, and burning their great Chan) Chi--
Tlmungu. The people of Nox'bzinskay were at first in a. great comternmion, for they
said the 'l'arlmrs were already no loss than thirty Lhonsand strong. The Russian
governor sent out memngers to appease them, and gave them all the good words pos-
sible 5 assuring them that he knew nothing of it, and that there had not a. soul in bi?
garrison been abroad, so that it could not be from anybody there; but, if they ooulth

377
 

let him know who did it, they should be exemplerily punished. They returned haughtily,
'Lhut all the country revereneed the great Clmm Chi-Thoimgu, who dwelt in the sun, and
no nun-ml would have dared to oll'er violence to his image but some Christian miscreent 5
and they therefore resolved to denounce war against him and all the Riminns who,
they Mid, were miscreants and Christians.

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to have any cause of
war alleged to be given by him, the Czarhnving strictly charged him to treat the
conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave them still all the good words he
could. At last; he told them there was a. caravan gone towards Russia. that morning,
and perhaps it was some of them who had done them this injury; and that if they
would he satiefied with that, he would send after them to inquire into it. This seemed
10 appease them n little; and accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a.
particular account how the thing was,- intimating withal, that if any in our caravan hed
<<clone it, they should make their escape ; but that whether we had done it or no, we
should make all the haste forward that was possible; and that, in the meantime, he
would keep them in play as long as he could.

This was very friendly in the governor ; however, when it came to the caravan,
there was nobody knew anything of the matter ; and as for us that were guilty, we were
least of all suspeewl. However, the captain of the caravan for ,tho timeq took the hint
that the governor gave us, and we tiuvelled two days and two nights without any con.
.siaerehlo stop, and then we lay at e village called Plotlum ; nor did we make any long
stop here, but hastened on towards J nmwenn, another of the Cur of Muscovy's colonies,
and where we expected we should be safe. But upon he second day's march from
Plothus by the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance, some of our people began
to be sensible we were pursued. We had entered a great desert, and had passed by a-
great lake called Schaks Oser, when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on
'the other side of the lake, to the north, we travelling west. "'0 olmervecl they wentaway
west, as we did, but had supposed we would have taken that side of the lake, whereas
we very happily tool: the south side ; and in two days more they disappeared again : for
they, believing we were still before them, pushed on till they came to the river Udda, a
very great river when it [wees farther north, but when we came to it we found it narrow
and fordable.

The third day they had either found their mistake or had intelligence of us, and
came pouring in upon us towards the duel: of the evening. We had, to our great antis.
fiction, just pitched upon a place for our camp, which was very convenient for the night;
for as we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that was above live
inn-wired miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but. the
city Jornwena, which we had yet two days' march to; the desert, however, had some
few woods in it on this side, and little rivers, which mu all into the great river Uddn ;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick woods, that we pitched our little
camp for that night, expecting to be attacked before morning.

Nobody knew but ourselves what we weie pursued for : but as it was usual for the
Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that desert, so the caravans always form}
themselves every night gninst them, as against armies of robbers ; and it was therefore.
no new thing to he pursued.

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most advantageous camp 5
for we lay between two woods, with n little rivulet running just before our front, so that
we could not be surrounded, or attacked any way but in our front or rear. We took

378PURSUED BY THE TARTARS.

 

care also to make our front as strong as we could, by pinning our packs, with our camels
.nnd horses, all in a line, on the inside of the river, and felling some trees in our rear.

In this posture we encmnpnd for the n'ght ; but the enemy was upon us before we
had finished. They did not come on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent three
mosengcxs to us, to demand the men to he delivered to thorn that had abused their
priests and burned their god Chem ChLThnungu with fire that they might burn them
with fire ; and upon this. they said, they would go away, and do us no further harm ;
otherwise they would destroy us all. Our men looked very blank at this message, and
began to store at one another to see who looked with the most guilt in their focus ; but
nobody was the word--nobody did it The leader of the caravan sen: word he was well
assured that it was not done by any of our camp 5 that we were peaceful merchants
travelling on our businws; that we had done no harm to them or to any one elHe ; and
that, therefore, they must look further for their enemies who had injured them, for we
were not the people 3 so he desired them not to disturb us, for if they did we should
defend ourselves.

They were {air from being satisfied with this for an answer; and a. great crowd of
them came running down in the morning, by break of day, to our camp ; but seeing us
in such an unaccountable situation, they durst come no farther than the brook in our
front, where they stood, and showed us such a. number that indeed terrified us very
much ; for those that spoke least of them spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood and
looked at us awhile, and then setting up a great howl, they lel.' fly 1:. crowd of arrows
among us; but. we were well enough fortified to): that, for we sheltered under our bog-
gage, and I do not remember that one of us was hurt.

Some time after this we saw them mow a little to our right, and expected them on
the rear : when a cunning fellow, a. Cossack of J ainwena, in the pay of the Mnsoovims,
calling to the leader of the caravan, said to him, " I'll go send all these people may to
Sibeilkn." This was in city four or five dnys' journey at least to the right, and rather
behind was. So he takes his bow and arrows, and getting on howelnlck, he rides away
from our rear directly, as it were back to Nortzinskny 3 after this he mime a great
circuit about, and comes directly on the army of the Terrors, as if he had been sent
express to tell>> them a long Mry that the people who had burned the Chmn Chi-
Thaumgu were gone in Siheilka, with a. caravan of miscimnts, as he called thcmmthut
is to say, Christina : and that they had resolved to burn the god Schnl-Isnr, belonging
to the Tonguoses.

As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke their language, he
cmuii'rerfeiled so well that they all believed him, and away they drove in a. most violent
hurry to Sibeiikn, which, it seems, was five days} journey to the north ; and in less than
three hours they were entirely out of our sight, and We never heard any more of them,
nor whether they went to Siheilkn or no. So we pmnd away safely on to Jamwona,
where there was at garrison of Muscovites, and there we rested five days ; the caravan
being exceedingly fatigued with the last day's hard march, and with want of rest in the
night.

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us twenty-thine dnys' march.
'Wc furnished ourselves with some tents here, for the better accommodating ourselves in
the night 5 and the leader of the caravan procured sixteen. carriages or wagons of the
country, for carrying our water or provisions 5 and thine mrriages were our defence
every night round our little comp : so that had the Tartan; appeared, unless they had
been wrv mimomus indeed, they would not have been able to hurt us>>

379(lNstDi. C5955..." THE I'M-"EXT IN TARTAR'LTHE TONGUESE NATION.

 

We my well be supposed to llS-ve wanted. rest again after this long journey,- for in
this desert we neither saw bmme nor tree, and ammo a bush. ; though we saw abundance
of the sable hunters, who are all Tartan of the Mogul Tartar-y, of which this country
is a pm ; and they frequently attack small emvnns, but we saw no numbers of them
together.

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well inhabited; that
is to say, we found towns and mules, settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrison of
stationary soldiers, to protect tho cars-vans and defend the country against the Tenors:
who would otherwise make it very dangerous travelling ,' and his cznrish majesty has
given such strict orders for the well guarding the cnrnvnns and merchants, that, if them
are any Tartan: heard of in the oountry, delachmemts oe' the garrison are always sent to
see the travellers safe from station to station. And thus the governor of Adinslroy.
whom I has] an opportunity to make a Visit to by means of the Seats merchant. who
was acquainted with him, offered us a guard of fifty inen, if we thought there was any
(hunger, to the next station

I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe we should find the
country better inhabited, and the people more civilised; but I found myself mistaken in
both _: for we had yet the nation of the Tonguesos to pass through, where we saw the
sauna tokens of paganism and harbor-ii; as before ; only, as they were conquered by the
)Iuscovites, they were not so dangerous 5 but for rudeness of manners and idolatry, no
people in the world ever went beyond them ; they are clothed all in skins; of beasts, and
their houses are built; of the same ; you know not a, man from a. woman, neither by the
ruggedness of their countenauces not their clothes 3 and in the winter; when the ground
is covered with snow, theyr live underground in vaults, which have cavities going from
one lo another.

If the 'l'nrturs had their Chan: ChivThaungu for a. whole village or country, these
had idols in every hut- and every care : besides, they worship the stars, the sun, the water,
the snow, and, in a word, everything they do not understand, and they undersnmd but
very little 5 so thnt every element, every uncommon thing, sets them sacrificing. l met
wiL'n nothing peculiar myself in all this country, which I reckon was, from the desert I
spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of il. being another desert, which took us
up twelve days' severe travelling, without house or tree 5 and we were obliged again to
carry our own provisions, as well water a>> bread. After we were out of this desert, and
had travelled two days, we came to Jammy, a Muscovite city, or station, on the great
river Janezay, which, they told us there, parted Europe from Asia.

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in the )Iuscovite
garrisonn All the country between the river Oily and the river Jammy is as. entirely
pagan, and the' people as barbarous, as the remotcsl. of the Tartnrs _; nay, as any
nation, for ought I know, in Asia or American I also found, which I observed to the
Jiuscovito governors whom I had an opportunity to converse with, that the poor
pagans are no!- much wiser, or nearer Christianity, for being under the Musmvitc
government, which they acknowledged was true enough ; but that, as they said, was
none of their business; that if the Czar expected to convert his Siberian, Tonguese, or
Tartnr subjects, it should be done by sending clergyman among them, not soldiers ; -
and they added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it- wns not
so much the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as it was to
make them indirect:-

From this river to the great river Oby, we missed 'a wild, uncultivated country,

381barren of people and good management; Otherwise it isinitself a most plcnsnnc, fruitful,
and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans, except
such as are sent among them from Ronda; for this is the country--1 mean on
both sides the river Oby--wbithcr the Muscovite criminals that are not put to
death are banished, and from whence it is next to impossible they should over got away.

I have nothing material to any of my putticular affairs bill I come to Tobolsld,
the capital city of Siberia, where I continued some time on the following account

We had. now been almost. seven months on our journey, and winter began to
come on npace ; whereupon my partner and I called a council about our particular
affairs, in which We found it proper, as we were bound for England, and not for
Moscow, to consider how to dispose of oursclwss They told us of sledgea and
reindeer to carry us over tho know in the winter time; and, indeed, they have such
things that it would be incredible to rclntc the particulars of; by which moans the
Russian>> travel mom in winter than they can in summer, a>>: in these slcdges they
are able to run night and day; the wow, being frozen, is one universal covering to
Nature, by which the bills, vale}; rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as n.
stone, and they run upon the surface, without any regard to what is underneath.

But I had no occasion to urge a. winter journey of this kind: I was bound to
England, not to Moscow, and my route lzly two ways: either I must go on as the
caravan wont, till I came to Joroslmv, and then go ofl' west for Norm, and the Gulf of
Finlsnd, and no on L0 Douche, where I might possibly sell my Chino cargo to good
advantage ; or I must leave the caravan at. a little town on the Dwinn, from whence

' I had but six days by water to Archangel, and from thence might be sum of
shipping either to England, Holland, or Homburgh.

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been preposterous;
fbr as to Dnntzic, the Baltic would have been frozen up, and I could not get>>
passage; and to go by land in those countries was far loss safe than among the
Mogul Tutors; likewise, to go to Archangel in October, all the ships would be gone
from thence, and cven the merchants who dwell there in summer rotirc south to
Moscow in the Winter, when the ships are gone 5 so that I could have nothing but
extremity of cold to encounter, with s. scarcity of provisions, and must lie in an
empty town all the winter ; so that, upon the whole, I thought. it, much my hector
way to. let the caravan go, and make provision to winter where _I was, a1. Tobolski,
in Siberia, in the latitude of about sixty degrees, where I was aura of three things
to wear out a. cold winter with--viz, plenty of provisions, such as the country
aflbrdod, a warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent company.

I was now in quite a. diiTerenl. olimte from my beloved island, where I never
felt cold, except when I had my ngue ; on the contrary, I had much to do to bear
any clothes on my bank, and never inado any fire but without doors which was
necessary for dressing my food, doc. Now I had three good vests, with huge robes
or gowns over them, to hang down to the feel, and button close to the wrists;
and all these lined with fun-3, to make them auflicicntvly worm.

As to a worm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way in England of'
making fires in every room in film house in open chimneys, which, when the fire
was out, always kept the air in the room cold so the climote ,- bnt. inking on
apartment in a good house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a.
furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like a stove ; the funnel to carry the
smoke went up one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and all the

383WINTER IN TOBOLSKI.
moms were kept. equally warm, but. no fire soon, just as they heat the hagnios in
England. By this means we haul always the aame climate in all the rooms, and on
final hoot was preserved ;_nnd how cold SDBVeI' it was without, it- weus always warm
within; and yet. we saw no fire nor were ever ineommoded with smoke.

The most; wonderful thing of nil was, that it should be possible to meet with
good company here, in 9. country so bin-humus as that of the most northerly parts.
of Europe, near the Frozen Ocean, within but :1 very few degrees of Nova. Zemhlu.
"But this being the country where the state criminals of Muscnvy, an I observed
befm-o, are all banished, this city was full of nobleman, gentlemen, soldiers, and
tom-tiers of Muscovy. Here was the famous. Prince Galitzin, the old General
Robostiski, and several other persons of note, and some ladies. By means of my
&ots merchant, whom, neverthelcm, T parted with here, I mode an acquaintance
with normal of thaw gentlemen; and from "these, in tho long winter nights in which
I stayed here, I received soveml very agreeable visits.

in was talking one night with Prince , one of the banished ministers of
shite belonging to the Czar of Muscovy, that. the discourse of my particular case
begun. He had been telling me abundance of fine things of the greatness, the
magnificence, the dominions, and the absolute power of the Emperor of the Russinns 2
l iuMi-nrpted him, and told him I, was a greater and more powerful prince than
ever the Czar of Moscow was, though my dominions were not. no large, or my people
w many. The Russian grandee looked it little surprised, and, fixing his eyes steadily
upon me, began to wonder what I meant. I told him his wonder would cease
when I had explained myself. first, I told him I had absolute disposal of the
lives and fortunes of all my subjects; that notwithstanding my absolute power, 1
had not- one person disailhcmd to my government, or to my person, in all my
dominions. He shook his head at that, and said, there, indeed, I outdirl the Czar
of MuscoV'y. I told him that all the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all
my subjects were not only my tenants, but tenants at will ; that they would all
fight for me to the last drop; and that nos-er tyrant, for such I acknowledged
myself to be, was ever so universally beloved, and yet so horribly feared, by his
subjects

After amusing him with these riddles in government for a while, I opened the
case, mid told him the story at large of my living in the island ,- and how I
managed both myself and the people that were under me, just as I have since
minuted it. down. They were exceedingly taken with tho sbory, and especially tho
prince, who told me, with a sigh, than the true greatness of life was to be masters
of ourselves; that he would not. have exchanged euch a state of life an mine to be
Cm of )'Iuscovy 3 And that he found more felicity in the retirement he seemed to
be banished to there than ever he found in the highest authority he enjoyed in
the court of his master the Czar 3 that the height of human wisdom was to bring
our tempers down to our circumstances, and to make a Calm within, under Lin)-
wc-ight of the greatest storms without. When he came first hither, he said he used
to tear the hair from his head, and the clot-hes from his back, as others had done
before him; but a little time and consideration had made him look into himself, as
well as round him, to things without: that he found the mind of man, if it was
but once brought to reflect upon the state of universal lifo, and how little this
World was concerned in its true felicity, was perfectly capable of making a felicity
for itself, fully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own best ends and desires,

383
 

with but very little assistance from the world. Tho air in breathe in, food to fluvial!)
life, clothes for warmth, and liberty for exercise, in order to health, completed, in
his opinion, all that the world could do for us; and though the greatness, the
authority, the riches and the pleasures Which some enjoyed in the world, had much
in them that was agreeable to us, yet all those things chiefly gratified the com-sest
of our affections, such as our ambition, our particular pride, avarice, vanity, and
sensuality; all which, being the mere product of the worst part of mm, were
in themselves crimes, and had in them the seeds. of all manner of crimes,- but
neither were related to, nor concerned with, any of those virtues that constituted
ns wise men, nor of those graces that distinguished u>> as Christians: that being
new deprived of all the fancied felicity which he enjoyed in the full exercise of
all those vices, he said he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of them,
where he found all manner of deformity; and was now convinced that virtue
only makes a man truly wise, rich, and great, and preserves him in the way
to a. superior happiness in a. future state; and in this, he said, they were more
happy in their banishment than all their enemies were, who hnd the full possession
of all the wealth and power they had left behind them. "Nor, sir," says he, "do
I. luring my mind to this politically, fiom the necessity of my circumstances, which
some cull miserable; but, if I know anything of myself, I would not now go back,
though the Czar my master should call me, and reinstate me in all my former
grandeur; I say, I would no more go back to it than I believe my soul, when it
shall he delivered from this prison of the body, and has lmd a. taste of the glorious
state beyond life, would come back to the gaol of flesh and blood it is now enclosed
in, and leave heaven, to trail in the dirt and crime of human ull'zm's."

He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so much earnestness and motion
of his spirits, that it was evident it was the true sense of his soul ; there was no room
to doubt his sincerity. I told him I once "nought myself a. kind of monarch in my old
station, of which I had given him an account; but that I thought he was not only a
monarch, but a great conqueror; for he that had got. a victory (worlds own exorbitant
desires, and the absolute dominion over himself, he whose reason entirely governs his
will, is certainly greater than he that conquers a. city. " But, my lord," said I, "shall I
take the liberty to ask you a. question?" "With all my henrt," snys he. "If the
door of yocrliberty was opened," said I, "would you not take hold ofit, to deliver your-
mlf from this exile?" " Hold," said he 5 " your question is subtle and requires som ~
serious, just distinctions to give it a. sincere answer 5 and 1'. will give it you from tin:
bot-tom of my heart. Nothing that I know of in the world would move me to deliver
myself from this state of banishment, except these two: first, the enjoyment of my
relsiious ; and, secondly, 9. little warmer climate ; but I protest to you, that to go back
to the pomp of the court, the glory, the. power, the hurry of n minister of state 3 the
Wealth, the gnioty, and the pleasures of n courtier ; if my maeter should send me
word. this moment that he restores me to all he banished me PSrom, I protest, il'I know
myself at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts, and these frozen lakes,
for the palace at Moscow." " But, my lord," said I, " perhaps you not only are banished
from the pleasures of the court, and from the power, authority, and wealth you enjoyed
before, but you may be absent, too, from some of the conveniences of 1ti : your estate,
perhaps, confiscated, and your effects plundered; and the supplies left you here may
not be suitable to the culinary demands of life." " A37," says he, " that is as you sup-
pose me to be 8 lord, or o. prince, no. ; so, indeed, I am 3 but you are now to consider

384CRL'SOL ARRIVES A? TOHOLSK.
me only as a man, a human unanime, not at all distinguished from another ; mnl so 1
can suffer in) want, unless I should be visited with sickness and dixhompers. However,
in put the question out of rlispnia, you see our way of life: we 3m in this place, five
persons of rank ; we live perfectly ram-ml, :13 suited to a state ofhanishmcnt>> ; we have
something rescued from the shipwreck of our fox-Limes, which keeps us from tho more
noccssiby of hunting for our food ; but. the poor soldiers, who are here \Vibhout Llni-l; help,
live in as much plenty as we, who go in the woods and catch snlhlos and foxes ; the
labour of a month wiil nmiuisin (hem nycar ; and as the way oi'li'ring is not: expensive,
so it is not hard to gut sufficient for ourselves. So that object-ion is out of doors."

I how: not room to give a full amount of the most growl-la convemntian I had
will: this truly great man ; in all which he showed that his mind was so inspired with
a superior knowledge of l-llings, so supported by religion, :25. well as'hy a. vast shore of
wisdom, that his contempt of the world was really 9.3 much as he had oxpraSSech and
that he was always the smun to film last, as will appear in the odor; 1 on: going to
tell.

T had been here nght months, and a dark, dreadful. winier I thought; il. ; the cold
so intense Lhau- 1 could noL so much as look abroad without being wrapped in furs,
and 3, mask of fur before my face, or rather a hood, with only n halo for breath, and
two for sight: the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for three months not
nlmve fire hour>> a day, and six at most 5 only that, the snow lying,r on the ground con-
tinually, and the \rm'her being clear, it wua never quite dark. Our homes were kept,
or rather slurred, under ground 5 and as. for our servant-s, whom We hired here to look
after ourselves and horses, rm haul, every now and than, their fingers and fines to thaw
and tnhe care of. last. they should mortil}, and hill oli'.

IL is true, WLL in doors we were warm, the hoaxes being close, Lhe walls think, the
lights small, and the glass all double, Our food was chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and
cured in the season; bread good enough, but baker] as biscuits 5 dried fish of several
sorts, and, some flush of mutton and of huflhloee, which is pretty good 111an All the
shows of provisions for the winter are laid up in the summer, and well cured : our
drink was water, mixed with Su'illH-Vllie instead of bmmly ; and for a. treat, mead inalcml
of wine, which, however, they have very good. The hunters, who venture abroad all
weathers, frequcmly brought us in fine venison, and sonmlimes bear's flmh, but. we did
not much care for the lmu We had a. good stock of ten, with which we treated our
friends, anal we lived. vex almnrl'nlly and well, nil things considered.

It was now March, the days grown considerably longer, and the weather at least
tolerable ; so the other travellers began to prepare slmlges to car , lem over the snow,
84in to gel. things really to be groin"; but my measures being il.\ l, us I have said.
for Archangel, and not for Musoovy or the Ball-i I math: no motion 3 knowing very well
that the ships from the south do not set out for that purl: of the world till May orJuuu ;
and that. if I was there by the beginning of Anguish, it. would he as soon as any ships
would be manly toga away ; :mdthcrcfnm I run/1e no hassle to be gone, :13 others dial : in a
Word, I mw a great many people, mgr, all the travellers, go army before me. It. seems
every year they go from thence 2.0 Musco'ry for trade, to carry furs, and buy neccsmrics,
which they bring hawk with them to furnish their shops : also others went on the some
errand ('0 Archangel ,' but; then they all being to come back again nlaovo eight hundred
miles, went out before me.

In the manhh of May J. hogan to make all ready to pack up; and, as 1 was doing

. this, it occurred to we that, seeing all these people were banished by the Czar of Mus-
386l'lllfl RUSSlAN _PSXILE.
navy tn Siberia, and yet, when they came there, were left at libert-gxr to go whither they
would, why they did not then go away to any part of the world, whomvor theythought
fit; : and I began to examine what .should hinder them from mnkixw such an attempt.
Buinny wonder was over when T entered upon that subject. with the person I have
mentioned, who answered me thus: " Consider, first, sir," said he, "the place' where
we are 5 and, seconcllv, the condition we are in 3 especially the generality of the people
who are buuizched luil'alnzr. We are Hul'rmlmli'xl with stronger things than bars or bolts ;
an the nm-Lli side, on ummvigebfe ocean, where ship never sailed, and boat never swam _:
every other my we have above 9. thousand miles to pass through Lin; Cmr's own
doxninions, and by ways "Lterly impassable, except by the roads made by the Govern-
ment, and through the towns gnrrisoned by his i'vl'oopfi ,- so that we could neither puss
undiscovered by the road, nor subsist. any other Why ; so that it is in. vain to attempt it."

I was silenced, lullew], :Li. once, and found tlw': they were in a prison every jot; as
necure as if they had been locked up in the while at Moscow : however, it came into
my thoughts that 1 might. cei unly be maolo an insflrumcuc to procure the escape of
this excellent person; and that, whatever hazard I ran, I would certainly (-r ' ifI would
carry him ofl'. Upcn this, 1' tool; an occasion, one evening, to 1.0.11 him my thoughts 1
represented to him that. it. was very tangy-for me to carry him away, there being no guard
over him in the country ; and as .T was not; goi g to Moscow, but to Archangel, and
that I went in the retinue of n caravan, by which I was not; obliged to lie in the
suwionnry towns in the desert, but could encamp every night when: I would, we might
easily pass uninterrupted (n Amhangel, where I. would immediately secure him on
board an English ship, mid eqrry him safe along with me ; and my to his subsistence and
other particulars, it should be my care. Lill he could better supply himself:

He heard me very attentively, sud looked ez'vl'lififll-ly on me all themhile I spoke :
my, I could see in his very face that n-'lu'n'u l said put hi; spirits into an exceeding
ferment. ; his enlmir frequent: changed, his e_ :5; locked red, and his hemL fluttered, till
it might be even perceived in his 0 Lennnce ; nor could he immediately answer me
when T hail (lime, and, 5:5 it were, dated What. he. would say toil: : but, after he had
paused a. little, he embraced mo; and snid, " Haw unhappy are we. unguarded creatures

 

 

    

 

 

 

no we are, that ever. our grentosn nets of friendship are made snares unto us, and we are
made tenipfers of one another i My dear friend, .L'id he, " your offer is so alncm'e, has
such kindness in it>> is m rlisiutereoind En itself, and is so calculated for my ml vantngo, that I
' lelmowledge ofuheworld il'T did noL both wonder at it and acknowledge
the obligation l have upon me to you for in But aid you hell v: I was care in wlnu- T.
have often said to you of my contempt of the wand l Did you believe I spoke my very
soul to ymi,,:m<l leL T lmd really obtained that degree or fi~lieity here that, had placed
me above all that the mid could give me 2 Did you believe I was sincere when T told you
1 would not go back, if 1 was 'ecalicd even to bezoll that) I (mm was in the court, with the
favour 01' the Czar my master? Did you believe me, my friend, to he an honest man?
or (lid you believe me to be a how, dug hypocrite?" Here he stopped, as if he would
hear what I would any ; but, indeed, I soon after perceived that he slowed because his
spirits were in motion, his grant lmm'i. was full of struggles and he could not {:0 on. I
was, I confos astonished at- the thing as wall as at the man, and I used some argu-
ments with him to urge him to set himxelf free 3 that lie ought to look upon this
ns 3 door opened by Heaven for his deliverance. and a xuinmonn by Providence, who
has the care and (lispox-tllex of all events, to do himself good, and to render himsell
useful in the world.

 

 

 

 

387
m* 5--._.._.., ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_CKUSOIZ AND THE RUSSIAN H'KllJ'.

He had by this time rwovercd himself. "How do you know, sir," says he,
warmly, "but that, insireud of a summons from Heaven, it may he a. faint of another
instrument; representing in alluring colours w me the show of felicity asst. deliver-
mm, which may in itself lm my 3mm; and bend IlireL-Lly to my ruin? Here, I am
free from the temptation of returning to my former mixerahle greatness; there,
I run not sure but that all the seeds of pridoo ambition: avarice, and luxury; which
I know remain in nature, may revive and take root, and, in a. word. aq-iin overwhelm
me; and than the happy prisoner, whom you see now mastnr of bias soul's liberty,
shall be the miserable slave of his own senses, in the full enjoyment, of all personal
libeflgn Dear sir, let me remain in this blessed confinement, lmlfixlled from the
crimes of life, mtlmr than purclmc n show of freedom at the expense of the liberty of
my reason, aml 31!. blue future happinesx which 1 now lmva in my View, but shall then,
I fear, quickly lose sight of; for I nm but flesh ; a. 1mm, n mom man ;- have pmaions
and allocljmm as likely to possess and overthrow me as any mm]. 0h, be not my friend
and tempter both together I" -

388TUE RUSSIAN'S REQUEST.

If I was aurprisod before, I want quite dumb now, and stood silent, looking at him.
and, indeed, admiring what I saw. The snuggle in his soul was so grout that, though
the weather was extremely cold, it put him into a. most violent swat, and I found he
wanted to give vent to his mind ,- so I said u, word or two, that I would leave
him to consider of it; and wail; on him again, and than I withdraw to my own apnrl>>
ment.

About two hours after, I hoard somohotly at or near tho door of my mom, and I was
going to open the door, but he had opened it, and come in. " My dear friend," guy; he,
"you. had almost overuet me, but T am recovered. Do not Lulu: it. ill that I do not
close with your oll'er. I assure you it is not for want of sense of the kindness of it in
you ; and I came to nuke the most sincere acknowledgment of it to you ; but I hope I
have got the victory over myself." " My lord," said 1, "I hope yen m-c'fully autixliod
that you do not resist the call of Hmvcn." "Sir," will he, "if it had been from
Heaven, the some power would hnve influenced me tO-lISVG accepted it ; but 1' hope, and
am fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven that I decline it, and I have infinim
satisfaction in the parting, that you shall leave me an honest. man still, though not it
free man."

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions to him of my having no
and in it but a sincere desire to serve him. He embraced me very passionately, and
assured me he was sensible of that, and should always acknowledge it ; and with that,
he ofi'ered me a very fine present of unbles--laoo much, indeed, for me to accept
from a men in his; circumstances, and 1 would have avoided them, but he would not be
refused.

The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship with a small present of tea,
and two pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of J npnn gold, which did not all
weigh above six ounces or thereuhoule, but were for short ot'the value of his snblcs, which,
when I came in England, I found worth nmr two hundred pounds. He accepted the
ten, and one piece of the damask, and one of the pieces of gold, which had a. lino slump
upon it, of the J upon coinage, which I found he took for the rarity of it, but
would not take anymore: and he sent word by my servant that he claim-d to speak
with me.

When I came to him, he told mo I. knew what had passed betwaen us, and hoped
I would not move him any more in that hill-air ; but that, aince I made such a generous
oli'or to him, he asked me if i had kindncas enough to offer the some to mother penwn
that he would name to me, in whom he hurl it great shore of concern. I told him that I
could not say I inclined to do so much for any but himself, for whom I had a. particular
value, and should have been glad to have been the instrument of his deliveiuuce ; how-
ever, if he would please to name the person to me, I would give him my answer. Ho
told me it was his only eon ; who, though I had not seen him, yet was in the some condi-
tion with himself, and above two hundred miles from him, on the other side of the Oby;
but that, if I consented, he would send for him.

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it>> 1 made some ceremony in letting him
understand that it was wholly on his account 3 and that, seeing I could not prevail on
him, I would show my roepect to him by my concern for hi3 son 5 but these things am
too tedious to repent here. Ho sent the next day for his son 5 and in about twenty days
he came back with the messongor, bringing six or novon horses, loaded with very rich
furs, which, in the whole, amounted to a very great Value. Ilia eervsmto brought the
horses into the town, but left the young lord at; a. distance till night, when he came

389
incognito into our apartment, and his father presented him to me,- mrd, in show, we
concerted tho umnner of our travelling, and everything propcr {hr the journey.

I had bought. a. consiulenthle quantity of snblcs, black fox skins, line ermines, and
such other furs as are very rich in that city, in exchange for some of the goods I had
brought from China, ;_ in particular, for the cloves; and mil-mega, of' which I sold the
gmahm. purl: lmre, flutl the rash-oilern-nrds at Archangel, {hr 9. much better price tlvm l
could have got at. London 5 and my partner, who was sensible of the profit, and whosn
lmsinerss more particularly than mine, was merchandise, was mightily pleasml with our
stay, on account of the t-milic we made here. '

It wss. tln: beginning of June whenI left this remooe place ; n, cityt I believe, little
heard of in the world; and, indeed, it is so Err out of the road of commerce, that I
know not how it should be much talked of. ""e were now reduced to a. wry small
caravan, having only thirty-film horses and wmehs in all, and all of them passed for mine,
though my new great was proprieior of eleven of them ; it was most natural, also, that I
shenxhl take more servants with me'thnn I had before 5 and the young lord passed for
my steward ; what great man 1 passed for myself. I know not, neither (lid it concern
me to inquire. W e had here the womb and the longest desert to pass over that we met,
with in our whole journey 3 T call it the worst because the way was Very deep in some
places, and very nnoven in othem ; the best we him! to say for it was, that we thought
we had no "troops of 'l'm'tms or robbers to fear, and that they never came on this side
tho river Oliy, or at least very seldom 3 but. we found it other-wish

My young lax-(l had a faithful Siberian servant, who was perfectly acquainted with
the country, and led us by private roads, so that we :wof<ie<l coming into the principal
towns anal cities upon the great road, finch s3 Tux'ncn, Soloy Kamskoi, and several
others ; because [ha Mnseovim garrison; which are kept there are very curious and
strict in their observation upon travellers, and searching lost any of the banished pmnons
ol'note should make their escape that way into l'lchm'y ; but, by this means, as we
were kept- out of the cities, :30 our whole journey was a desert, and we were obliged to
encomp and lie in our touts, when we might have had very good accommodation in the
cities on the "my ; this the young lon'l was so sensible of that- he would not slow us to
lie abroad when \ve'cmue to several cities on the way, but l:u._v abroad himself; with his
sorvunt, in the woods, and met us always at tho appoinmd places.

"'0 lmcljusu entered Europe, lmvi ng passed the river Kama, which in these parts is
the boundary between Europe and Asia, and the first cit-y on the European side was
called Soloy Kamskoi, which is as much as to say, the grout cit-y on the river Kama;
and here we thought to we uome evident alteral-ion in the people ; but. we were mix
taken ; for as we had a vast desert Lo pans, which L4 near seven hundred miles long in some
places, but not above two hundred miles over where we passed it, so till. we camo past
that horrible place, we found Very lit-tie dili'erence between that. country and the Mogul
Tommy 5 the people are mostly pagans and little better than tho swagevs of America 5
their houses and towns full or idols, and their way of living wholly lmrbumlvg except. in
the cities, and the villages near them, where they are Christian-z, as Lhoy call them-
selves, of the Greek Church, but have their religion mingled with so many relics of
superstition that. it is scarce to be known in some places from more sorcery and witch-
craft.

Tn passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must (after all our dangers were, to our
imagination, escaped) have been plnmlerod and robbad, and perhaps murdered, by a
troop of thieves ,2 of what country they were, I am yet ova loss to know; but they

390ROBBERS IN THE WOOD.

were all on horseback, carried bows and m'mwfi, and were at first about- l'orly--live in
number; they came so near to us as to be within two musket-shots, and, asking no
quesfionr, surrounded us with their horses, and looked very earnestly upon us twice; at
length, they placed themselves just in our vmy ; upon which we drew up in a. little line,
before our camels being not above sixteen men in all ; and, being drawn up thus, we
halted, and sent out the Siberian servant, who attended his lord, to see who they were ;
his muster was. the more willing to let him go homuso he was not a little apprehensive
that they were a Siberian 'l-L'flfip sent out after him. The man wine up nearer them
with a flag of truce, and called to [hem ; but though he spoke several of their languages,
or dialects of languages rather, he could not. undemland a word they said ; however,
offer some signs to him mil; to come near them at his peril, the fellow came back no
wiser than he went ; only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some
Tartan: of Knlmuck, or of the Circassiun howling and that there must be more oft/hem
upon the great desert, though he never heard that any of them were seen so far north
before

About an hour after, they again made a. motion to attack us, and rode round our
littlc wood to sue where they might break in ; lmL finding us always ready to face them,
they went ofl' again 5 and we resolved not to stir for that night.

This was small comfort to us 5 how-own; we had. no remedy ; lem was, on but left
hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little grove, and very nmr the road; I
ixnmcdiutnly resolved we should advance to those levees, and. fortify ourselves as well as
we could there ; for, first, I considered that the firms would in a great measure cover us
from their arrows; and, in the next plume, they could not come I.>> charge ua in a. body ;
it was, indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who proposed it, and who had this cxccllcncy
attending him, that he was always readicst and must apt to direct and encourage us in
cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately, with what speed We could, and
gained that lithe wood; him Tux-tars, or thieves, for we knew not what to call them,
keeping their stand, and not attempting to hinder us. W'hen we came thither, We
found, to our grunt sutisfiwiion, that it was a. swampy piece of ground, and on tho one
side a very great. spring of water, which, running out in a little brook, was a. little
farther joined by another of tho like size; and won in allot-5., the source of a considerable
river, culled afterwards the W'ii'hslM; the trees ell grew about this spring were not
above two hundred, but very large, and stood pretty thick, 9.0 that; as, scan as we gob in,
we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the enemy unless they attacked us on foot.

\Vhilc we stayed here waiting the' mot-ion of the enemy some home, withoufi
perceiving that they made any movement, our Portuguese, with some help, out several
arms of trees halfofl', and laid them hanging acroes from one tree in another, and in a
manner fenced us in. About two houis lie-Fore night, they come down directly upon us 3
and tlmugh we had not perceived it, we found they lmd been joined by some more, go
that they were near foursome horse 5 whereof, however, we fancied some were women.
They came on till they were within half-shot. of our link: wood, when we fired one
musket without ball, and called to them in the Russ-ism tongue, to know what they
wanted, and bade them keep 091'; but. they came on with a. double fury up to the wood
side, not imagining we were so llnrricaded that they could not easily break in. Our old
pilot was our captain, as well as our ougiueor,_and desired us not to fire upon them till.
they came within pistol-shot, that we might ho sure to kill, and that when we did fii'o
we should be sure to take good aim ; we bade him give the word ol' command, which he
delayed so long, that they were some of them within two pikos' length or" us when we

3'."I
 

let fly. We aimed so true that we killed fourteen of them, and wounded several others,
as also several of their horses ; for we had all of on loaded our pica-s with two or three
bullets at least.

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated immediately about one
hundred rods from us; ; in which time we loaded our pieces again, and seeing Lhom keep
leL distance, we snllicd Duh, and caught four or five of their horses, whose riders. we
supposed were killed ,- nnd coming up to the dead, we judged they were Tartan, but
knew not how they (181116 to make an cxculsion such an unusual length. '

We slept little, you may he sure, but upent the most part of the night in strengthening
our situation, and barricnding the on Lmneos into the wood, and keeping a strict watch.
We waited for daylight, and when it me, it. gave us a very unwelcome discovery
indoml ; for the enemy, who we thought were discounigcd with the reception they
met with, were now greatly incrouod, and had set up eleven or twelve huts or tents, as
if they were resolved to basicge us ; and this little camp they haul piwhed upon the
ope-n plain, about three-quorum of a mile from us. \Vo were indeed surprised at this
discovery ; and now, I confess, I gave myselfover for lost, and all that: I had 5 the loss
of my effects did not lie so near me, though very considernblo, as the thoughts of felling
into the hands of such barbarians, at the letter and of my journey, a-ilzer so many clifli-
culties and hazards no I had gone through, and even in sight of our yen-t, where we
expected safety and (lelivernnce. A3 to my partner, he was raging, and declared that
to lose his goods would be his ruin, and that he would rather die than he starved, and
he was for fighting to the last drop. '

The young lord, n gelleul- youth, was for fighting to tho lust also ; and my old pilot
was of opinion that we won: able to resist them all in the situation we were then in ;
and thus we Spent. the day in debates of what we should do : hut; towards evening we
found that the number of our cncmim shill increased, and we did uol: know but by the
morning filmy might. sbill he a greater nuxnher ,' so 1 began to inquircof those people we
had brought from Toholski, if there were no private way>>; by which we might avoid
them in the night, aud perhaps retreat to some town, or get help to guard us over the
desert. The Siberian who was servant to the young lord told us, if we designed (A)
avoid them, and one fight, he would engage to carry us ofl' in the night, to a way tlml'.
went north, towards the river Patron, by which he made no question but we might gel;
awuy, and the Tartar-s never discover it; hub he said his lord had told him he would
not robrmt, but. would lithllel' choose to light. I told him he mistook his lord ; for that
he was too wise a man to love fighting for the sake of it; thnl. 1' knew his lord was
brave enough, by what he had showed already 5 but that his lord knew better than Lo
desire seventeen or eighteen men ho fight; five hundrul, unless an unavoidable necessity
forced them to it ,' and that if he thought it: possible for us to swap: in the night, we
had nothing elm to do but Lu attempt if; He answered, if his lordship gave him such
orders, he would lose his life if he did not perform it ; we soon brought his lord lo give
that order, though privately, and we immediately prepared for put/Ling it in practice.

And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled n. lire in our little camp, which
we lmpi. burning, and Iu-nmu'ed so as to nmhe ib'hnm all night, that the Turleu's might
conclude we'woro still there ; but as soon as it was dark, and we could see the stars (For
our guide would not stir before), having all our horses and camels ready landed, we
followed our new guide, who I soon found steered himself by the north star.

After we had trm'cilcd two houn; very hard, it begun to be lighter still ; not that it.
was dark all night, but the moon began to ride, so that, in short, it was rather lighter
392sz' Lt. mi; ARCIISNUFI.
than we wished it to be ; but by six o'clock the next morning, we had got above thirty
miles, having alnmst spoiler! our horses. Here we found a. Bosnian village, named
Kornmzinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tutors that day.
About two'lioms before night we eel; out again, and travelled till eight the next
morning, though not quite so hard as before ; and client seven o'clock we passed a little
river called Kirtzo, and come to a good large town inhabited by Russians, called
Ozomoys ; there we heard that several troops of Kalnmckfl had been abmnd upon the
desert, but that we were now completely out of danger of them, which was to our grant
aatiefixction. Here we were obliged to get goxue fresh homes, and having need enough '
of rest, we stayed five days ; and my partner and I agxoed to give the honest Siberian
who brought us thither the value of ten pistoles.

In five days more we come to Venslima, upon the river Wirtzogcla, and running into
the Dwinn: we were there, very happily, near the end of our travels by land, that river
being navigable, in seven days' passage, to Archangel. From hence, we came to Law-
mnskoy, the 3rd of July ; and, providing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a barge
for our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived all safe at Archangel the
18m; having been a year, five months, and three days on the journey, including our
stay of eight months at Toliolski. "'9 were obliged to stay at this place aix weeks for
the arrival of the ships and must have tarricd longer had not on Hnmhurgher come in
above nmonth sooner than any of the English ships; when, after some consideration
that the city of Hambmgh might happen to be as good a market for our goods as
London, we all took freight with him; and, having put our goods on board, it was most
natnml for me to put my stcmd on board to take care of them; by which means my
young lonl had a, sufficient opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on ashore again
all the time we stayed there ; and this he did that he might not be seen in the city,
where some of the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and discovered him.

\l' e then set mil from Archangel the 20th of August; the saint: your ; and, after no
extraordinary had voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe the 18th of September. Here my
partner and I found 9. very good sale for our goods, as well those of China. as the
sables, am, of Siberia; and, dividing the produce, my share amounted. to
PS3,475 17K 3a., including about six hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which I
purcllmd at Bengal. '

Here the young lord tool: his leave of us, and went up the Elbe, in-orcler to go to
the court of Vienna, where he resolved to seek protection, and could correspond with
those of his father's friends who were left olive, He did not part without testimonies
of gratitude for the service I had done him, and for my kindness to the prince, his ihther.

To conclude : having stayed near four months in Hambnrgh, I came from thence
by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the pocket, and arrived in London the
10th of January, 1705,1mving been absent from England (21: years and nine months.
And here I resolved to prepare for a longer journey than all these, having lived 9. life
of infinite variety seventy-two years, and loomed sufficiently to know the value of
relircmcnn and the blessing of ending our days in peace;

 

human or Caesnu. 8" Conan, LIMITED. LA Sm; Saunas, Lonoou,.l'..C.
yum;.S'da'tiam fiwn Cam?! if Company's Puefimfiam.

 

Sillitzttatzh, .jfinr Art, an?! nthtx itahmus.

Abbe); :nmihnrchaa of mama and wales. The: Descriptive, Historical,

c or . us.

After London; 0:". Wild England. By thxnknjxvvzmns. Circe; Ediliors, 35.6d.

Along Mann's Great River. By Lin'li. Sr" - "Kn. mustminti 125.".

American Academy Notes. Illususied.

American Yachie and Yachting. Illusiraictl. 66.

Animal Paincing in Water Colours. With Eighteen Coloumtl Plates by
i-'uzmtsics 'i'wum. 5:.

Arabian Nights Entertainments (Canaan's). \ifit'n about 4w Iiimtra-'ons. xos. (x5.

Art Directory and Year-Book of the United am". With Eugmvmgs. 75. 6d.

Arch-m Borne Modern. wnt. highly finished Enmvings. us. 651.

Art. The magazine or. Yearly Voiuum. With several hundxczi Engraving. and
Twelve Etc'nings, Photogmvmu, &c. :65.

Arragic Mystery. By JULIAN HAW'A'HURNE. 35. 6:).

Behind fine. By G. i'. Larmuw. iiiusumcd. as. ea.

Bimetaiiixm, The Theory 0!. By D. Batman. 65.

Wmarek. Print>>. By C. iowx. MA. Two Vols. (Mary imam. ms. 6d.

Bright, Rt. Hon. John. Life and Time: oi'. By w. Romano>> 95. rid. '

British Ballads. 275 Originui "liL'drixLiDhS. Two \iois. Cluih, 75. 6d. each.

British names on Lam and 59:. By the isle IAMES GRANT. With about 6:29
Illusinuinnn Tim: Vols" 4w. 5: an; Lihmy 25d an. {x me.

British Banks. Recent. illustrated. 4m. 95. i n Edition, ms.

British Empire. The. By Sn: GEORGE CAMPBELL. 35.

Browning, An introduction to the sway or. By ARTHUR SiritoNs. as, Gd.

Butterflies and atom, European. By W. F. K'iRRY. \'Gith 6: Culnuecd
Pinter. Dlmy 'lu 59.

(Emma: and Gage-Egan, The mutated Book or. By w. A. BLAKS'E'ON.
\\'. Swusutsa, find A. i". Winner. Willi 5!. the 1: (:einumi Plaza, 35:.

Cannibals and Convicts. Ry jummc Tamas l'hc Vngnhond"). Chap
Million, 9

 

  
 

 

 

   
 

Captain Trafalgar. By Wit Amend LAvms. iiiusuamd. 55.
hi.

Canaan's family Magazine. 'mriy' Vei. mustmhxi
cathedral Churches of England and Wales. Dex
Picwfinl. with no Illustrations. an. -
Caiebrihies of the dummy: Being a Dictionary of Men and Women of ihc
Ninetmzh Cvuhuy. aim: Rom-.2- b

changing Year, The. With mus . 7:.

(mass Problem, Thu. with was .5. ns by C. Pmch and. when: 73. 6d.

Childran or the Cold, The. By Lieut. _cnw.\'nm. 25. 6d.

Chins Painting. 8 FLORENCE LEW} With Sixtem Coloured Places. and e
salcrtiaa oi W'oc Engrnvinss. Win: rmiimuuctions 5:.

Choice Dishes at Small cost. By A. G. my". Chmpfie'x'lion. :5.

Christmas in the Olden Time. By Si: Wan-tux Scorn With charming
0mm: iilusnatiann. 7:. ea.

Cities ox' the World. Timer: Vols. Iiiustzaied. 7s. 611. each.

Civil Servine, Guide to Bmmcymenfi in the. New midli'ntnrgsd Eamon. 39. 6d

civil Service.--Gnido to Female Smyloyment in aovemment 0mm; Cluih, :5.

clinical Manna]: im- Ptaicnnoners and students oi medicine. (A Liz! of
yummy/mannwt Amt/re: an <<fplz'ea/zbt n: [In Psiazmm.)

amazing, The Innuenue of. on south. By 1:21.19"ch Txnvxs. EROS. as.

Comm club, Works published for the:--

 

 

ivc, Historical. and

  
   

 
  

 

Wu at mama-5 comm as. Tim man Dwtwinn. dd.
Local ovarmnanu ad Tuafiun in the 0mm Galaxies: ' x5.

United Kingdom 5:. on: Land Law: m'the run. 3;;
mapinoemut. n[ Labour Ind minim. as. Papular minis neg--arming m. as.
The Tram Imus. Xi. Wautm Enu- of Axum". .

u e warm>>; rah- 'l'rnde. s. Muse: of Evil] m 2; man out
Pm ammo no man-n somem Ry 3mm: of mu: Zhisi'iflh and $7uvmx. << .

A Manama". 6:. mi: Trade muted. B)- G w. "041.3. M.

(L St 5. 55;.film/ions fram Cam]! 1: Conway's flair/imam".

 

Colonlec and man. out: 80w we not Them, and Why we Keep Them.
57- Prof. C, KASSOMIL ts.

colon; By que'a A. ll. CHURCH. New and EuLarg/qt' PS45377>>. with Cciututed

arm. as. .

alumnus. gltlfimpller, Tho mm and Voyages of. 13;.- VV'Asztt'rox lama.
'l'mcc ox. .t Jt},

cookery.'mue a chtlonary or. Containing about Nine 'l'housuud Roclpct.
7:, art; Roxburzh, test M.

dmkpry._AYm's. By PHYLLIS Bnmnttz. Cloth gilt or ollnvl cloth. 35. fill.

600:: Book, camorlne Owen's New. 45,

Ila--anemia", Wanting man: What They have Done. and want They mm
mm. m A. 1-24 Dwn-AcLANn. MJ' ml 3.19"". :a.

Gamma: of me World. The. B; R0 .11- Bttowx. M.A.. PhD" t'lc. Com-
plelelll Six Vuliu - :Luul 150mm" us, 41:>>, .6d.cnrh,

uromwen. 011mm 'lhc Man and his Mission. By . ALLANSON PICTON, MP.
Cloth. 15 6d. cw. r'nth Sid". yst

Cyclopmdia, Gusselu Conclse. With x:
1.12:5! date. with abou: a lllustmtim, 185.

Dairy Farmmx. 8): Prof. P. SHELDON. uh 35 mile Coloured Plums.
and nlzmembwand Enumungs. c: amass, "hum-unemus,

Daad man's Rock. A Romance. By Q." 5s.

Decisive Event-s ln History. By THOMAS ARCHRR. With Stxmcn Illustration;
"cards, 39' ML: clulh. gal

Maritza" cam" _ 011113: of. B.)- Cuxtsmrm-zx Dnassrm. PM).
luslmt . as>>

Deserted vmage flames. The. Consisling of flat ' I at Am offavourit: poems
by swam Authm, "Immune, Cloth gilt. an or 13;:msc mmm. 55. nah.

ugluutith's amt-w: "mfg. warnnwortlu'u on; :L' Immortality,
Ellyn!" L'Aflum PS114 11 2%?01" n PS3: Lina a: Tmlem Mbey.

manna, Ghanaia- Skatches from. Fxtts'r. Szcoxn.-stutl 1'11an Sums.
With skatizinal Dru-Hug; in eat-ll. l-y lhuxozmot than"). In mrlfafia.rxs. (nah,

Diary of We. maximums. By H. w. um. Thu Dist-mi rudiment, 125.
The 51mm. Patfisment. m.

Dog'. The. By lns'tjoxa. Illustratod. as. Gd.

Dog. musbmmd Book of am. By szo SHAW, 3.35. With as Colon-ed
Flatt-st Cloth bevelled. 3A ; h I! mprocco. 45;.

Domestic 'chcinnnry, The. Ar. L-ncyclopnceia for the Household. Clam. 7s. 6d.

norejs, Atlvenhxxus 0X Humbauen Illustrated by GUSTAVR noun 5s,

Dora's Dante's Intent>> lllusuatctl by Gus-mm Dom I'vpm'arLJ/t'ow. exs.

Dora's Dante's Puxgatoflo 3M l'aradlso. Illustrated by GUSTAV}! Donna.
Rawfarfiyla'cim. n:

Dorefs Pan-y Nos Told Again. With" Full page 'ng '

Dore Gallery. Thu. With 250 Illustrations by G; . 4w. 425.

Dora's mnon'a EM" Lost. With Full-page, Drawings by GUSTAVR Dom.

4:>> an.

Earth. bar, and in: story. at; m. Roam: Lizowm nus. VoL 1.. wiLh
Colouuet. I'lmsaud hummus wmd Engyavings 9:,

Kalnhugn. Old and flew. Cassell'q. With 6m Illustrations, 'l'hrcc Vols,
ufi. cull: Hymn-v; bind'lug. 4. mg. :lw y-l.

Egypt: Dewnpuve. gistoztlcah 3m Plutumsque, By Prof C. Emms.
1Vuslau>d by Chan than, with Not; by SAnuul. 8mm. Ll..l.).. &c. Palm!"-
b'rr'ily've, in Tm ans, 42!-

Elecug'fity. Agfdof. n'om Ambar Soul to Telephtme. By Pmtx BENJAMIN,

n, a.

Electricity, noucfl. By Prof. W. E. Avm-ox. lllust .cd. 751:1,

xlactriclty in we Sander; of mm. wm. nearly Esra ll 5:360. 215.

Eletfificmn'a Pocketlook. The. By Goa-amt \ 'IGA'I. MA. 5:.

Encyclopmdlu Dicuo . The. A New mad Onginnl Work of Reference to all
thn Ward: in at: ogliih {Anguazm Tweh'u Divisimml Vols. now may. us, 6d. each;
a: the Double D :innnl Mm, hal-vmumm. us. tad).

England, Canon's Illustrated Blatant nl'. with 2.900 Illustrations. Tm
Vols" 4m, 9:. tfid'h than and It'nmmf th'lmn. Vol. 1.. 93.

     
        

 

hmught down to thoSelldianafrom Emu/[w Cam/may: I'uelimfimt.

 

 

English watery. The mqfloum q]: Gem, 2:: Rox'hur , 25.;

English uwmmro. Library or. By Pmr. me Hagen. Compiplc in_ 5
vols 6d. cache

 

 

VOL. I. new" Excuen Forms. \'.m,. n!.--SK9x-rsa "jams m Enemy;
\lnL, II, LLUSA'RATXONS on: "a..." ' Pans".

Range", j Vex. V..-- sznnrsm' Lox E): Wozxau
"on, 11L--Ennusu Punks Encusn Vanda. Ax>> Pnosg.

Eng, link Literature, Mariam first Sketch or. A'n-ired film)>>, 75. Gd.

English mem, The Diamonazy- oi By W' Dm'uxmxr ADAMS. C/tldfi

54mm. 7:. 6d'; behurflx. :5. 5d.

Bl. gliehl ufeaature The story. 0:. By. ANNA BUCKLANQ New and Cam>>,

I? <<Mm 3,.
W51; quteeaea. By Ems S4 Roma-mow. M A 55.
august: Writers .-\n aucmpt towards ' mum. B}:
nmzv. M LLD.. rmrraw; of Enzlifll Lima! ' any CDHIEP,
Lauduc. V and IL. Lech 3,:
550m: Fables; mm n'pau; 15 "human; by_ E. Gmsu'r. Chapfldiiiog,
c19xh.--' e . .
Etching ' Its Technical Propesses. with Remarks on Collections and Quuegtgng.
m, >._ x. Kmmm'm. Uiummd with 30 Fulbpnge Plum. Price PS4 4:: "

Etiquette or Goqd Society. 15,; club. :5. ("3'

Eye, Eat, and. Throw. The Management of the. 35. 5d.

Pelee Ropes. Uy Pro; Gmmmem a,_M,'-\z, LL91. D.C._L, 6d,

family Phystcmn. Thee By ' answux; and SURGEONS. New my!

[in on. Cloth, a _:tux3a ghvas.

Em, a. Manymc. Works by. Paplkfar PS4155:an. (:1th
Ewen Kean. m: "an": 2869!
Dutch, :19: Dave}: or, - Rum Mlpuke. The Yawn O'Duud'oq'd,
My Puma. Puvurty (kn-n .

terns, Buopcan. By: Luge; Bgmnx. EELS. \_\

l'htu by D. mun, mus. um

Field geguwiln's Handbook, The. 15y the Rev. ). 6. "form :md_ T'xmcmngx

' "009' 5:. '

Elmore royals; Scientific quKs, Wig}: chqml Hpnqmd- musgmuugs in

am. 35' 6d. each.

 

  
   
 

 

   
 
    

4xlSS,_ ns._cnph._

 

  

30 Esp-sigxic. CgijuurgC/

   
   

The mu>>; mm. The Dunn Worm.
Worm mature um Deluxe, The Vm'elafifi worm.
human; end Birds,- M _ 'L'n: Imam and
<<'nfnnkn.
figure remains in Waist: Oolaura \ eh. x5 wrs hy human

linu'x'rrhm and JR'INJK M'muzr. Wu. full In: '
hue--Art Library The, .. [C1 by jot": Emma , Eu: (1) gr the Smuh
'Kepsi'l to: :_\r . noble. Eanh 33ml: com:ins_:b:m_: mum: oils 5; each.

law Mum; Tluul-K 'l anu- Baum at me Arm: 1h- 1-
cvau. 'A'rqmcd'hy' (3.1 u>>_. .\

  
  

 

   
  
  

   
 
  
  
  

  
  

  

7 V 'ame ' Emu-(Ind.
Izmnykndljl . Greek Amman-ch . "name Ciugnnw.
xngun'ennm or I'am. firmnmmnym . _w .
man. named 12 I ArmdrAnmm'u. Byl'ms. m. Mum"
xnxnpducuao. 1 1. .n w 1. Ian.

'sunm caveman; Ky Hunq

The man-m: Range: at um ByLJ. 1' mm "a or w
a "M ' by ."cu '.

'A'uukcli-- Tumbled by m. uemy mum.

fisheries of the Want The. (ngsuzxcd. .no, gs,_

rive Pound we. The. end qthe; Sharing. By G s, Jfigtocs. m

flower Painting in Wefier Comm. First and \mond Scries. Whh no I'sc-
Kim" Coloured Plays in can-Z1 by )3, Hum}, kilns" FAA. \'f luslruulims
'nyt , Anisl. Inmznvedn 53. Lack.

Howe: Aiming. Elementm Whh Fighx Colqurcgi Plates. 3:

Flowers. and How to Paint Them. Bv MA With Coloured Plates. 5:;

Fax-3mg of the Anchor. The. A f'ce . _ _ Sir Smurm. Mum-sou.
mm. W' '1 1deg origami lllnfilmiiuxu. Giludgm, 5s.

fossil Hem-nae. A. History arm-lush. By Sir RICHARD Owe-x. K.C,B., F.R.S..
89:. With 909 Plates. 1n Fnur \'o|s,. '2: us.Sella/ion! fywn Cm)!!! 4v Cnm'Mufc Ribft'mfibm.

mum-German War, Casull'e Emory of the. 'l'wo Vols. \lfixh suo mu;
ns. meal-)1.

Freak am times of Europe. The. 8; Prof, H, C. SEELLY, 1112.5. CW

. . -;x. ml.
Garden Flowers, Familiar. Bv SHIRLEY Hmsaxu. With Coloured thlc'by
1L r. Mums, r . mm": in (Tim's 51h, ::s. (v). 05:3.
Gardening. Geeaell' opulnr. lllaszuucd. 'omp'mr I C/ V015,, - . meld.
Geometrical Dun/lug fer Amy candidates. fly H, T. Laney, MA. 2:.
Geometry. Practical Solid. By Major Russ as.
Gladstone. Life of the "11.303. wan, By G, BAH un- Sw-rH. "with l-'onrai .641.
meanings mm Popular Authors. Two Vols. With Original lllus m 01.15.
410, 9:. each 'l'u-a Vuh. in One. 23:.
Geld 10 Grey. mm. Being Poems and Kenn-s of Life nne Nat-1m. By MART
_ b.8mw. llinnmml. 7s. 5d.
Great Industries of Great 3mm With 400 IEIuslrsfions. 3Volsw 7s. 5d. each.
Great Northern Railway, The omen: llluetmtud Guide to the. x lolh. 2:.
(1:th Western Railway, The Oficied nlummed Guide in we. :5, cloth, zw
Gram. Fainhu's o: Cnrmendom. The. Iron (immune to Willie. 11y [mm
Faknu-Roesatsou. llluslmwd mm ul. Papniarli w.c1ml~ (ill, 1:: Ed.
Gulliver's levels. W'uh 88 Engravings by MOR'K'EN. .lxax} Human. Clam,
- 3;. 6L; c ~I . Elk. 5!.
Guneudite Development. The. By w. w. Gum- xx. llluslmwl. ms. 6d.
)lealtn at School. By CLEMENT flux 5 M. 1)., 7;, 61
Health. Tie Back 0:. By Emimml Physicians sunk . mums. Clmh. ML: xox--
nun: 25"
Realm, The Influence or woman By F. Tums, ERG S. 25.
Heaven, The Story of me. By Sir KORKRT S'Awnu '3
Rom A1mmumm n! mum. Column-d mum: .
Heroes n! III-Hem in Peace and War l. ' s,
mam. y: cazh' 0:0": Va|.,l. n,- hm 5, 5.1.64.
floly Land am my lawn, Tm. By the Rev. (run-imam Gulxus, up.
vmllunp. 'l'n'o":L1 24:.
Homes, 011:, and How to Make them Realms. By Eminent Amhcmins.
ll'I mated>> 15k: :ux'buvgh, xx;
Ilmeevxeeper, The hectlcal. By 03.012013 Fy.z:.\uxc, LL. TL, F.R.c.v.s.
l . nlcd, Crown 8m, alum. 1':- Ed.
'Horso. The Book of the. B SAMUEL Smsxv. with 23 [ct-x933}? Colman]
ran... Dean- gm. 35 (-moraoon. PS2 5.\
Bones, The 58mph Arline 30!. By W. F. llluslraml 5:.

Household Gnlde, Canell' . With :1 <<u ions and Columd Pia-1cm Ncwand
Ram-rd A'llvh'm. cumu'klc in Van \'ulsl. mm.
now Dame climbed the mountain. Br Rose

Fm. Win" 4% hy GU'JL' V: have a,
new Women may Earn 9. Living. By \ cv CROGAN. x5,
Imperial White Books. 1n (' 1mm]; Va 5. ms. 6d. pcl' ennum, pan free;
to quantifier: mammal; d. blah.
India, Geesell's Hist-cry 0!. By the lam jump; flux-r. Win. Am Illuslmlions. 15&
mm. The Coming Struggle for. Ll)- ? !. Axnzmvs V'Aumiscv. 55.
Indian the mm and the People. 13g ir Inns: Camp, K.C.B. ma, 6:}.
Indoor Amusements, Cards Games. and Fit-awn Full, Canaan's. 35. 6d.
Xnduscrlal Remuneration Conference. The Report or. as. 61].
Insect Variety: its Propagation and MsKrlbutlcn. Eyzl. u 'vrmmx. 7:. 6d,
Inflkiblo me, Vignettes mm: B . Bancocx, F.R.M.S. llluszmml, 316d.
Irma Pal-name". The, What It as. and What it Did. By J. G. Swn-r
MchuLL. M,A., My. 1:.
John Pmnelee'e (ruse. Ry 10mm HAWTHORNE. 25.1w.
Kennel Guide, Practical. By Dr. anuou Snum. lilusxmcd. Chm}! 5473750". IS.
Kidnapped. By R. I... Sruvercson. Illustrated. 55.
King Solomon's mmee. By 1!. Rlnuk monster). 3:.
Kmva. A Ride to. (Syd-21am Col. Flam Bcnxnv. xi, Gd.
Muller Physlelan. The. By a London Physician. 65.

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

  
 

      

 

 

 

   
 

 

  

 

 
 
     

   

 

   

 

rm' sews. mm EightSdedbm from Candi d: ComM': Axflakalions.

 

Lady's world. The. fin 11111511:de Magazine of Fashion and Enemy. Year);
Va :31.

mm Quentin, The. By Prof 1.1211101: M. R A.C.. 1m. rid

Landscape Pmfing 111,01111, A Gem-u o: Lennon 111. By A. 116an
W] ()1 chmduuions :11 Colour. (than; En'r'lv'on. 2.2;>>

law, About 00mg 1.0.8)' 1\.].\\C/11.Lm>as, 1.1.? . 611

um': Dimes and um: Time-swing Publications am. no>> pub
x. 'Vely by emu; x Cnumw. (.4 Lin um mum on ..;,4/iC/a.m. )

$008ch11?" 5mm. By jolIN HENRY NORXAN. (Said and Silver Standard

u'feXlt'l'i. XS.

London and Nnrth Western Railway; The 0mm mumted Guide to the.
15. . doth. a:

London and hScum Western Railway, The 011111131. Illustrated Guide to the.

ink): as

London. Greater. By Emv. um WALFOVD."1wo Vols. with about 4:10
Illuslnliom. 95. each. Library 51:11am Two Vols. 1621!": set.

London 01.11 111111 New. B: "1.1me Tmmnmmv .md Rmvann W 111.307.>>.

Si Vols, rank manning 1km: w: 11111511330715 (and Map: Clo. 1.95.:aJ1 [1'er
Edition. Imimiuu Roxburg'n a3

Longffillow, 1!. "6011111" Poems by Dimumdv by his Son. Eamr W.

"NGFEJ .OI'. ..

Longfellow 15 Poems; Work!>> I kn't-- 47f Edith>>. Xiluslram-lv Limwghoul m}...
Original Engraving: Royal .110, duh gi. 1, PS3 3: Pop-11.: Editig-m. 16:.

Love's Extremes, Lt. By Mamet>>: Tflmmsos. .

anqp'mamn: the 1113,11 and 111: Work By 11mm 134nm, 1.11.11Twu-

U 31-. 7

Mechanics, '11:: 2mm nmxomy an :9"...an 15,000 13.: .Luings Four
v.11. 1... each

momma. Manuals for Students of. (A Lnfflrwmaied p.131": an <<9,91: an.)

Midland Railway flu Official Illustrated time to me Nm anti Revised
5416".>> chub, :3.

Modern. lumps, A. History 01'. By C. A. Fvnr. MA. VoL1.1-':em 1/921>>-
131. 13;. Vol. 11. binm1814m ms in.

music, mumm Emory 01.131 1111. Nda'JMulNN. Edilexl- by the Rev,
53: 11'. A. (mm 013531.51 3:111. 111...: .ued. 1nn\'n): "1;; (d1

Ema! Waxy. menu's. In "'eekly Volumcs, each containing about 192'
pages harem". 3.1.. cloth ($11.04 "1.er dewt <<(Nady pub/1111:1361>>!
fuzz [m an mlkanm )

natural History. casscll's concise. hyE. PERCEVAL "max-r. M.A., M-.D..
ILLS. \\'i-.h seven! Hundred wuslfillimu. 7:. RL; Rothgh. 1061 ad.

Hansen: New. Fdited by sz'. P. MAN Dusch, 31.13..

.S. Wilh Comribulio s I>>. Euunuu Szignli "n Cnmulcb: m

'ixh Ahmu zmah: gh ' 11111111111150>>; qu-wzown 41 cloth; qr. each.

News. Short swam mm. ILlusamcd. 4:11:11; Edition. .3 Cd

Neutral Tum, Acome or 11311111113' 1n. Wim Twenty. four 1'1:st by R. P.
Lnncu. \\'ilb fun mun-1.1111115"; IMP-.1111!

Nimrod m the Norm. err, Bunting um fishing Mvcmurou in the Amun-
neg-one. By Liam. SCKH'A'MA. Illuslnwd.

Nursing for the Kama 1.1111 for the 31151111111. A. 63311111001: at. By 6."er
mu; 1. woo>>. ChaprdPS1im.xkld; doth. 25.

on Punting, A 1111111118.! er. Dy 1.102. JOHN Gunmen. 011111,. 2:2 611.

On the Equator. By 1-1. DE \V. mus-11mm with Photos. 5 {111.

Our Own Country. Six V015. with 1.20:. mm": 1am. Cum, 75.615 each

Outflow Sports and. Inflow Amman. W111) nearly. Ixxooo mutations.
Am Edition.

Puls,6use11's Illustrated mama w. 15,; cloth."

Parliaments, A mm 0! Two. By 11 W Luev Th: Disraeli Parliament.

1,1131 w. 'lhlGhulsLnn: 1 xliamen1,. 1631--1986. w.

Paxwxn'e flower Garden 131- Sir osarx PAXTON and Pro! L1NDLK".RE\'ise<l1
by [mums BA1NSS,F.R.H 5. "lug: "11:.th xno('olo1:red Pines. PS1 18. cash.

maples arm" the World. The By Dr. Roan-'1: 1311mm>>. Complete in 511: "211mm.
Wilhlllu undo-1A 15611.net

     
 

 

1 unju-5'82?!me from Cam]! & Cammny's Iwefimfiolra

 

 

Phantom Guy, The. By Vc
Photography for Amateurs. By T. C. szwowra. JHL-CMIElL us. :m-clmh. m 611.
Puma and Fabla. Dictionary of. 311 [he Rev. Dr. kawnx. (imp E-t'ih'we.
fixing-<<2', (Inth, 3s. 6;] , with'camnr hack. 4s. 66. A .
Picturesque America. mplet'c-in L'our \t'olst with 43 Exqutsw: Steel Paws.
and about 50deg ongm't Wand awnings .2_ In _
minimum Funds. VVHh about but) rig ml Illuslmfivns. Two Vols"
3 as, can: .t
Plcmxesqua Europe. Complete in I-'ivc Vols. Each containing :3 Exquiskc $1ch
Hues, 5mm ()xtgim: meir:gs.:md .nwtymo on'gtmt "Imitation; 4m ":5":
h ' tomuuot ,{xs 19' tocooao gilt. PS26 5:. Thu'l'opoux Emma>> is my: cmplclo
in five mtg, 185. each.
Pigeon Keeper. The t'racticaL By anns WRIGHT. 'luusmucd. 3.5. 6d,
Plgeons. The Book 0!. By Roman more. Edited by Luwts "/2161". With
59 Cdmuui Plates um! numems tt ngmvings. 3:5. 61. r-mmco, ,5: a
Pocket Guide to Europe (mum's). Size 53 in. x 3'? in, 6r.
hams. Repreamufire of "Living Poets, American and English. Se'cclnd hy:
tbu Fouls Ulcmcch'cfi. 'xss.
Poem, Canaan's hummus Library armor----
Hm Tm; V t 0.02:. :1. ma: OI "Mm "AIME. TWD V'a's.' DADJIS Gd :0: chub.
. R1 can: 2:,C/d.enm nlreezezz <<Luca.
mm '1" mt. ctr , much: or cloth. Song. 'l'wa \ cum, 1:. each: 01 doth,
gill <<in. m. ed. u' gnu-1m, =. <<it any,
3091, TN Va << wit; ur duh. mmtatmam 0:1 nub. <<Vol Chm".
gin-<<mum xr munwcklt. t m." m m
140:1")!qu 'Fw..Val.' CEBU>>. u. with; m "'ufdnwofl-'fl. 1">>. VS'. Chxh, n, umsh;
clam. zllcdga. '12. M.czdL <<clam. 9m nap-5.1. 5d. mu.
Shnkmpzufl' Tut-1h": V035 {in how

Populm'" Library, cassou's. Aime: of Nrw and Original Wot-ks. Cloth, 15 each.

   

   

 

  

 

         

  

 

 

 

 

   

The Human 2'2"} flggggvgefimm Jacobi!"-

- . '51, m.
Thfinfi'i'fi'efiimf" "5deg" '3 a" mafia. Roma mu: rm "a
mgggamfigfi - nus-<<ti and Jahnuvx}: m2: Oompniunl

. um oull'rfiil ummz.
mu yaw mm m mama. at mm. mum- , n . "a,
Jnmwnilqv. Xmengd. t: roe-1' Alana-teat in

Post 025m of Pmy Years :Ago, The. ts.

vault-y Kaepu._ The IPA-wheat. By mes 'Wmsur. With Coloured Plates
and ttttmmmm. gapd,

Poultry, The Book at By LEWIS WmGH-r. Popular Edition. With mustm-
:imu an \Vond. m. m.

mum-y. The Illustrated Book of. 3v Lam: Wutawr. With I-fitty Exquisite
Coluurcd mm. mt numgmtltgwm Ema-tags. Clam 3.3. (A. : hull-momma, 4m.

.rre-ngphaenfiq (Tha' Italian; .11: <<he Ramona unitary. By Cosuo Meme

_ Roam. tun-mes. x;

'Quenn Victoria, the Life am! limes or: By Romm- Wthox. Withnume.
row, {Hum anpmnunv'the Chict' Events in d3: Lil: at th: Queen. and
1;:nvu'25; 0|; .1: with; (tel: mics of he: Ra'zn. VOLUME L. um mum w),
c t'. l ..

Queer Race, 'A. By W. "Wm-ALL, ya.

Babbitt-Keeper. The Practical. B)' Gc-NtcuLUs. Illustrated. axed.

Rod min-c, ,5" olhfinglflnx at'zfd Amen" Jean classics. The. Lufi'mmcrs' :st cacht;

'=:.%.ur.: -.-uma' -,,',
adenofi {rum 333m: Work I " '4'" skifimn mng'l nmanamk.

 

   

 

 

'Iloucfllldw'l Prune Wat-kn. but Dn' a! Pun.' vu-
nanne amt smxnumvt mm o (A! Damien,
Lat-mam: 21:31. _ _ ,rnan rum \l'rejudiua.
151m, mas. and mac>> mat w: or use Mamma-
mek Heart of MOIUWM'L '
c uzzlovnr. "r-va Vvk. 14a: 1: of. 20mm."
The duos 12! um Home of David. Yuuwwp nah ram-m
angnun'a may". Elma;- Anny.
Uncle 'L'm': Cabin. adorned LP) VI.
Dmshur. fimaxicxx mm.
Emfiimtv-m. hm." fia*;.adeg",deg.,' "yam-m mm.
Tlflmu {ad um 1mm: Chanting. mrmxgaqifi. Xelmlad
The 1mm: of Mar mm macaw. on: Omomy Hlxoy'
:Edtfax' Alb-n Pan. :9: and Pmtlvy. Sflro- mam
0) mmuw. [Manx rm. ma: Tull-nun.
an: nom- um 1410 Han. Daukvnel: (-'rw vein.)

$086" Jaunt-
 

Selem'oru from Casxrl! .3 Company's I'ueh'mliam.

 

Royal River. The: The Thames, [mm source :0 Sea. VV'izh Dcsxzripnw: Tex:
and a Seuics of hesuxifixl Engraving. .52 as.
Russia. By Sir DONALD MACKENZIE WALLACE, M..-\. 5:,

Bum-mush Wax. Camus memory et. Win: ulxml 5m nusmuons. Two
Vols, 95. each; )ibmy binding, 0n: Vu1.. :5:

Saturdw Jamal. Queen's. Ycady Volume. 6:.

Science {or All. L'dimd by 13:: Roam-r Knows. MA, ELS. <<c. .Wu'r.
nsco "mu-aim 14in V05. 5:. each.

Sea, me: Its surfing Story of Adventure, Peru. and Heroism. fiy
F. \VMYXPBR. will: 40:) "illsll'mianf. llam- Vela, 7; 6:. each,

Sent Back by the Angels. And emu Ballads-of Home and 1-1.":wa Life. By
FRenxmcx LAmjnmmm, Hal. +3. 6d.

Sepia hinting, A course of. Two Vols, with Twelve Celouvcd Flam in each.
end numum); ungnvingg. Each. 33. Men in Out: Volumr, 5,.

smmsbnry, The Seventh E311 ox. 3.0.. The me and Work or. By anm
HODDRR. \Vh): Paxmcils. Three Vol.1, 56' 'dfM(Rr Mitten, in Cu: \'ol.. .75. 6d.

Shareware, The hummus. b'ds'xmu d: lute.
"Kin: Hen-y n ' "hunted by Herr Enunxo Gnu-nun. PS3 us.
"A; You Like 1 flluatmlcd by Mom, E m: "Arum. {.3 m,
"Romeo and Julza. ' Illusmmd by Fanex'D'cKssL A.R.:\. PS5 5;.

Shekspere. The Leopold. With 40;; IllusImuons, and :m lnuoducdon-by F J.
runs-v"..- Smsll 4,:e. ' 1h, 4-- doth gilt. 7:. M; hellanomoen, m. 6<L: m
ummm, .6: 2,. an.>> F: m .eeI '

Shekepero, The Royal. \hd: quuisuc Steel Flutes and "food Engmviegs.
1m>>. var... v55. tench. _ . H

Shakespeare. Casscn'n Quanta Edema. 1mm byCquuzx and MARY Co 'DFN
an": m: conkeum)! <<hour. 6->> "magnum; :v H. (; Sauna. Cum? e k:
Three 1112., clam gilt, PS3 ga--Alw pubimhed in Than "fume Volumu's in vl-nh,
vi}. : '11:: anums, : .; The Ills'rnlucu. x- <<cage ~ The 'L'ammnms, w.

Shakespeare. Miniature. Inustxmed. In 'l'we Vols. xzs.

Shakespearean Scenes and Chnxeclere. lfluslralivc of Thim- Plays of Shake>>
sauna. With Thiuy SlocLPhlctADd '11:: Wood Eugmviny. The Text u'riucn by
im'rm Belem-row. Rafigw'm. sis.

Sketching from Nature in ate: Camus. Bye-won PENLM. With Illus'
<<union; in Chrome-wagnph)'. 15:. .

3mm Hair. 1719 Management of me. By MALCOLM Moms, F.R.C.S. as.

sports and Pastimes. Uaeeau'e Book or. New and Revised Edition. wau.
about goon mL-wuiuus. Oomph: in One Vdumn, 53,

sandal-as. meal Duel. By jam: Hmuw NORMAN. :5.

Steam engine, The Theory and Action of the: for Practical Mex-L By W. H.
Nam-econ. CE. 19. 04.

Rock Exchange Year-300k. The. By Tummy. Sxmxxx. ms Gd.

Stones of London, The. B) .F FLOWER. 6d.

"Sindee mm Caesars." A Sexics -ul Seven Burks. w. mob; clam knew],
I). each.

Sunlight and Sheds. With numemus Exquisiw Hamming; 7s. 6d,

Surgery, hummus of cm: craft. of; in England. szh an lmroducxion by
Sir JAMES PAGET- an. .

Thackeray. Chmcter Sketches from. S>>: New and Original Drawings by
rnznemcx BAus'ARD, "undue-ed in l'hbmsflvufl- 'fll

Thom. The Yoke of _the. "By Snuxm Lusm. 3,>>: ea.

mm and sixpcnny mey at Standard Tales. an. AM Illmmted :md hon-us
in cluhgilz. wan 8%. 35. 6d. each. '

   

 

 

   

   

 
 

   

 

.75" Au..." and m Work-1. The mat snare.

Missaion Life in theme and rdwtine. m . 0 mm humane .

'L'nn Ding}- mm 37 Kemmgxon. usages; Emu. e

we: nuance :11 Tune. an": Weak

The Three; Hanna. working [0 Wm.

Suhnol tin-1;. xnmr mm m: rubles. By w. K 5.
DR! 1n Vim-mus. mm. ALA.

in My 30mm. Fury mm 51nd. Maul-:1

TM. Book tor ell Public Examinatiunn. B)- W. S. Tmmsow, MA, x5.
Tragedy of Brinkwater, The. Ry N1:\RTHA L. Mom>> . ye we.
nun. An Amtxican Nerd. By H. F. Kxunw. 75. l .Selediom Mm Cum]! (c- Campany's I'uelicafiom.

 

Transformations of mucus, The. By Y'r'ol'. P. MARTIN Dummy. MR, F.R.S.
\Vim 24C/ llluxrraxions. Maroon-J, clad! sidg. (all sin, 91:.

Treasure Island. Lly R. L. S'rmvmsnx. llh nod. 35.

haul-neat. 1m Year-30011.01: A Cxiuml Re. cw mt Pmaidoncrs of Medicine
and'Surgrry. 5;.

True Punting in Water Colours. By W. H. J. Rom. Wilh Eigluucn
Colouned Flaws. and "luau: imauxinn; by the A 31.

noes. Familiar. First Sena. Br BOULGER. LS [0.3. "Mb Fony
full-page Coloured Plates, nom drigim'. Paintings b \v mm. m 6d.

Twfinty Photogravum 0! Pictures in the S on or 1886, by the luding
eruullAnim. In l'anl'alio. Only:limi1ed nunlmur cvpiu 1m: 1m" pmluc ..
term>>: in which (an be: obtain-)4 of all Backsellux

Two Gentlemen of 00mm 8:; C. & C. 35. 61L

"Unicode": Tm.- anvmal Tulagraphic Phrase Book. Pocket and 015k
154160115. 25. Ed. each.

Units-i sum, Cullen's History or me. By the late Emwa 01.1.1512. "'ilh 60deg
"luslmlious. Thme Vuls. .each.

$111ch 81.9%". Tgxe Youfih's wry or. By EDWARD S. 31.1.15. Illustrated.
Faur 01s. 3 ._

Universal Illusory. Carlson's Illustrated. With nearly ONE 'l'uousawu
lLLum'sm'nons. Vol. 1. FArlyand Greek H'uilory. Val. 11. '11:: Roman Period.--
Vol.1". The Middle Ages--Vol. 1v. mam lliamry- 0'>> each-

Vicar of Wakefield and other Works by OLIVER GUmex'l'x. unnamed.
35,511.; cloth, :21: ' a ,5.

Water-colour Painting. A cause of. WWI Twenty-four Coloured Plates by
x. P. 1.80191. all full xnmuw'mm mu: Pupil. 5:.

Woman, W" Novels by. qular Edia'om. Cloth, A each.

The 014 new". | Bed Rhianna. ' xuph Norbwo-k'a Twat.

What Gn-ln Can Do. By humus BRO\\'NE._ 2 5d.

Who is John Roman? By CHARLES HG. 'm 3; ed.

Wild. Birds, Familiar. Fim. Second, and. ' By W. Swm'sL/mn.
with 40 Coloured Pinks in path 125.611. each.

Wild flowm.1'nmllmr. By F. F. Kama, I". 1.5.. l".-S..-\. 1-'ivc Sexics. With
.0 (him'lmd Ham :1" canh. m. (d. tad).

Wise Woman. The. 15y GEORGE MACpox. .13. 13 all-

Warm of the Sea. 'l'mnslazcd from the Beach or Moqum TANnox. by the
V K". H, Illnx'rvx 11...". ALA. lllmmml. Mvrvcca, alum :id::,95.

World 0 Wit and Humour. The. With 4100 lilmtmdons. Cloth, 75. 6d. : cloth
HI, gilt edges, 10'. 6d.

Wax-13 0! Wonders. The. "Two ans. With 400 Illusuuiou 75. mt mun.

Yule Tide. (2 Cums'rxms ANNUAL. ts. '

:K-I'A GAZINES.
Tim Quiver, for Smulaq/ Reading. Monthly, 6d.
C'assell's Family Jlagnzi-ne. Monthly, 7d.
"Leltls Folk-s" Magazine. h-Io111hly,6d.
The Magazine of Art. Mummy, Is.
The Lady's World. Monthly, 15.
Cassewu Sabin-day Journal. Weekly. "1.: Monthly, 6d.

. ' 1m; .'r'nu'm a/ CASSELL 8: COMPANY'S Monthly Serial Pubnmumu.

' ".331. xfim-tw'x a" mg mm. <<m 1.- finnul 1.. emu>> & Connmv's
Comm. mm 10111114., mu! m. fire on uplizm :5.

Catalogue: of CA 1m. 6! COMPASV'S l'mxummons. which may be had stall
Bmksrllcxf. or will b: sun on rm: on :ppllnyign to the Publishers :--

CurcuLL's Conn": 'Ammcva. oomuuuug particular: of On: Thousand

V

CA: . chum..." CATALOL'UE, in which xlwir "'wk: are muggd according

topcice, rm... Tth A>> Tmlyy'fw Chin-mi. _
Cassunn's EhucAtlouau. CATA'. x, ennui-ling Earl-cum: of Casszu. 3:
Cu:u-Auv':< "magical Wed" :uld Smdculs' Nahum .

CASSELL & COMPANY, laurrxn, Ludgat: "ill, 1,0")...Sebzfiom fmm Can-:1! .4: Conqlany': hllls'mttbm.

ifiihlzz mm fieliginnz Marks.

Bible. The Crown Illustrated. Will: nboul Loco Original "MM-rations. Wllh
ku'uezmcs, 8w. 1.:43 pays. <3an 4m, cloth, 7:. 6d.

Bible, Owen's mutated Pamlly. Wik'n goo Illuslmllons. Leather, gilt
cdace. 5-: we. : ruu iuwwco. PS3 m.

Elmo Dictionary, (Juan's. l'fifli nan-1y 6w lllusuzuians. 15. 651.; mburgh.
m. .5.

Bible Educator. The. Edited by me Very Rev. Dcan PLUMPTRE, DJ). With
lHunmljm. Maps, m. l'nm- l'olz, clam, 5: each.

Bible Work at Home and Abroad. Ycarly' Volumc, 35.

Bunyan'a l'ilgrim'a hum-ens (Gnaen'a Illustrated). .110. 75. 6:1.

Bunyan'a Pilgrim's Progress. With lllusuauous. Pupm'ur Ednlml, 3s 6d.

0mm use of Christ. Tim Complete in One Handsome Volume. will: about
an Original lawn-lions Dean! .10. till edges. ma-

cbild's Blble. The. Wi:h 30:; mutations. Dcmy 4:9. 830 pp. 1450: Timur/ind.
Clea; 5mm, 5. 6d.

Church at Home, a. A Series of Short, Sermons, By the RI. Rev. Rom."
lhu. D.D,. Bishop "Sula: and leu. 59.

Commentary. The New Testament, to: English Reamer; Edited by me
xx. Kw. c. J. Euico'rr, 0.13., 14ml "khan oi Giwcener ms BduuL In Time

Voluuuu,' 2:3. each.
Vol. 1

 

 

2mm nu: nonpzn.
Vol. 1: u Ammflgnw. cmlhlafi (ML-"1m.
Val. 31] The mulling Beck>> 01 "It '. ow Teetmenk.

Commentary. The om Testament {91- English Readem Edited 1 the Rl.
Rev. ( Enuuo'n'. 13.12.. Laid llisllo>> Ol Clo-mum and mine]. emulate in
5 Vol: . 2w. each.

vat. x.-- mm l Blink". VeLllI.--K1na:s 1. ca Elmer. '
Val. u. nwmgny to 3mm n. I Vol. lV.--_Job in 1mm.
Vul. vl--Jeremiah l0 MAJ-"h.

Dictionary of Won, The. An Encyclopcedia of Christian and Ollie:
Religious Dacuincs, Denomiauinns. Seeks, Hex--ems, Ecduilsficfil'rclms. History,
'Biomaphy, &c. (be. By lb: Rev. \\'u.Lu.u Bzmmu, 3.1). Clam. cxs : mxhuxgh, :5;

Dani Bible. With 230 illustrations bv Gus'rm'a D099. 2 Vols, clolh. PS2 :06. ;
Puma momma, L; m. ; Oxigiual mm... 2 Va", am, .91.
Early Days or Christianity, The. By the Van. Amhdelwon Hanan, DIX, F. R.S.
leuuvt EDITION. Two Vols. 2%: new. PS2 25.
"Forum Enmos. Complete in One \'olumc. doth. (is; dull, gilt edgs,
721.66.; Pminn momma, ms. 6d.; mean, xy.
Family Prayer-Book, The. Edited by Rev. Quinn Ganx-rr, LLA, and Rev,
5. bum-ix. Exux <<own no, doth. 55. : memo>>, as.

Gonna. cunnmgnam, an, Works by:--

 
   

   

 

 

 

 
 

u'hu no), Land and um Table. A W cm. nlfl'flmi "crewman. y.

<<'8 In: "lush-dim". finned In "In. Old mnmmnnc Gnu-um. Z.

(in. uh Mm. Two Vial: ms. The inn- and wax-d: of can; llluzmlal.
Baum wml momma. six van. much. am Voh. mmafi'
:ammng on mm. gm. Vols, um. 1:4 .

 

Thenm Iranian. 56:1. Ra. lefiihfllmtjn . . .
clones of the Man or Son-own, The. Sermons preached :11 SI. Jumcs's,
Piccadilly. By the Rev. H. G. 80:"le Hurt, Mud)" F.R.S.Edin. as. 64.

Gospel of Grace. Tbs, Bya-LxNDEsm. Clam. 3,5. 66.

Helps to Belief. A Series of Helpful Manuals on the Religious Dilficullies of ill:
Day. Ed'llid by tho Rcv. Tmauuou'ru SHORE, ALA, Chaplain in Ordinary lo

 
 

 

mc Icen. Cloth. is, each.
Grammy. llx- v Loni Bi mp or alumna. Tim Mmuuw nu 11m 0:.>> Tmnmm. lly
mmwi "'2 1:... luv. 3::me 31m- 0s Rcv. Ncmm smytb, an,
'. ' Tim mvmm- us aux Lox>>. a an Lord
may". By w- nav/nl'mnauih Shana. mm", at D ' r I

' is . . .
TH KESURRECI-ON. H ' L' Ifife Archbunap a! Y" t.
he: Amaxsm. Bylllg 123m mm, o: macaw-cub.Srlxtiam from Cam]! A Campm)': fidlkatiom.

 

"Hem Chords."
ages, :5. nah '-
ux 13mm gm. RvuM m Am... 0m...

1.... "an? Nauru-I.
my noon} 1!..." 3.. kw \\ n..,.: r," 12:,

who}: 15......
Sly war: '1>> Goo. Sylte luau: 1m- Bhlmp

11:12.13)! the Van. Avndeacun
D. T).

 

 

mminnilons. a, mum... Man

xiv lazing-aw we. a, :2: Ray. Pm
WK

N'WXV <<Ryan-Ru mar. w. c m: on

   

 

A Selim! of Works by Eminent Divim Round in c3011), red

My "IL I! 'Jzekgx'.1'.nl'aw IL A.
My G--wlh'au Dim m: 'Ry m- Rm
"Cit--Dd", yangd'l: WE. A
u... .1,- xev. 1mm Blew-

MyWnn: win ma. a; navy,- Rev. Du:

m... ..."?

. Ann 2
"Rev. "can 3: n.
"Sm" CY Flu-e 3' By [he Riv

pang... MA 5|:ng or me '.\
will!!!" $021937

 

     
 

 

 

My Texls for the Young. in English and Frauen. By Mrs. RICH/mu
ST ..uer. as. 6d.

we of Christ, The. Dyan: Van. Amhdtncvu Fawn/m. ".13.. 1'. R.~S., Chaplain
in Oldum) xodu Queen.

luunnurn Emflox win. 31-0... "0 angina] Illunmlfons. mm: crown 4:0.
<<mm. hedge. m . mum. unique 4;:
1.")an nmox. Tw.0\?uls Club. 245.; mmocco.>>1xSS.
3...... mm. ox. Fiv_cVoluma_ ... bax, my. mm: m; braid maraoxflls m at.
forum: 20mm. in On: Va Eva. elodl. 65. clock gill <<use, 75. 54.; .l'eniaa
momma, flihed'gcfi, w) b... ; <<kw/(51f, Iy.

Luther, m: his we and Times. By PETER BAYNE, LL.D. TM) Vols"
- dgmy Sm, 1,040 macs, dad). a...
Marriage mag. who. fly WILLVAM Ln: ,5. DJ).
indicate, silt edges, in bag 6...; Punch mom. . as. Gd.

Moses and Geology; or, The Harmony of the m with Science. My
[he-Rtv. Simon K:.\'.\'s, Pll.D.. F. R. -\. S. Illugmxcd. (Vow: PS44.21" 55.

Paula-cm, Tho. By the hue Ru. W. HARNA. D. 1).. and [he Vcn. Amhdeaoan
Nonnus, n D. 5:. ad.

Protestantism. The mstory or. By .1... Rev. J. A. W11. m. T 1,.1). Comaining
npwuds afezoOngiuzl Illustrations. Thmcya 275' . Libra Edition, 3m.

'qmvez- Yearly Volume. The, Wm. 25:: high-dag lilusu 7x 5.].
Mommy, Ed.
Religion. The Dictionary of. (Se:- madingyaga.)

Sacred Poems, The Book 0!. Edited by the Rev. Canon Lungs, MA. Wm.
lllunmliom. Clam, sit: cam, 5:.

St. George for England; and oxhcr Sermons )rez
Elih'vn. By m. 1m. T. Talcuuoum 5mm. .A.

St. Paul. The Life and Work oPS. 13) me Vets. Archdmcoo Emu>>: .m. D. D,
F.1LS., Char-lainm Ouihmxy to m: Qumn

1..."... Emu-mu lwa Vol... an. 25- , Immune. #--

luvmno En: Tm, <<mp cm in One Volume. with snout 39deg muumions.
5x 1:. morozm, [a n.

POPJLAR Brno>>. One Volumz, Bro, c. 'odx. 65.. clolb. gill edges. 7s, 5d;
'Pfl-sim movoccu. we. (11.. lrcc Ml x5.

Secular mm. The Goopol of the. Sermons preached at Oxford. By the Hon.
. W. H. 11mm"... 0...... crew... ... 5L

Slam We Know One Another? Uy the m. Rev J. C. Run, D. 1).. Bishop of
Livupnol. Am 1...: 19.1"ng [mm a>>. Clam limp. :3.

Simon Peter: His Life, Tim>>: and Friends. By E Hmmxk. 55

Twilight of Life,'1'he.Wo1-dn of Counsel and Comfort for the Aged. By
Jon>> Eum'row. M. A xx. 6:!

Value at Tlmo, The. ByJous STROL'D. Cloth gm. [5.

 

 

 

Bound in while

 

 

Also

1 to Children. FilthSelmfims 190m (rm-mt! <<b Cmvmsyk wa'fmtiom.

 

(fibumtinnul'mnrks sub fitfiheuts' manuals.

Alphabet. Owen's Pictorial. Size, 35 inchu by 42; inches. Mounted on

Lima. will: :ollers. 3;. 6d.
. Algebra>> The Shaun" or. 15}! Prof. WALLQCE. MA. Is. 1

munmcucs, The modern 802100). By Gxoxclc Rxcxs. BSc. Land. Win: Test
(LL--us. (1,51: en Within-wt.)

Book Keeping. By 'l'xmooaxu Janus. Fm Sex-mum. 29.; urdolh. 55. Fox
THE MILLION, as ; or cloth, 3:. "oaks (0' Joan's swam, Ruled Sclsof, as.

chemistry, Thu Public Schoal. By}. K. ANDERSON. MA. as, (Ed

 
   

 

Gmmentary, The Rev Testament. Edited by Bishop ELLKK 'A'. medy
Voluuw Edimu. Sufluble for School And general me.

Shlmflww .64. Rm: . 05. ' ' , Pm Edam .

5|. man. ' aux-335m: I. and n, y. "flaswmmwii, '1

st. quku. L mum mummy>>. Am: 1mm .mm; mm Jon>>. 3'

"John. 11.1.1. runny-mu. y, ' The naming. a;

The an or the mean. Coiouhmu. Thusdunhu. minkodunaontoduxaw
sand. I mammoth). :1. Teelluxniu'). nod.

oommanmy, on Taiwan. Edited by Baa-up Emmong Handy Volume
EdirImv. Suitable {or School and general usc.
cousin, 6:0. i Lydian. . .
menu... 3.. Numb-3n. -.Oc.
Copy-Books. Gaaaau'a Graduated. Cmuplew in x8 134x116. and. each.
copy-Boob. The Eudora School. Complete in :2 Books. 2d. each.
Drawing Books for Young Art-13' ta. 4 Books. fad. each.
meing Books, Snparrinr. 3 Bucks. Primed in 6an by umogmphy.
5;. each.
Dram Coplea, Canaan's Madam School Freehand. FirsL Grade. xs. ; Second
one: as,
having copies. Owen's Standard. In 7 Boom. 2i each.
Drawing Comes. The standard. Adapted :0 me higher Standaxds Seven

Bwlzs. 3d. mun. _ _ _

PS191an flaws Pamhng. with High: Colomoel Plates and Wood Em
gnungs. Oww o,clm'n, rs. .

Energy and Motion. A Tax Book of Elementary Mechanics. By WILLIAM
l'uc' 311A. "mama. ... 'd.

English :4 we. A Hm Ske on or, from me Earliest Paiod to me Pmscm
Time. 81- Prat Kmart Monty. 7s. 6d.

Euclid, Canaan's, Edimd hy me. WALLACE. MA. xs.

Euclid, The Fixation: Books 02 In 1mm, 6d. ; almi- gd. .

mach Reader. Unmu'a Public School. By GUILLAUME s. Comma. :25. 6d.

Franck; Ouaan's Lesson! in. Man and lea-ism .LI'zix'tx'M. Pans L and IL.
us. 6:1. : sowluu. 4:. (x1: K

much-Rum and English
minim 1.11:; macs. sx'oeauh. 35- '

    

I Dunn-mm}: 25. m,

 

 

:2-

   

  

Enlbzly New and Enlarged

   
   
   

(d.
6:411sz and Hamilton's clcxmfic Mum. 117 1119. Rev. not (Luann.
M.A., And 21:: Rev. 1w. unmmm, ".11., ILC-L.
.x .61. Ntaxul 'uooop H.

mm mm. m 93.... 3:"1 "v *

m1 'eolsl..:l..l.u. .Bi manna. ydwum ,ua

Mufifl; 3" "'1'"me u a $33"! $.66.

Manama. gusa.' ' ' Algebra 5': ammo; lecw,fl.PSd.

Tide; and Tidal CxL--zmusmim Tidal
unoxnour. Practical Solid. By Mujur R0 , R.
041mm: of Tommy. By Dr. Hm." 1mm. x5. 6d.
cummnnguah and English-German Dictionary. 35. 5d.
awakening, Mussonnin. ByA. jAGST. musxrazcd. Is.-
Handbook of New Code ormmmons. By JOHN F. Moss. :5. ; cloth, 23.
Historical Come for Schools, cassall's. vu- mated mmughoul. I.---Sunie:
{mm leglish Hincrr, B. 11.>> Ta: Sim : Onxlfneof English Hiiwly, xi. ad.
llL--'l'hc Ckss Hxsxwy cf England, 2:. ad.

5. La
55..9st from Cam/l & Cmtfm)': Bib/124%".

 

Libby's!) Dictionary Oneself; Tlmmnghly reflect! an!) cathedral. and in
pmmmnm by J. R.'v. Mnxcnmtt, MJL 35. 6d.

Latin-English and mall-Latin Dictionary. By}. R. BLAH), 11D" and C.
mum n..\. Churn 2m, 9.4 m, J5. a.

Little Fem? mmry of England. By 15:. CxaxG'Ksox. Whiz 3o i]!ustm:ions..

xs. 61.
Math: of the Home, The: A Book of Domenic Economy for School and Home
Um. By My; Savannn. nmswrr. an. 6d.

Marlbotofis'n Books.

Anmmnge Exam)". ' I runs: madam. 31.41.
Latina-ho nuke. 1;. . I'Nunh Gram. E"!-
Gurnau Gram. 31.5-1-

Dmmc. An Elementary Mama! or. By HENRY Lusm. )3.

Popular Educator, Canon's. Ntw and nraugkly Raimi Rdifz'on. Illustrated
lbriniluul. Comvk-lv in Sh: Vols - . as. x'. <<it: Thu Yuk. in" "1:43 the kl.

Readers. Cnsscll'e Readable. Cam lly grndnmod. extremely inmresking, and
illunnted :hmughnul. (Lil: on a); effort.)

Readers. 0817381?! Hikwflcal. Illustrated lhroughonr, primcd on snp:xior paper.
and :uuugly mud n. duds. {Lilian applitaliam.)

We" for Infant Schnoh. coloured. Three Books. Each containing 48
palms. iuclucfng 8 page, in colours. 4d. each.

Reader. The Gilizon 8] HA 0. ARNoLu-Fous'rnx. With Pmrzwe by lixr. L'ue
m. Ilnn.\\'. l'L. I'nzsrzw, My. u. 55.

Readers. The Modern Geogravmoal. lnusumodihrougouz. andsu'mgly hound
in cloth. Mir! 0)! ayflimsim.)

Readers. The Modern School. Illustrated. (1.5;! an applimfim.)
Reading and Spelling Book. Carmen's Illustrated. 15 '

315m Lines; or, Form and colour. "in: Illustrations :5
School Bunk manual. A. By A e Manama Gd.

School Manager's Manual. By E MzLLs, MA. :5.

smkepere Banding Book. The By E. Cmmmorz BOWEN. M..-L musnnzerr.
3:. id. Also izszrd 3-. Time. flanks, 15- each.

Madmpnda mm for school use. 5 Books. Unarmed, Gd. "ch,

Spelling. A Complete Manual or. By]. D, Menu, LLD. 15.

Technical Muzzle. ceseeli'e. mun-am! Ihru'ghoul :_

 

 

   

mnamiung nno suites-Lag. 9". Manama"; annuimmwnvnnxm, 5:1;
Briukisyere, Drawing (or. 3;. model Du . 3., . '"
landing nommcmn._ z. magnum: Md nominal Pros".
ammonium-I. Dam in. n.

, no es.
as" yu.yrm..tmnm.D.-nm Ex. yAd. Mum rmenms. v.
00 a memo". 3: _ 9|omsmaucus. Dayan: m. fa. .
Lanenx'Drn'nungmusdGco-fli'x-'a' Aprlfod Mummies. )1, Sr R, s. mu,
mm: Drewlnc am) rmjawm. The :2. 19.
'rwva. inlllfiyied' _ ' a,
Marginal: .woz-xem mm: (or. 3:.

mama: meow, Queen's. Ilustrsncd throughum. Popuzm- Baum four
Wk... 51. <<sch.

Technology, Hannah: oz Edited b Paar, Aimee, 551.5; and RICHMO-
Woxuzu. Dim. MA. Hinmnud : uughant.
n: 175mg." mama False-ice. By PM. | lag-131' In Tenn. Edwina ByT' KAzhcn.

 
 
  

Mama. 5 .
w and 'm" .7: n. <<hm-v. ""1 5""

"Eff-.1, 5E" " ' c ymum arm". 3' PM. M. rm.
3:991 and Iron. Ryw.nGm-ac.s.c.&. ' 25.6!-

M'.LC.3.. A 5>> v -
apmmm Wofinen and wan-zen. a, w, , Damn: Tech: Wax-had by mm and my.

infinima 42.64. . em. Hymansdu. 9.0L
' A W1>>: an appe'smfim. '
Test cards, 045mm Combination. In sets. xs. csc'n.
11an School Teal ends, menu's>> in ms. ls. each.Stkm'an: fi'om Caste/I .L-

 

 

Calvary: Mlimls'orh.

ifluuks far flauug ileuple.

The Tales of the Sixty Mandamus. By P. V. Rmmsn-Am Rape. With an

Immduui'wn by PwI. HEN" Munxv.

Planned. 57.

m Murry-go'Roud. Poems for Childmn'. iiiuslmted ihmughou; 55
The Palace Beau-Jinn. By I- T. MnADE. 35.

The Cost of a mean Ev SARAH P:

11". 35. 6:}.

A World of Girls: A sum" at a SchooL By L, '1'. Minus. 3;. 6d.

Rhymes for the Yuan: Folk. By V '1

fined. '20:!>>
The New dmn's Album. 1:33;>> 410.

"Limo Folks" Hall-Yearly Volume. 200 lihmm
ie Ones,

lie--Peep A Book for the
"haunted lhmughmzl. "Midi. 7d. (d.
The World's Lumber Room, By Sam

 

'LLIAM ALLINGHAMi
m

Beautifui!y Mug.

3"!

 
  

 

aim! mmughmiL 35. 6d
ur clnxh gill. 55.
"ii!!! 0: ml Stories and chscs.
i ciui'u "ll. 1 vii

NA Gmn. Liusiramd. 35, Ga.

 
   

Lay Texts for the Young. in English and French. By Mus. Rmumu)

S-rxnznsv. 35.6d-
Sunday School 28er Banks. By

Popular Authors. With Four Original

Illuslmiions in cub. Clozh gilt, n. 55'. each.

so kn x a C1 i
mania>> ngwiai; or. "I! Wilhei ware
.rai'iifi'eim A new
3mm wean-4E: 'ae, in: mm
nimda.
"Golqen Mottoes" Series, Tho. Each
[nth-Jug: Origznzl llluxuuliuu Cum-n
"1m Dupzmaum." Byiho Ram. Lua-
"My".
" am- and ram"

" Yunnan If 1 m3.

3" 5mm nu.
Hy Hun: Aimidgn.

 

mglvl'hd mnbowsz n moi-y of 'L'D'innkS'
um
our.- -.- warm>> cause; or. The Bronx

mm.
mm Finn anfifle or, Thu mu>>
Slmk: Watchman.
Bonk wmafining :03 p335. with Fnur
a>>, mom gill, 2:. each.
"Honour 1:. my c-
13h: Adamyac:
" Aim 3' (Lb 3m 1' I'll: S
"m- acaque" vyb undue: uw
oi -' my Cllllllluh'llum" 'n-ai ' err.

 

s." n,- jzunin Hui":

 
 
   
 

Tho "Havel-ha" Series. Go; sling of a New and Original Series of Slams; by

Pannlnr Amman, rmmicd on and illusiming wsll~ku9wn

imians in ash Honk, primed :a nix-.1.
x-s-wa a Long Lane um: mu;
pa mm a, Sun mu.

" ' was, Liv: In (Him,
1 thrwr Stolen." By

u .
castles: or."A Friend in
Need in n rum: "can." 3y Mum,
Inn: Baum: nun:

The

  
 
 
 

craze and Crown" Serien Cu

 

which ensured durirg Religious meuiiuu: of Pa: DAys. W h "his"

each Bank. 2' Ed. cagh.
3:.- PM. and Sword: 5 Mary or the
squamous. uy 'numm lunlu-r.
Adam mum-a Vow: A True of xix-1L
M0 Covenant. UV Anne 5. 51'5".
)\ xum ar. an: sun-y at um Loan
and. A. 'l'al: er uuly than: my;
By Emma Max-gnu.

 

mvar'a. \\'ilh Four Illur
Crow-195%. .smm clolh. u ea. rub.
K: or K k'u 1K '0' c:- "Laok 381'
3m 1.3%.>> gem-c hm . human?"
'X'hn Tlmmnnn'fl 'rm: Aliza nocmm
ma unmet: B1 (.c...
Ursuln'l Stumbhn -Bioc

    
    
 

or, m
, MIA fwd: <<v.
'a-Work: 91-. "Re PM
my zu- u.= Rm. Jmph Joanna.

g of Stories :'ou ad on maidens):

05:1"stme n all." in
Run"

     
 
 

1m

 

 

ska: in 53:22:: A Show at an Jan>>.
Ry E. "'57.".

Baron of L11: Sufism than
of Villcur and Vic-i

xu mums n.' Inna
wugemai In- z:

Thrbufin '1
a. uni.

  

: in. stem:
ByE :1 Ifoam.
A swu- 01 m.-
mm>>);

in Tumpb. a, m.

     

 

   

 

The World's Workers. A Suit: of Ne-
Amhm. Wizh i'nmiu primed on A :3"! :15 F.

Tm: Bar) of Swab". Dy H-mvy Ftilh.
aural: magnum. A was Nazis .maxn.
Meredith 3y "mm-m,
when!" A. Sam>>! mm smmni 3'. B.
alarm Hy in new" um _v. Mini.

mun
mu. aapcmnc ma men-beater. is,-
Phyllis Emu". _
00mm! Garden. lawn-Rp- s >>\ 3mm
ghlflu Dickens. n In; mm ma:
1: Tm Salt and 560126 Mom'fi- "1 I.

 

 

 

and On'gimi Volumes by Popular
ispieu, 1:, mm

m. anthna, mama- :mu'aaw, Elihu Bur-

Elia, Jalnph Lax-any. By mu new i- \V.
<<n.

8!: PS1va llaveleuk and com: Mignon.
Loni ca de. By E. c' mum.

Abraham 1. noun), FvEmer. pm:

David Livinlllons. Ry Roam mu",

9: Immu- um Audnm Held. By

. u. I'Ilmnn.
11::th Oohdun. By x. (2m.

   

 

  

Ullllfinne.

 

 

numb-A }
Plnrmc': n again. mam-1n mm>>,
Pm" av .51, am. snap

C: H _ V
an: ("L N. 3-") by L m Allin" A

Benjamin Franklin. By 1-; M
Emmet. in mini mum '
Tamar m ArI-ikL 'Jylh: Rev. 5.1L Smiling

waiving" Babe" Shani-um By C. I-SC/k(la'ous__fiom Cast/I d,- Cqmgany'xfl P1,]; '

 

Thfi "Chums" Series. Each containing 64 pagcs. with Illusum'wns qn every
mg: and hamiwumlv Euund in dud), x."-- ' '
mug chum. Conan: um: Van-.5 m. .u, [ flux; China>> Venn lav-Eur? Sunflay'in me
my i.- m. Menxh._ ' cm. _ _
navy Emimu. "(:25 [w :9: l'ccu Xoe ouwm-m mun-)5, vmus I'mfifi wqmstn
- hwly my in [ha 1.1mm. may 1>>,- huh: Mann.

 

 

 

 

  

new five Shilling Books for Boys. \
l'mx. Cloth gill, 5:. much.

"F'anow n rander;" or. \he Bay: of Round by a sum: mu. we named vmnn
mam ' u. to, 7mm Exiwx nu '. u v Hams. uyu: "a. 31;: <<a '

For Fur we aim max-5 A Story or the ' mflcr 3"}'8'1'5 Rwu'. Lg "kl" _
Ronda": War. 'Lew Ho'm. The Rug: Ccmmmm. A low A: (in-1:,

wan Clumdfiun <<:5 din. m- umnrr mm Dr Mmlcsvmu gun.

name gym or om. By *zd._lledm_:<u. Thu 9.3mm:- or amnion. 37 It". mum.

.Lh Otlglnnl Illugilmjiqnfi printcd on a

 

   

    

 

Haw Three and Sixponny Book; for. Boys. \Mzhpn'gina! Il'wmuiuns. pn'nled
- ' Clam gill, 5:. 6d. m3.

0): man: tn; "xnmcwdn" ox. Mama WI nvnovlg Vmiie. mung: A 217.71
Luz): 1.9:. u hummus '. Advcmarep on um Vpne: EUR9.13>>. :11

 

 

. ,nmor 60m; nu nncwnm 3"" K"-
V 3...... 31 "WE. 1.1135>>. ' 5" Eufilfim'm Wewdu Annm- Br
mu Queen m4 mac: or. aha-um .' Frem'wl'fis Sword: A mwolmn my":
Tieuunlx runny 1mm. Wallaqwxd Dunne. Bymus. a...

 

 

The "Boy 210nm" Serials, 137 flown>> R ELLIS. With Fam- Fun-page
wusumians in (so). Bunk, men Svo, nlxh. 25.131. cub.
mm m chood>>. A Tale e: um}: Dnyfi Fegrvc an: layer. A Ta]; of Indian szu

:n we "'97. .
Ned In no Block Kenn, 1. sun, Kym-mgr Lire-m Kentucky,

 

 

The "ng Quin" Series. By EDWARD S. ELLIS. "Eda Four Full-page mus:
unuous m a: . Crown 3w, clolh. :5. 6-1. nub.

mm In>> 'n-<<n .rr . mm .

' savanna! ml in: 1mm?>> I 9 "1' ' m

    

 

mg "Great River" Ber/ks. ' {L'nilorm with the lA'Lcapg Ca m' Series.) By
I'luv'Awy 51 "lunnlzd. wau Kvu, duh, bgvelind 'Upuds, . .'Gd. nah.

Down ' r mar-m l '. 1-04! In tho Wilda.
Up "an 'E-Efinjoa: or, Lawmuru in mail.

 

 

   

  
  

S'xpcnny- SW17 ' aka. A]! 11h. mind, and conmmng Infizzfinfing Storisn'v bx
wen-known "mm.
1.1:. 0""ch 149k: Mean. The Lune magnum>>.
'1' smuggler: Cn'm 1."le Pun", rum Dd" Jua.
L 14:3". rm>>, my" (Zhu- Lamin'r While Funk.
1. .9 firm We Helium" when. on: mm. 0mm. '
'1: Sam on m "71px;: 3.1:". He) mg Name: sud other
no: Mr #2:: cram. lama. '

The "Baby's Album series How 2303):, each comining atom 53 Illuslk'm
lions. Pviccixd. .ch cloxh gilr,rs.enrh -
may: Album. 1 12a Ammu. x

   

        

m': Album. 1 Pun)": Album.

 

111113me Books fol: the, mm 0119;. (humming interesting SIUTEKS. All
Illusmucd. "mach.

 

     

12mm nudpm. Our "Pretty Pens. U and Down rm Games.
on: up: :'nendn. Our Rfluuolfiky mam-s. Ju so"; a! Advaumxun-
mug Golduu Snuda. ' (Enema-e: mum. our Humby Slan'n.
Limo ozlmm and mm: (kw--o: W114. 0.x.- Kcnnsy noun.

uni". .

Smlhng swry Books. All nun-mud, and contsunmg Imcmsdng Stories.
The"; and (0":qu 3,719 Emory or Fix-c mule nu am at x: amt.
I'm cuukco xu nu.- Rabin Pllclmrn. mes-av rank.

)s'auv. The Gang": mam. Ame. Hm naau'duu.
.vqum mnmm 51m; napam a" man or win.
muma- an tho ma. Anna Luum'u punt. - well.

But): Dab. um mic ran-mm A Bfimumgd Hannahcash!" children's Treasuries, Eslch Volumc cumnins swig-5 or Pnelry. in}

is gchusciy Llusmuud. Cloth, 1:. can.

knubin. mi "an Numa-y magnum, _
r: gum u: Hearts.

i sin! Lm 1m- mei--r m n.
' mgerlul Bonus [at 1(an flaw>>.
Bra-1w mm": mm fauna rem-w.
ill! Cmumfl Joy.

 

 

"Little Polka" Painting 13001".
WsmnCoIou: Panning. 5:. rank.
nuiwragd 81mg: for "mm; rgnu"

to um.
The "Lil-2h: Folkn" Proverb Painm
"can.

Three Wu; mm. twain:- ,
Luau Qu:en MR
Up the Laddih
nus-a Ham: and mum- sum-m.
'M 322% - m. m
. ' . ' ' 3:1" 'Dutblk
m rrnm%mSSum

Pam's Imam>>.

 

imp-Saw sun-inn. _

mlo can" (tn-IA}: Tau.

Wee Wan: "mm. '
Pen: Paw of mum": and sear-1-.

 

A may. Round Pumas.

All um gamma,

gnu: ubnu: G=nunny
no men: of up , unis: mm".

In>>: "to Chum

Mun 1km"

 

How :9 new :
mma Plenum _
mungn am; he: ram

Rani-drown Each.

#1" wag-m
1: 'r. .n .
2:133 'Pv lanai

gunman

   

Van-ma \i wrmlzl.

Ema" mye'.

Wand-nu or common nines.
gem Emma Juan.

A' mg apm'u 202:.

, gin, coroumrz- cam, :, Ed. each.

"ml '11 E NYE-Linn. '

mud-'5 Tan: x- 15ng mm ma.

Pm": Nmmrsl 9:3"

aura: of xnaxdue $02 a>> "we
a.

Gm" mam hm mm m". I

 

 

samba; from ('15ng J: Cal/WJ'J Rtfilr'mfimx.

 

 

The "Go Comer" sedan. Story Book: for Cluzdyen. Each
5y
: Oxz dunuunn Pu'xuxss. xv. 61. each.

Thu roux-35%: of me m>>--

E inm'u Two Hour".
L m rum; Sum!>> Bock. r

 

hm 21mm mm Human Enrica;
Olu' 21mm: 3691;.

Talus (or :ha 1.1m: 0mm

My Sunday nook 01' mam.

summ- Gamma or mum-u pm sum-1.
Sunday "aim to: mmn Folks.

Wizh Text, and Ouab'nc mulmfions {0:

an.) "Lung: PS3391" Illuminati" 30px.
c fire-m>> dim 1241!:qu neat:

 

 

Eightegnpcnny Story Books. All ("mum-<<l \lumlghout.

a: 1mm um! 2:9.

1' a Young Hartman.

Jo: and L421. '

Tran Kant-2a Error!

Wot": mot! than Ooh}!

"Tm'nugm Fluvd-'L'm'mmk 1120;>>
omgr mum

Thu 91!) war-h Wm Golan}. Lam

and

menu of 31m on" mum,

 

containing newly

rum: 3'1.er :3qu n ' In
SF 3' Wen ffll' m "I";
mu a ram ":1: Lame people.
ohm: (a: saw 01mm

' mm and Down: at n mummy)>> m

The "world in mom-es" series. quszmmi lbroughouL as. 61 each.

 

Th; 3:: \mWrmd :lm J W".
:unpaol or Sauna funmen"
ma'fifimi-wx n d:
= ' CI 1' .
T lulu: at my 'Wq; u)

Two-Shining Mary Books. An Illustrated.

I The China-:3 at man court.
A M'mmhvm Tangle.

'J'wo Human"? nit>>
I Paar Null;
'L'on Karim.
Ann: 'l'nbmm'n gram
In Alum" um.
'l'hmwh mm In Barnum

 

 

w a! grown; late mgflmyrnma.
M: In 1 83. a '
2: R351):- unixin. E 0 um" 0'

'r t r .
ni.' 29-,th a Wanna. a. (he Rm

u'n': Wm: . Ema. xv Cunt"! .
!kvluu And Enrqu [Gewge Wm]

 

 

 

qutnre Teaching Sex-tee. Each book Iilwmamd Lh:oughouL I'"cap.4iu, Cloth

chduna names>>.
fiIanec of OirmoaC/
1'21"" 3:11 111' VIUEK
gum"; m}- "a ""531:
in: 0V mun- " G a. Bk .
no children of may amfixfiv."Sclcm'ms [mm Cum" .2 Comfany': Puelx'mxiom.

 

Library at Wonders. Uiuslrabed Gift-books for Boys. as 6:}. each.
Wanda-ml Advcnmm J viznndan or W51".

 

We am arms: mmnng v. o m m \ n.
Wafi'amu or musculm. no sucnxfinvnna Skin.
\vonnm quousnoe. Won moon Anuauu.

 

The "Home Chat" Sarina. Ml Illustrated (Maugham. Fmp. 4&0. Boards. 35. 6d.
each' man, gill cegci, 55. each.
.1," . "A . 2 2x11! 2:>>
21333: hbzznd m Sam at Hm; I ggfigofiflvkxfimf "b

Around mu! About on: Jimmy]. Hagan: about man.
hwu and amwa

 

 

Books for the Little ones. _

Rhymes forum Yypnfifi'olk. Bv"' mm: Foln' rlmm mm. mu. m
.xlllugxmm. maunmlly llus'. m. a . "Inflation: g.
The um: women or mm ma rwu. TI" on rm Tam, wan. 0mm: mm-
3 CNKLy'Jneulul. Eli-.3114 a; mum. Mudzfldclmbngm.
Thu may Soup Baez. Will-Ono Thug: nu- mama W 3 1mm: comma Ham and
Smplum levu' 3mm, 5...; data. gamma-- 1

  

 

  
 

 

 

". . . annoy umn 1593519. B, on>>: pm>>. with
13.51. Dl'mxfili'fl Mm, non. cun g "n: scams. ~s.

  

awn mm man-<<h Mu'a.;. clnu uh. a yawn" Album at Music. the.
I mics). 4:.

mm, .
Thermatm San>> Bonk \ h :ayzy Wm: mugm. man, :61;

IN gnvlnn. 5:: mm.- .
'I'hu T, '39 . u" on and ' luck.
5,- ,u :rfivl. mumnm
uynmr and my mama: By D : link-:1
mm "mum":ummm. Lmvn 4m. 3.. I) u.
A Putt} 0301111611". 3% O'bv (Etch. W-Ih ' 3 X000. Wllh'Cah rad

"mm "II-mug>>; mum P g 2:,
mule 'Enl mature Album. mu we urn mom wml 03mm:

"men mm 5'. "lune-mum. 2--. as.

   

       

 

 

 

Books for non

mm "11': BACK Asmulmr. fly "Q," inmonv Mon: of Fame: "in" nu
5m". 5",," "9 an m. By K'; Mr: or me am mm. 4'. m- Clulnem:

  
 

   

    
 
   

    

    

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

"my"... [:1 ; yum. leeuabed. ..

A q u- Rm '1 5 M033: menlomrm By ' as non. Way-
uv Ah; 1%". 7 "m "at" my>> #:532an $113 moan. py m.
mduwvum.<.1.. - may. ""m- 3" "rm-"Rn; v.
mart/man's muse. By H.Rwl:rHNL~ "" gghffi 'mu muf- "3 "'- "mm

g... '1. . ..
mxnjrre Inland. ny R,L.s.c.-mn. "2-: 'gLM15Iu,PSSS'\-','aSS'fideg 3'99?" "3'5"":

-n J: WW ms ss' M m Scum rose. a w. . . r.
5"" I'haulum "U- "v W-Wam u.- levfimm mumu'd. 233.0 Km."
BOOKS {0181102111de

(Invent! Imam" mums. mm m. yum yum E'rlndl and human .
aux...m-m-s. 09:2." ru _l?o!mY=yfinznlul.me,m nyom
Gwen's a" u Punt]? Rob .mon. ,- sunn- Wuzrl and Gamma 33ml. "In;
8 mud. n sff'i-lgk'llhlm'ki'? mue'wflims'd' "w Ins (LL.
may Hm I! PS691: kl O J 9 n N'l'nd 0r ' DIEM-x.
AFG'unpifia at 1:." aga'fwy,"SSSS: mmm a "
,c-. "mun" -.
xumhmnu dLnxgdcm fawn. lg C.L. Thw'noun Ind mm manna. mus.

 
     

    

   

    

r Mullzlukuumnntmg. u. <<F 1' mm 35.
avwllc mm o In" All". 7'8. mars" c! an N!" M
1 mm: y.~!. tichual-J'fiairfla)? ""mc'fi

   

71}' mm Pinch. mm; 1-1.>>: u'rnmhle'u "L e
n M t A '15 Mileux.rflluallawd, 5:.

. a>> can Mm u . on" i
37 5.5mm>>. aimed. :1 F", m"

 

 

 

CASSEZL 6': COMPANY, limiM, LmIk-ate "7/1, lamb", Pam, 1V5"
York d- Afllwume. '

rom'sfiifiv Album. anmed..u. ed. .3% ZS"?' \x -\
\\ .-.\\ \

K \\

\\ My ~\f\"\

kw \\

T "\'W \ 53 "AV.
.0.