U.
n
m.
L
,m
W
M
a
B
e
HTHE
SWISS
FAMILY

ROBINSON

.'lA FA." 11.? PARTYTHE SWISS FAMILY"
ROBINSON

THE ADVENTURES OF A FAMILY SHIPWRECKED 0N
' A DESERT ISLAND

WITH EIGHT ILL USTRA TIONS

1W

RICHARD MATHER

 

NEW YOliK
LONGMANS, GREEN & (:0.

M DCCCXCVIPREFACE

AT the commencement of the present century, a
Swiss Pastor, who had lost his fortune, resolved
to set sail, as a voluntary exile, for one of the newly
discovered regions - of the Pacific Ocean, and to seek
there the means of support for himself and family,
denied him by his own country, then convulsed with
the horrors 'of war.
' He departed accordingly, with his wife and four sons,
varying from six to fifteen years of age, in search of
a new home. A prosperous voyage brought the ship
within sight of New Guinea; when a violent storm
arose, which drove the ill--fated vessel out of its course,
and finally wrecked it on an unknown coast.

It was in this crisis of their affairs that the worthy

Pastor began the journal which is now placed before
the public.CONTENTS

CHAPTER I.

Shipwreck and preparations for escape . .

CHAPTER II.
The landing and first day on land .

CHAPTER III.
Voyage of discovery .

CHAPTER 1V.
Voyage to the Wreck

CHAPTER V.

What passed on land during our absence

CHAPTER VI.

Projects of migration. The dead shark. The bridge .

CHAPTER VII.

The migration. The porcupine. The tiger-cat.
flamingo .

CHAPTER VIII.
The building in the tree .

CHAPTER IX.
Sunday .

The wounded

Mm:

-

20

29

43

SO

57
CHAPTER X.
The hurdle. The salmon. The kangaroo .

. CHAPTER XI.
Second voyage to the vessel . . .

CHAPTER XII.
Third voyage to the vessel. The penguins

CHAPTER XIII.
The bakehouse . z . . ' .

CHAPTER XIV.
The pinnace . . . . . .

CHAPTER XV.
A walk. The wizard of the tree. The wild hog

CHAPTER XVI.

The heath-cock. Wax. The parrot's nest; The india-rubber tree .

CHAPTER XVI I.

Wax-lights. Butter. Plantations. Last voyage to the vessel. Palm

wine. The bufi'aloes

CHAPTER XVIII.
Sago. The bees. The education of the animals

CHAPTER XIX.
The wild ass. Flax. The rainy season .

CHAPTER xx.

Return of the fine season. The cavern of salt. The bank of herrings.

The sea dogs . .

CHAPTER xxx.
Cotton. The farm. The canoe . . .

92

99

106

LIO

n8

' 125

I30

I38

I45

153

163
CHAPTER XXII.

The feast of deliverance . . -. . . . .

CHAPTER XXIII.

Divers labours. Expedition against the apes. The whale . .

CHAPTER XXIV.
The weaving machine. The palanquin. The boa .

CHAPTER XXV.
Epitaph on the ass. The boa stufl'ed . . . . .

CHAPTER XXVI.
An excursion. A new grotto . . . . . .

CHAPTER XXVI I.
Journey to the farm. 'The cavy. The musk rat . . .

CHAPTER XXVIII.
The peccaries. The gigantic hamboos. Continuation of our journey

CHAPTER XXIX.

Walk in the Savannah. Troop and eggs of ostiiches. The green
valley. Fright of Ernest. The bears

CHAPTER XXX.

Labours of the mother during our absence. The condor. Skinning
the bears, and preparing their flesh. Excursion of the three
boys. The Angora rabbits: The antelopes. Fritz's recital.
The guide cuckoo. The nest of bees .

CHAPTER XXXI.

Arab tower. Taking an ostrich. General departure and arrival

at the grotto. The eel. Education of the ostrich. Hydromel.
Making hats . . . . '

170

I75

187

194

I97

20]

206

209

215

220
CHAPTER XXXII.

Return of the rainy season. Making pottery. A voyage to Requin
Island . . . . . . . . .

CHAPTER XXXI l l.

Departure of the boys {or a. rat hunt. Massacre of devastating pigs.
Return of the young people. Shoal of herrings and Sea-dogs

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Trial of the canoe. Disappearance of Fritz. The walrus. The
storm. Anxiety about Fritz . . . . .

CHAPTER XXXV.

Departure 'for Waldegg. The hyena. The messenger pigeon.
F ritz's letter. The black swans. The royal heron. The tapir.
The cranes. The bird of paradise. Ravages made by apes

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Construction of a summer habitation. Fruits of the cacao-tree
and banana tree. The mysterious sack. The sultana hens.
Elephants. Panthers. The amphibious monster. The deceiver
deceived._ Restoration of Falcon's Nest. Construction of a
bodyguard in Requin Island

CHAPTER. xxxvn.

Glance at the Colony at the end of ten years. Excursion of Fritz
in his canoe. 'l'he nests. The bay of pearls. The sea-dogs.
The albatross

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Confidences of Fritz. The Englishwoman on the Fiery Rock.
Departure for the pearl-oyster fishery. The unloading . .

CHAPTER XXXIX.

James's (right. The wild boar. Truffles. Lions. Death of Belle.
Fritz's expedition . . . . - . . .

. 227

232

237

244

252 -

266

271
V CHAPTER XL.
Jamy . . . - - .

CHAPTER XLI.
Continuation of Miss Jenny's history .

CHAPTER XLI I.

Conclusion _ . . . . .

II

279

2%

294
A nmw PARTY . . . .
"A FLOCK or FLAMINGOES ROSE IN nus AIR"
CAPTURING THE PENGUINS . .

A BUFFALO IN HARNESS . . .
THE STRANDED WHALE . .

"A BEAR, A BEAR, FATHER I" . .

A HERD or ANTELOPES . . .

AN ADVENTURE WITH A TIGER

. Franlz'yfiz'ece.

Tofiza page
9!
I)
H
1'

1)

70
108
I43
182
212
217

262
 

CHAPTER I.
SHIPWRECK AND PREPARATIONS FOR ESCAPE.

THE tempest lasted for six days, and, far from lessening,
redoubled its fury. Driven out of our route to the south-west,
it was impossible for us to recognise our position. The ship
had lost her masts, and took in water on every side. Each
one recommending his soul to God, implored Him for the means
of escaping death. "Children," said I to my four sons, who
were weeping round their mother, "God can yet save us, if
such be His will; but if He has decided otherwise, let us
submit. We shall, at least, quit this world only to be reunited
in a better." ' '

My wife dried her tears, and, from my example, forced
herself to appear calm, to inspire the children with courage
and resignation. We fell on our knees and prayed with
fervour. Suddenly, through the noise of the wind and waves,
I heard with delight the cry of "Land! land!" but at the
same instant we felt a dreadful shock, which was followed by
a long and frightful crackling. Then, from the immobility of
the ship, and the deafening noise which the sea made in rushing
round it, I found that- we had struck on the rocks, and that
the vessel had split in the middle. '

"We are lost! get out the boats ! " cried a voice, which
I recognised as that of the captain. " Lost!" repeated the
children, with looks full of anguish. "Re-assure yourselves,"
' said I; "do not yet despair. God will assist the brave. I
will go and see what can be attempted for our safety,"

I quitted the cabin and went on the deck. Blinded by
15
the Surge, I remained for some moments incapable of dis?
tinguishing anything. When at last I had gained the highest
part of the deck, I saw the boats already over-filled with
people, who were striving to get away from the wreck. A
sailor had just cut the last rope. They had forgotten us.

I called aloud, but my voice was lost in the tumult, and
I ascertained with deep horror that we were abandoned on
the shipwrecked vessel. In this terrible extremity, I was con-
soled by finding that the ship had struck in such a manner
that the poop, in which our cabin was situated, could not be
reached by the waves. At the same time, in spite of the thick
rain which was falling, I could perceive, at some distance to
the south, a shore, which, though of desolate aspect, became
henceforward the object of my hope. I returned to my family,
and affecting a tranquillity I was far from feeling, "Take
courage," said I, "all is not lost. A part of the ship, thank
God, remains fixed above the water. To-morrow the wind
and sea will be calmer, and we may reach the shore." The
children, with the confidence of their age, accepted this supposi--
tion as a certainty. By a sign of intelligence from my wife,
I found that she penetrated the truth, but I saw, also,
that her faith in God was not diminished. "We shall have,"
said she, "a fearful night to pass ; let us take some nourishment;
the food of the body strengthens the mind."

The evening was in fact approaching, and the tempest,
still violent, was heating at the ship with such fury that every
instant I feared it would be entirely broken up. Their mother
having hastened the preparations for a simple repast, the
children ate heartily, then went to bed and slept soundly.

Fritz, the eldest, who better understood our position than
his brothers, wished to watch with us. "Father," said he,
"I have reflected on the means of reaching the shore. If we
had some cork or some bladders to make swimming belts for
my mother and my brothers, you and I could swim without
help." "Your idea is good, my dear child," replied I; "let
us prepare some as quickly as we can." Having then gathered
together a number of small empty barrels, and of those tin
bottles in which, at sea, they keep rations of fresh water, aided
by Fritz I joined them together with handkerchiefs, and fastened
two of them under the arms of each of the children, and of
my dear, brave wife. Fritz and I then filled our pockets and
theirs with knives, cords, steels, and other things which might
be very neceesary to us, should the vessel be broken up during
the night, and we fortunate enough to reach the shore. These
precautions taken, Fritz, re-assured and very much fatigued,
laid down beside his brothers and soon fell asleep.

This terrible night was passed by myself and my wife in
prayer. Towards moming, however, i thought the tempest
had abated. At the first dawn of day 'I mounted on the
deck. The wind had fallen a little, the sea was calmer, and
a fine dawn tinged the horizon with light. Re-animated by
this view, I called my wife and sons. The children were
alarmed when they saw that we were alone on the ship. "Where
are the sailors?" said they. " Why, if they have gone away,
did they not take us with them? What will become of us?"
"My children," replied 1, "our companions have gone away
in the boats without thinking of us, and it is to be feared
they have perished by their precipitation. At present, they
are perhaps more to be pitied than we are. See, the sky is
clear, the land is not far off; our abandonment is perhaps
fortunate. Let us hope in God, who has not forsaken
us, and consider what must 'be undertaken to assure our
safety."

'Fritz, enterprising and adventurous, persisted in his idea
of swimming to land. Ernest, my second son, aged twelve
years, intelligent, but timid and indolent, was frightened at
the idea of such a venture, and proposed constructing a raft.
I showed him that such a conveyance, besides the time necessary
to construct it, was very difficult to guide. These two con-
siderations made him abandon his opinion almost immediately.
"Now, my children," said I, "let us explore the vessel; and
while reflecting on the means of gaining the shore, let us gather
together on the deck everything which may be useful to us
on shore."

We separated for the search. I went I first to the place
where the provisions were kept, to secure the first necessaries
of existence. Fritz visited the magazine of arms and muni-

tions, whence he brought up guns, pistols, powder, balls, and
2
shot. Ernest rifled the carpenter's cabin, and returned loaded
with tools and nails. Little Francis, my youngest child, aged
six years, wishing to show.his activity, brought a 1302; full
of fish-hooks. Fritz and Ernest laughed at him; but I
thought we ought not to despise this acquisition, for we might ~
be reduced to live by fishing. As to James, our third son,
an urchin of ten years old, he re-appeared with two large
dogs, which he had found shut up in the captain's cabin, and
being rendered docile by hunger, suI-Tered themselves to be
led by the ears. My wife told me that she had found a cow,
an ass, and two goats, to whom she had given food and drink
just in time to save them, for these poor beasts had had no
food for two days.

Each one appeared to have made useful discoveries, except
James. "You have brought," said I, "'two terrible eaters, who
will cost a great deal, without being of any use." "I thought,
dear father," replied he, "that they would help us to hunt,
when we were on land." "You are right; but we are not yet
on land! Have you thought of any means of arriving there,
dear little one?" "Ah!" said he, " we might sail in the tubs,
as I did formerly in my grandfather's pond." "A good idea,"
said I, and immediately went, followed by my children, to
the hold, where several large empty barrels were floating.
I drew out four of them to the planks of the middle deck,
which was near the level of the water. These barrels were
made of strong wood, bound with iron; I judged them very
fit for the execution of our project. Aided by Fritz, I began
by sawing them into two equal parts. When we had thus
obtained eight tubs, which I ranged side by side, I looked for
a flexible plank, long enough to hold them all, and to form
besides at each end a kind of keel. We nailed the tubs firmly
to this plank, and each of them was attached to the other by
bolts. All this being well accomplished, we saw ourselves in
possession of a conveyance which, in a calm sea, would, in my
opinion, be perfectly safe.

It now remained to put it into the water, but it was so
heavy that our united efl'orts could not move it. I wanted
a screw-jack. Fritz, who recollected having seen one, went to
look for it. By the help of this instrument I raised the heavy
construction, and Fritz placed some rollers under it; it was
then easy to set it in motion. The children were astonished
at seeing the power of the screw-jack. I promised them to
explain its mechanism at the first leisure moment. A few
minutes after, our barque glided from the deck into the sea, on
which it floated, with such rapidity, that it w0uld have escaped,
if I had not taken the precaution to fix it firmly by a cable
to a joist of the vessel. The children uttered cries of joy
on seeing it float; I was not so well satisfied as they
were. It went all on one side, which discouraged me for the
moment, but I soon found that I could remedy this by ballast.
Seizing all the heavy things that were near my hand,I threw
them into the tubs, and by degrees I saw the boat recover its
equilibrium.

We now'wanted oars. Ernest found four which had been
left under a sail-cloth. Recollecting that the savages used a
kind of fly-beam to ensure the steadiness of their canoes, I
resolved to adapt similar ones to our boat. I took two pieces
of yard, which I fixed by pegs to the extremities of the boat,
so that they could turn. At each end of these poles I fixed a
little empty cask, to float on the water right and left. These
kept the boat quite steady.

When these labours were completed, it was too late to think
of putting to sea the same day. We must resign ourselves to
pass another night on the stranded ship. This determination
taken, my wife comforted us materially by a good meal, for we
had taken nothing during the day but a little bread and wine.
Although more satisfied than on the preceding evening, I would
not go to bed without putting on the children their swimming
apparatus. Sleep was not long in coming to us, for the day had

been 'a busy one. The night passed without any unfortunate
incident.THE LANDING AND FIRST DAY ON LAND.

AT the break of day we were all awake. As soon as we
had engaged in morning prayer, I said to my children, "We
shall now, with God's help, attempt our deliverance. Give the
animals provisions for several days, for we must return to fetch
them, if, as I hope, our journey succeed. Collect, then, all that
will be of the greatest use to us after our landing, and take
courage." I placed among the cargo a barrel of powder, some
guns, several pairs of pistols, some bullets, also some lead and
moulds to make more. Each of us carried a game bag full of
food. I took a chest full of broth-cakes, another of biscuits, a
porridge pot, some knives, hatchets, scythes, pincers, nails,
gimlets, and fishing lines. I took also some sails to make -
a tent. We had amassed so many things, that we were obliged
to leave a great number, though I had exchanged for useful
things the ballast I had thrown into the tubs. My wife thought
that we should do well to take with us some fowls, ducks, geese,
and pigeons. She placed two cocks and twelve hens in one 'of l
the tubs, which I enclosed with a sort of grating formed by
cross pieces of wood. As to the ducks, pigeons, and geese,
'I gave them their liberty, trusting to their instinct to gain the
land, some by flying, others by swimming. The children had
already embarked in the order I had arranged, when my wife
came from the interior of the vessel, carrying in her arms a
large bag which she threw into the tub occupied by little
Francis. I took no notice of this bag, presuming that the
thoughtful mother had taken it to make a seat for the
child.

As soon as I saw everybody installed, I cut the cable which
20
retained the boat, and began to row towards the land. In the
first tub was my wife, in the second little Francis. Fritz
occupied the third. The two middle ones contained the
powder, arms, sails, the tools, the food, and the poultry. James
was in the sixth; Ernest in the seventh; and I took the last
one for myself, whence, helm in hand, I directed our naviga-
tion. Each of us had beside him one of our belts of bottles
and barrels to serve in case of accident. As I judged the
dogs too big to embark with us, we left them on the vessel.
When they saw that we were going, they began to howl, but
suddenly decided on throwing themselves into the water and
soon rejoined us. Fearing that the journey was too long for
their strength, I eased them by letting them put their fore
paws from time to time on the balancing poles or on the
barrels. The good animals soon understood this manoeuvre,
and could thus follow us without too much fatigue.

The sea curled softly, the sky was pure, the sun radiant.
We rowed with a will, and the tide favoured us. Around us
floated chests, barrels, bales, and other waifs of the shipwrecked
vessel. Fritz and I seized with the oars and fastened to the
boat some of the barrels which we towed along. My wife,
her hand resting on the head of her youngest child, her eyes
raised to heaven, was silently praying. The journey was
happily accomplished, but the nearer we approached the shore,
the more wild and melancholy it appeared. A line of grey
and naked rocks was all we could see.

After a time, however, Fritz, who was very strong sighted,
thought he discovered some trees, among which, he assured us,
were some palm trees. Ernest, naturally dainty, was rejoiced
at the idea of eating cocoa-nuts, which, as he had read, were
much better than the walnuts of Europe.

A discussion arose among the children, on the kind of
trees which Fritz was endeavouring to make them see. As I
was regretting not having brought away the captain's telescope,
James drew from his pocket a little eye-glass which he had
found in the mate's room. I could then observe the shore.
Forgetting the subject in dispute, I looked round anxiously
for a place to land at. I noticed a creek towards which the
geese and ducks were making their way. " Do you see the
cocoa-nuts, papa?" said little Francis. "Yes," said I, smiling,
"Fritz has good eyes; he is not deceived. I distinguish in
the distance some trees which appear to be cocoa-nut trees."
"I am very glad," said the little boy, clapping his hands
together for joy. My wife leant forward to embrace him and
hide a tear. When she raised her head she only showed us
a smile. We bent well to our oars, and landed near the mouth
of a stream, at a place where the water was scarcely deeper
than was necessary to keep our tubs afloat, and where the
shore was very low. The children jumped hastily on shore,
with the exception of Francis, who, in spite of his impatience,
was too young to get out of his tub without his mother's
assistance. The dogs, who had preceded us, welcomed us
with joyful barks. The ducks and geese already installed
on the shores of the stream, saluted us with their quackings,
with which were mingled the harsh cries of some penguins
who remained motionless on the rock, and of several fiamingocs
who ran away frightened.

Our first care, as soon as we touched land, was to throw
ourselves on our knees to thank God who had so mercifully
delivered us, and ask Him to continue His protection. I
clasped my wife and my poor little ones in my arms. The
moist eyes of my wife met mine. "God is good," said she,
with an angelic smile; "He has left us each other and our
children." We then proceeded to unload the boat, and every-
thing was soon transported to the shore. Though this booty
was inconsiderablc, how rich we thought ourselves in pos-
sessing it!

I chose a convenient place to pitch the tent which was to
shelter us. I fixed in the soil one of the poles which served
to balance our boat; at the top of this pole I placed the
second, resting one end in a cleft of the rock. Then I threw
over it the sail which I extended with pegs, taking care to
fix the edges inside, with our chests of provisions and other
heavy things, and Fritz fixed some hooks to the opening, so
that we might close it at night. I ordered the children to
collect all the dry grass and moss they could find to make
beds. Whilst they were thus occupied I built with some
stones, at a little distance from the tent, a sort of furnace, on
which I placed several armsful of dead wood, picked up from
the sides of the stream, and I soon kindled a large fire, which
blazed gaily. My wife placed on the hearth the pot 'full of
water, into which I threw five or six soup-cakes. "What
are you going to glue, papa?" asked little Francis, who'took
the soup-cakes for strong glue. His mother, smiling at his
artless question, said I was making soup. "Glue soup," said
he, making a sour face. "Oh, no," said his mother, "meat
soup." "Meat!" cried Francis, opening his eyes, "are you
going to the butcher's, mama?" His mother laughed, and
told him that what he had taken for glue, Was the juice of
meat reduced to this state by long boiling. "They employ
this means," said she, "to supply fresh meat, which would be
tainted in long sea voyages."

Fritz, who had loaded his gun, went off up the stream;
Ernest went the opposite way along by the sea. James began
to search the rocks in the hope of finding mussels. I was busy
drawing from the water the barrels which we had towed along,
when I heard James uttering loud cries. Armed with a hatchet,
I ran to the side whence the voice proceeded. I perceived the
child on his knees in the water. "Papa, papa," cried he, with
an accent in which triumph and terror were mingled, "come
quickly; I have caught a great beast." "Well, bring him."
"I cannot, papa; he holds me." I could not help laughing
to see this conqueror a prisoner to his captive, but it was time
to go to his assistance. A large lobster was holding him by the
leg, and poor James tried in vain to escape from the claws of
the animal. I went into the sea; the lobster let go his prize
and tried to escape, but I seized him by the middle of the
body, and brought him to land. My scapegrace, proud of
being able to show this fine captive to his mother, hastily seized
the creature with both hands, but scarcely had he touched him,
than he struck his face Such a violent blow with his tail, that
he let him fall, and began to cry. While consoling him, I
could not help laughing at his discomfiture. I showed him
that nothing was more simple than to conquer his prisoner by
holding him by the middle of his body. As soon as he was
satisfied, he resumed his road to let his mother admire his
capture. "Mama! Francis! Ernest! Fritz! where is Fritz?"
cried he, arriving at the tent; " Come and see! A lobster, a '
lobster! "

Ernest, after having gravely examined the creature, advised
his mother to put him into the boiling pot, which would
make us a rich soup. My wife did not think much of the
excellence of this receipt, and decided that we should cook the
lobster separately. Ernest then told us that he had also made
a discovery. "I have seen," said he, " some shell-fish in the
water; but it would wet me to take them." "I saw them
also," replied James, with a disdainful air; " but what of that?
Small shell-fish,'I would not eat them. Think of my lobster!"
" Who knows P " said Ernest again, " perhaps they are oysters.
I should say they were by the manner in which they stuck to
the rocks, and the depth at which they are found." "Well,
soft one," said I, "if you thought they were oysters, why did
you not bring us some? You were afraid of wetting yourself,
you say; remember, in our position we must give proofs of
energy and self-denial."

" I also saw," said Ernest, " some salt among the holes of the
rocks." I explained this fact by supposing that the sun had
dried the sea-water. " Ah!" cried I, "eternal discoverer! if
you saw salt, you ought to have collected a sack full. Go
then and repair this negligence quickly, that we may not
eat insipid soup." Ernest set off, and soon returned. The
salt which he brought was so mixed with sand and earth,
that I was on the point of throwing it away, but my wife
prevented me. She threw lt into Some water, which she' then
strained through a cloth, and we used this water to Salt our
soup. I, however, scolded Ernest for having taken so little
care.

The soup was ready, but Fritz had not come in, and besides,
standing before the boiling pot, we asked each other, very
foolishly, how we were going to empty it. Must. we carry by
turns the great burning pot to our lips, and fish up the biscuit
with our fingers? We found ourselves nearly in the situation
of the fox in the fable, to whom the stork presented food in
a bottle. Our embarrassment was so great that we burst out
laughing. "If we only had some cocoa-nuts," said Ernest,
"we might make some spoons." "Yes," said I, "if it were
only to wish and have, we might instantly be provided with
magnificent silver covers. But Fritz's cocoa-nut trees are
yet to be discovered. The rocks separate us from them.
Come my children, invent something that may serve our
purpose. " COuld we not," replied Ernest, "make use of oyster-
shells?" - "Capital 1" cried I; "make haste and procure
some."

Ernest went off again, but was forestalled by James, who
had gone into the water before the indolent one had reached
the shore. James detached the oysters and threw them on
the ground. Ernest was satisfied with picking them up, thus
avoiding wetting his feet. At the same time that our Oyster
fishers returned, Fritz came in. He advanced, holding his
hand behind his back, and affecting a sorrowful air. " Have
you found nothing?" I asked. "Nothing at all," replied he.
But his brothers, who were surrounding him, cried out, "Oh!
a little guinea pig! where did you find it? Let me see it."
Then Fritz proudly showed the game which he had at first
hidden.

I congratulated him on his hunting; but reprimanded him
for the falsehood he had told, though it was only in jest. He
asked pardon; then told us that he had gone to the other
side of the stream, and had found a very different country from
that in which we were. "There," said he, "the vegetation
is magnificent; besides, there is on the shore a quantity of
chests, barrels, and other waifs of the shipwreck which the sea
has thrown up. Shall' we sufl'er all these riches to be lost?
Shall we go and fetch the cattle from the vessel? The cow
especially would give us excellent milk to steep our biscuits.
Down below there is plenty of grass to feed her, and beautiful
trees to shelter us. Let us go and settle there. Let us quit
this naked and arid shore."

"Patience, patience," replied I, "every thing in time. First
tell me, have you discovered any' trace of our companions?"
"Nothing, either on land or sea. I have seen no other living
beings than a troop of animals like the one I have brought.
These are, I think guinea-pigs, but of a particular kind, for
their paws are made like those of hares. They are so tame
that I could look at them closely. They bounded about in
the grass, sat, and carried their food to their mouths like
squirrels." Ernest gravely examined the animal, and said that
according to his natural history, he believed it was an aghuti.
" Ah!" cried Fritz, "see how. the learned impose on us; I say
it is a guinea-pig."

I interfered in the discussion: "Do not take so high a
tone with your brother," said I to Fritz; "I have never seen
a living ageuti ; but what you hold there is certainly the ageuti
of which the naturalists speak. In the first place, your animal
is much too large for a guinea-pig ; he has a flat head, small
ears, :1 small tail, and short yellow-brown hair. He is about
the size of a large rabbit ; and see, its front teeth are sharp and
bent inwards. A guinea-pig never had such teeth." " Father,"
said Ernest, "since the agoutis are so tame, suppose we try
to take some alive. We could bring them up like rabbits,
and should have game always at hand, without the trouble
of hunting it." "Yes, that would suit your idleness, Ernest.
Try if you like. The agouti is not difficult to provide for;
but I foresee that these rabbits will give you more trouble
than those of Europe. They are great gnawers, whose teeth
are always at work. Nothing resists them, however hard,
and they have been known to bite through the iron bars of the
cage in which they were confined. Where do you intend to
keep yours?"

James, while his brothers were attentively listening to this
lesson of natural history, was struggling to open an oyster with
his knife; but though he employed all his strength, he could
not succeed. I then took the oysters, placed them on the
hot coals, and they soon opened of themselves. " N ow," said
I, "my children, this is a very delicious dish; taste it." Saying
this I sucked up an oyster and swallowed it. James and Fritz
imitated me, but did not hesitate to declare that they were
detestable. Ernest and Francis thought the same. So we
only took that part of the oysters which is usually thrown
away, namely the shells, and using them for spoons, began to
eat our soup. .

Whilst we were feasting with a good appetite, the two dogs,
who had good reasons for wishing to imitate us, discovered
F ritz's ageuti, and began to tear it. Fritz rose furiously, and
seizing his gun, struck them with it so violently that he broke
the stock; then while the dogs were running away, he threw
stones at them as long as he could reach them. This was not
the first time that Fritz had shown irritability. And I felt
that I ought to repress this violence of disposition, which
grieved me, and might set a bad example to his brothers.
I scolded him severely, and showed him that in the blindness
of his anger he had not only made his gun useless, but risked
laming poor animals who were intended to be of great
service to us. He saw the justice of my reprimand, and ex-
pressed his sorrow for it. I pardoned him on condition that
he should make his peace with the dogs. Fritz immediately
took a piece of biscuit in each hand, and shortly after these
good animals reappeared with him. Poor Fritz had his eyes
full of tears. "Oh, father," said he, "even before taking the
biscuit they licked my hand. How could I be so harsh to
such good creatures?" " Anger is always wrong, my dear
child," said I ; "do not forget it."

As we finished our repast, the sun disappeared in the
horizon. The cocks, hens, and ducks assembled round us.
Then my wife threw them some handfuls of corn, which she
drew from the bag I had seen her put into Francis's tub. I
praised her highly for her forethought; but remarked that it
would be better still to keep these grains to sow, than to lavish
them on the animals who could be fed with damaged biscuits.
The pigeons took refuge in the crevices of the rocks; the cocks
and hens perched on the ridge of the tent; and the ducks
couched in the tufts of rushes at the mouth of the stream.
We also prepared for repose. The arms were loaded and
placed in such a manner that we could seize them at the
first alarm. we then joined in prayer, and retired into the
tent.

To the. great astonishment of the children, darkness suc-
ceeded to daylight very rapidly. I concluded from this that
we must be near the equator, at all events in a tropical region.
I looked once more out of the tent to assure myself that all
was calm around us; then I closed the entrance and went
to bed. The night was very fresh; we were obliged to lie
close together to keep warm. This contrast between the
temperature of the day and night confirmed me in my opinion
of the situation of the country. My wife slept, and so did the
children. It was agreed between us that I should watch till
the middle of the night, and that I should then call her to
take my place; but sleep insensibly overcame me, and God
alone watched over us on the first night that we passed on
the land of deliverance.VOYAGE or DISCOVERY.

THE cocks did not forget to salute the sun. My wife and I
were awoke by their crowing. Our first care was to arrange
the employment of the day. She agreed with me that we ought
first of all to try and ascertain the fate of our companions. We
,also wished to explore the country, to knew in what part to fix
'our residence. It was agreed that I should go on this discovery
with Fritz, whilst the mother should remain near the tent with
the other boys. I then begged her to prepare breakfast, and
woke the children, who immediately arose.

I asked James what had become of his lobster. He told me
that he had hid it in a hole of the rock, for fear the dogs should
take it as they had Fritz's ageuti. "Very well," said I; "this
is a proof that you are not a careless boy when your own
interests are concerned, and that you learn experience by others'
misfortunes. However, will you give us your lobster's claws to
eat during our journey ? "

"Oh, a journey! a journey!" cried all the children at
once; "take me, papa; take me!" "This time," said I, " it
is not possible to take the whole family. We should advance
too slowly, and in case of danger it would be more difficult
to defend ourselves. Fritz only will come with me; one dog,
whom we will call Turk, if you like, shall come with us. You
will remain here with your mother, under care of the other
dog, to whom I propose to give the name ,of Belle." Fritz
asked me, with a blush, to let him take another gun instead
of his own, which was useless. I permitted him, without
appearing to remark the confusion which the remembrance
of his fault caused him. I made him put in his belt a pair

of pistols and a hatchet. I armed myself in the same manner.
39
We took care to fill our game bags with powder, balls, and
some biscuit. Each of us took a tin bottle full of water.

Breakfast was ready. It consisted of the lobster which my
wife had cooked. It was found so hard that we left the greater
part of it. Fritz was of opinion that we should begin our
journey before the great heat came on. " You are right," said
I; "we will set out; but we have forgotten a very important
thing." "What?" said he. "To embrace my mother and
brothers; to thank God," said Ernest eagerly. "Right, my
dear Ernest ; you have understood me."

I was interrupted by James, who pretended to ring a bell.
"Boom, boom, boom," cried he, "to prayers! to prayers!"
"Foolish child," said I; " leave off turning sacred things into
ridicule. To punish you, we will not admit you to pray with
us. Retire." Confused at this- reprimand, James went away
with a full heart, and knelt down at a distance. Whilst we
were praying, I heard him ask pardon of God for his untimely
jest. Then he came humbly and promised me never more to
commit the same fault. I embraced him, satisfied by finding
that he redeemed his thoughtlessness by an excellent heart.

After having recommended union and obedience to those
children who were to remain with their mother, we separated.
It was not without regret and some tears; for my wife was
uneasy at seeing us set out on this adventure, and I was not
without anxiety for the dear treasure that I left behind me.
We hastened our steps, and soon the noise of the stream by
which we were walking prevented us from hearing the adieus
of our loved ones. To cross the stream it was necessary to
go back to a place where it was enclosed by very steep rocks,
from which fell a cascade.

On the opposite shore nature entirely changed, her aspect.
We came first to some high, dry grass, through which we
advanced with difficulty. Scarcely had we gone a hundred
steps when we heard a great noise; turning back, we saw the
grass moving. Fritz loaded his gun and held it ready to receive
the aggressor, whatever it might be. But we soon recognised
Turk, our dog, whom we had forgotten, and who had just
rejoined us. I received the brave animal with caresses, and
congratulated Fritz on his coolness; for he not only faced the
danger bravely, but abstained from firing before he distinctly
saw what the enemy was.

Continuing our route, we gained the borders 'of the sea.
We looked all around, endeavouring to find traces of our
companions, but could perceive none. We also attentively
examined the sand, hoping to see men's footsteps, but this
hope was also disappointed. Fritz said, "Shall we fire from
time to time, that the shipwrecked ones may hear us, if there
are any here?" "That is well thought of," I replied; "but
perhaps this noise may attract savages, with whom a meeting
would not be agreeable." "Afterall," said he, "I scarcely
know why we should trouble ourselves about people who
inhumanly abandoned us." " For several reasons," I replied.
"First, because it is not christian-like to return evil for evil;
and then because, if our cempanions have need of us, we also
may have need of them." "But, dear father, in looking for
them we lose time which may be better employed ; for example,
in saving the cattle which have been left on the ship."
"Between different duties," said I, " let us accomplish first
the most important. Besides, my dear child, the animals
have sufficient food for several days, and the sea, which is
calm, does not threaten to carry away the rest of the vessel."

We quitted the shore. After having walked two leagues,
looking carefully about us, we entered into a little wood. We
had walked then for nearly two hours; the sun was very high.
We hastened to the borders of a little stream which softly
murmured. Around us flew, warbling, beautiful birds, which
were unknown to us. Fritz thought he saw a monkey on the
branch of a tree. Turk also began to smell about, and bark
in that direction. Fritz rose to ascertain the fact; and as he
was walking with his eyes raised upwards, he struck his foot
against a round thing with bristling hairs, which made him
stumble. He picked this thing up and brOught it to me,
saying that it must be the nest of a large bird. "Your nest,
my dear Fritz," said I, laughing at his mistake, "is a cocoa-
nut." By a disposition natural to self-love at his young age,
Fritz persisted in his opinion. "There .are many birds," said
he, "which make round 'nests like this." "That is true; but
why pronounce with so much precipitation, and then support
your judgment when you are shown that it is ill founded?
Do not you recollect having read that the cocoa-nut is sur-
rounded with a mass of fibres which cover a thin and brittle
skin? The fruit which you have just found is doubtless old;
the exterior envelope has been destroyed by the air. If you
take away these bristly fibres you will see the nut." Fritz
obeyed, and found that I was right. Then we broke the
' nut, in which we found a dry and uneatable kernel. "What,"
said Fritz, "is this the fruit of which Dr Ernest spoke with
so much praise? I thought I should find some delicious milk."
" We should have done so if we had met with a nut which was
not quite ripe. But in proportion as the nut ripens, the milk
which it contains hardens, and forms a kernel, which later still
dries, unless the fruit falls into suitable ground, and the kernel
germinating, breaks" its shell to give birth to a new tree."
"What," asked Fritz, astonished, "would the kernel have
strength enough to pierce a shell so solid as this?" "Cer-
tainly; have you not seen peach stones open, and they are
very hard?" "Yes; but the peach stones are naturally formed
in two pieces, which the kernel separates when it is swollen
by moisture." I praised my son for the correctness of this
remark, and told him that the cocoa-nut grows in a different
manner. I then pointed out three little openings towards the
end of the nut. "These openings," said I, "are closed, as
you may see, by a hood, less hard than the rest of the'shell.
It is there that the germs of the stalk and roots take their
issue." I was glad to see that my son followed with great
interest these explanations, which initiated him into the wise
laws of creation.

We resumed our route, walking still through the wood, which

appeared to extend a long way. We were often obliged to cut
a passage with our hatches from the innumerable bindweeds

which interlaced the trees. At each step some magnificent
plant or some strange tree came in sight. Fritz, who was more
and more astonished, cried out suddenly, "Oh, papa! what are
these great trees with wens on the trunks?" I recognised the
calibash, whose flexible stalk rolling round the trees forms on
their trunks a kind of gourd, with a hard and dry shell. It may
be employed in making dishes, porringers, bottles, and spoons.
I told Fritz that the savages even use them to boil water and
cook their victuals. He was greatly astonished, not under-
standing how such utensils could bear fire. I then explained
' the method of the savages, which consisted in throwing into the

water contained in these vases, stones previously made red hot
in the fire, until the water boiled.

While talking, we had each taken a gourd to make into
household utensils. Fritz endeavoured to shape his with his
knife, but did not succeed, He became impatient, and threw
it away. I took care not to imitate him, but surrounded mine
with a string, which I pressed gradually tighter, till I obtained
two porringers of equal size. "I must own," said Fritz, "that
this is an ingenious idea." "I have not, my dear child, the
merit of the invention; I only recollected that this method
is employed by peeple who have no knives, so I put it in
practice." Fritz wished to know how the bottles were made.
"I understand," said he, "that by letting the gourd dry we
might extract the marrow through the hole. But could we give
to this round fruit 3. more convenient form P Could we succeed
in pressing it so as to obtain a neck?" I told him that to
obtain this result, they surround the young fruit with bands of
linen or skin. The part thus tied cannot grow, while the rest
develops at liberty.

Seeing my success, Fritz took courage. We gathered a
sufiicient number of gourds, which I exposed to the sun, after
having filled them with fine sand to prevent their shrinking too
much in drying ; then, in order to take them on our return, we
took care to mark the place where we left them.

We then pursued our route, endeavouring to form some
spoons with fragments of calibash. We produced nothing very
remarkable; coarse as they were, however, these spoons were
much more convenient than the oyster shells which we used the
evening before. Fritz jumped for joy: "Dishes, plates, cups!
ah, how glad my mother will be! She will have something to
serve up our soup in." And thinking of Francis; "Father, let
us look for a little calibash ; our spoons will stretch his poor
mouth from ear to ear. Iwill try and make him a little one
for himself." And as one good thought leads to another, he
also prepared two gourds for Turk and Belle. When his labour

3
was finished, Fritz took some biscuit and soaked it in fresh
water for Turk. When Turk saw this, his large eyes shone
with tenderness; he gratefully licked his young master's hand,
and did honour to this unexpected repast.

' After having walked about three hours more, we arrived at a
neck of land which stretched into the sea, and on which rose a
hill, which, not without some trouble, we ascended. From the
summit, the view embraced a vast extent; but, though aided by
the spy-glass, we discovered no signs of other shipwrecks, nor
anything which would make us suppose that the island was
inhabited.

A most magnificent view stretched before us. Under our
feet shone the calm sea in an immense bay, whose shores were
covered with a rich vegetation, which extended a long way.
This spectacle would have filled us with delight if the fate of
our companions had not saddened us. Yet I could not prevent
an expression of satisfaction in contemplating this country,
whose fertility promised well for our future support. "Well,"
said I, "we are destined to the life of isolated colonists. God
has thus decided for us. Let us submit courageously to His
will." "But," said Fritz, " we are in greater numbers than at
the time of Adam and Eve; and who knows if we shall not be
like that patriarch of whom the Bible speaks, the source of
an innumerable nation?" This idea of an Abraham of fifteen
years old made me smile.

At this moment the sun darted its fiercest rays. I told Fritz
to follow me and seek the shade in a grove of palm-trees which
I perceived at some distance. " For," said I, " my poor Fritz,
it would be sad that we should be burnt up before we have
accomplished our patriarchal destiny." " Dear father," said
Fritz, "I wished to cheer you a little. As to us, do not fear.
Where you and my mother are, what can I and my brothers
want? We shall be very happy, and shall soon grow up and
work so as to save you all trouble." I pressed the dear child
in_ my arms, and thanked God for having given me so good a
son.

To gain the wood we had to cross a field of reeds, so close

and entangled, that they very much impeded our walk. As this
place might be a refuge for reptiles, I cut one of the reeds to
defend myself against unpleasant rencontres. Scarcely had I
taken it, than I felt my hand wet with a glutinous liquid. I put
it to' my lips, and it was clear to me that we had discovered a
natural plantation of sugar-canes. I did not tell Fritz at first,
wishing to give him the pleasure of making this precious dis-
covery. He was walking before me. I told him to cut a reed,
which would be a safer arm against the serpents than pistols or
knives. He obeyed me, and I soon heard him cry out with
delight, "Sugar-caneslsugar-canes! What an exquisite juice,
what delicious syrup! How glad my mother and little brothers
will be!" He broke his reed into several fragments, that he
might more easily squeeze out the juice, which he eagerly sucked.
"I will," said he, "carry home a good stock of these canes to regale
my mother and brothers." I told him not to burden himself
with too heavy a load, for we had still a long way to go; but
he cut a dozen of the largest stalks, which he wrapped up in
their leaves and put under his arm.

Scarcely had we entered the grove of palm-trees, when a
troop of monkeys, frightened at our arrival, and Turk's bark,
sprang on the trees, from which they looked at us, uttering
piercing cries and making horrible grimaces. Fritz, without
reflecting, threw down his bundle of canes, took his gun and
was going to fire, but I stopped him. "Why do you wish
to kill those animals?" "Apes," said he, " are wicked, foolish
beasts; see how they menace us and show their teeth." " Be
it so; but if they are angry it is not without cause, since we
have come to disturb them; let us be careful not to kill any
creature unnecessarily. It is sufficiently painful, that care for
his 'life obliges man to kill a great many animals. Suffer
these apes to live; who knows if they may not be useful to
us?" "Useful!" replied Fritz, "how can that be?" "You
will see," said I. I then threw some stones 'at the monkeys,
who, obeying their imitative instincts, snatched from the top of
the palm-trees a quantity of cocoa-nuts, which they threw at
us. It was easy to avoid these ill-directed missiles. Fritz
was diverted with the success of my trick. "Thanks, Messrs
Apes," said he, hiding behind a tree; " many thanks!"

When the hail was a little abated, he picked up as many of
the nuts as he could carry, and we went, to regale ourselves at
leisure, out of the reach of the apes. At first, we made with the
point of our knives some Openings in the tender places, which
are near the end of the nut, so that we might drink the milk
which they contained. But we were astonished not to find
this liquor so excellent as we expected. The cream which
adhered to the interior seemed much better. After having
opened the nut with a blow from the hatchet, we collected,
by the aid of our spoons, this cream, which we sweetened
with the juice of our canes, and thus made a delicious meal.
Thanks to this windfall, Fritz could spare Turk the remainder
of the lobster and biscuit; a very meagre provision for his
robust appetite, for after having swallowed it, he began to
chew the canes and search for cocoa-nuts.

I tied together, several nuts which adhered to the end
of a stalk, and loaded myself with them; Fritz took what
remained of the sugar-canes; and, strengthened by the repast
which we had made, we resumed our walk to rejoin our
family.

Fritz .soon found his burden troublesome; every moment
he changed it from shoulder to shoulder; took it under one
arm, then under the other. At last he said, groaning with
fatigue, "Truly, I was far from thinking that these reeds would
cause me so much embarrassment; yet I do wish to carry
them to the tent, that my mother and brothers may enjoy
them." "Patience and courage," said I; "your burden may
be compared to the basket of bread which [Esop carried, and
which became naturally lighter after each meal. In the same
way, we shall diminishour provision of canes before we reach
home. Give me one, which I will use as a pilgrim's staff, and
a portable honeycomb. Take one also, and you will be relieved
of so much. As to the others, tie them so as to place them
like a cross on your back with your gun."

We resumed our route. Fritz, seeing that from time to
time I put to my lips the cane which he had given me, wished
to do the same, but could not make the least drop of liquor
come out. He, impatiently, asked me the reason of his
ill success. " Reflect a little," said I, "and 'I am persuaded
you will soon find out." He soon discovered that to give
entrance to the air, it was necessary to pierce a hole above
the first knot of the cane. This done, he had no difficulty in
extracting the juice, and could refresh himself from this delicious
stick. All at once he observed to me, that if we continued to
use them thus, we should not carry many canes to the tent.
"Never mind," said I; "the juice will not long keep sweet,
especially when the canes are exposed to the sun. If we
were to walk some time longer, it is probable that on
our return home we could only offer reeds full of sour
liquor."

"Well," replied Fritz, "to make them amends, I have in
my tin bottle a stock of cocoa--nut milk." "Yes; but you-
must know that out of the shell the milk ferments and turns
sour." Fritz then took out his bottle, but scarcely had he
touched the cork than it flew out, and the liquor escaped from
the neck of the bottle, fizzing like champagne. We tasted this
' liquor, which was very agreeable. Fritz found it so much to
his taste, that I was obliged to recommend moderation, fearing
it would affect his head. Whatever this drink might be, it
refreshed us, and we walked on more quickly. We soon
came to the place where we had left our gourds. They
were perfectly dry, so we took them up and carried them
away.

' A little farther on Turk sprang barking at a troop of
monkeys, who were quietly feeding, and had not perceived
our approach. At the first bark of the dog these animals
dispersed; but a female, who was nursing her little one, was
less agile, and was seized by the dog. Fritz sprang forward
to save it; he lost his hat, threw down his bottle and sugar-
canes; but he arrived too late: the poor beast was dead, and
the dog had already begun to devour it. Fritz endeavoured
to prevent Turk from continuing his repast, but I dissuaded
him, as it was for our own safety that Turk's appetite should
be satisfied, and we could not save his victim. The young
one, in its first movement of fright, had squatted against a
tuft of grass, and ground its teeth at the melancholy scene.
When he perceived Fritz, he sprang on his shoulder and
fastened on him so skilfully, that the poor boy, in spite of
all his efforts, could not get rid of him. The young ape
had no intention of hurting him, but separated from his
mother, he seemed to ask F ritz's aid and protection against
the terrible enemy who had just made him an orphan.

Laughing at my son's embarrassment, I advanced, and
gently removed the little animal. Then holding him in my
arms, as a nurse does a child, I could not help pitying him.
"Poor little being," said I, "what shall we do with you? for
we must think twice, before we admit a useless mouth into
the number. of our colony." But Fritz interrupted me im-
mediately. " Oh, papa, pray let me keep it. It would die
if we abandon it. Let me adoPt it. I have read that apes,
guided by instinct, know how to distinguish good fruits from
those that are hurtful; if this is true, we should not hesitate
to attach to us our little companion." "Well, my child, I
acknowledge the goodness of your heart, and the wisdom of
your suggestion. 'I consent to the adoption of your little
protege ; but remember, you must bring it up properly if you
wish to make it useful."

Whilst we were thus discussing, Turk had tranquilly finished
his odious repast. "Turk," said Fritz, with solemnity, showing
him his monkey, "you have made an orphan; you have eaten
the mother of this poor innocent. We pardon you this crime,
because you knew no better. But look well at this little ape,
and promise me to love and respect it for the future. It is
too young, fortunately, to understand the wrong you have done
it. If you are honest and repentant, I engage to recom-
pense your conversion, by making you some good soup,
which will make you disgusted with these vile dinners of raw
flesh." Turk crouched at Fritz's feet, as if he had understood
the gravity of this discourse; he looked from his young master
to the little animal, whom Fritz was caressing before him, to
make him understand that the little ape was to be henceforth
.sacred to him. This done, the little animal resumed his place '
on Fritz's shoulder, and remained there with as much tran-
quillity and confidence as if he had been long accustomed to
it. He appeared frightened, however, when Turk approached
too near him, and endeavoured to hide himself in Fritz's arms.
Wishing to secure their reconciliation, he again addressed the
culpable Turk: " Wicked one," said he, "repair thy fault.
Thou hast deprived this poor little one of his support and
guardian; it is but just that you should replace her." Pass-
ing a cord round Turk's neck, he gave the end of it to the
little ape, whom he had placed on the back of the dog.
At first, Turk greatly objected to this, but submitted after
a slight reprimand; and the little ape, completely reassured,
appeared to enjoy the seat in which Fritz had installed him.
"Do you know," said I to my boy, "that we now look
like jugglers going to a fair. How astonished your brothers
will be when they see us arrive with this equipage!" "Yes,"
said Fritz; "and James, who is so fond of making grimaces,
will have a professor to teach him." " Do not speak thus of
your brother," I replied; " when we have to live together and
love each other, it is bad to remark on the faults of our

companions. Mutual indulgence is a guarantee of union and
happiness, for we all have our failings."

Fritz owned that he had spoken without reflection, and
then turned the conversation. He asked me to tell him all
I knew of the habits of apes. This discourse shortened so
much the length of our road, that we arrived, without think-
ing of it, in the midst of our family, who were awaiting us on
the borders of the stream. The dogs saluted each other from
a distance. This uproar so frightened the ape, that he again
jumped on Fritz's shoulder, and would not descend. As soon
as the children perceived us, they uttered cries of joy; but
when they saw the little animal, who sat trembling on Fritz's
shoulder: " Oh, a monkey! a monkey l" cried they. "Where
did you find him? How did you catch him? How pretty
he is!" Then remarking our provisions: "What are these
sticks and these great bowls with which papa is loaded?"
There was such a deluge of questions, that we could not reply
to them. The first transport having a little subsided: "Yes,
thank God," said I, "we are returned safe and sound, and
have brought you all sorts of good things. But what we
desired, what we went to seek, were men, and we have not
alas! met any. Not the least vestige of our companions."
"Do not damp our joy," said the mother, " but let us thank
God, who has permitted us to be reunited. Lay down your
burdens, and relate the incidents of your journey." Every
one hastened to take some part of our load. Ernest took
the cocoa-nuts, which, however, he had not recognised; Francis
the gourd utensils, which were very much admired, and he
declared that his own little spoon was better than his 01d
silver one; James took my gun; his mother the game-bag.
Fritz distributed his sugar-Canes, and again placed the little ape
on Turk's back; then he presented his gun to Ernest, who did
not fail to remark that it was dangerous to carry it as we
had done with such heavy loads. The good mother, com-
prehending this indirect complaint, relieved him of his cocoa-
nuts, and the little caravan began its march towards the
tent.

"Ah," said Fritz, "if Ernest knew the name of these balls
which he let mamma take, he would not have given them up.
They are cocoa-nuts." "Cocoa-nuts!" cried Ernest; "cocoa-
nuts! Oh, mamma, pray give them back to me, I will carry
them as well as the gun." " No, no," replied the mother, "you
will only grumble; I do not wish to hear your complaints."
"I promise you I will say nothing," replied Ernest; "besides,
I can throw away these long stalks, and carry the gun in my
hand." "Don't do that," said Fritz, "for these stalks are
sugar-canes, and I will show you how to drink the sweet
liquor which they enclose." "Yes! yes!" cried all the children
together, "let us suck the sugar-canes!" and as~ Fritz was
walking before with his brothers, to whom he showed the
method I had pointed out to him, I remained alone with
my wife, whose curiosity I satisfied by reciting our little
adventures.

None of the things which we had brought caused so much
pleasure to the good housekeeper as the utensils shaped out
of gourds. I must say that, though imperfect, .they were
really useful.

When we arrived at the tent, I was happy to see that
all was prepared for a comfortable repast. On the fire was
the pot full of delicious broth; on one side a spit full of fish;
on the other, a goose roasting, whose fat fell into a large
shell; near this, a barrel containing some nice Dutch cheese;
everything calculated to excite our appetite. I could not,
however, help remarking to my wife, that she was beginning
very soon to kill our poultry, which had better be left to
multiply. " Re-assure yourself," said my wife; "our poultry-
yard has not contributed to this repast. These fish were
caught by James and Francis; and this roast is the produce
of Ernest's hunting, who gives a very singular name to his
game." "I give it its true name," replied the young doctor,
"and I call it a stupid penguin. I cannot be deceived, for
this animal let me approach and kill it with a stick. Besides,
it had four fingers in its claws united by a membrane, a long,
strong beak, bent at the point. All this accords perfectly
with the description which Jonathan Franklin gives of the
penguin in his book of natural history." I congratulated my
little savant on the use he had made of his reading, and we
sat down in a circle on the sand, to commence the repast.
Each of us was provided with a shell and a gourd spoon.
The children, while waiting till the soup was cool, broke some
cocoa-nuts, and drank the milk eagerly. Then, the soup eaten,
we attacked the fish, which were rather dry, and the penguin,
which decidedly tasted of train oil. This did not prevent us
from enjoying the good cheer; a good appetite makes every-
thing good. _

The monkey was naturally the object of general attention;
the children steeped the corners of their handkerchiefs in
the cocoa-milk, and the little animal appeared to take great
pleasure in sucking this milk, so we were satisfied that it
would be easy to bring him up. It was decided to call him
Knips. Fritz asked me if we would drink his champagne
cocoa--milk. "Taste it first," I replied, "and see if it is fit
to ofl'er us." Scarcely had he put the bottle to his lips, than
he made a frightful grimace, and cried out, "Pooh, it is vine-
gar!" "I thOught so," said I ; "but never mind; misfortune
is sometimes good; this vinegar will serve to relish our fish,
which will not then be so dry." I then poured a little of the
vinegar in my plate. They all imitated me, and cried "Bravo! "
to the cocoa vinegar.

The repast was finished, and as the sun was disappearing
beneath the horizon, we joined in prayer and went to bed.
Knips had his place between Fritz and James, who covered
him up very carefully that he might not be cold. "This is
our son," they said, laughing.
After having satisfied myself that there was no appearance
of any enemy near us, I closed my eyes, and enjoyed the
sleep which I had earned. I had slept but a very little time,
when I was awoke by the howling of the dogs, and the agita-
tion of the fowls perched on the edge of the tent. I hastened
out, followed by my wife and Fritz, who did not sleep so
soundly as his brothers. We took care to provide ourselves
with arms. By the light of the moon we saw our dogs fight-
ing with ten jackals. Already our brave guardians had brought
three of our nocturnal visitors to the ground; but they would
have been overpowered by numbers, if we had not come to
their assistance. Fritz and I fired together. Two jackals fell
dead; the rest, frightened by the noise, ran away. Fritz
wished to bring into the tent the one he had killed, to show
to his brothers in the morning. I permitted him, and we
returned to the little sleepers, whom neither the firing nor
barking of the dogs had awakened. Then we resumed our
sleep, which was no more troubled.VOYAGE TO THE WRECK.

As soon as day began to break, I called my wife, to
concert with her the employment of the day. "My dear,"
said I, "I see so many things wanting to be done, that
I know not to which to give the preference. For one thing,
I think that if we wish to preserve the cattle, and not lose
a number of things which may be useful to us, we must
make a voyage to the vessel; then again, it will be necessary
to construct a more comfortable abode. I own I am a little
frightened at our task." "Don't be afraid," said she; " with
patience, order, and perseverance, we shall surmount all
obstacles. The courage of a father like you, and brave
children like ours, will suffice for everything. It is not with-
out uneasiness that I shall see you return to the vessel, but
if this voyage is indispensable, I will not oppose it." "Well,
then," said I, "I will set out with Fritz, whilst you remain
here with the other children. Come, get up," cried I; "get
up, the sun has risen ; there is no time to lose."

Fritz appeared the first, and profited by the time which
his brothers took to rub their eyes, to place his dead jackal
on its legs before the tent, in order to see the surprise which
this sight would produce in the children. I had not thought
of the dogs, who, seeing the animal, and doubtless thinking
it still alive, threw themselves upon it, barking furiously.
Fritz had great trouble in driving them off. This un-
accustomed noise hastened the lazy ones. They arrived one
by one; the little monkey on James's shoulder; but at
sight of the jackal he was so frightened that he ran back

into the tent, and hid himself under our beds, where we could
43
only see the end of his nose. As Fritz had foreseen, the
children were greatly astonished.

"A wolf! " cried James , " there are wolves on our island 1 "
"No," said Ernest, "it is a fox." " No," said little Francis,
"it is a yellow dog." "Ah! ahl Master Ernest," said Fritz,
with mock vanity, "you could recognise the agouti; but this
time your knowledge is at fault. What, do you think it is
a fox?" "Yes," replied Ernest, "I think it is a golden fox."
"Ah! ah! a golden fox," repeated Fritz, with a burst of
laughter. Poor Ernest, whose self-love as a scholar seemed
gravely compromised, was so disconcertecl that the tears came
in his eyes. "You are unkind," said he to his brother; "I
may well be deceived; besides you would not have known
the name of this animal, if papa had not told you." "Come,"
said I, "do not tease each other so much. Besides, though
you thus laugh at your brother, my dear Fritz, you must
know that, according to naturalists, the jackal partakes the
nature of a wolf, a fox, and a dog. There is even a generally
admitted opinion that the domestic dog is descended from the
jackal. So not only was Ernest right in calling this animal
a fox, but so was James, who took it for a wolf, and. Francis,
who thought it was a dog."

The discussion ended, I reminded my children that we
ought to commend ourselves to God on beginning the day,
and we knelt in prayer. Then we began breakfast, for my
little fellows' appetites arose as soon as their eyes were opened.
A chest of biscuits was broken open and the barrel of cheese
visited. Suddenly, Ernest, who had been roaming for some
minutes round one of the barrels we had fished up, cried out,
" Oh, papa, how much better we should enjoy our biscuit if
we could spread it with good butter." "Ah," said I, " with
your eternal if's, you only arouse our desires without giving
us the power of satisfying them. Is it not sufficient to have
good cheese?" "I don't say it is not," replied he, "but if
some one would open this barre ." "What barrel?" "This
one; I am certain it contains butter, for at a joint there leaks
out a kind of greasy matter whose smell I recognise."

After satisfying ourselves that Ernest's nose had not
deceived him, we concerted how we could extract the butter
from the tub. Fritz was of opinion that we should knock off
the hoops round the top and take away the head. I thought
that thus the staves would be so disjointed that the butter
would be melted. by the sun. It seemed better to make an
opening with a chisel, by which we could get out the butter
with a little- wooden shovel. This done, we soon had some
excellent bread and butter, the taste of which made us more
anxious to save the cow from the vessel.

The dogs, fatigued with their combat, slept beside us. I
remarked that they had not escaped unhurt from their fight
with the jackals, for they both had large wounds in the neck.
My wife washed some butter in fresh water to take away the
salt, and dressed their wounds with it. Then they began to
lick each other, which made me hope that they would soon be
cured. " It would be useful," said Fritz, "if on such occasions
our dogs were furnished with pointed collars." "Ah," said
James, " if my mother would help me, I would make some
solid ones." "With all my heart," replied his mother; "let us
see what you have thought of."

" Now, Fritz," said I, " prepare to accompany me to the ship-
wrecked vessel, and we will endeavour to save the cattle, and
a quantity of things which may be useful to us."

The boat of tubs was soon ready. At the moment of
departure, we agreed with my wife that she should raise on
the shore, with a pole and a strip of white linen, a signal,
which we could see from the vessel. In case of distress, she
was to lower it, and fire the gun three times. I persuaded
her even, so courageous was this dear wife, to let us pass
the night on the vessel, if it happened that we were too late
to return. In this case, we would light lanterns to show
that all was well. Knowing that there remained some pro-
visions on the wreck, we only took our arms. I permitted
Fritz to carry his little ape, whom he wished to regale with
goat's milk. We set out, after having embraced and recom-
mended each other to God. '

Fritz rowed vigorously, and I guided the boat. When we
were at some distance to sea, I saw that a very strong stream
ran from the bay. l conjectured that in going towards the
sea, it would form a current, which would help us to reach
the ship. I was not deceived. We floated in the direction of
this current, which carried us, with very little effort on our
part, three parts of the way.

We went on board the wreck, and our boat was fastened
by thick ropes into the notch which I had made on our
departure. Fritz's first care was to run to the animals, who
at our approach began to bleat and bellow. These poor
beasts seemed to rejoice at again seeing men. We first gave
them some food and fresh water, and then made our own
meal, which was easy to procure, for the ship was provisioned
for a long voyage. Fritz put the goat's teat to the little
monkey, who joyfully took this delicious beverage. "Now,"
said I, "what shall we begin men" "I think," replied Fritz,
"that we should before all things, fix a sail to our boat."
It did not seem to me at first that this was very necessary;
but Fritz made me observe that in coming he had felt
some wind, against which we should have had to struggle,
if we had not been helped by the current, and we might
make this wind useful in returning to the shore. He foresaw
that we should have some trouble in making the passage, only
helped by our oars, especially when the boat was heavily laden.

These observations appeared very wise, so we set to work.
I chose a piece of yard thick enough for a mast, and another
thinner piece, to which I fixed a large square of linen. During
this time, Fritz had nailed on to one of the tubs a thick plank,
in which he made a hole to fix the mast. I then attached
some pulleys to the corners of the sail, 'so as to be able to
work it while holding the rudder. To finish, and with a
disposition to mix play with work, natural at his age, Fritz
tied to the end of the mast a red streamer, which he saw
flying with extreme pleasure. Smiling at this innocent joke,
I fixed towards the land a. telescope, which I found in the
captain's cabin, and I had the joy of seeing that our loved ones
were all right.

It was getting late, and it was clear that we could not
regain the land that evening. The rest of the day was
employed in pillaging the vessel, as if we had been pirates,

and in loading our tubs with every useful thing they would
' contain.
Foreseeing a long abode on this desert land, I gave
preference to the utensils which would assist our industrious
efforts, and to the arms with which we might defend ourselves.
The vessel, intended for the establishment of a colony in the
South Sea, where we intended to settle, was better provided
with utensils and provisions of all sorts than it would have
been for an ordinary voyage. So we had only to choose
among the multitude of useful things. I did not forget spoons,
knives, stew-pans, plates, etc. Fritz carried away even a
silver service which was in the captain's cabin, as well as
a quantity of bottles of wine and liqueurs, also several
Westphalia hams. These luxurious provisions did not make
us disdain the sacks of corn, maize, and other seeds. I took
care not to forget a compass, some spades and other garden
implements, some guns and pistols. We took also some
hammocks and blankets, some balls of cord, some curtains,
and even a little barrel of sulphur, that we might replace
the matches, of which we had only a small quantity left.

I had declared our cargo complete, when Fritz arrived
with a last packet. " Leave that, dear child," said I, " there
is no more room. This is too large, and appears heavy."
"Oh, father," said Fritz, "let me take this packet; they are
the. captain's books. Ernest and my mother will be so de-
lighted." Dear child," said I, " you are right; bread for the
mind is as valuable as bread for the body; your packet will
be a treasure to us all." Our boat was so loaded that the
water almost overflowed it. I should certainly have lightened
it, if the sea had not been perfectly calm. However, we
took care to preserve our belts, in case any accident should
happen.

The night fell. A large fire which we perceived on the
shore told us that nothing had happened on their side. To
reply to this good news, I suspended from the side of the
vessel three lighted lanterns. Soon, the firing of a gun told
us that. our signal had been perceived. Our arrangements
were soon made to- pass the night in our tubs. I would
not sleep on the vessel, for the least wind might dislodge it,
and expose us to danger. Fritz was soon asleep, in spite of
his uncomfortable bed. As for me, I could not close my
eyes; I was uneasy about the fate of those on land, and I
also wished to keep an incessant watch, to be ready for all
events. Scarcely had day begun to break than I was on the
deck of the vessel, pointing the telescope towards the shore.
I saw my wife come out of the tent, and stop to look around
her. I hoisted a white flag to the top of the mast, and my
wife lowered and raised hers three times, to tell us she had
perceived and comprehended my signal. " God be praised l "
cried I; "our dear ones are safe and sound. Now we must
find means to transport the cattle to the shore." "Let us
construct a raft," said Fritz.

I showed him not only the difficulty of the work, but also
the impossibility of guiding such a machine. " Well," said
he, "let us throw the animals into the sea; they will swim.
The pig, with his large fat belly, will have no trouble in
supporting himself." "I believe so; but do you think that
the ass, the cow, the goat, the sheep, will be equally fortunate?
Now, I own that I would willingly sacrifice the pig to save the
others." " Well," replied Fritz, " why not put on them some
swimming belts like our own. It will be funny to see them
swim in that manner." " Bravo, my clever Fritz; your idea,
though droll, seems practicable. To work, my friend, to work;
let us make the trial on one of our animals." We took a
sheep, to' whose body we fastened our belts, one on each side,
and threw her into the sea. At first, the poor frightened
beast disappeared under the water; but soon came to the
surface, and at last, feeling the support of the belts, she
remained motionless, and we saw with satisfaction that she
swam perfectly'well.

Nothing more was necessary to show the excellence of this
method of saving the cattle. All the cork we could find served
for the little animals. As to the ass and the cow, which were
much heavier, we made a particular apparatus for each of them,

composed of two empty barrels fastened to their bodies by
linen hands.

When all our beasts were harnessed in this manner, I
attached a cord to the horns or neck of each, of which we

might hold the end when we were in the boat. Our cattle
' were soon in the water, and that without much difficulty. The
ass. alone was obstinate; we were obliged to throw him in
headlongf He heat about at first, but soon began to swim
with so much grace that we could not help applauding him.
As soon as we were all embarked, I untied the rope, and the
wind soon taking the sail, we weredriven towards the shore.
Fritz, happy in having succeeded in our undertaking, played
with his monkey, and proudly regarded the red flag which
unrolled so gracefully at the top of the mast. I followed
with heartfelt looks my beloved ones, whom, by the aid of
the telescope, I could see quitting the tent and running to the
shore. Suddenly Fritz cried out, " Oh, father, an enormous fish
is coming towards us." " To arms!" Said I, " and attention."

Our guns were loaded. The animal whose approach Fritz
had announced was a very large shark. "Let us fire together,"
said I. At the moment when the marine monster, who was
swimming very fast, opened his mouth to seize one of our sheep,
we both fired. The shark disappeared. An instant after, we
perceived on the surface of the sea the brilliant scales of his
belly, and a streak of blood showed us that we were happily
delivered from this terrible corsair. I ordered Fritz to reload
his gun, for it might be that the shark was not alone. Happily
my fears were unfounded. Without any other incident, we
reached the shore. '

My wife and the three children were waiting for us. They
seized the rope which I threw to them to fasten the boat. The
animals who had reached the land, were relieved from their
belts. The ass rolled on the sand in a joyful manner, and then
uttered a formidable hee-haw, to show the joy he felt at finding
himself on firm ground. After having embraced and con-
gratulated each other at meeting again safe and sound, after
this long and perilous separation, we sat down on the grass at
the border of the stream, and I recited all that had happened
to us. I did not forget to give Fritz the praise he merited for

the assistance he had given me.WHAT PASSED ON LAND DURING OUR ABSENCE.

F RITZ'S contrivance for the transport of the cattle, excited
general admiration. Good little Francis was delighted with the
sail and streamer. "It is prettier than anything else," said he;
"yes, I like it better than the stew-pans, the beasts, the pig, and
even the cow." " Little silly," said his mother, "you will change
your mind, when I give you every morning a bowl full of good
milk."

We then described, in detail, all that we had done.

Their curiosity satisfied, we began to unload the tubs.
James, abandoning this employment, went towards the cattle,
and jumping on the donkey's back, came to us with a majestic
air. We had great trouble in keeping our countenances at this
comic equipage; but what was our astonishment, on seeing the
little rider encircled with a skin belt, in which he had placed
two pistols. "Where did you get this bandit's costume?" said
I. "It is all our own make," replied be, showing the dogs,
each furnished with a collar stuck full of nails to defend them
in case of attack. " Bravo, my son," said I, "if this is your
invention." "Mamma helped me," he replied, "because there
was sewing to do." "But where did you get the skin, the
thread, the needles?" I asked my wife. " F ritz's jackal fur-
nished us with the skin," she replied; "as to the rest," added
she, smiling, "a good housewife ought always to be provided
with them."

I could see that Fritz was not pleased that his skin had been
appropriated without his permission. He dissimulated his ill-
humour as well as he could; but when James came near him,

he held his nose, Crying, "pooh! what a frightful smell!" "It
50
is my belt," said he, calmly; "when it is dry, it will not smell."
As for the little wag, he did not trouble himself about the dis-
agreeable smell, but walked up and down with a superb air,
caressing his pistols. His brothers hastened to throw into the
sea the remains of the jackal.

Seeing that the supper hour approached, I told Fritz to go
and fetch one of the hams which were in the tubs. Fritz soon
returned. "Oh, a ham! a ham!" cried the children, clapping
their hands. " Moderate yourselves," said the mother, "for if
you do not sup till this ham is cooked, you will fast for a long
time; but I have some turtle's eggs with which I will make you,
in the frying pan you have had the good sense to bring, a good
omelette, for which, fortunately, butter will not be wanting."
"For these eggs," said Ernest, always desirous to show his
learning, "are easily recognised by their roundness, and their
membranous shell; besides, it is only turtles who deposit their
eggs in the sand." " How did you find them P " I asked. "This
belongs to the history of our day," said our housekeeper;
"before relating it, I think it will be better to have supper."
"Right," said I; "make your omelette, and let us keep the
recital for the repast; it will be an agreeable entertainment.
During that time the children and I will finish and put in its
place the boat's cargo, and instal the beasts for the night."

At these words, my sons rose, and followed me to the coast.
We had just finished, when my wife invited us to do honour to
her supper. Nothing was wanting; omelette, cheese, biscuit;
all was found excellent, and the table service contributed
greatly to the charm of our repast. Francis alone, faithful to
his gourd spoon, would not return to his silver one. The
dogs, fowls, goats and sheep, made a circle around us, as
interested spectators. As to the ducks and geese, I did not
trouble about their food ; the marshy mouth of the stream fur-
nished them with abundance of worms and little crabs, of which
they were very fond. After supper I made Fritz bring a bottle
of excellent wine, found in the captain's cabin, and begged my
wife to take a glass of this strengthening liquor, before beginning
her recital.

" It is fortunate," said she, laughing, "that my turn is come,
at last, to tell my great deeds. I have nothing to relate about
the day, for uneasiness kept me on the shore, without having

the courage to undertake anything. I was not satisfied till I
saw that you had arrived at the vessel. The day had then

passed without our going away from the tent. I formed the
project of going on the morrow to find a more comfortable place
than this Share, where we are exposed to all the rigour of the
sun during the day, and to the cold at night. I thought of the
wood which you had discovered, and resolved to go there. In
the morning, as I was still thinking of my project, without hav-
ing said anything about it to the children, James took down
the jackal, and cut with his knife two large straps out of the
skin, which he cleaned as well as he could. This done he stuck
the straps full of large nails, then with a piece of the sail he
lined the insides, and asked me to sew the linen to the skin, so
as to cover the heads of the nails. I did as he wished, in spite
of the disagreeable smell. Another strap which he wished to
fold in the same way, was destined to make a belt; but I
showed him that this strap was not yet dry, and would shrink
considerably and render his work useless. Ernest advised him
to stretch the skin on a. plank, which he could carry about and
expose to the sun. James, without comprehending that his brother
was joking, put his advice in practice, and I soon saw him,
loaded with his plank, walking gravely in the sun. I communi-
cated to my sons my project of removal, to which they gave
their joyful assent. in the twinkling of an eye they were
loaded with arms and provisions; I carried the water-bottle
and a hatchet. Escorted by the two dogs, we directed our
march to the borders of the stream. Turk recognised the path
you had followed, and preceded us, returning frequently, as if
he understood that he must act as guide. My two young
sons marched resolutely, proud of carrying arms; they felt all
their importance, for I did not conceal from them that our
safety depended on their bravery and address. I was glad that
you had taught our children how to use arms, and thus enabled
them to meet and confront danger.

" We had some trouble in crossing the stream on the wet,
slippery stones. Ernest crossed first, without accident. James
carried my hatchet and water-bottle. I took Francis on my
back, and could scarcely keep my footing with my dear
burden, who joined his hands round my neck, and clung with
all his strength to my shoulders; at last 'I reached the other
side; and when we had attained the height from which you
had discovered the landscape of which you spoke with so much
enthusiasm, my heart opened, for the first time since our ship-
wreck, to the pleasure of hope. We soon entered a valley full
of shade and verdure. We saw a little wood at some distance;
but in order to reach it, it was necessary to cross a prairie where
the grass was so high and thick that it almost hid the children.
James at last discovered a path, where we perceived traces
of your passage. These prints conducted us, after several turn-
ings, to the wood. Suddenly we heard a rustling of leaves,
and saw a large bird fly away from the ground. Each of my
little men seized his gun, but the bird was out of sight before
they could fire. 'What bird was that?' asked James. 'An
eagle, no doubt,' said Francis, 'for he had very large wings.'
'That proves nothing,' said Ernest, 'all birds with large wings
are not eagles.' 'I suppose,' said I, 'that he was on his nest
when we drove him away; let us try and find the nest, and
perhaps we shall be better informed.' Careless James immedi-
ately sprang towards the place whence the bird had flown, but
at that instant another bird, like the first, flew up, flapping his
large wings in the poor boy's face, who stood astonished and
almost frightened. The other children, not less astonished,
kept their arms lowered before this new game. 'Unskilful
hunters,' said I, 'is it possible that you have missed another
chance?' Ernest was angry; as to James, he took off his hat,
and making a comic bow to the fugitive, cried out, 'Au revoz'r,
Mr. Bird; another time I am your devoted servant.' Ernest
soon discovered the nest we sought. It was constructed very
clumsily, and only contained some broken shells. We con-
cluded that the nurslings had lately departed. ' These birds
could not have been eagles,' remarked Ernest, 'for eaglets can-
not run so soon after they are born. The contrary is the case
with pintados and other winged fowl of the same family. I
presume, then, that the birds whose nest we have discovered
are bustards, for you must have seen that their plumage was
yellowish white undemeath, and a mixture of black and red
above.' 'Instead of examining it thus,' said I, to my little
scholar, 'you had better have taken aim at it; you would then
have had a chance of deciding more certainly What it was.
But perhaps, after all, it was best to leave it to its little
ones.'

" Talking thus, we reached the little wood. A crowd of
unknown birds peopled the trees, and made a most varied
concert. The children prepared to fire, but I showed them
that the prodigious height of the trees on which these gay
singers were perched would render their efforts fruitless. The
form and extraordinary thickness of, these gigantic trees sur-
prised us greatly. Their trunks were enormous, supported
by powerful roots, which spread along the ground to a con-
siderable extent. James climbed on a root, and measured
with a string the circumference of one of these trunks. Ernest
calculated that it was not less than forty feet, and the height
of the trunk more than twenty-four. Nothing has ever moved
me more than the sight of this " splendid vegetation; ten or
twelve trees formed what we had taken for a wood. The
branches spread so far, and the foliage, which resembled in
form the walnut-trees of Europe, made a delicious shade.
Underneath, the ground was covered with fine green grass,
which invited repose.

"We sat down. The bags of provisions were Opened,
a stream which murmured near furnished us with fresh clear
water, and the multitude of birds singing over our heads
gave to our repast the air of a feast. Our dogs, who had
quitted us for some time, returned. To our great astonish-
ment, they did not ask for food, but laid down on the grass
and slept tranquilly, which showed us that they had found
their own breakfast. The place where we were appeared
so agreeable, that I thought it useless to seek another for
our next establishment. I resolved, then, to return, and go
to the shore, and endeavour to pick up what the wind might
have sent to land from the wreck of the ship. James, before
setting off, begged me to sew the skin belt which he had
not ceased to carry suspended on his back, and which was
now quite dry. This accomplished, he soon put on his belt,
in which he placed his pistols, and, quite proud, walked on
first, to show himself the more quickly, in case you should
have got back during our absence. We were obliged to hurry
to keep him in sight.

"On the shore we found little to carry away, for the things
we could reach were too heavy for our strength. During this
time our dogs kept close to the shore, and I saw them plunge
their paws in the water and pull out little crabs, which they
ate eagerly. 'See, my children,' said I, 'how industrious
hunger makes them; we need not be uneasy about food
for our dogs, since the sea affords them abundant nourish-
ment.'

" On quitting the shore we perceived Belle scratching the
ground, and pulling from it a ball, which she immediately
swallowed. 'If these should be turtle's eggsl' said Ernest.
'Turtle's eggs!' said Francis; 'are turtles fowls?' You may
judge how Ernest and James laughed at this question. When
they were calm; 'let us profit by Belle's discovery,' cried I,
'for I have heard that these eggs are excellent cating.' ' I
believe they are,' said Ernest, who already anticipated the
flavour of this delicate meat. We had some trouble in driving
Belle from this repast, which she found very much to her
taste. She had already eaten several eggs, but there remained
about twenty, which we put carefully into our provision bag.
Looking to sea, we perceived the sail of your boat. Francis
feared that it was savages, who would kill us; but Ernest
affirmed that it was your barque; and he was right, since a
few minutes after you landed and embraced us. Such, my
dear, are our adventures. I sought for a lodging; I found
it, and am delighted; and if you like we will go and settle
ourselves to-morrow, under those magnificent trees; the view
from thence is superb, and the place exquisite."

"What," cried I, jokingly, "trees? is that all you have
discovered for our safety and abode? I comprehend that if
they are as big as you say, we might find refuge in them
during the night; but we should want a balloon to mount
them, or else wings." "Joke as you will," said she, "but I
know that we could construct on these trees, among the great
branches, a cabin, which we could reach by a staircase. Do
we not often see the same thing in Europe? Do you not.
recollect, for example, that linden-tree in our country which
inclosed a pavilion, and which they called from that
'Robinson Crusoe's tree?" "Well," said I, "we will think
by-and-by of executing this difficult work." However, the
night came, and the prolonged conversation made us forget
the hour of repose. We assembled for evening prayer, then
slept, delighted at being re-united, and woke in the morning
at break of day.PROJECTS OF MIGRATION. THE DEAD SHARK. THE BRIDGE.

"I HAVE reflected on your last night's project," said I to my
wife, on waking in the morning, "and I think we must not
be in too great a hurry to change our' residence. Why aban-
don this place, to which Providence has conducted us? We
are here protected on one side by the sea, on the other by
the rocks. We are also near the vessel, which still holds
many useful things which we should give up if we went else-
where."

"Your reasons are undoubtedly good," replied my wife,
" but you do not know how intolerable this abode on the
coast is, when the sun is over Our heads. During your excur-
sions with Fritz, you sheltered yourselves in the woods, whose
trees offered you delicious fruits. Here we have no other
aSylum than the tent, under which the heat is stifling, which
makes me fear for the health of the little ones, and we find
for food only mussels and oysters, which are very little to our
taste. As to your praise of the security of this retreat, it does
not seem to me to be justified. The jackals came easily to
visit us, and there is nothing to show that lions and tigers
may not do the same. The treasures of the vessel are not
to be despised, it is true, but I would willingly renounce them
to be delivered from the uneasiness which these sea voyages
cause me."

"Well," said I to my wife, embracing her, "you defend
your opinion so well, that I am constrained to yield to it;
not, however, without a little restriction. I think I know a
way of making your ideas agree with mine. We will go,
and inhabit the little wood; but we shall keep here our maga-

zine of provisions, and we will make a sort of fortress to retire
S7
to, in case of attack. We will leave among the rocks Our
powder, which is of great use to us, but the neighbourhood
of which may be dangerous. This plan being adopted, we
must first throw a bridge over the stream, to render our
moving and daily communications between the two shores
more easy." "Do you think so?" cried my wife. "The
construction of a bridge will be long and troublesome. Could
we not load the ass and cow with our materials?" I told
her that she exaggerated the importance of this operation,
and the obstacles we should have to surmount. "In this
case," said she, "let us begin the work without any delay,
for I long to see the migration accomplished."

Thus was settled the question of our change of residence.
The children, whom we woke and told of our project, agreed
to it with enthusiasm. They immediately baptized the little
wood "The Land of Promise."

Morning prayers over, each breakfasted as he could. Fritz
did not forget his monkey, whom he placed at the teat of
the goat, his nurse. This example appeared good to James,
who at first tried to milk the cow into his hat, but not having
succeeded, he began to suck the good beast, who let him do
it. "Francis," cried he, while taking breath, " come here;
here is some good milk, quite warm." His brothers seeing
him in this singular position, laughed at him unmercifully;
they even called him the little calf, a name which he kept
for some time. His mother reproached him for his gluttony,
and to show him that he need not have recourse to so
summary a proceeding, began to milk the cow most skil-
fully. Everybody surrounded the active mother, who first
filled the cups which each presented, and then a bowl, which
she put on the fire, to make with some biscuits an excellent
soup.

During this time I prepared our boat of tubs, to fetch
from the vessel some pieces of timber and plank to construct
our bridge. Thinking that we should want some help, I
resolved to take Ernest. We put to sea, and plying well
our oars, soon gained the current of the stream which aided
us as before. As we passed near an islet situated at the
entrance of the bay, we saw a cloud of gulls, albatrosses,
and other sea birds, who were whirling about the shore,
uttering such piercing cries that we were tempted to stop
our ears. Fritz wished to fire at this troop, but I forbade
him. Such a gathering seemed to be attributable to some
extraordinary cause which I wished to know. I raised the
sail, which filled, and a fresh wind carried us towards the
islet.

Fritz did not take his eyes from the point the birds seemed
to prefer. " Oh!" cried he, suddenly, " they are picking a
marine monster, and feasting joyously without inviting us."
He was not deceived. Having landed, we fastened our boat,
and then, without being seen, watched the troop of birds,
who were picking with delight an enormous dead fish. Fritz
asked whence this corpse could come, as we had not perceived
it before. "Ah," said Ernest, "is it not the shark you killed
yesterday?" "Indeed," replied I, "Ernest is right; it is our
pirate. See his terrible jaw; his rough skin, which is used
to polish iron and smooth wood. It is not certainly one of
the smallest of its kind, for it must measure at least fifteen
feet. God be praised who delivered us from so powerful an
enemy! We will let the gulls feed on his flesh, but I think
we should take away some strips of skin, which may be use-
ful to us." Ernest drew the ramrod from his gun, and
advanced towards the gulls, striking right and left. He
knocked down some, the others flew away. Fritz then cut
with his knife several large strips from the sides of the shark,
and we regained our boat.

As we were going towards the wreck, I remarked at some
distance from the shores of the islet a great number of joists
and planks which the waves had thrown up; it was not
necessary to continue our voyage, since we found these suit-
able materials for the intended construction. I chose from
the wreck those which might serve us, and formed a kind
of raft, which was tied by a long cord behind the boat, which
we turned homewards. The wind being favourable, we had
no need to row, it was sufficient to steer. Fritz nailed to
the mast the pieces of skin, that the sun might dry them.

During this time Ernest was examining the gulls he had
killed. He did not fail to question me about these birds, to
which I replied as well as I could. He then wished to
know to what use I destined the skin of the shark. I
told him that I thought of making some graters, and I
added that in Europe they made the skin into what is
called shagreen.

The voyage was finished. On landing we were surprised
not to find any of the family; but at our cries, they soon
came running to us. Francis had on his shoulder a fishing
net, and James carried in his hand a handkerchief carefully
tied up. Arrived near us, he opened it and showed us a
great quantity of fine crabs. "It is I, father! it is I who
discovered them l" cried Francis, proudly. "Yes," replied
James, "but it is I who caught them. I went into the
water up to my knees, whilst they were dining on Fritz's
jackal."

Then James begged me to accompany him to the stream, to
show me what he thought was the most convenient place to
build the bridge. "Well," cried I, "I will make proof of your
sagacity; and if the place is well chosen, we will carry the
joists and planks while your mother prepares dinner." James
conducted us to the place where he thought the bridge should
be fixed, and all things considered, I was of opinion that it
was a favourable one; so we immediately began to transport
our materials; for this we employed the ass and the cow.
But as we had no harness for these animals, I passed round
the neck of each a long cord, forming a halter, the end of
which was attached to the pieces of wood. In a few journeys
the carriage was accomplished, and we were ready to begin
the building.

On the point which James had chosen, the stream was
much narrower than elsewhere, and there were trees on each
side which might serve to fix the beams to. "Now," said I,
"we must measure the width of the stream, to know if our
pieces of wood are long enough." There is nothing more easy,"
said Ernest; "we can tie a stone to the end of a string, and
throw it to the other shore: the length of the string will give
us the measure we want." Having put in practice this simple
and ingenious idea, Ernest calculated that the stream was about
eighteen feet wide. Now, as it was necessary that our principal
" joists should rest at least three feet on each shore, we chose
three of twenty-four or twenty-five feet in length. The
greatest difficulty was how we were to get these immense
pieces of wood across the stream. I proposed to my sons
to decide this important question during dinner, which had
already been delayed above an hour.

We returned, then, to the mother, who was impatiently
waiting for us, for the crabs had been cooked some time.
But before beginning to eat, we had to admire with what
patience the skilful manager had made some sail cloth bags
'for the ass and cow to carry things in. We applauded it the
more when we knew that having no large needles, she had to
pierce each hole with a nail. The rcpast was short, for each
was anxious to begin the work.

Though we had consulted on the means of placing the
first beams, none of my children had discovered it. Happily,
I had succeeded better. As soon as we had regained the
dock-yard, I put my idea into execution. I tied one of my
great beams to one of the trees on the borders of the stream;
to the other end I attached a long cord; then I crossed the
stream to fix a pulley to one of the trees on the opposite
shore, over which I passed the cord which I had brought
with me. I then returned and tied the ass and cow to this
same cord. The two animals pulled; the beam turned round
the trunk, and its extremity soon touched the other shore.
The children were astonished, and jumped on the beam,
uttering cries of joy. The most difficult part of our labour
was accomplished. Two other beams were placed near the
first; there remained only to nail on them a series of planks,
and the. bridge would be finished. We happily completed our
task before the fall of day; then, greatly fatigued, we slept

more soundly than ever through the night which followed this
well-spent day.
THE MIGRATION. THE PORCUPINE. THE TIGER-CAT. THE
WOUNDED FLAMINGO.

AT the first approach of day, I woke the children, and gave
them SOme advice as to their conduct during our migration.
"We are going," said I, "to enter a country quite new to us.
None of you must venture alone. Let us walk as near as
possible to each other, and if an enemy appears, let me direct
the attack or defence."

Prayers and breakfast finished, we prepared to depart. The
Hook was assembled; the ass and the cow received on their
backs the sacks which my wife had made the evening before,
and which we had filled with the most useful things. We
took care not to forget the captain's case of bottles, and a
small supply of butter.

As I was completing the animals' load 'with our bed cover-
ings, hammocks, and cordages, my wife interfered and claimed
a place for little Francis, as well as for the sack which she
called her enchanted bag. Then she showed me that we
must certainly'carry away our fowls and pigeons, who would
not fail to disperse and be lost as soon as we no longer gave
them food. I yielded to these reasons. A commodious place
was made for Francis on the ass's back, in the space between
the sacks which hung on each side of the animal; the en-
chanted bag served him for a saddle. There remained to
seize the fowls and pigeons. The children pursued them,
but without being able to capture any. Their mother told
them to keep still, saying that she would capture without
'trouble all the frightened creatures. "We shall see!" cried

the careless ones. " You will see," replied the mother. Then
62
she spread on the ground some handfuls of grain, at the sight
of which they all assembled. This grain eaten, she threw
some more, but this time in the interior of the tent; fowls
and pigeons flew in also, and consequently were caught.
"More is done by ingenuity than violence, you see, gentle-
men," said the mother, closing the entrance of the tent,
where James glided in, and made one after the other prisoners;
we tied their feet and put them on the back of the cow.
When they were all installed there, we extended over them
a covering, held at some distance by two branches bent into
an arch. Thus plunged into shade, these creatures would
not annoy us by their cries. All the things we left, and
which the rain or sun could not spoil, were shut up in the
tent, whose entrance was carefully closed with stakes, and
barricaded with barrels full and empty; then I gave the signal
for departure.

We were all very well armed, and each of us carried a
game-bag filled with provisions and ammunition. All were
in good humour. Fritz, his gun under his arm, led the march;
behind him came his mother, leading the cow and the ass,
who walked side by side; in the third rank were James and
the goat; in the fourth, Ernest and the sheep. I was the
rear-guard. Our dogs went here and there, barking, watching,
smelling. This caravan, slowly walking, had a truly picturesque
appearance. Looking at it, I could not help crying out to
my eldest son, "Well, Fritz, here is your project beginning
to be accomplished. It is thus that our ancestor Abraham
travelled. What do you think of it, my little patriarch?"
Ernest replied for his brother: "Papa, I think it is charming;
I wonder more people do not embrace a wandering life."
"That is true," replied I; "but God grant that we may not
long be reduced to lead this life. You would soon be tired
of it, I assure you. Let us hope that this pilgrimage may be
our last." "God hears you," cried his mother; "I hope that
our new abode will please us, and will be so comfortable
that we may never need to quit it." As we approached the
bridge, the sow, who at first appeared unwilling to follow us,
rejoined us, showing by her grunting the displeasure which this
long walk gave her; but we were not much affected by her bad
humour. The passage of the stream was effected without accident,
but the rich vegetation on the other shore greatly retarded
our march. The ass, the cow, the goat and the sheep, who
for a long time had not had such a feast, could not resist the
temptation of feeding on the fresh grass ; our dogs were obliged
to keep barking round them and biting their legs to make
them advance.

To avoid such delays, I thought of keeping by the side
of the stream, but scarcely had we gone a few steps in that
direction, when our dogs bounded into the thick grass, howl-
ing frightfully, as if they had encountered a ferocious animal.

Fritz, armed with his gun, his finger on the trigger, resolutely
advanced. Emest came near his mother, not however with-
out having prepared his arms. James sprang intrepidly after
his brother; keeping his gun in his shoulder belt. I prepared
to rejoin them, to protect them in case of danger, when I
heard them cry out loudly, "Oh, papa! come quickly! run! A
porcupine! A monstrous porcupine!" I hastened on, and
saw, indeed, a porcupine, not however so large as James made
out. The dogs were raging round the animal, whom' they
could not attack without paying dearly for their rashness. The
porcupine fought after his manner, that is to say by turning
his back to his adversaries ;. his head between his front paws,
he marched against them, bristling his darts, which, agitated
in this manner, produced a kind of strange clicking. Every
time the dogs attacked him, they received a number of
wounds.

Fritz and I waited for the moment when we could fire
without risk Of wounding the dogs; James more impatient,
and not understanding our hesitation, discharged one of his
pistols almost close to the porcupine, who fell dead. Fritz,
envying his brother's victory, cried out angrily, " Imprudent
one! you might not only have killed the dogs, but also have
wounded us by firing so close." "Wound you I" replied the
little hunter ; "do you think, then, that you alone know how
to manage arms?" Seeing that Fritz was going to reply, I
hastened to interfere: "It is true," said I, to my eldest son,
" that your brother should have acted with less precipitation,
but you wanted only to deprive him of the opportunity of
showing his skill. This is wrong, my child. Learn to loyally
applaud others, if you wish to be worthy of being praised
yourselfi. Come, no anger; our turn will come next. Shake
hands, and let there be no quarrel between you." The two
children immediately shook hands cordially, and then con-
sidered how they should carry away the game, whose flesh, I
knew, was excellent eating.

James, with his habitual want of thought, had placed his
hands on the animal, and consequently was severely pricked.
"Go and fetch a cord," said I; "tie the paws of the beast,
and you and your brother can carry it by the help of a stick,

'which you will hold at each end." But impatient to show his

prize to his mother and brothers, James tied his handkerchief
round the porcupine's neck, and dragged it to the place
where the caravan was waiting. "See, mammal" cried he, on
arriving; "see, Ernest! look, little Francis; what a fine
animal I have killed. Yes, I killed it. I was not afraid of
his hundred thousand lances; I approached, fired my pistol,
and lo! he fell! Ah, I did not miss him. Papa says it is
excellent eating."

The mother congratulated her son on his courage and skill.
Ernest, who approached, examined the porcupine very atten-
tively with his usual coolness, and remarked that he had in
each jaw two long incisors, like those of the hare and squirrel,
and short, round ears, something like those of a man. My
wife and I sat down, to extract from the dogs' muzzles the
quills which remained in them. "There," said I to James,
"were you not afraid that the porcupine would dart his quills
through your body? They say these animals have that
faculty." "Oh!" replied he, "I believe that is only a fable."
" You see, however, that our dogs have not been spared."
" That is true," said he, " but it is because they threw them-
selves upon the animal; if they had kept at a distance they
would not have had the least wound." "You are right, my
child, and I am happy to see that you know how to mistrust
opinions which are contrary to reason. The porcupine has
no power to dart his quills, but it often happens that he loses
some in a combat like that which has just taken place."

Resolved to carry away the porcupine, I covered him with
5
a thick coating of grass, rolled it up in one of our blankets,
and tied our parcel on the ass's crupper, behind little Francis.
Then we resumed our march.

But soon the donkey escaped from my wife's hand, who
was holding him by the bridle, and sprang before us, jumping
and making a number of grotesque evolutions, which would have
been very diverting, if we had not been frightened on account
of the little horseman he carried. Fritz ran after him, and
aided by our dogs, soon mastered him. Looking to account
for this abrupt change in the usually quiet demeanour of the.
animal, I soon discovered that the quills of the porcupine
coming through the grass and blanket, very disagreeably
tickled his skin. I then placed the dead beast on the enchanted
bag, taking care to warn Francis not to lean on it. _

We arrived at the promised land without any other
adventure. "Wonderful!" cried Ernest, when he perceived
the great trees we were approaching; "what gigantic trees!
The spire at Strasburg is not higher, and how rich nature is
here! What an excellent thought of clear mamma's to make
us quit the desolate Shore where we were! " Then he asked
me if I knew the name of these trees. "These trees are
nowhere described, and we are without doubt the first Euro-
peans who have seen them," replied I. "But I defy the
most agile bears to reach us at the summit of these enormous
trunks, when we have built our house there." "Well," said
my wife, "what do you say to our trees?" "I comprehend
your admiration," said I, " and your choice is perfect."

We made a halt. Our first care was to unload the beasts
of burden, who were then left to feed in the neighbourhood,
as well as the sheep and goats, first taking the precaution to
tie their fore-feet together. The sow alone was left entire
mistress of her movements. We gave the {owls and pigeons
their liberty. The {owls began to peek around us, the pigeons
flew into the branches of the trees, whence they descended
at the first distribution of grain that was made. We reposed
in the thick grass which carpeted the ground, and held
council how we should construct a house on these giant trees.
All at once, as it was not probable that we could be installed
there the same day, I felt uneasy about passing the night
in the open country, exposed to all its inclemencies, and
without defence against wild beasts.

I called Fritz, who I thought was among us, to tell him
that I wished to attempt immediately the ascent of the prin-
cipal tree. He did not answer; but two consecutive reports,
fired at some distance, warned us that he was not losing his
time, and we heard him cry out joyfully, "Hit, hit; there he
is!" He soon advanced, holding by the hinder paws a magni~
ficent tiger-cat, which he held up proudly to show us.

"Bravo! Mr Hunter," said I; "you have rendered us
signal service by delivering our poultry from this formidable
neighbour, who would soon have dislodged them, even if they
were perched on the top of the tree. If you see any more
prowling about, give them no qparter. How did you discover
him?" "I found him quite near," replied the hunter; "I
perceived something moving amongst the leaves of a tree,
and approached cautiously to the foot of it, and from there I
fired at the beast, who fell at my feet. As I was going to
take him up, he raised himself, and I finished him by a blow
from my pistol." "It was fortunate," said I, "that he did not
spring on you, as he was only wounded; for these animals,
though of small size, are terrible when they are defending
their life. I can affirm this with more certainty, as I recog-
nize in the individual you have just killed, not the tiger--cat,
properly so called, but the margay, very common in South
America, where it is known by its rapacity and audacity."

"Whatever it may be," said Fritz, "look at its beautiful
skin with black and brown spots on a golden ground; I hope
James will not cut up the skin of my margay as he did my
jackal." "Be tranquil; James, being warned, will not rob you
of it. But what do you intend making of this skin?" "I
must ask you tha ," replied the hunter, "and will follow your
advice. I do not wish to keep it entirely for myself."
"Well," said I, "in that case, as we do not need furs to
clothe us, you shall make with the skin of the body and
thighs, some cases for our table-service, and with the tail
you can make a magnificent hunting-belt, to carry your
knife and pistols." "And I, father," asked James, "what
shall I make of the skin of my porcupine?" "When we
have taken out a certain number of quills to serve for needles
or arrow-points, I think we may make of the entire skin a
sort of cuirass to fit the body of one of our dogs, to render
him formidable in combat with ferocious animals." "Oh!
magnificent, magnificent!" cried James; "I long to see Turk
or Belle so harnessed." And my little rogue left me no repose
till I had consented to show him how to skin his porcupine.
I suspended the animal to a tree by the two hind paws, and
then began to skin it. Fritz, who observed me attentively,
did the same with his margay. The two skins were nailed to
the trunk of a tree, that the air might dry them. A portion
of the flesh of the porcupine was destined for the repast which
the mother began to prepare, and the rest was put by to be
salted.

Ernest 'had collected some large stones, of which he built
a fire-place, at the same time asking me if the trees under
which we were, were not mango trees. I thought it very
likely, but could not say positively till we had consulted the
captain's library. "Ah! our dear b00ks," said he; "when
shall we be able to read them leisurely?" "Patience, my
dear child, let us first do what is necessary; a. day will come
when we shall have time for this pleasure."

Francis, whom his mother had told to collect some dry
wood, arrived dragging some branches, and with his mouth
full of fruit which he seemed to be eating eagerly. " Little
' imprudent one!" cried his mother, springing towards the child ;
"this fruit which you are devouring with so much pleasure,
may be poisonous and kill you. Show me the fruit." "Kill
me!" repeated the child, who hastened to eject what he was
on the point of swallowing, "I will not die, mother; no, no!"
At the same time he let fall the branch he was carrying,
and drew from his pocket two or three little figs, which I
took from his hands to examine them. I was quickly re--
assured; for I do not know that there are any poisonous figs.
I asked Francis where he had found them. "Near here,"
replied he, "under one of the trees, where there are a great
many. I thought I might eat them, as I saw the fowls and
the sow regaling on them." "That is not sufiicient test,"
replied I; "for many fruits are eatable for animals which
are not so for men, and the reverse. But as the physical
constitution of the ape is nearly the same as that of a man,
and as besides, the ape is warned by a secret instinct of the
nature of food, I warn you all to consult the ape when you
find any fruit you desire to eat."

Scarcely had I pronounced these words, when Francis ran
towards the ape, who was fastened to the foot of the tree,
and offered him one of the figs, of which his pockets were
full. The little animal took the fruit in his hands, looked
at it, smelt it, and at last bit it. "Good! good!" cried
Francis, completely re-assured, and again filled his mouth
with the figs, which he thought delicious. "So then," said
Ernest, " these ' are fig-trees?" "Yes," replied I, "but not
dwarf fig-trees, like those of our country. These belong rather
to the class of mangoes, which throw out immense roots, as
we see here."

Whilst talking thus, and whilst my wife, assisted by Francis,
was busy laying the cloth, I began to make some needles
with the quills of the porcupine. The point was made
naturally; there remained only to pierce a hole in the other
extremity; I succeeded in doing so with a long nail made hot
in the fire. In an little time I had prepared an assortment
of needles, which our housekeeper accepted with great
pleasure.

The children, still astonished at the prodigious height of
the trees in which we had resolved to establish ourselves,
could not devise any way of ascending them; I was, at first,
as embarrassed as they were, but at last I thought of a plan,
which I deferred putting into execution till after dinner; which
being now ready, we seated ourselves in a circle to partake
of. The flesh of the porcupine and the broth my wife had
made for us, were found excellent; we had for desert some
butter and Dutch cheese.

Thus restored, I resolved to profit by the daylight which
still remained. I asked my wife to make, as quickly as she
could, the straps we should want to tie our beasts of burden
to the pieces of wood we should require for our building,
and which we should have to fetch from the shore. She began
her work directly. 'I first fixed our hammocks for the night,
by suspending them to the arched roots of a mango-tree,
above which we extended a sail-cloth, fixed down on each
side to preserve us from the dew and mosquitoes. This done,
I directed Fritz and Ernest to go to the shore and find
some pieces of wood, strong and straight, which might serve
as rungs for the rope--ladder which I had resolved to make.
Ernest discovered on the borders of a little marsh, a quantity
of bamboos, half buried in the mud. We pulled them out,
and having cut them with a hatchet into pieces three or four
feet long, we made them into three packets, one for each of
us. At some distance from the place where we found the
bamboos, and a little more within' the marsh, I perceived a
thick tuft of reeds, towards which I went to cut some, which
I intended to make into arrows. Belle, who was walking
beside me, - sprang forward barking, and immediately a
troop of magnificent flamingoes flew away with extreme
rapidity.

Fritz, who was never taken by surprise by events of this
kind, had time to fire before the' birds were out of reach.
Two flamingoes fell: one dead, the other only wounded in
the wing. This last would probably have escaped us, if Belle
had not sprung in pursuit, and seized him by the wing. The
brave dog held him, so that when we arrived, I took posses-
sion of him. When I returned to the children, and showed
them my captive, they uttered cries of joy, and said we
must keep this living bird and endeavour to tame it. "What
a beautiful effect it will make with its red and white plumage
among our other fowls," said 'Fritz. Ernest remarked that
the flamingo had feet formed for running like swans and
for swimming like geese, and he was astonished that the
two faculties were given to. the same individual. I told him
that a certain number of species were thus privileged.

I would not let this hunting incident prevent me from
gathering the reeds which I coveted, so went to cut a number
of the longest, telling my sons that I should make them use-
ful in measuring exactly the height of the tree we were
going to inhabit. "Oh!" cried they with a kind of incredu-
lity, "you must join a great many together to reach only the
lowest branches." " Patience," replied I; " do you remember" A FLOOR 0;: FLAMINCORS nos>>: IN THE AIR."
the lesson your mother gave to you in catching the fowls. Wait
till you see what I am going to do." The two children were
silent. Then, loaded with our packets of bamboos, of reeds,
the dead flamingo, and the living one, whose feet I tied
together, we returned to the others. James and Francis
saluted with cries of joy the arrival of the flamingo; but
the mother was uneasy, in seeing that we added another
useless mouth to the already large number of our domestic
animals. Less prompt to be alarmed on such a subject, I
examined the wounds of the bird. I saw that the two
extremities of the wings were fractured, one by the gun, the
other by Belle's teeth; I dressed them both with a kind of
ointment made of butter, salt, and wine. This done, the
flamingo was attached by a cord to a stake fixed in the
- ground, near the stream. Left to himself, he put his beak
under his wing, and slept on one of his long legs.

Whilst I was proceeding with this cure, the children, who
had tied several reeds together end to end, raised them
against one of the mango-trees to measure its height; but
they scarcely reached the place where the roots joined the
trunk, and I heard them again express their doubt on the
success of the method, which, however, I had not yet com-
municated to them. Letting them say and do, and smiling
at their incredulity, I sharpened some reeds at one end, and
furnished them at the other end with feathers taken from
the dead flamingo. I weighted these arrows by putting some
sand in the hollow of the reeds. Then I began to make a
how, by bending a flexible bamboo, tied tightly at each

end.

James and Fritz, who soon perceived what I was doing,
ran to me crying out, " Oh, a bow and arrows! Papa, let me
shoot! Permit me to try. You will see that I shall be skil-
ful." " One instant," said I; "as I had the trouble of making
the how, I wish to have the honour of trying it first. Besides,
do not think that I intend to use it as a plaything. No, I .
have a useful end in View, and I will not delay in proving it
to you." Then I asked my wife if she could not give me a
ball of stout thread. "Perhaps," she replied, with a smile;
'I will consult my enchanted bag." She put her hand into
her bag, and pulling it out, said, " Here, I think, is what you
want." And as she seemed to show some pride in having
so promptly satisfied my demand, James took upon himself
to say: "Truly, it is a great mystery, to find in a bag what
you have put there!" "The mystery is not great, certainly,"
replied I, " but it required some coolness, in the moment of
anxiety which preceded our departure, to think of filling a
bag, as my dear Wife. has done, with a thousand things, for-
gotten by us, and yet very useful to us all." James was the
best boy in the world; he threw himself into his mother's
arms. "I deserve," said he, "to be sewed up in your bag,
and never to come out of it." "Naughty boy, too much
beloved," said his mother; " I should not leave you long, you
know that ! " "And you would be right," said I, laughing,
"the enchanted bag would risk too much if Master James
was shut up in it."

Having unrolled the greater part of the ball, I tied the
end of the thread to one of the arrows. Then, adjusting this
arrow to the bow and bending it, I drew in the direction of
the branches of the largest mango-trees. The arrow flew, and
fell on the other side of a branch, over which, consequently,
the thread passed. It was then easy, by drawing the arrow
back to the branch, to obtain a length of thread equal to that
of the trunk, so as to know what length to make our ladder.
We found it was fifty feet. I then measured a hundred feet
of strong cord. I divided it in two parts, which I stretched
along the ground. I told Fritz to saw some pieces of bamboo
about two feet long; then aided by James and Ernest, I
fixed these rungs to the cords by knots, and with nails, which
prevented them from slipping. In less than an hour and a
half the ladder was finished.

To hoist it, I made use of the same means. A new arrow
was shot. At the end of the thread, which I tripled this time,
to make it stronger, was attached a cord, and at the end of the
cord the ladder, which was soon firmly fixed. James and
Fritz disputed who should mount the first. I gave the prefer-
' ence to James, who was lighter than his brother, and as nimble
as a cabin-boy. Before letting him mount, I told him not to
venture on one step, without having tested its solidity, and to
descend as soon as he perceived the least danger. He sprang
up, paying little attention to my orders, and arrived, thank
God! without accident to the first branch, which he strided
across, crying out, "Victory! victory!" Fritz then mounted,
and tied the ladder more securely. This precaution taken,
I ventured in my turn. Arrived in the tree, I inspected its
form, to make the plan of our dwelling. The night approached;
it was even by moonlight that I attached to one of the branches,
over-hanging the first, a large pulley which I had brought
with me, to hoist up the pieces of wood for the projected
building. As I was getting ready to descend, I saw neither
Fritz or James. I thought they had already gone down; but
suddenly I heard in the high branches of the tree two fresh
young voices, singing the evening psalm. I would not interrupt
this impromptu concert, for there was in the accents of the
two innocent singers, and above all the thought of thus praising
the Lord, something sweet and touching, which seemed to be
a presage of blessing on our new abode. When they had
finished they rejoined me, and we descended together.

The mother, who had milked the cow and the goats,
offered us some excellent milk soup and some slices of porcu-
pine which remained from the dinner. The cattle were fastened
round our hammocks, under the roots of our tree. Ernest
and Francis had collected, by my orders, a quantity of dead
branches, which would serve to keep up a fire during the night,
to scare away ferocious animals. Prayers having been said,
the children soon went to sleep in the hammocks, which we
had hung on the roots. As for me, I did not go to bed,
resolved that I would watch by the fire which I had kindled.

During the first half of the night, I was kept perfectly
awake by the anxiety which the least noise I heard around
caused me. The murmur of the wind among the leaves was
sufficient. to alarm me. But, little by little, I felt overcome
with fatigue, and towards morning I fell asleep so profoundly,
that when I awoke the family were already up.THE BUILDING IN THE TREE.

IMMEDIATELY after breakfast, my wife ordered James and
Ernest to put on the ass and cow the harness she had made
the day before; then with her three youngest sons, she went
to the shore, to collect the load of wood which we wanted
for our aerial building. They had to make several journeys.
I was uneasy at seeing her undertake such labour, which she
was not accustomed to. "Do not be uneasy," said she ;
"this farmer's wife life suits me better than you think. I
find it good, that we should gain all we want by the sweat
of our brow. This law of God is often forgotten in towns,
but it is sweet to feel that we accomplish it."

I let her depart, and fortified by her good words and
example, began my work with a joyful heart. I mounted
with Fritz into the tree, in the centre of which, with a saw
and hatchet, we prepared a space for our pavilion. .The form
of the first branches, which extended horizontally, served as a
support for the planks. We left some, about six or eight feet
high, to suspend our hammocks ; other, a little higher, to receive
the sail-cloth, which was to form the roof of the habitation.
This preliminary work was not without difiiculties, but at
last we made in the thick part of the fig-tree a spacious _
empty place. The beams and planks, which had been
brought in great quantities from the shore, were hoisted by
the aid of the pulley. The floor was fixed, and a balustrade
raised round it.

We worked with so much ardour, that the middle of the
day came, and we had not thought of .eating; we contented
ourselves this time with a. luncheon. After the repast, we

resumed our task. We new extended the sail-cloth, which
74
required much effort and skill. As this cloth fell over at
both ends, we fixed it to the balustrade, and we found that
our pavilion, of which the trunk of the tree already formed
one side, was hermetically closed on three of its sides. The
fourth, which faced the sea, remained at present open, though
I thought of closing it, in case of need, by a sail, which could
be raised or lowered at will. When we had fixed the ham-
mocks to the branches which we had reserved for that pur-
pose, our habitation was in a condition to receive us for the
night. ~
Fritz and I descended from the tree, and though much
fatigued, I began to make with the planks a large table and
some benches, which I fixed under the roots of the tree, in
the place where we had passed the preceding night; for this
place seemed fit to become our future dining-room. This last
work finished, to the great satisfaction of our housekeeper, I
laid down, harassed with fatigue, on one of the benches I had
just made, and said to my wife, wiping my forehead bathed with
perspiration: "I have worked to-day like a negro, and I intend
to rest to-morrow during the whole day." "You not only can,
but ough ," replied she; "for if I count right, to-morrow is
Sunday; it is even the second we have passed in this place;
we have not thought of celebrating the first." "I have, like
you, remarked this forgetfulness," replied I; " but I thought
that being then in urgent necessity of providing for our safety,
there was no fault in this omission. But now that we are, in
some sort, comfortably established, it would be a great proof
of ingratitude to neglect rendering to God the thanks we owe
Him. It is then agreed that to-morrow shall be entirely con-
secrated to the Lord. Since the children have not heard us, we
will give them an agreeable surprise by not telling them our
determination till to-morrow morning." "That is agreed," said
my wife, and she called her sons, who, dispersed round about,
hastened to range themselves round the table on which the
cloth was laid.

The good mother teck from the fire an earthen pot which
she brought, and with a large fork took out the flamingo
killed yesterday. "I intended," said she, "to roast it, but
Ernest dissuaded me, by saying it was an old one, which
could not fail to be tough; so by his advice I stewed it, and
hope you will find it well done." The doctor was rallied a
little on his culinary foresight; but we acknowledged that he
was right, for the flamingo thus prepared was excellent, and
eaten to the bone.

Whilst we dined, we had the satisfaction of seeing our
live flamingo mix familiarly, for the first time, with the
{owls who were pecking around us. For some hours we
had detached him from his stake, and left him at liberty..
He had been walking all the afternoon, gravely, slowly, on
his two long red legs, like a person absorbed in profound
meditation. We threw him some pieces of biscuit, which .he
caught with dexterity, to the great disappointment of the
fowls, over whom he had the advantage of his long beak
and stilted' feet. The ape became, also, more and more
familiar; he jumped from one shoulder to the other, making
a thousand gambols.

At dessert, the sow re-appeared, whom we had not seen
since the evening before. By her peculiar gruntings, she seemed
to shew the pleasure she felt at having found us again. My
wife gave her a gourd full of cow's milk, which she drank with
avidity. Such liberality appeared to me incompatible with
the principles of economy we ought to follow; I said a word
about it to our housekeeper, who had her answer ready. "Till
we are properly settled, and have all the necessary utensils,
it will be difficult to make the milk that is not wanted for
daily use into butter and cheese. It is better then to distribute
it to the animals; in the first place, to attach them to us; and
secondly, to save our grain, which is precious, and our salt,
which is nearly gone." "You are right in all things, my dear
wife; so we will soon go to the rocks to collect more salt, and
will not fail to lay in a provision of grain when we make our
next voyage to the vessel." " Ah!" cried the mother, "the
vessel again! still these dangerous journeys! I shall not be
easy till the day comes when you give up such expeditions."
"I understand your fears," said I, " but you know. that we only
go when the sea is calm. And you Will own that we should

be inexcusable, if we lost, through timidity, the riches which
the vessel still contains." c
Whilst we were thus -talking the children had lighted, at
a little distance from the tree, a fire, on which they placed
the longest dry branches they could find, in order that the
fire might last a long time, and protect our cattle from the
. approach of dangerous animals. Then we ascended our tree.
Fritz, James, and Ernest went first, and accomplished the
ascent with the agility of a cat. Their mother followed them
slowly, and with precaution. Left to the last, I had a little
more diffiCulty, as I had detached the ladder from the stakes to
which it was fixed at the bottom, so that I might draw it up
after me, and also because I carried little Francis tied to my
back, as I would not let him mount alone.

However, I arrived without accident; and when I had pulled
up the ladder to the floor of the pavilion, it seemed to my
sons that they were in one of the strong castles of the ancient
Chevaliers, asylums impenetrable to all enemies. I thought it
best to load our arms, ready to fire on dangerous visitors, of
whom the dogs, left on guard at the foot of the tree, would
signal the approach. This precaution taken, each mounted into
his hammock. we were soon asleep, and the night passed in
the most perfect calm.
SUNDAY.

WHEN we awoke, "What shall we do to-day?" asked the
children. "Nothing, absolutely nothing," replied I. "Ah!
father, you are joking," said Fritz. " N o; I do not jest. To-day
is Sunday, and we ought to celebrate the day consecrated to
God." _

"Sunday!" cried James. "Ah! I will walk, hunt, fish, in
fact do only what I like." " There you deceive yourself," said I;
" I intend to celebrate Sunday in quite another fashion. It is
not a day for idleness and pleasure, but one of prayer." "But,"
replied James, "we have no church." "Nor organ," added
Francis. "That is true," replied I, "but God is everywhere;
do you not know that? Could we adore him in a more
magnificent temple than the beautiful scene around us? And
do you not think that our voices will be as pleasing to Him
alone, as when joined to sound of instruments?" "Papa is
right," said Ernest; "and besides, do we want a church to pray
in every morning and evening?" "Well said, my child,"
replied I. "So then we will pray in common, we will sing
some hymns, and I will relate to you a parable, which I have
prepared for the occasion." "A parable! Oh! let us hear it,"
cried they all at once. But I told them to have patience; we
must do all things in proper order.

After the prayers and singing we sat down on the grass, and
I gave my auditory, who listened to me with eagerness, the
following recital.

a u 0 o o ' . 0 o .

" Once upon a time," said I, " there lived a great King, whose
kingdom was called the country of Light and Reality, because

. there reigned there perpetual actisvity and unclouded light. On
7
the most distant frontier, and towards the north, lay another
country, which likewise acknowledged the sway of the great
King, and whose immense extent was known to none but him-
self. From the remotest ages the monarch had preserved its
map in his archives; this other kingdom was called the Land of
Darkness, or the Night, because all was dark and inactive within
its borders.

"In the most fertile and agreeable districts of the empire of
Reality, the great King had a magnificent residence called Him-
melsburg, or the Celestial City, where he resided and held the
most magnificent court imaginable; millions of servants executed
his will, and millions held themselves ready to receive his
orders. Some were clothed in garments whiter than snow,
because White was the King's colour; others were in glittering,
gleaming armour, flaming swords in their hands or cased in
sheaths of gold. Each, at a sign from his lord, flew like light-
ning to accomplish his commands. All these faithful servants,
full of zeal in the service of their King, were so united among
themselves, and so contented with their lord's favour, that one
could imagine no happiness greater than to be admitted among
them. There also lived, in this glorious city, some of less
exalted rank, who, good, wealthy, and happy, enjoyed not only
the gifts of the King, but also the indescribable happiness of
serving him, and of being treated as his own children.

" Not far from the shores of the empire of Reality was a
large uninhabited island, which the King desired to people and
cultivate, that for a short time it might be the dwelling of those
of his subjects whom he intended to admit by degrees to
the privileges of citizens of Himmelsburgw--a favour which he
wished to concede to as many as possible.

"This island was named Erdheim, or the Earthly Home; and
those who by good conduct in this place of trial, and by atten-
tion to the improvement of the country, proved themselves
worthy, would be admitted to Himmelsburg.

"To attain this object, the great King equipped a fleet to
transport the colonists to the island. He chose them from
the inhabitants of the Land of Darkness, and in taking them
thence he summoned them to enjOy the light and the activity
of life; advantages which, previously, they had not known; so
they entered on their new home in a happy and contented
spirit.

"The island was not only beautiful and fertile, but the col-
onists on arrival found that everything necessary to render their
residence agreeable had been provided, and each had the certain
knowledge that his work and his obedience to the King's laws
would be recompensed by his future admission to the splendid
city of Himmelsburg.

"At the time of their embarkation, the good King addressed
the colonists thus :--

" ' My children, I have withdrawn you from inaction and in-
sensibility, to render you happy by feeling, activity, and life;
henceforth your happiness and honour will largely depend upon
yourselves.-

"' Never forget that I am your King; and faithfully observe
my commandments in cultivating the country which I have con-
fided to you.

"'Each person, on his arrival at Erdheim, will receive the
piece of ground which he is intended to till; and there you will
find wise and learned men, charged to make known to you my
decrees. '

"' In order that you may acquire for yourselves the know-
ledge necessary for the interpretation of those decrees, I wish
every head of a family to preserve within his house a copy of
my laws, and daily read it with his family, that they may never
be forgotten.

"' Moreover, on the first day of the week, in each establish-
ment, all shall" assemble in one place, where my commandments
shall be read and explained to them, and where they shall reflect
on the duties enjoined upon them. Thus will each of you find
out the most advantageous manner of cultivating the land you
have received as your inheritance; and, especially, how you may
uproot the tares and brambles that would choke the good seed.
All your requests, if made with a sincere heart, will come before
me, and if I deem them expedient and suitable, they will be
' granted.

"flf, to prove your gratitude, you, on the day dedicated to
my service, abandon every other care, and devote yourselves
wholly to the expression of your feelings towards me, that will
find favour in my eyes, and I will take care that the day so
spent shall prove of great use to you, by the repose it will afford.
i will, too, that the animals which I have placed at your disposal
shall, on this day, rest, and that the wild beasts of the fields shall
not dread the hunter.

" "He who at Erdheim shall obey my commands--who shall
do his duty with a contented and j0yous spirit--who shall
maintain his land in the best order, and most fully develop its
resources, shall obtain the richest rewards.

"'But he who shall refuse to labour, and who does nothing
but trouble his fellows in their useful works, shall be condemned
for ever to toil in the mines in the bowels of the earth. From
time to time Iwill despatch my ships to Erdheim, which will
carry away a number of its inhabitants, for reward or punish-
ment.

"' None will be able to deceive me, as a marvellous mirror,
placed in my palace, reflects with entire accuracy the conduct of
every inhabitant.'

"The anchor was weighed, and all, full of joy and hope, sailed
to their destination. After a short space of time allowed them
on their arrival to recover from the fatigues of their voyage, each
was shown the plot of ground set apart for his cultivation. He
was supplied with the seeds of useful plants, and was left at full
liberty to act, and to use for his advantage all which had been
entrusted to him.

" But what happened?

"Very soon most of the colonists, instead of following the
instructions they had received--instructions repeated daily by
the good servants of the King--would obey only their own
pleasure. One, instead of tilling his ground so as to obtain from
it an abundant harvest, laid it out like a garden, very agreeable,
but useless. Another, instead of the fruit-trees of which he had
received seedlings, cultivated the most miserable species, and
stated that the worthless fruit they yielded were of the most
precious descriptions. A third, it is true, frequently sowed good
grain; but as he never took pains to distinguish tares from the
wheat, his harvest consisted of weeds and darnels. Many let

their ground remain uncultivated, because they had lost their
6
seeds and plants, or spent in other pursuits the season for sow-
ing. Some few had shown an inclination to understand the
king's orders ; but others tried by all kinds of pretences to elude
them, or alter their meaning.

"However, some brought their ground into a flourishing
state, and in addition to the pleasure they derived from
being usefully employed while on the island, their hope of
being hereafter admitted to Himmelsburg cheered them in
their work.

"The misfortunes of the others arose from their unwill-
ingness to believe what the King had said to them through his
messengers, and in the disrespect in which they held his
laws. It was true that each head of a household possessed
a copy of the Sovereign's laws, but he seldom read it. Some
said that these laws were only suited to a past age. Others
professed to discover in them incomprehensible contradic~
tions, while they were careful not to seek those explanations
which the messengers could have furnished. Accordingly, they
declared they were justified in diverging from the laws as
widely as they pleased. Some carried their wicked spirit to
such an extreme as to maintain that there was not a King;
and that, if he lived, he would sometimes show himself to
his subjects. Others said: 'Yes, the great King lives; but
he is so great, so happy, so powerful, that he has no need
of us; and of what interest to him, can be so poor a
colony as ours?' Many were certain, above all things, that
the magic mirror was a fable; that the great King had no
subterranean mines; that he was too merciful to punish them;
and that all would eventually enter Himmelsburg.

"Owing to these causes, the day of the week consecrated
to the great King was observed with extreme negligence;
and many colonists refrained from attending the general
assembly. 'We know by heart,' they said, 'our King's ordin-
ances; what will it profit us to hear the same thing constantly
repeated?' The colonists who still celebrated his day accord-
ing to the King's law were few; and even among these
many were inattentive, and few listened devoutly, or profited
by the instructions addressed to them in the name of their
Sovereign.
" However, the great King, faithful to his promise, pursued
his course. From time to time ships made their appearance
on the shores of Erdheim. They were followed by a huge
ship named the Grave, which bore the flag of Admiral Death.
This flag was embroidered with green and black; and the
colonists, according to their state, regarded it as the emblem
of Hope or of Despair.

"The fleet always arrived unexpectedly, and its appearance
was usually unwelcome. The admiral immediately sent in
search of those whom he was ordered to bring away. Many
of those who least desired it were suddenly seized, and com-
pelled to go; others who had long been preparing themselves
'for the voyage, and whose crops and estate were in admirable
condition, likewise departed; but while the latter set out with
resignation, blended with joy and hope, the former exhibited
so much reluctance that it was necessary to employ force.
All resistance, however, was vain; and as soon as the ship
was loaded, she sailed, and speedily re-entered the port of
Himmelsburg. There the great King received the arrivals,
and with strict justice meted out the rewards and punish-
ments which had been promised to all. The excuses put
forward by negligent colonists availed them nothing; they
were condemned to labour in the mines; while those whose
conduct had conformed to the great King's laws during
their sojourn in Erdheim, entered with him into the bright
city of Himmelsburg, and enjoyed all the happiness of its
inhabitants.

" I have finished my parable, my dear boys," added I; "may
you comprehend its meaning, and each of you apply a moral
for himself.

"Now," said I, when I finished, "if I had in my possession
that excellent book, the Bible, I would read to you some
passages, which I would comment upon as well as I could,
and this reading and my reflections should terminate our
pious exercises." Whilst I spoke, my wife had risen and
gone away, and I soon saw her return holding in her hand
the book I was wishing for. It was a kind of fairy accom-
plishment of my desire; and with an astonished look, I
seemed to ask our dear manager whence this riches came;
she said, smiling, "the enchanted bag! still the enchanted
bag!" I could not help, before opening the book, showing
the children the advantages of foresight, of which their mother
was a true model.

After having read difi'erent chapters from the holy book,
which I endeavoured to explain to my young family, I declared
the religious exercises of the day finished, and gave them per-
mission to amuse themselves. James asked for my bow, and
tried to arm the arrows with some porcupine's quills: "If I.
had but a little glue," cried he. I counselled ,him to melt
in a little water one of our broth-cakes. He followed my
advice, and a short time after had at his disposal a number
of arrows, which would have been formidable weapons in
the hands of a skilful hunter. I thought it would be desir-
able for my sons to practise shooting with a bow and arrows
till they became expert at it; our provision of powder,
though ample, was not inexhaustible, and we might econo-
mise it. I was disturbed from these reflections by a noise
of fire-arms, and saw {all at my feet five or six dead
birds, which I picked up, and found to be ortolans. It was
our philosopher, who having mounted the tree, and seen a
number of these birds perched on the high branches, had
discharged his gun which was loaded with small shot. He
soon showed himself triumphantly on the platform, crying out,
"Well! have I hit them? am I skilful?" "Very skilful," said
I, "but you have forgotten that to-day is Sunday; hunting
is not permitted." .

These words stopped Fritz and James, who had already
run for their guns, to imitate the example of their brother.
Ernest himself descended, and coming to me with a confused
air, begged me to pardon his forgetfulness. I did not make
him ask twice. The involuntary fault of our little hunter
had shown me that we had within our reach an abundant
supply of delicate game. These ortolans, attracted by the
fruits of our gigantic fig-trees, peopled all the surrounding
trees. It would be easy, either with snares or firing, to
procure a great number, and as I knew that, for the pleasure
of European gourmands, they preserve these birds half roasted
in fat, I resolved to make a stock of them, prepared in the
same fashion. My wife took the six ortolans killed by
Ernest, picked them, and began to cook them. Fritz, who
had decided to use the skin of his margay in making bags
for our silver, consulted me how to prepare the skin. I
advised him to rub it with ashes and sand, and then to
soften it with butter and yolk of eggs. Whilst he was
busy with this preparation, came Francis, who was already
possessor of a little bow, which he began to know how to
use, begging me to make him a quiver which he could hang
over his shoulders, to hold his arrows and reeds. I made
him one with four large pieces of skin tied in a point and
fixed over each other. Thus equipped, our baby was at
the height of joy.

Ernest had taken the Bible, and seated at the foot of the
tree, appeared profoundly absorbed in his reading. My wife
called us to dinner; the ortolans were delicious, but certainly
not sufficient .to satisfy us. Whilst we were dining, I told
my sons that I wished to make them a very important
proposal. I saw them .all look at me with great curiosity.
"It would be," said I, "to give names to the different points.
of this land. By the help of these designations, it would be
much more easy to understand each other. We will, how-
ever, abstain from naming the coasts, for perhaps some
European navigators have already named them; and we ought
to respect the work of our progenitors." " Oh! what a good
idea," cried all the children at once. "Yes, let us find some
names." " I," said James, "am of opinion that we should take
very extraordinary names; for example, Cowmandel, Chander-
nagor, Zanguebar, Monomaptoa." "But, little hairbrain," said
I, "suppose we cannot keep them." " Then what names
shall we find?" asked he. "That is very simple," I replied;
"instead of seeking chance names, why should we not make
some from the difl'erent events which happened at the places
we wish to name P "

" That is evident," said Ernest; " and to begin by the
bay where we disembarked, I propose to call it THE BAY
OF DELIVERANCE." " I," objected James, " ask that we
should call it LOBSTER BAY, seeing it was there that one
of those vile animals pinched my leg so terribly." "Then,"
said the mother, smiling at the egotistical pretension of her
son, " I do not see why we should not call it THE BAY OF
CRIBS, for you cried enough on that occasion! But I pro-
pose that we should adopt Ernest's idea; the gratitude we
owe to God makes it a duty." " Adopted! adopted! It
shall be THE BAY OF DELIVERANCE," cried they all.

Successivcly all the points of our domain received names;
the first habitation was called ZELTI-IEIM (an abode under
a tent); the little island at the entrance of the bay, THE
ISLE OF REQUIN (or shark), in memory of the address and
courage of Fritz. There was F LAMINGO MARSH, and JACKAL
RIVER. Our new habitation received the name of FALCON'S
NEST; "for," said I to my sons, "you are bold and adven-
turous like young falcons, and as much disposed to exercise
active pillage in the surrounding lands." The promontory,
from the top of which Fritz and I had vainly attempted to
discover traces of our unhappy companions, was called THE
CAPE OF DISAPPOINTMENT.

These useful designations thus settled, we rose from table,
and the children were at liberty to amuse themselves. Fritz
was busy with his cases, which he made with the skin of the
animal's thighs, fixing it out with moulds of wood. James
asked me to help him make for Turk, with the prickly skin
of the porcupine, the coat of mail which I told him of. I
did as he wished. After having cleaned the skin, we fixed-
it with straps on the dog's back, who thus covered, looked
like a warrior. He willingly suffered himself to be thus
harnessed, and did not try to get it off; but Belle did not
at all like this costume, for every time she approached her
companion to play with him, she got cruelly pricked; so we
decided that Turk should only put on his warrior's costume
when he went on important expeditions. With the rest of
the skin James made a helmet, which he wore in military
fashion, and hoped to frighten the savages if we met any.
Ernest and Francis practised shooting with the bow, and l
was pleased to see that they were not awkward at it.

As the sun was getting low and the heat diminishing, I
proposed a walk. We consulted as to which way we should
go. It was decided that we should go to Zeltheim; certain
of our provisions beginning to get exhausted, it was necessary
to visit our magazine. Fritz and James wanted powder and
ball; the housekeeper had need of butter; Ernest thought of
bringing back a couple of ducks, which would do very well
on the borders of our stream. "Let us set out," said I, " and
prepare for some fatigue, for we shall take a longer road
than that by which we came." Fritz and James, armed with
their guns, like Ernest and myself, had .on, the one his belt
of jackal skin, the other his famous porcupine helmet. Little
Francis carried his bow and quiver; my wife alone had no
arms. The little ape sprang on Turk's back, his usual seat,
but being pricked in the paws with the quills of the coat of
mail with which the dog was armed, he went, making strong
grimaces, to take refuge with Belle, who kindly consented to
carry the affrontcd little horseman. Our flamingo, who wished
also to be of the party, began gravely to follow the caravan.
It was comical to see him walking on his stilts, and bending
his long neck.

Keeping close to the stream, we had a very agreeable
walk. My wife and I walked slowly side by side; the children
ran before, scattering right and left. Ernest soon came
back to us showing a stalk, at the end of which hung three
or four little clear green balls: "Potatoes, papal potatoes I "
I soon saw that he spoke truly, and could not but praise
his spirit of observation which had caused one of the most
precious discoveries we had made since our abode in the
island.

Ernest, delighted, made us hasten to see his field of
potatoes; for in that place, said he, the plain was covered
with them. We quickly reached this precious natural plan-
tation. James went down on his knees and began to scratch
up the earth to extract some roots. The monkey, quitting
his steed, began to imitate his young master. In less" than
five minutes they had pulled up a large quantity of potatoes,
which Francis put into a heap as fast as Master Knip and
James threw them on the earth. The whole were put in
our sacks and game-bags, and we resumed our walk, after
having taken care to mark attentively the situation of the
field, to which we resolved to return and make a complete
harvest. .

'We crossed the stream at the foot of a little chain of rocks,
whence it issued, forming a cascade. From this elevated place
we enjoyed a varied and extensive view. We might have
believed ourselves in a European hot-house, with this differ-
ence, that instead of flower pots and tubs containing shrubs,
all the interstices of the rocks were filled with the most magni-
ficent vegetation. All sorts of plants grew here in abundance,
especially the Indian fig-tree, the aloe, the cactus with its
thorny stalks, loaded with scarlet flowers; above all, the
pine-apple, the most delicious of fruits, which my children"
knew, and seized with an avidity which I was obliged to
repress, fearing they would make themselves ill.

Among these plants I recognised the karatus, a sort of
aloe, of which I gathered several feet, and which I showed
to my sons, telling them: " I have found there something very
superior to the pine-apples you are devouring so gluttonouslyl'
"What!" said James with his mouth full, "those vile tufts
of hairy leaves? It is not possible. There is nothing better
than the pine-apple!_ The pine-apple is a divine fruit."
"Gluttonl" said I, interrupting this panegyric, which the.
other children appeared to approve, "you must learn not to
judge so much by appearances. Here, Ernest, take my flint
and steel and make a fire; I want one." "But, father," replied
my little scholar, "I have no tinder."

"Then what should we do if we wanted very much to
procure a fire?" "Well," said James, "we would rub two
pieces of wood together, as I have heard the savages do."
" That would be a painful method for people not accustomed
to this exercise. I assure you, my dear child, you might rub
all day without obtaining a single spark." "In that case,"
replied Ernest, "we should be obliged to seek for a tinder
tree." "The search would be superfluous," said I, taking a
dry stalk of karatus, from which I pulled off the bark to
extract the pith. I then placed this pith on the flint, which I
struck with the steel, and it immediately caught fire. "Bravo!
bravo! Long live the tinder plant!" cried the astonished
children.
'f But," said I, "you have not yet seen all the treasures which
the karatus furnishes." Speaking thus, I split a leaf, from which
I drew several lengths of very fine but very strong thread.
"I own," said Fritz, "that the karatus is a very useful plant;
but I should like to know what is the use of all these prickly
plants that we see around us P "

'f You would be very wrong to judge them useless," replied

I. "The aloe, for example, produces a juice much used in
medicine; the Indian fig-tree, which you see with its prickly
leaves, must not be despised, for it grows in sterile lands, where
'the inhabitants would often die of hunger, without the help of
_ its excellent fruit." At these words, James ran with open hand
to gather some of these fruits, which he wished to taste; but the
thorns with which they were covered ran into his fingers. He
returned to me crying, and casting an angry look on the Indian
fig-tree. His mother hastened to pull out the thorns which
pained him cruelly; and during this time I showed his brothers
the way to gather and eat these fruits without exposing them-
selves to the same misfortune.

Having cut a stick to a point,I stuck it into a fig, which
I could then easily deprive of its prickles with my knife.
Ernest, who was attentively examining a fig, remarked that

it was covered with a multitude of red insects, who appeared
to be sucking the fruit. "Look, father," said he, " tell me
the name of these animals, if you know them." I recognised
the cochineal, and said: "This is decidedly a day of extra-
ordinary discoveries. I will not say that this last is very
precious to us, unless we could sell these insects to the
Europeans, who buy them at a very high price for dying
scarlet." " However that may be," said Ernest, "this is the
second plant superior to that pine-apple which at first we so
much boasted of."

"You are right," said I, " and, to prove it, I will tell
you another useful quality of the Indian fig-tree, whose thick
tufted branches may make hedges capable of defending the
abodes of men against the attacks of wild beasts, and the
plantations against the ravages of devastating animals."
" How l " cried James, "the soft leaves serve as a barrierl
A blow of a. knife or stick would remove such an obstacle."
Speaking this, he began to strike vigorously at a magnificent
fig-tree. But one of these prickly leaves fell on his leg,
and implanted there its darts, whose pricks made our mad-
cap utter loud cries, "Well," said I, "do you understand
now, how formidable such an enclosure would be to
half-naked savages, or to animals who should try to get
through them?" "We rnust make one round our habitation,"
said Ernest. "And I think we should do well to gather some
cochineal. The red dye might be useful to us," said Fritz.
" And I think," replied I, "that it would be wiser to undertake,
at present, only what is useful; the agreeable may come later."

We continued our conversation, which became more serious,
and I was several times astonished at the judicious remarks of
Ernest. More than once his eagerness for knowledge made
me confess that l was unable to inform him on some points. I
had not yet looked over the captain's books, which I had shut
up in a chest, not wishing to leave them in the hands of
children of their age. Many times Ernest had asked me for
the key of this treasure. But everything must have its time,
and it was first necessary to attend to what was required for our
safety and well-being.

Arrived at Jackal stream, we crossed it; and after a few
minutes' walk, reached Zeltheim, where everything was in the
same order as at our departure. Fritz provided himself
abundantly with powder and lead; I helped my wife to fill
our tin bottle with butter. The young boys ran after the ducks,
who, become wild, would not be easily approached. Ernest
thought of a means of catching them, which succeeded. He
tied a piece of cheese to the end of a thread, and let it float
on the water, where the gluttons came to gobble it; and
were gently taken in the snare. Repeating this trick several
times, he became master of the rebels, who were shut up
separately in a handkerchief, and placed in our game-bags.
We took also a stock of salt, but less than we wished, for we
were already too much loaded; we were obliged to unharness
Turk of his coat of mail to give him a share of the burden.
The formidable, but decidedly useless cuirass, was left in the
tent. "Arms are like soldiers," said Ernest; "out'of battle they
are good for nothing."
We began our march. The laughter and jests provoked by
the thorns and by the contortions of our ducks and the comical
aspect of our caravan, made us forget a little the weight of our
charge. It was not till after our arrival that we felt fatigue.
But our good housekeeper hastened to fill the pot with
potatoes, which she put on a good fire; then she went to milk
the goat and cow to prepare a strengthening repast. The cloth
was soon laid. The expectation of our supper and of the
excellent potatoes, kept us awake; but as soon as supper was
finished, the children went to their hammocks. The mother,
who had been assisting them, came towards me laughing in
spite of her fatigue. " Do you know what little Francis has just
'added to his prayer?" said she; "I give you ten times to guess
it." "Give me one, my dear," replied I, "and tell me at once;
I am dying for sleep." " Here it is," said she: "' Good God, I
thank Thee for having planted such good potatoes in our
island for little Francis, and such large pine-apples for James.'
And then he fell asleep." "And he did well," said I to my wife,
wishing her good-night; "be assured his thanksgiving is on high.
Even the smallest prayers go to God."

We soon fell into a peaceful sleep.THE HURDLE. THE SALMON. THE KANGAROO.

I HAD remarked ,the evening before that ' the coast was
covered with a great quantity of wood, with which we could
make a hurdle, and transport burdens too heavy to be placed
on the backs of our beasts. I therefore set off at break of
day, accompanied by Ernest and our ass, both of whom I
awoke. A morning walk seemed to me desirable for Ernest,
as his habits of meditation made him somewhat indolent.
The ass dragged a large branch of a tree, which I thought
I should need. "Are you not a little angry," said I to my
son, "at having quitted your hammock sooner than usual,
where you were sleeping so soundly? Do you not regret
being deprived of the pleasure of shooting pigeons and thrushes
with your brothers?" "Oh, now I am up, I am very glad,"
said he; "as to the birds, no doubt the hunters will leave
me some, for at first they will drive away more than they
will knock down." "Why so?" asked I. " Because they will
forget to take the balls out of their guns, and to fill them
with small shot. Even if they remember that, they will fire
from below; without thinking that the distance from the ground
to the high branches is much too great." " Your observations
are just, my child," said I; "but I do not think it friendly
of you not to have warned your brothers. I should like
to see you less irresolute, less apathetic; for if there are hours
when it is good to reflect and be prudent, there are others
when we ought to know how to take a sudden resolution,
and execute it with energy."

While continuing to demonstrate to my son, that though

meditation has its value, action also has its worth, we arrived
92
at the shore. I found there several poles and pieces of
wood. We put a number of them on the branch of the
tree, which formed a sort of sledge. I had also found among
the wrecks a closed chest, which I opened with a hatchet
after our arrival at Falcon's Nest. It contained some sailor's
clothes and linen, stained with sea-water. .

On arriving near Falcon's Nest, a well-kept-up firing
announced that the hunting was in train; but when they
saw us, cries of joy were heard, and all the family came
towards us.

I had to excuse myself to my wife for having left with-
out telling her. The sight of our beautiful wood, and the
thought of having a convenient sledge to transport the pro-
visions left at Zeltheim, silenced her mild reproach, and we
went gaily to breakfast. I examined the spoil of our hunters;
it amounted to four dozen birds, as many thrushes as ortolans,
which were scarcely worth the great quantity of powder
and shot expended upon them. In order to save these
articles, which we could not well renew, I showed my young
poachers how to make snares and place them in the branches
of the tree. The threads of karatus served us to make
these engines. Whilst James and Francis were thus occu-
pied, Fritz and Ernest helped me to make the hurdle.

We had worked for some time, when we were disturbed
by the horrible noise made by our poultry. My wife got
up to see if any voracious animal had caused this alarm;
but she only saw the little ape, who was running towards
the roots of the fig-tree, under one of which he disappeared.
Much puzzled, she followed him, and caught him just as
he had broken an egg to eat it. Looking under the sur-
rounding roots, Ernest discovered a great number of eggs,
which Master Knips had laid up in reserve. The little animal
was very fond of this food, and gluttony had taught him
the trick of stealing and hiding each egg as it was laid.
"I understand now," said my wife, "how it was I often heard
the fowls cackling as if they had laid eggs, without being
able to find any." The little thief received a correction, and
it was decided that he should be deprived of his liberty at
the time when fowls are accustomed to lay. We made use
of him, however, to discover those eggs which the {owls did
not deposit in the usual nests.

When James, who had climbed into the tree to set the
snares, descended, he told us that the pigeons we had brought
from the vessel had constructed a nest in the branches. I
received this news with satisfaction, and prohibited the children
from firing henceforward into the tree, for fear of wounding
our little pensioners; I repented having given the idea of
the snares. But as. the prohibition of firing into the tree
had already excited some murmurs on the part of the hunters,
I abstained from giving a counter order.

Little Francis came, with his customary naivete, to ask
me if it was not possible to sow some gunpowder in a field,
which he would take care of, so that his brothers might have
as much firing as they liked. We were greatly amused with
this idea, which showed the child's goodness as much as his
ignorance. " My darling Francis," said Ernest, "powder is a
thing made, and not a product of the earth; it is made by
mixing in nearly equal parts charcoal, sulphur, and saltpetre."
."Ahl I did not know," said Francis, " and I thank you for
telling me."

Leaving my young scholar to the pleasure of instructing
his little brother, I was so busy making the hurdle, that my
wife and two younger sons had picked a great quantity of
birds before I perceived them; It was a proof to me that
the snares had produced their effect. The housekeeper had
stuck all these small pieces of game on a long thin sword,
brought from the vessel, and she proposed to roast them. I
complimented her on her spit, but remarked that she had
prepared three times as many ortolans as we required for
dinner. She replied that she did so because she had heard
me say that we might preserve them, by putting them in
butter when they were half-cooked.

The hurdle being nearly finished, I resolved, in the after-
noon, to make another journey to Zeltheim, and I told Ernest
to accompany me, as he had done in the morning, for I
wished to conquer his indolence and timidity. Francis
stopped me an instant by a question, which amused us.
"Papa," said he, "Ernest told me that the fire enclosed in
all bodies is developed by motion and rubbing. Now, if I
ran too fast, could I catch fire?" " Catch fire! no," said I,
"clear little one, only warm yourself; the legs of little children,
and even of men, are not strong enough to make them run
so quickly as to catch fire. Be assured then, and run as much
as you like." "I am glad," said he; "I like to run; but 1
was afraid."

The hour of departure being come, Fritz made us a
present of a case which would contain a table service, and
even a small hatchet. I praised him for his ingenious work,
and, after having embraced our dear ones, we departed. The
ass and cow were attached to the hurdle; Ernest and I,
bamboo canes in our hands to serve as whips, our guns
on our backs, walked by the side of the beasts: Belle
followed us. We took the road by the shore, and after a
journey marked by no accident, arrived at the tent.

The beasts when unharnessed began to graze at liberty,
whilst we placed on our sledge the cask of butter, a barrel
of powder, some shot, some cheeses, and some other provi-
sions. This labour engaged us so much that we did not
notice that the ass and cow were gone away, beyond the
bridge, attracted by the sight of the verdant meadow on
the opposite side of the stream. I despatched Ernest to
bring them back, telling him that I would go in quest of
a place where we could bathe conveniently, thinking that
a bath would be very wholesome for us after the fatigue of -
the day.

The interior part of the Bay of Deliverance, which I went
to inspect, offered a place where the rocks, coming out of
a sandy bottom, seemed to form separate bathing places.
Before getting in the water, I called Ernest several times,
but he did not reply. Becoming uneasy, I went towards .
the "tent, calling him again; still the same silence. I began
to fear some accident, when I perceived him asleep under a
tree, a little distance from the stream. The cow and ass were
tranquilly feeding near him. "Idle one!" cried I, "what care
you are taking of the beasts! Do you not think they might
re-pass the bridge, and lose themselves?" " Oh! there is
nothing to fear," replied he, in a sleepy tone, rubbing his
eyes, "I have taken away several planks of the bridge." " Ah!
ah! I see that idleness makes you inventive; but, instead of
sleeping as you have done, would it not have been better to
fill the ass's saddle-bag with salt, which your mother depended
on our bringing? Busy yourself now in gathering this, and
when you have finished, come to me at the first heap of rocks,
behind which I am going to bathe." Speaking thus, I showed
him with my hand the place I had chosen, and went back
to it.

As, after having remained nearly half an hour in the water,
I was astonished not to see my salt gatherer appear, I dressed
myself to go and see if he had gone to sleep again. Scarcely
had I gone a few steps, when I heard him cry out: " Oh,
father! father! come and help me, or else he will drag me
in l" I ran, and saw my little philosopher lying on his belly

on the sand, not far from the mouth of the stream, holding

with both hands a line, at the end of which an enormous
fish was struggling. I arrived just in time to spare the
fisherman the grief of seeing his magnificent captive escape.
I took the cord and let the fish into low water, where it was
easy to catch him, after Ernest, going into the water, had
stunned him with a blow of his hatchet. It was a salmon,
weighing at least fifteen pounds. '

I complimented my son, not only on his skill as a fisher,
but also on the forethought he had shown in bringing the
lines with him.

Whilst he was bathing, I cleaned the salmon and rubbed
him with salt, then placed him on the hurdle with some
other smaller fishes which Ernest had taken and wrapped in
his handkerchief. I put back the planks of the bridge; then,
when my son came back to me, the beasts were harnessed,
and we returned towards Falcon's Nest.

We had walked about a quarter of an hour, keeping by
the meadow, when suddenly Belle sprang forward, barking,
towards a large tuft of high grass, from which we saw an
animal come out nearly as large as a sheep, who ran away,
making extraordinary leaps. I fired, but too precipitately,
and failed. Ernest, placed at this moment in the direction
the beast took, fired in his turn, and killed it.

'-

o
We ran to examine the singular game we had just killed.
The animal had the muzzle and skin of a mouse, the ears of
a hare, the tail of a tiger, the front paws exceedingly short,
and the hind ones excessively long. I examined it a long
time before I could tell its name. As to Ernest, the joy of
his victory prevented him from observing it carefully. " Ah l"
cried. he, " what will my mother and brothers say on seeing
game of this size, and knowing that I killed it!" " Truly,
you have a good eye and sure hand," said I, "but I should
not be sorry to know the name of your game. Let us proceed
together to a minute examination of it, and perhaps we shall
arrive--" Ernest interrupted me. "It has," said he, " four
incisors, and may belong, consequently, to the order of
gnawers." ~ "That is very well reasoned," replied I, "but it
has also, below the teats, a pocket, which is the distinctive
sign of the opossum. I think I am not deceived in Saying
that this animal is a female kangaroo, an animal unknown to
naturalists till the discovery of New Holland by the celebrated
Captain Cook, who was the first to observe and describe it.
You may congratulate yourself, then, on having made a truly
extraordinary capture." " Father," said Ernest, "you appear
glad that I killed this fine game; are you not sorry you did
not kill it yourself P" "No; because I love my son better
than myself, and his success gives me more pleasure than
my own." "Ah, fatherl" said he, throwing himself in my
arms.

The kangaroo was placed on the hurdle, and while walking,
I told Ernest all I knew about the kangaroo, of its short fore-
paws, and long hind ones, and of its tail, which serves it almost
like a fifth leg, as a sort of compensation for the insufficiency
of its fore-paws.

As soon as the children left at Falcon's Nest perceived us,
they uttered cries of joy, and we soon saw them running
towards us, all mufiled up," some more comically than the
others. One was enveloped in a long white shirt, another had
his body covered in long trousers which reached to his
shoulders, the third was hid under a waistcoat which descended
to his knees, and make him resemble a walking portmanteau.

Seeing them advance gravely, like the heroes of a theatre.
7
I asked them what was the cause of this masquerade. They
~ told me that during my absence, their mother having thought
fit to wash their clothes, they were obliged to wait till they
were dry, and wrap themselves up in those found in the chest
we brought from the shore.

After making us laugh at their grotesque accoutrements,
they pressed round the hurdle to inspect its load. The house-
keeper thanked us for the butter, salt, and fish we had brought;
but the attention of the children was concentrated principally
on the salmon and kangaroo, which Ernest was quite proud
of showing to his brothers. James and Francis uttered cries
of admiration at sight of this important piece of game. It
was not quite the same with Fritz, who, I perceived, was looking
at it rather spitefully. At the same time I could see that he was
trying to overcome this feeling of jealousy. "Father," said he,
approaching me, " will you take me on your next excursion?"
" Yes, my child," replied I, adding, in a whisper, "to recom-
pense you for the inner combat you have just fought and
gained." He embraced me, and went to Ernest, whom he
congratulated sincerely on his skill, showing thus the good-
ness of his heart. On the other side, I remarked with pleasure
the modesty of Ernest, who had the delicacy not to tell that
I had missed the kangaroo.

The hurdle was unloaded, and I distributed some salt to
our animals, who had been deprived of it for some time. The
kangaroo was suspended to a branch of the tree, and we made
our supper of the small fishes caught by Ernest, and a dish

of potatoes. It now being night, we regained our aerial
abode.SECOND VOYAGE TO THE VESSEL.

THE next day, very early, I called Fritz, and told him he
should accompany me in a second v0yage to the vessel. My
wife, who heard me, cried .out again, as I had foreseen, about
the new dangers we were going to run. I made a fresh appeal
to her reason, by showing that it would be highly culpable in
us to abandon the thousand useful things still enclosed in the
shipwrecked vessel, for want of resolution.

I then descended from the tree, and began to despoil the
kangaroo of its pretty grey fur. The flesh was divided into
two parts; one to be eaten immediately, the other was destined
to be salted. Then we breakfasted, and after the repast I
told Fritz to collect our game-bags and gourds, and the arms
we should take with us. At the moment of departure I
called James and Ernest, to whom I wished to give some
orders for the employment of their time during our absence.
As they did not answer, I asked my wife if she knew what
had become of them. She replied that they were probably
. gone to dig up some potatoes, as she heard them talk of doing
so. I was satisfied when I saw that they had taken Turk with
them. We then set out without waiting for them, leaving Belle
at Falcon's Nest.

As we arrived at Jackal Bridge, we suddenly heard shouts
of laughter at some distance, and soon saw Ernest and James
come from behind a bush, appearing very much delighted at
the trick they had played us. I scolded them severely for
having gone away without telling us. They owned that they
had done so in the hope that I should take them to the vessel.

99
I showed them that the thing was impossible; first, because
their mother would be uneasy if they did not return to her,
and then because their presence in the boat of tubs would be
a great deal more embarrassing than useful; then I sent them
back, charging them to tell their mother, that instead of return-
ing in the evening, we should be obliged to pass the night in
the vessel. I had not been able to make up my mind to
tell my excellent wife my determination when I quitted her.
" Endeavour," said I, "to return before noon; and," I added,
addressing Fritz, "that your brothers may not say that they
' are ignorant of the hour, give Ernest your watch; you can
take another from the vessel, and you shall bring one also
for James." The two young boys went back, without, how-
ever, taking the direct road to Falcon's Nest. Soon after we
got into our boat of tubs, and were carried by the current
quickly and without accident to the stranded vessel. My first
care was to seek for materials to construct a raft, according to
a plan which Ernest had proposed the day before, which would
carry a heavier load than our boat of tubs.

There was in the hold a great quantity of empty water
barrels. We chose twelve which we fixed together by joists
thickly nailed; then on the whole I fixed a flooring, surrounded
by a grating about two feet high. This work took us
great part of the day. When we had finished, the night was
too near for us to hope _to return to the land with our new
barque properly loaded: We then made a general inspection
of the vessel, to collect things which we judged worthy of
being taken away. We then retired into the captain's cabin,
and after a frugal repast, went to sleep on some excellent
mattresses. ~

At dawn, we were up fresh and ready to load our twc
boats. The room where we had slept was the first visited;
our second visit was to that we had inhabited during the
voyage; I took from it everything of interest and utility that
it contained. The other cabins had their turn; the locks,
the bolts, the fire-irons, the fenders, and even the doors were
soon taken away. Two trunks well filled made part of the
booty; but what gave me most delight was finding the car-
penter's and gunsmith's chests. A box which contained gold
and silver watches, snuff-boxes, rings, dazzled us for an instant;
but our attention was soon otherwise fixed by sacks full of
oats, peas, rice, maize; European fruit-trees, which had been
carefully packed to plant on another continent. I saw with
tenderness these productions of my dear country; pear-trees,
cherry-trees, vine--shoots; and promised myself to try and accli-
matise them in our island. What was our joy, besides, on
finding bars of iron, wheels, mattocks, spades, and above all,
a hand-mill. Nothing which might be useful to a new colony
had been forgotten in the loading of the vessel which was
to take us to another world. We could not take away every-
thing. A box full of coins scarcely attracted our attention.
What use w0uld they be to us in comparison with things of
practical utility? From the box of jewels Fritz had only
taken two watches, which he had promised to his brothers.
Fritz asked me to let him take away a fishing-net, a pair
of harpoons, and a spindle of rope, which he chanced to
find.

Our loading took us half a day; at last the moment of
departure arrived. It was not without trouble that we un-
moored our two boats, which we had tied side by side, and
which were somewhat heavily laden. Fortunately, a favourable
wind took the sail which I had hoisted, and materially assisted
us.

. I was at the rudder; the sail prevented me from seeing what
Fritz was doing in the fore part of the tub boat, when suddenly
I heard the whistling of the spindle. "In the name of heaven!
Fritz," cried I, "what have you done?" But the young man
cried out, transported with joy: "Hit! it shall not escape
us." It was an enormous turtle, which my son had perceived
sleeping on the water, and which he had bravely and skilfully
harpooned. The animal, struck in the neck, dragged our boat
with frightful rapidity. I hastily braced up our sail, and
went towards the prow to cut the cord of the harpoon; but
Fritz begged me not to make him let so fine a prey escape,
assuring me that he would cut the cord if he saw that we
were in danger.

Thus dragged by the animal, we advanced with frightful
quickness. I had much trouble in managing the rudder, to
avoid ' the jolts which this singular towing gave our boat.
Soon, seeing that the turtle was going seawards, I again
put up the sail. The wind blew towards the coast, so the
animal, finding the resistance too great, changed its direc-
tion and swam towards land. We at last touched the bottom,
at a gunshot distance from the shore, in front of Falcon's
Nest. I jumped into the water, to finish the turtle with
a blow of my hatchet; it had gone on to the sand, where I
found it stranded. At the first blow, the head was separated
from the body.. Fritz, happy and proud, had fired, to warn
our people, whom we saw coming towards us. With what
transport, what caresses we were received! My wife scolded
me gently for my long absence; then Fritz related the history
of his turtle. The mother shuddered at the danger we had
run, and every one was astonished at the skill with which
Fritz had struck the beast just in the part of the neck which,
while the animal was asleep, was entirely out of the shell.
My two youngest sons had gone back to Falcon's Nest, to
fetch our beasts of burden and the sledge, on which were placed
our mattresses and the turtle, which weighed at least three
hundredweight; it required all our strength to raise it. The
rest of the cargo was placed on the shore, out of reach of
the sea, and our boats were anchored with masses of lead
buried in the sand. _

During the journey back to Falcon's Nest, the children over-
whelmed us with questions. The casket, of which Fritz had
spoken, especially excited their curiosity. James claimed a
watch, little Francis a purse full of money. " Do you mean to
sow it, my little man?" said I, laughing. "No, papa," replied
he, "I will keep it to buy some spice~bread next fair-day, when
the merchants come." This made us laugh heartily.

Arrived at Falcon's Nest, I began immediately to despoil
the turtle of his shell. I cut off some pieces of flesh, whichI
advised my wife to broil for our repast. " Let me. first take -
away this green part which hangs on each side," said she.
" No, my dear," replied I, " for that is the fat, which is the most .
savoury part of the anima ."

" Dear father," said James, "will you give me the shell?" Each
of the other children made the same request. I told them it
belonged of fight to Fritz. Curious, however, to know how each
would use it, if he had it, I first asked James. He declared that
he would make an elegant little boat to swim on the stream.
Ernest, thinking first of his own safety, said he would use it
as a buckler to defend himself against the savages. Little
Francis thought of making a pretty little cabin, of which the
shell should form the roof. Fritz alone had not given his
opinion. "Well, my dear Fritz," said I, "what use do you
intend making of your shell?" " Father," replied he, "I will
make a basin, which I will place near the stream, where mamma
will always have fresh water for her use." "Good!" cried I;
"this is a project of general utility, and which shall be executed
as soon as we have some clay."

" Some clay .! " cried James ; " I made a great heap of it this
morning under the roots of a neighbouring tree." "So much
the better," said I; " but where did you get it?" "He brought it
from the hill," replied my wife, " and soiled his clothes so much
that I was obliged to make a complete wash." "It was not my
fault, mother," replied the madcap; "the soil was so slippery that
I fell down, and it was in my fall that I discovered the clay."
"That is another affair," said the mother; "to hear you this
morning, I should have thought that you owed it less to
accident than to express research."

"When the basin is fixed " said Ernest, "I will steep in it
some roots which I found to-day, and which appear to be a kind
of radish or horse-radish. The plant resembles more a shrub
than a herb; I did not dare to taste it, though our sow had
eaten some without taking harm." "You acted prudently, my
son. Icannot too often repeat to you all, that food which is
hurtful to man, may agree with certain animals. Show me
these roots, and tell me how you got them." " As I was roam-
ing round," replied he, "I saw the sow grubbing up the earth
near a bush; I approached, and found her devouring some large
roots, which I brought away." When I had examined them
attentively--" If I am .not deceived," said I, "you have made a
precious discovery, which joined to that of the potatoes, would
preserve us for ever from famine. I think these roots are those
of the cassava, with which, in the West Indies, they make a kind
of bread. But, to be employed for this use, these roots must
undergo a preparation which takes away a poisonous substance
which they contain."

This conversation hindered us in unloading the sledge. I
then went with my children to fetch a second load before night-
fall. The mother remained in company with Francis, who did
not disdain the post of scullion, in which he had always some
little windfall, to prepare the supper. I told them, that to re-
compense our fatigue we relied on their treating us royally,
thanks to the flesh of the turtle.

During the journey, Fritz asked me if our turtle was not of
the precious kind, whose shell serves to make snuff-boxes, etc.,
and if it was not a pity to use it as a basin. I told him that
the turtle of which he spoke is named a tortoise, that its flesh
is not good to eat ; and I told him what I knew of the means
employed to take away the superior part of the shell, which is
transparent and will receive a magnificent polish.

Arrived at the raft, the sledge was loaded with a number
of things; among others the hand-mill, which, because of
the discovery of the cassava, seemed to me of the greatest
utility.

When we arrived at Falcon's Nest, I saw my wife come
towards me smiling. "You have had two days of painful
labour," said she; "I will, to strengthen you, offer you a drink
which you did not think to find here; come and see where this

' beneficent spring is found." I followed my wife, and perceived
at the foot of a small fig-tree, a barrel half-buried in the ground,
and covered with thick branches. "I picked that up to-day
along the shore," said she. "Ernest thinks it is Canary wine;
I hope it may be, for your sake." I made a hole in the
cask, and by means of a piece of straw found that Ernest
was not deceived. Immediately a sweet warmth ran through
me.

Whilst I was thanking my wife, the children surrounded me,
begging me to let them taste this precious nectar. I permitted
them; but they were so eager, that I was obliged to stop them,
as I was afraid this generous wine would get in their heads. I
then ordered them to help me to lift on the tree, by means of
pulleys, the mattresses we had brought from the vessel. This
finished, my wife invited us to come to supper. Fritz's turtle,
well dressed, was enjoyed by all. " That was a very ugly beast,"
said little Franeis, stretching himself on his mattress, and rub-
bing his eyes, " but it was jolly good, eh, James?" James was
already asleep; and our mattresses soon produced their effect
upon all of us.
THIRD VOYAGE TO THE VESSEL. THE PENGUINS.

THE two barques, which we had simply fastened to the shore,
causing me some uneasiness, I rose before the dawn to go
and visit them. All my family slept profoundly. I softly
descended- from the tree, and found the dogs awake; they
began gambolling around me, as if they understood that I
was going for a walk. The cock and hens, joyfully flapping
their wings, quitted their perch. The goats were already
browsing on the fresh grass. The ass, whom I was resolved
to take, was lazily stretched out. To his great displeasure,
I made him rise, and fastened him alone to the sledge,
not wishing to fatigue the cow before she had given her
milk; and accompanied by the two dogs, I went towards the.
coast.

I found my two barques in good condition, and left dry
by the tide, which was now low. I loaded our ass moderately,
to economise his strength, which would be required again in
the day, and in order that I might return the sooner to
Falcon's Nest. What was my astonishment on arriving at
the tree, to find no one up, though the sun was already high!
I began to strike with a stick on the copper utensils, and
to produce a noise capable of making believe there was an
invasion of savages. I soon saw my wife's head appear over
the gallery of the tree; she seemed quite confused at having
overslept herself. As I mounted up to her, "it is," said she,
"the magic power of the mattresses, which has kept me so
long. Our poor children felt it also, for they can scarcely
open their eyes." Indeed, the little sleepers, yawned, stretched,
and appeared little disposed tps quit the bed. "Up! up!"

I
cried I with a loud voice. " No idleness, dear little ones."
Fritz rose first. Ernest came after all the others, and his look
told how much he regretted his bed.

" Is it possible," said I, "that you are so lazy as not to
be up before little Francis!" "Oh!" he said, stretching out
his benumbed arms, "it is so agreeable to go to sleep again
when one has been awoke! I should like to be woke every
morning two hours before day, to feel the sweet sensation of
going to sleep again." "What refinement of idleness!" cried I.
" If you give yourself up to indolence in this way, my poor
child, you will grow up a man without strength or courage."
As soon as everybody had assembled, we breakfasted hastily,
and went to the shore to finish bringing away the things we
had left there.

Two journeys were made in a very short time, and as I
saw that the tide had nearly reached our boats, I resolved
to profit by it to take our barques to the Bay of Deliverance,
where they would be in greater safety than on the shore of
Falcon's Nest.

I sent back my wife and her three young sons, and I
waited with Fritz in our tub-boat till the water floated it.
However, as Master James, who had waited on the shore,
regarded us with an envious eye, I consented to take him
with us. The waves soon surrounded us, and seduced by fine
weather, instead of directing the barques towards the Bay of
Deliverance, I went once more to the ship. But when we
arrived there, it was too late to undertake an important or
heavy load. We nevertheless went over the vessel in all
directions, to get 'a few things together, so as not to return
empty. I soon saw James drawing a wheelbarrow, and rejoic~
ing at being able for the future to transport heavy burdens
without fatigue. Fritz told me that he had discovered, enclosed
in a partition of planks, a dismounted pinnace, with all its
rigging and even two small cannons.

This news caused me great joy; I abandoned everything
to assure myself of the truth of this fact. Fritz was not
deceived; but I saw that we should have immense trouble
in getting it into the sea, so we put this off till another
day, and contented ourselves with carrying away some house-
hold utensils, such as boilers, iron dishes, plates, glasses, etc.
I added to these things some tobacco, a mill-stone, another
barrel of powder, and one of gun flints. James's wheel:
barrow was not forgotten, and we also found several others,
which was a very agreeable discovery to us. We- were then '
obliged to embark hastily, so as not to be surprised on our
return by the land wind, which rose every evening.

Whilst we were rowing towards the coast, we perceived
standing on the shore a troop of little creatures, who appeared
to regard us with curiosity. "Are we in the country of the
pigmies?" said I to James, laughing. "Or in that of the
Lilliputians," cried James. "I think," said Fritz, "that we have
before us a regiment of birds, for I perceive their beaks and
wings." "You are right, my child; they are penguins. These
birds, which are of the Booby genus, swim very well, but
nature has given them such short wings compared with the
size of their bodies, and claws so badly formed for walking,
that it is almost always easy to approach them when they
are on land. Besides, they are so indolent that even at the
approach of men they will scarcely move."

When we were a few feet from the shore, James suddenly
jumped into the water, armed with one of our oars, and before
the penguins were aware of his arrival, he had reached and
knocked down several. The others soon disappeared. Those
who were only stunned by James's aggression were tied together
and placed on the shore.

The day was too much advanced for us to undertake the
unloading of our boats. We only put on the wheelbarrows,
the penguins, the tobacco, and some kitchen utensils, and
returned to Falcon's Nest, where our arrival caused great joy.
The mother was delighted at the discovery of the wheel-
barrows. The tobacco excited a few smiles, which I pre-
tended not to see; then every one examined the penguins,.
several of whom had recovered their senses. I tied them up
with our ducks and geese, to accustom them to the life of
the poultry-yard. Our vigilant housekeeper showed me, in her
turn, a good provision of potatoes and cassava roots, which
had been collected during my absence. Then little Francis
said, with an air of mystery, "Father, how surprised you
will be if we soon gather some maize, gourds, melons, and
oats! Mamma has planted some lower down." " Little tell-
tale!" said my wife, "why have you betrayed me? I meant
to have surprised your father." "I thank you for your
attention, my dear," said I, embracing her; "but where have
you found all these seeds?" "In my enchanted bag!" replied
she, smiling, and looking at her sons. "Seeing you constantly
occupied with your eternal voyages to the vessel, I thought
you would not have time to make a kitchen garden, so I
did it myself. I chose the potato field, and it was only
necessary to substitute some of my seeds for each plant we
took out."

I-congratulated her on this excellent idea, and Fritz thought
to give her great pleasure by announcing the discovery of
the pinnace. But our sea voyages caused my dear wife too
much real alarm for her to rejoice that we should have the
means of attempting them anew; but we showed her that
as these ' voyages must be made, there was less danger
in making them in a proper vessel than in our tub-boat.
The night having come, I gave the signal for retiring, telling

my sons that they must be ready on the morrow to learn a
new trade.THE BAKEHOUSE.

AS soon as they were awake, the children, thinking of my last
words the evening before, eagerly asked what was the new
trade I had promised to teach them. "The trade of baker,"
replied I. " But," cried James, "we have no oven nor flour."
"We will. get the flour from our cassava roots," said I; "as to
the oven, we will make it with the sheets of iron we brought .
yesterday from the ship." '

As their astonished looks seemed to ask more ample details,
I explained the properties of the cassava roots, and the use
which the savage peeple make of them. I then begged my
wife to make a sack with some sailcloth, whilst my sons with
graters, awaited my orders to enter on their functions. Our
roots had been carefully washed. I distributed several of
them to the boys, and showed them how to grate them. They
began the work eagerly, not without laughing at their new
occupation, and we soon had a quantity of flour, which re-
sembled the saw-dust of soaked wood.

" Here we are in possession of a magnificent dish of bran,"
said Ernest, laughing, but without interrupting his work. " This
is the first time I have heard of making bread with radishes,"
said James. My wife herself seemed doubtful of my talent as a
baker; so she took care, after having finished the sack which I
asked her to make, to cook some potatoes, in case my trial did
not succeed. But I was not disconcerted. "Cease your jokes,
gentlemen," said I," for you will soon do justice to the cassava.
It constitutes the principal nourishment of several nations in
the new world , it is even preferred by some Europeans to
Wheaten bread. However, I do not promise you very good _

cakes to-day; but I will give you some specimens, which will
110
show you the nutritious properties of the cassava, if the sort we
have 15 good "

"Are there several kinds of cassava?" asked Ernest.
"There are three," I replied. " The two first, eaten raw, are
very hurtful; the third is quite inoffensive. But the two
others are preferred, for they produce more, and ripen more
quickly." " Howl" cried James, " they prefer the poisonous
plant to the wholesome one; how foolish. I will not eat your
poisonous cakes."

"Don't be afraid, little coward," said I, " for it is sufficient
to press our flour very strongly before using it." "Why press
it?" asked Ernest. " To take away the poison which is found
in the juice; when this juice is extracted, there remains
only most wholesome and most esteemed food. However,
by way of precaution, we will not taste our cakes till after
trying them on the ape and the fowls." "But," cried James,
"I should not like our poor Knips to be poisoned." "Fear
nothing," said I, "it will not be the first time your ape has used
for us the particular instinct with which nature has endowed
him ; and I can affirm that if the food we give him contains any
poison, he will refuse to touch it, or at least will put it out of
his mouth."

James, re-assured by my words, resumed his grater, which he
had let fall, and went on with his work. I soon judged that we
had sufficient. This damp flour was put into the sack, and we
tied it strongly at the top. To press it, I fixed some planks
under one of the roots of the tree. The sack of flour, placed on
this platform, was covered with another plank, on which I put
a lever, one end of which passed under the root, and I suspended
to the other end some stones, some pieces of iron, and other
heavy things. We soon saw the juice run out freely. When
the juice had ceased running, my children pressed me to
begin making the bread. I diminished their ardour a little by
telling them that we should only knead to--day a proof cake for
the fowls. .

I spread the flour in the sun to dry it; I then took a
small quantity, which I mixed with water and kneaded care-
fully; then I made the paste into a biscuit, which I placed
on one of our plates of . iron over a brisk fire. In a little
time we had a cake whose smell and colour promised a real
feast. It required all my authority .to prevent my sons from
biting it.

When the cake was cold,l crumbled it before the ape and
fowls, and saw with pleasure that they devoured it eagerly.
However, I deferred till later trying it ourselves, and a good
dinner of potatoes appeascd our hunger.

After dinner we went to visit our fowls. To our great joy
they appeared well, and the gambols of Master Knips on
our approach proved that his health had suffered no alteration.
I then ordered them to begin the labours of the bakehouse.
"To work," cried _I, "and 'with courage!" I distributed to
each the utensils he needed. In an instant braziers were
lighted, kneading troughs fixed, cakes, kneaded in great
numbers and the most varied forms, were ranged on plates
of iron, then drawn from the fire when they appeared suffi- .
ciently baked and each began to bite the bread he had made.
It was found excellent, especially when steeped in milk.
Never since we had been on the island had we made so
excellent a meal.

The rest of the day was employed in transporting on our
wheelbarrows some things we had left on the boat."-. Ix;

CHAPTER XIV.
THE PINNACE.

THE Pinnace occupied me seriously, and I would not renounce
the project of ' taking it away. Though my wife was still
alarmed at our sea voyages, I persuaded her to let me take for
once my three eldest sons to the vessel, for I wanted several
arms for the enterprise I meditated. After having promised
her to return the same evening, and furnished ourselves with an
ample provision of cassava and cooked potatoes, and with our
swimming belts in case of accidents, we departed.

As soon as we arrived at the ship, our first care was to take
every thing that seemed useful, so as not to return empty. The
pinnace was then examined. I saw with pleasure that each of
the parts was numbered, and that with patience it would be
possible to refit it. But the greatest difficulty was to get it from
the narrow space where it was enclosed, and launch it into the
sea, for we could not think of transporting to a larger dockyard
the enormous pieces which formed the principal frame; our
united strength would not be sufficient. I thought for a long
time, abandoning one project after another. At last, tired with
the uncertainty, I depended on Providence to extricate us
from this embarrassment, and called my sons to help me
demolish with hatchets the partition of planks which enclosed
the pinnace. The evening arrived before our labour was much
advanced, but the desire of possessing a convenient boat
sustained our ardour, and we promised ourselves to come and
finish it to-morrow.

Relying on our punctuality, my wife and Francis were
waiting for us on the coast. She told me that she had resolved

to quit F glcon's Nest, and remain at Zeltheim whilst we con-
. n3
tinued our journeys to the vessel. I thanked her so much the
more, as I knew how she loved the first residence. The provi-
sions we had brought, namely, two barrels of salt butter, three
of flour, some sacks of rice, some corn, and several household
utensils, were deposited at her feet, and welcomed by her with
the greatest pleasure. _ -

Our voyages to the vessel were to be repeated; they
could not last less than a week. We set off each morning
very early, to return only at sun-setting, and each evening a
joyous repast, followed by a long talk, made us forget the
fatigues of the day.

However, we succeeded in re-constructing the pinnace.
It was of light structure, and elegant aspect; it had at the
prow a small deck, and possessed a complete rigging. We
had tarred the exterior, and even fixed the two little cannons
behind the deck. Our little building charmed us by its shape;
but it was'irnmovable on its keel, and we did not know what
means to employ to make it pass from the vessel into the
sea. It was impossible to think of making an opening in the
thick sides of the ship, and yet we did not wish to lose the
fruit of so much trouble and labour. At last, thinking of an
extreme measure, I began to execute it without saying anything
to my sons.

I procured an iron mortar, like those they use in kitchens,
and a strong plank, and I began to fabricate a machine in
my own fashion. To the plank I fixed some iron hooks,
and made a groove, in which I introduced a gun match, long
enough to burn two hours. I put some powder in the mortar,
and covered it with the plank, whose iron hooks fell upon the
handles of the mortar. With some tar I stopped up all the
joints, and saw myself in possession of an enormous petard,
which must, by its explosion, open for the pinnace a way
into the sea. I suspended the mortar in the enclosure, which
contained our little building. When all seemed conveniently
placed, l lighted the match, and hastily embarked with my
sons, without having communicated to them my project, which
I feared would fail.

On arriving at Zeltheim, whilst we were unloading the
things we had brought, we heard a frightful explosion. My
wife and sons looked at each other with surprise. "It is the
signal of a vessel in distress," said Fritz; "let us run to their
assistance." " No," said the mother, "the sound comes from
the ship; you have undoubtedly left some fire, which has
reached a barrel of powder."

I appeared to be of her opinion, and proposed to my sons to
return immediately to the vessel, to ascertain the fact. They
all three jumped into the tub-boat, and curiosity doubling
their strength, they rowed so well, that in a little time we were
at the end of our voyage. I remarked with pleasure that there
was neither flame nor smoke on the ship, which we rowed
round before boarding it.

Arrived in front of an immense opening, the pinnace
appeared to us lying a little on its side, but in good condition;
all around the sea was covered with wreck, and my sons, whom
this spectacle grieved, could not comprehend the joy I mani-
fested. "Victory!" cried I, " the pinnace is ours." I then
explained to them the means I had used. Their satisfaction
was as great as mine, and they were in ecstacies at my happy
idea. By the help of the crow-bar we made the pinnace glide
over the rollers we had placed under the keel, and uniting our
strength we succeeded in launching it into the sea, where
we had at last the satisfaction of seeing it balance itself
gracefully.

The sight of this little vessel, with its two cannons, its pro-
vision of powder, guns, and pistols, awoke in my sons warlike
ideas. They flattered themselves already that they could defy
and exterminate any savages who might attack us. Itold them,
however, that we ought to thank God if we were not put to the
necessity of employing our military strength. '

It was necessary to rig our little ship, and furnish it with its
masts and sails; but as the day was too much advanced for this
work, it might be adjourned. Every one agreed, besides, to
say nothing to the mother, whom we wished to surprise by a
triumphal entry into the Bay of Deliverance.

It still required two days to furnish the pinnace with every
thing that was necessary. When all was, at last, finished I gave
the signal for departure.

I held the rudder; Ernest and James were placed beside the
cannons, which they wished to fire, to announce their arrival;
Fritz managed the sails. A favourable wind impelled us towards
the land. Our pinnace glided over the water with great rapidity,
drawing the tub-boat, which we had fastened on behind. When
we were at a short distance from land, Fritz, who had reserved
the command, cried out to the cannoneers: " No. 1, fire! No. 2,
fire!" An instant after the rocks resounded the echo of a
double discharge. Fritz, at the same time, discharged his two
pistols, and we uttered joyful hurrahs.

Soon we reached the shore, where my wife and her young son
awaited us. Our cannonade had frightened them, and the sight
of our boat had caused them the greatest surprise. They ran to
meet us.

" Welcome," said my wife; " but do not for the future frighten
me so much; your artillery terrified us. God knows where I
should have gone to hide little Francis, if I had not heard your
cries almost as soon as your cannons. Well, yes, I own your
little vessel is very pretty; it appears solid and convenient, and
I think even I could, if it were necessary, board it and venture
on the sea, which, however, still frightens me." "Oh, mother,"
said Fritz, "come into the pinnace,I pray you, if it is only for
an instant. We have given it your name, T/ze Elisabet/z! See!
over the cabin." My wife thanked us' for this attention, and
we all walked over the pinnace, to the great joy of the
children, delighted at having conquered their mother's uneasi-
ness.

When the landing was over: " Do not think," said my wife,
"that we have been idle whilst you were in the vessel. Our
labours have not less value, though we could not, like you,
announce them with cannon. Follow me, and you shall judge
of the truth of my words." Saying this, she conducted us to
where Jackal River forms a cascade. There we saw a kitchen
garden perfectly laid out. "There is our wor ," said she. " Here
I have planted potatoes; there cassava roots; on this side
lettuces; and I have left farther off a place for sugar canes. I
have sown, besides, some seeds of melons, some cabbages, some
peas, some beans. Round each plantation I have taken care to
put some seeds of maize, so that their stalks may shade the

young plants from the sun."
I congratulated my wife on her happy idea and her activity,
and did not forget to praise Francis. ' "I could never have
believed that, with the help of Francis alone, you could have
done so much," said I. "I did not hope to succeed so well,"
replied my wife; "therefore I told you nothing of my project.
At all events, I am happy in being able to give you surprise
for surprise. I only regret one thing, that is, having neglected
my journeys to Falcon's Nest, where our European plants must
be in a bad condition. I beg: you will go there as soon as
possible."

I promised her to go the next day. The pinnace was un-
loaded, and fixed on the shore by means of an anchor; then, as
nothing detained us at Zeltheim, we took the road to Falcon's
Nest, where my wife had only been two or three times'during
the ten days, to give food to our animals. 'A WALK. THE WIZARD OF THE TREE. THE WILD nos.

THE next day was Sunday. This day was set apart for
prayer, reading, pious instructions, and bodily exercises, of
which my sons were very fond. I gave them this day a
lesson in gymnastics, and taught them to climb a hanging
cord, in preparation for manoeuvring the pinnace.

Whilst they were making trials of strength and skill, I
fastened two leaden balls to the two extremities of a long
cord. Ernest, who was the first to perceive it, asked what
it was for. "My dear," replied I, "I am trying to make a
weapon similar to that which is so formidable in the hands
of the South Americans. I mean the lasso, which the Mexican
and Patagonian hunters use. These intrepid men mount
bare-backed on a swift horse. When they perceive the animal
they wish to catch, they spur on, and passing it at a gallop,
lance the lasso with all their strength, which they have first
tnrned rapidly round their head. The ropes extended, meet-
ing an obstacle, roll together quickly by the weight of the
balls. Thus buffaloes, wild horses, and other strong animals
are stopped suddenly in their course by this singular
weapon, and fall, with legs fettered, into the power of the
hunters."

The idea of such a hunt pleased greatly the adventurous
spirit of my eldest sons; they begged me to make trial
of the new weapon against a small trunk of a tree close
at hand. My first blow was a masterly one; the cord rolled
so well round the tree that my children not only believed '
in the skill of the American hunters, but promised them-

selves to acquire it. Fritz began to try it immediately, and,
n8
thanks to his particular aptitude, he was soon able to teach
his brothers.

The next day my wife made me go over our domain,
where, thanks to her, many improvements had been made
during our absence. She showed me in our barrels a great
number of thrushes and ortolans, which she had taken in
the snare, and then roasted and placed in butter. Our pigeons,
' who had made their nests in the top branches of our tree,
were preparing to lay. As to the shrubs, I found them so
dry that I was afraid we should lose them, if we did not put
them in the ground at once. The rest of the day was passed
in this work, and before evening all our European vegetables
were properly planted.

The next day, early, all the little colony was on foot,
for I had announced a family walk to the Calibash Wood,
whence we must fetch a fresh stock of vessels. We went by
Flamingo March, behind which we found a plain, the splendour
of which we were never tired of admiring. Fritz, the inde<<
fatigable hunter, had strayed from the troop, taking Turk
with him. The high grass hid them both, but we soon heard
the dog bark and a gun-shot, and we saw a large bird fall
heavily to the ground. But this bird, who was only wounded,
ran away. Turk pursued him, Fritz inciting the dog by
voice and gesture. Belle could not remain indifferent. With
a side bound she threw off the ape, who rolled on the ground,
then she sprang into the thicket, seized the fugitive by one
wing, and held him till Fritz came up. But the animal was .
not so easily taken as the flamingo; its strong claws, striking
right and left, frightened the young hunter. Turk, who had
ventured near, received such a vigorous blow on the nose, that
he dared not return to the charge. Fritz called me; I ran
as quickly as the weight of my baggage and the high grass
permitted me. Seizing a. favourable moment, I, threw my
handkerchief over the animal's head, who, finding himself
blinded,almost immediately ceased to fight. I tied the wings
and claws of the prisoner with a string I had in my pocket.
Then we returned with our capture to our companions, who
awaited us on the border of the marsh.

"It is a bustard goose," said our little naturalist, after
having examined the animal. "A goose!" replied Fritz,
shrugging his shoulders, "a goose! you see that its feet
have no membranes." "You decide too hastily, my dear
Fritz," said I, "Ernest is right; it is the bustard, or rather
the slow-goose, so named because of the shortness of its
wings. Among other signs which help me to know it, I
remark particularly the feet without thumbs, and composed
of only three fingers all pointed forward, and if I may judge
by the absence of beard, it is a female." "Then," said James,
"it is probably the same we saw rise before, and which we '
did not fire at. Do you remember, mother?" "In. that
case," cried my wife, "I must ask you to let it go, for it
would be painful to think that its natural protection should
be wanted for its little ones, who, when we were here before,
had apparently just left the nest." " Be satisfied, my dear,"
said I, "about the fate of these little orphans. During
the three weeks that had passed they have learnt to shift
for themselves. As to the mother, whom we have taken,
we will endeavour to domesticate her, if she can be cured
of her wound, and this will be a new source _of riches for
our poultry-yard." .

After having tied the goose on the sledge, we resumed our
walk to the Wood of Apes. Arrived there, Fritz related gaily
to his brothers how, at our first visit, the apes had provided us
with cocoa-nuts. Ernest, who had wandered from the troop,
was contemplating the gigantic cocoa-nut trees, loaded with
magnificent nuts. Stopping at some distance from him, I was
amused at seeing on the boy's face the admiration which he
felt at sight of these prodigies of nature, and the desire of
enjoying the fine fruit which hung from the branches. "You
would like," said I, "these fine nuts to fall into your mouth?"
"Certainly not," said he, turning; "I should run great risk of
having my teeth broken." He was speaking thus, when a
nut fell at- his feet. He jumped back ; at the same instant
another nut rolled towards me and soon after a third.

"This is like fairy tales," said the little doctor; "a wish
gratified as soon as made." "We might believe so; but I
suppose that the enchanter perched in the tree rather in-
tends to drive us away than to accomplish our desires."
Whatever it might be, Ernest and I picked up the nuts,
which to judge by their weight must be very full. "The
Wizard of the tree would be very kind," said James, "if he
would send some nuts to little Francis and me." Then two
nuts fell from the tree. " Father," cried Fritz, "I see the
sorcerer. It is a horrible beast, of a round form, armed
with two frightful claws; there he is ready to descend the
trunk." The strange animal, planting its claws in the bark
of the tree, descended rapidly. When he was only a few
steps from the ground, James went to him and struck
with all his strength, but the blow hit the tree and not the
beast, who, falling to the ground, marched bravely against
the aggressor. Jam'es struck again, but without success,
for his adversary skilfully avoided the blow. Angry at his
failure, James beat a retreat. His brothers laughed at him,
but the little rogue had his own plan. We saw him, still
running, throw down his gun and game bag, then take off
his waistcoat; then stopping suddenly, he awaited the
animal, upon whom he threw himself, and covered him with
his clothes. "Ah! wicked dragon," cried he, wrapping him
up as well as he could, "I will teach you to show your
claws in that threatening manner." Our little fellow looked
so pleasantly heroic, that we could not help laughing at the
efforts he made to master the animal. I went to his aid,
and after some blows with the back of my hatchet on his
waistcoat, I thought that the enemy must be conquered. I
was not deceived; but though dead, he still looked very
formidable.

"What do you call that horrid beast?" asked James.
"It is," replied I, "the cocoa crab. I doubt if you could
have succeeded in overcoming your antagonist without that
lucky thought, for the cocoa crab has as much courage as
cunning, and he may be a dangerous adversary for a child."

After having refreshed ourselves with the milk of some
nuts, we placed those which remained, as well as the crab,
on the sledge, and resumed our march. We advanced slowly,
for, as we penetrated into the depths of the wood, the
brambles encumbered the road more and more, so that we
were obliged to use our hatchets. Ernest, with his usual
observation, remarked that from several stalks which we out
there ran clear water, which he tasted and found as good
as the best spring water. The other children went to the
stalks, which they sucked hard, without obtaining as much
water as they desired. I reminded them of - the means
employed to :suck sugar-canes. They immediately made
with their knives some incisions in the stalks, so that the
air might make the liquid flow, and their thirst was soon
satisfied.

After 'a few minutes' walk we reached the Wood of
Calibashes, and halted in the same place were Fritz and I
had before taken such agreeable repose. Having gathered
a great quantity of gourds, we began to fashion them for
different uses. After having shown my children how to
make vases for milk, and forms to drain cheeses, I con-
structed a pretty egg basket for our housekeeper. The plates
and porringers were not forgotten. We even made for our
fowls and pigeons some pretty nests, and Francis was sorry
he was not small enough to have a similar cradle.

While working at these different things, Ernest and James
had formed the project of cooking the crab in the fashion of
the savages, that is to say, by warming the water with red-
hot stones. They made an enormous gourd in the shape of
a stewpan. But when they kindled the fire to heat the
stones, they found that they wanted water. As I told them
that I rccollected having seen a spring somewhere near, they
each ran in a different direction to try and find it. Scarcely
had they disappeared, when we heard Ernest call out loudly,
"A wild hog! a wild hog! perhaps a wild boar!" I rose and
ran to where I perceived my little scholar, who was hastily
returning. I soon saw the animal running rapidly through a
thicket. I sent the dogs after him, who departed barking.
"It was there, father," said Ernest, "that I found this terrible
beast, making dreadful gruntings." I perceived, in the place
he showed me, some roots scattered over the freshly moved
earth.

The noise which the dogs now made, shewed me that
they had attacked the animal. I left Ernest to examine the
roots at leisure, and went to the place of combat, where Fritz
rejoined me. We advanced cautiously, our fingers on the
triggers of our guns; but what was our surprise and laughter,
when, in the animal the dogs were holding, we recognised
our sow, who, delivered from her noisy adversaries, walked
quietly back, behind us.

On our return to Ernest, we joked him well for the fright
which the sight of this terrible animal had given him, and
our jests would have lasted longer, if our attention had not
been drawn to some little apples he had just found on the
ground. Fritz feared that they might be the fruit of the
manchineel tree, of which I had warned them. But as the
sow had eaten this fruit, I would not condemn it till master
Knips had tested it, so I carried some to submit them to his
judgment.

We were preparing to rejoin my wife, who was left with
Francis in the Calibash Wood, when we heard James cry out,
running towards us, "Papal papa! a crocodile, a crocodile."
"A crocodile!" replied I, laughing; "a crocodile in a place
where we cannot find a drop of water!" "I assure you,
father," replied the child, "it is a crocodile; I saw him down
there, sleeping on a rock, in 'the sun."

More and more convinced that my boy was deceived, I
went with Fritz to the place pointed out, and soon saw that
what he had taken for a crocodile was nothing more than
a sort of large green lizard, called the iguana, which, though
of large dimensions, is only dangerous when irritated, and its
flesh is much esteemed by the Indians.

Fritz was preparing to fire. "You are in too great a
hurry," said I, holding his arm; " the iguana is very strong
lived; you might miss your aim and make the animal run
away; I think we may succeed in catching it, by taking
advantage of its sleep." I cut a switch in the bush, to the
end of which I tied a string with 'a running knot, and held
it in my left hand; then I took a little whistle in the other
hand, and approached the lizard cautiously. When I was a
short distance from him, I began, to the great astonishment
of the 'children, to whistle one of our country airs. The
iguana woke, looked round him with an astonished air, and
appeared to listen eagerly; I continued to whistle, and
though my music was not very harmonious, I soon saw the
animal plunged in a sort of ecstacy. I took advantage of
this to pass round his neck the running knot. I drew it
quickly towards me, and was soon master of our new game.

My sons uttered a cry of triumph, wondering at the
means I had employed to catch the iguana. I Owned that I
had only put in practice a method much used in the West
Indies. As we did. not wish to leave our game, I put the
iguana on my back, James, to help me, held his tail. To see
me walking thus, they might have taken me for an oriental
prince, followed by one of his pages carrying the end of his
emerald--broidered mantle.

My wife, whom we had left alone with Francis, began to
be uneasy at our absence; she scolded a little, and was
astonished at seeing us return without water; but the sight
of the iguana was sufiicient to justify us. When we had told
her about our hunting, she said that during our absence the
newly-discovered apples had excited the gluttony of master
Knips, and that she had seen him steal them and crunch
them with avidity. I presented one to our bustard, whom we
had tied to a trunk of a tree; she devoured it eagerly. I
was then convinced that there was no danger in eating them.
They were found excellent, and I believed we had discovered
the guava, of which the West Indians are very fond. But
this food was not of a nature to satisfy our appetites, which
exercise had greatly increased; so we had recourse to the
provisions we had brought from Falcon's Nest, for it was too
late to think of cooking James's crab.

A little strengthened, we returned, and on our arrival at
Falcon's Nest the mother began to cook on the fire which
Francis hastened to kindle, a piece of iguana and some
potatoes. The flesh of the iguana appeared to merit fully the
reputation for excellent eating it had received.
THE HEATH-COCK. WAX. THE PARROT'S NEST.
THE INDIA-RUBBER TREE.

THE next day I set off with Fritz, under pretence of going
to fetch the rest of our vessels, but in reality to make an
excursion to the chain of rocks, and endeavour to find out
the extent of the land on which we had been thrown.
Besides the dogs, the donkey alone accompanied us.

Arrived at a wood of green oaks, our sow appeared. She
was tranquilly stretched under the trees, making a copious
breakfast of acorns; we did not disturb her. The wood was
full of birds; Fritz fired and brought down a tufted jay and
two parrots, one of which was of a magnificent red colour.
But whilst the young man was loading again, we heard a
noise similar to the roll of a. drum. We thought it was
perhaps the military music of some band of savages; full of
fright, we glided behind a thick bush, and advancing softly,
we soon knew the cause of these strange sounds. On a
trunk of an overturned tree was a superb heath-cock, exe-
cuting the most singular evolutions one can imagine, before
a score of pullets, who seemed to take great pleasure in the
spectacle.

Sometimes he turned round, erecting his necklace of
feathers, which made, round his neck, .a brilliant crown;
sometimes he extended his tail like a fan, beat his wings,
and uttered strange cries. I was curious to know how this
exhibition would terminate, when with a shot Fritz extended
the cock on the sand, and dispersed the females. I scolded

him severely for his immoclerate ardour. "Why," said I,
125
"this rage for death and destruction? Is not the sight of
living nature -a thousand times better than this sad
spectacle?" Fritz appeared sincerely to regret his hurry, and
became sad and pensive. To restore his good humour, I
told him to pick up his prey and offer it to his mother. The
cock was placed on the back of the ass, and we returned to
the Wood of Calibashes, where we found all the things we
had left in good condition. It was yet early, and we had
time for the projected excursion to the part of the island
which was unknown to us.

The road was difficult, because of the high grass and
roots which encumbered it. From time to time we came to
little streams, where we could quench our thirst. There grew
in abundance potatoes and cassava. A little farther, I re-
marked in a thicket some shrubs, whose berries were covered
with wax, which stuck to our fingers when we tried to gather
them. I knew that there existed in America a kind of shrub,
which botanists name rig/rim cerz'fera, or wax-bearer ; I did
not doubt that this was it, and was much rejoiced. Fritz,
who noticed my joy, asked of what use these berries were;
I told him that wax was extracted from them, which burnt
as well as that of bees, and which has besides a very agrec~
able smell. We collected a good stock of it, which we put
in a bag on our ass's back.

A little farther on, a singular spectacle excited our curi-
osity. This was a colony of birds, of the shape of our Euro-
pean greenfinches, and covered with a brown and white
plumage. They lived together and inhabited the same nest,
placed on an isolated tree, and skilfully woven. This nest,
which seemed to serve as a refuge to a great number of
families, appeared to be surmounted by a kind of roof made
with rushes and roots interleaved. On the sides we saw
several openings, forming the doors and windows of each
particular cell. The whole resembled an enormous sponge.
A crowd of birds went in and out without being alarmed at
our presence. Whilst we were examining this strange colony,
we perceived several small parrots flying here and there, and
quarrelling with the colonists, with whom they appeared to
dispute the entry of their cells. Fritz, desirous of taking
some of these birds, put down his gun, and mounted the
tree; arrived at the nest, he passed his hand into the hole
of a cell, and endeavoured to take away the covering which
he feund there; but he felt himself pinched so strongly, that
he uttered a loud cry, and pulled his hand out, shaking it.
However, he would not renounce his capture. As soon as
the pain was a little abated, he penetrated with caution into
the cell, and drew out a bird, which he enclosed in his waist-
coat; then sliding down the trunk, he reached me safe and
sound, and proceeded to examine his little prisoner. It was
a paroquet, with green plumage. Fritz asked me to let him
take it home, and bring it up, and teach it to speak. I con-
sented willingly. According to probability, the nest belonged
to the paroquets, and the birds we had first remarked were
intruders, who tried to take it away from them. Hence the
little combat we had witnessed.

Fritz was delighted at the instinct of the birds inhabiting
a common abode. "We find," said I, "many classes of build-
ing animals who associate in this way, such as bees, ants,
beavers, and many others."

This led us to speak of the facts concerning gregarious
animals which naturalists have collected and recorded: we
recalled the ingenious labours of the beavers; the not less
wonderful architecture of bees, hornets, and ants; nor did
I forget to mention the details related by travellers of the
huge ant-hills of America, with their solid and artistically
constructed ramparts, which frequently resemble an oven
in shape.

While talking, we arrived on the borders of a wood which
we did not yet know. The trees resembled wild fig-trees,
and grew to a great height. Fritz remarked that the bark
was covered with a kind of resin which hardened in the air:
he took a small quantity, which he rubbed between his
fingers. When he saw that it softened and distended with
the heat, and that he could only bend, without breaking it,
he came to me, crying out: "Indeed, father, I think I have
discovered the india--rubber tree!" "Well," said I, "that
will be a great treasure to us."

Having examined the gum myself, I saw that Fritz was
not deceived; and as he asked me what use the india-rubber
would be, I told him that, amongst other things, we could
make excellent shoes with it. " The indie-rubber," said I,
"falling drop by drop, as you see, from the trees, is collected
in vases; whilst it is still liquid, little earthen bottles are
covered with it and dried by smoke, whence the india-rubber
obtains the black colour which we know; the bottles which
have served as moulds are then broken, the pieces are taken
out from the neck, and there remains only a thin, flexible '
flagon. This is almost the same method I should employ
in making shoes. We will fill a pair of stockings with sand,
cover them with india-rubber, and we shall have some solid,
impervious boots."

Rejoiced at our discovery, and shod already in imagina-
tion with our boots, we went on our way. A new wood of
cocoa-nut trees was before us. "Let us make a halt here,"
said I to Fritz. Observing attentively the trees which were
round us, I remarked some which I thought were sago trees.
Not only did I see in the trunk of one of these trees, which
the wind had broken, that succulent marrow, which they sell
in Europe under the name of Sago, but still more to confirm
my opinion, the large white worms which the inhabitants of
the West Indies seek for, as a delicious meat, and the value
of which I was determined to try. I took some of these
worms, which I placed on two little wooden forks over the
fire we had lighted. Fritz declared at first that he would
not touch them, but my broil soon emitted such a pleasant
odour that the appetite of the young man was excited, and
he was the first to regale himself with this food which he
had so disdained.

After this repast, our road offered nothing worthy of
remark. There was . everywhere 3. luxuriant but uniform
vegetation. At last we returned to the Calibash Wood; our
donkey was fastened to the sledge, and by evening we
arrived at Falcon's Nest, where our family were beginning
to be uneasy at our absence. The recital of our excursion
was the subject of the evening's conversation. But what
excited most delight among the young folks was the paro-
quet; each wished to be his. teacher, but Fritz declared that
he should take upon himself the sole charge of the new
comer.

As to the mother, she was delighted at the discovery of
the indie-rubber and wax berries, which gave her the hope
of having wax-lights at her disposal. I promised that I
would try and make some the next day.
WAX-LIGHTS. BUTTER. PLANTATIONS. LAST VOYAGE TO
THE VESSEL. PALM WINE. THE BUFFALOES.

As soon as we woke, my family left me no rest till I had
fulfilled my promise. I endeavoured to recall what I knew
of the art of wax-making, and began my work. I boiled the
berries in a saucepan of water. The green wax soon showed
itself on the surface of the liquid. I collected it into vases,
which I left near the fire, to prevent the wax from congealing,
When my wife had finished the wicks which she pre-
pared with threads of sail-cloth, I steeped them in the wax,
and suspended them in the air, to let them dry. By doing
this several times, we obtained some wax-lights, which had,
indeed, neither the polish nor roundness of those which are
made in moulds, but whose light, though not very brilliant,
saved us from the melancholy necessity of going to bed at
the close of day.

This first success encouraged us to put in execution
another project, which, if successful, would delight our house-
keeper.

It grieved my Wife to lose the cream which was formed on
her pots of milk, and which she would have converted into
butter if she had had a churn. To supply this utensil I took
one of our large gourd bottles, filled it with three quarts of cream,
sealed it hermetically, then I placed it on a piece of linen,
whose four ends were attached to some stakes. I told my
sons to shake the linen well; and this occupation appeared
so amusing, that they made a recreation of it. At the end

of an hour I opened the gourd, and found a small mass of
130
excellent butter. My wife did not know how to express her
delight, and the boys, who always welcomed a fresh luxury,
were as pleased as she was.

The success of these different trials gave me boldness to
undertake a longer and more difficult labour than any I
had done before. This was to make a little carriage to replace
the sledge, which our animals might draw more easily. I
thought I had examined all sorts of carriages in Europe,
sufficiently to make a simple car; but when it was necessary
to make the wheels, and fix the planks, I was greatly em-
barrassed. The most humble trade demands an apprentice-
ship, study, and a sort of special talent, which we do not
always make proper use of.

At last, after many efforts and many trials, I had a cart
on two wheels, heavy and ugly, I own, but which was of
great use to us in transporting our goods.

Whilst I was busy with these labours, my wife and sons
did not remain idle. They had transplanted our European
trees into the .most convenient places. The vine shoots
were set under large trees, whose thick foliage would protect
them from the heat of the sun. A row of chestnut trees,
walnut trees, and cherry trees, bordered the road which led
to Jackal Stream.

We took particular care to embellish Zeltheim. All
those trees which could stand great heat, such as lemon trees,
Citron trees, pistachio trees, mulberry trees, and almond trees,
were planted there; thus transforming this arid place into
an agreeable retreat. We made it more of a refuge in case
of danger, by surrounding it with a large hedge of prickly
plants, to shelter it from the attacks of ferocious beasts.

All these arrangements had not taken less than six weeks,
during which we had not omitted to celebrate the Sundays.
I admired the indefatigable ardour of my sons, who after six
days" painful work found strength enough for their body
exercises, in which they became remarkably skilful.

However, the deplorable condition of our clothes rendered
a voyage to the vessel indispensable, as there still remained

in it some chests of linen and clothes. I persuaded my wife
to let us make this voyage. The first calm day, the pinnace
took us to the ship. It was very much damaged by the wind
and the fury of the last storm; the chests of clothes and
ammunition had suffered greatly. We loaded our boat with
every thing that could be useful to us, such as kitchen utensils,
arms of all kinds, among others a battery of four pieces ; then,
after taking away, in several successive voyages, all which
could be valuable to us, I resolved to break up the hull
of the ship, to procure the beams and planks, which the
wind would drive on shore. For this purpose I rolled behind
the keel of the vessel a barrel of powder, in which I made
a little 'opening. At the moment of departure, I put into
it, by the help of a stick, a long lighted match, and we rowed
away as fast as we could.

As soon as we arrived at Zeltheim, I proposed to my wife
to carry our' supper to a point of land whence we could
see the vessel. She consented. We had scarcely been an
hour on the coast, when darkness, which in these countries
succeeds daylight without twilight, entirely enveloped us.
Suddenly a terrible explosion was heard, and a large column
of fire, which rose from the sea to the clouds, announced the
complete destruction of our ship. This was the last tie that
united us to Europe; henceforward there was placed between
us and our country an unfathomable abyss. This thought
changed the joyful cries for which my sons were prepared,
into sighs and sobs, which I had some trouble to stifle.

We returned very melancholy to Zeltheim; but the night's
rest eFfaced a little these painful impressions. We were on
foot early, and went down to the coast, where a quantity of
wreck was floating about, among which I saw with pleasure
some large barrels, to which I had fastened some copper
cauldrons which I could not put on the pinnace, and which I
wanted to refine some sugar. For several days we were
busy in picking up the wreck which the wind drove to land.
My wife, whilst we were occupied on the shore, discovered
that two of our ducks and one of our geese had hatched a
numerous family of young ones, whose prettiness made her
remember and regret her feathered family at Falcon's Nest.
Each of us wished to go there, so I agreed to do so the
next day.
On the road, Ernest remarked that the young trees planted
in the avenue leading to Falcon's Nest were not strong enough
to support themselves alone; so we agreed to make a journey
to the Cape of Disappointment, and bring back some bamboo
canes to make props for them. Our wax-lights were also
diminished, and we wished to get a fresh stock of wax-
balls. Each of the boys found a pretext for going on this
expedition, which I willingly consented to transform into a
pleasure party.

The next day the weather was magnificent, the air pure
and fresh, and all the colony set forth. Some planks were
placed on the car to make seats for the younger boys. We
were plentifully provided with food, and a bottle of excellent
wine from the captain's chest.

After having crossed the wood of palm trees, and the
Cape of Disappointment, our road led us suddenly into the
most delightful country you can imagine. We had on our
left fields of sugar-cane, on our right bamboos and palm
trees, in front of us the open sea. This charming site pleased
us so much, that we had some idea of abandoning Falcon's
Nest, and fixing our abode in this paradise, but habit had
already attached our ancient abode to us, and besides we
knew that it was a safe one. We unharnessed our beasts to
let them graze at liberty on the thick grass which grew in
the shade of the palm trees; then we divided, some to gather
bamboos, others sugar-canes. But this labour excited the
appetite of the young people, who came to ask their mother
to give them the provisions destined for supper. The prudent
housekeeper was not quite of their'opinion, and told them to
search for something to satisfy their hunger. They then
looked anxiously at the high palm trees, whence hung mag-
nificent nuts; but unless they had been squirrels, how could
they reach such a height? I relieved their embarrassment
by'tying round their bodies pieces of shark skin, which would
help their ascent. I taught them also to help themselves by
a knot of cord passed round the trunk, which would give
them the means of resting when they felt fatigued. This
method succeeded beyond my hopes; the 'young people
reached the summit of the palm trees. With the hatchets
which they carried in their belts, they knocked down a
quantity of fresh nuts, with which we all regaled ourselves,
without encroaching on our evening provisions.

Fritz and James were proud of their prowess, and rallied
Ernest on his idleness during the great ascent. " Gentlemen
and ladies," said he, "it is true that I have little taste for
perilous adventures, but I am, on occasion, as courageous as
any other. I hope to make you a present more agreeable
than my brother's cocoa-nuts, if you will wait a few moments."
After a grotesque bow, he approached a high palm tree.
"Bravo, bravo, my dear Ernest," cried I, "the sentiment of
emulation which animates you is worthy of praise."

I offered him the same'assistance as his brothers, and re-
commended him to act prudently. But the young man sprang
nimbly to the palm tree he had chosen, and with an agility
which I did not expect from him, climbed to its summit.
Fritz and James, who did not perceive any fruit on that tree,
began to laugh; but our naturalist, without replying, cut the
upper part of the tree, which fell at our feet. " Oh, the
naughty boy!" cried his mother; "in his anger at not finding
'cocoa-nuts he has cut off the head of a superb palm tree,
which will now perish." " Don't be angry, mother," said
Ernest from the top of his tree, "for what I send you is a
palm-cabbage, much preferable to the cocoa-nut." " Ernest
is perfectly right," said I ; "the palm-cabbage is very delicious,
and much sought after in the Indies, and our naturalist de~
serves admiration rather than the sarcasms which certain

gentlemen have bestowed on him."
The day was advanced, and as we had resolved to pass

the night in this charming place, we busied ourselves in
erecting a hut of branches to shelter us from the dews of
night. Whilst we were busy at this work, our ass, who
had been browsing tranquilly on the grass at the foot of a
tree, suddenly began uttering formidable hee-haws! then setting
off in a gallop, he disappeared.

We ran after him, but without being able to find him.
We returned quite saddened. This sudden disappearance
made us doubly uneasy. We had lost a useful animal, and
I thought he must have been frightened by the neighbour-
hood of some ferocious animal. This fear made us kindle
great fires round the hut. The night was serene; my family
stretched themselves on beds of moss; as for me, I watched
over their safety till daybreak, when I took a short repose.

In the morning I thought I would go and seek our ass.
I took James with me, leaving the two eldest to watch over
the safety of their mother and Francis. After half-an-hour's
walk round about, I recognised traces of the donkey's shoes,
which, a little farther off, appeared to mingle with other
larger prints. These indications conducted us to an immense
plain, extending beyond our sight. In the distance we per-
ceived troops of animals, which seemed to be about the size
of horses. I thought that our ass might be among them,
and went that way. In the marshy land we had to cross,
we saw reeds of prodigious height and thickness; I doubted
not that this was the giant reed of America, which is not less
than thirty or forty feet in height.

Coming out of this covered marsh, we were not more than
a hundred steps from the animals, which I then saw were
buffaloes. I knew how ferocious these animals are, so not
being able to overcome my terror, I threw on my son a look
of anxiety. I did not even think of loading my gun, so
much did this sight upset me. There was no means of flight;
the buffaloes were there in front of us, regarding us, however,
with more surprise than anger, for, without doubt, we were
the first men they had ever seen. Suddenly, our dogs, who
had remained behind, came up barking. Our efforts to re-
strain them were vain; on perceiving the buffaloes, they ran
into the midst of the troop. The combat became terrible;
the buffaloes ran here and there, uttering horrible roarings,
beating the ground with their feet, butting with their horns,
and throwing themselves with fury on our dogs, who would
not be intimidated, and clung to the ears of their adversaries.
We had had time to load our arms and retreat a few steps.
Soon, our dogs, who were both hanging to the ears of a
young buffalo, approached us, dragging the animal, who bel-
lowed in a frightful manner. His mother, furious, came to
his assistance, and we saw her try to rip one of our dogs with
her horns, when James, at a sign I made him, stopped the
attempt with his gun. At this noise the frightened troop
rapidly took flight. In an instant they were all out of sight,
and we only heard their bellowing at a distance.

Our brave dogs had not let go the young buffalo. The
mother, on whom I had also fired, and who was struck with
two balls, had rolled in the dust. Delivered from an im-
minent peril, I breathed more freely, and I congratulated
James on the courage he had shown.

However, we had still to master the young buffalo, who was
beating about against the dogs; I wanted to take him away
alive, to replace our ass. James thought of using his lasso;
he threw it so skilfully that the animal, tied by the hind
legs, fell down. I immediately ran, took away the dogs,
and replaced the lasso by shackles. But it was not an
easy thing to make him follow us. At last I had recourse
to a cruel but safe means. Whilst the young buffalo had
his legs firmly tied, and the dogs held his ears, I pierced
his nostrils with the point of my knife, and passed a cord
through them to guide him; I fastened this cord to a tree,
and began to cut up the dead animal. As we had no proper
utensils for this operation, I only took the tongue and some
pieces of flesh, which we rubbed with salt, of which we had
always a small provision with us. The rest of the buffalo
was left to the vultures and other birds of prey.

After having taken some food we resumed our road, lead-
ing by the cord the young buffalo, who did not show himself
very obstinate. As we went over a little hill our dogs
pursued a female jackal, and seized her as she was going to
enter a hole in the rock, where she had left her little ones.
.The dogs, after having killed the poor mother, attacked
the young ones. James, prompt as he was, could only snatch
one of them, which he asked my permission to keep. I
consented to it so much the more willingly, as I thought
this animal might render us some service, if we could teach it
to hunt. James was delighted; he could not sufficiently admire
his pretty pupil, with its gold-coloured skin and bright
eyes.

It was only as night fell that we reached our family,
who were awaiting us with anxiety. You may imagine the
deluge of questions which assailed us, and to which James
replied with his usual vivacity. This recital so captivated
the attention of his auditors, that the supper hour approached

before I could put in a. few words to ask my wife what
they had done during my absence.51160. THE BEES. THE EDUCATION OF THE ANIMALS.

MY wife told me, at last, that she must greatly praise her
sons, with whom she had gone to the Cape of Disappointment.
They had pulled down by themselves the enormous palm--
tree of which Ernest had cut the top. They had used
their hatchets, and by fastening a strong cord at the top of
the crown, they had felled it without accident.

Whilst they were occupied in this labour, 3. band of
monkeys, invading the but, had caused so much damage
there, that it took my sons at least an hour to repair it.

Fritz had caught a young bird, which I recognised as
the Malabar eagle. I recollected having read that this bird
is easily brought up, and I told my son to take care of his,
and bring it up as the falconers did formerly. Ernest im-
mediately began to tell all he knew about falconry, and it
was agreed that F ritz's eagle should be taught to catch
game. When, on each side, curiosity was satisfied, we kindled
a fire of green wood, whose thick smoke dried the pieces of
meat we had brought and suspended over the hearth. The
young buffalo, to whom my wife had given a meal of potatoes
steeped in milk, showed himself so docile, that he was given as
a companion to our cow.

The supper was very gay. We had taken the same
precautions for our safety as on the previous night, and
our beds of moss procured us excellent sleep. The next
day, after breakfast, I wished to give the signal for departure,
but the young people had another project. "My dear,"
said my wife, "we will not go without taking part of the

palm-tree which the children gulled down yesterday. Ernest
I3
says that the pith must be sago, and I own that if our little
doctor is right, I should be glad to take away a stock of this
wholesome and agreeable food."

I examined the tree, and found that Ernest was not
deceived; but it was no small trouble to open and extract
the pith from the trunk, which measured at least fifty feet.
It required extraordinary efforts to cleave the palm~tree, but at
last we accomplished it. While working at this difiicult
operation, I thought of reserving the two parts of the trunk
to make troughs, to bring from Jackal Stream the water
necessary for the kitchen garden. One of the extremities of the
tree was hollowed to serve as a bucket. We put in it the
pith, which we sprinkled with water, and two of the children,
their sleeves turned up, rubbed it very small. When the paste
appeared to be a proper thickness, I fastened a tobacco grater to
one end of the bucket, then pushing the paste on this side, we
soon saw come from each hole of the grater little grains of
flour, which we put to dry in the sun, after having collected
them on linen. I had even a fancy to make some vermicelli.
I had only to make the paste thicker, and exercise a continued
pressure, which caused little threads of paste to spring from
the holes, twisting over the linen on which they fell.

The next morning, at break of day, we were on the road
to Falcon's Nest. The cow and the buffalo had been
harnessed to the car, and we could not but praise the latter's
docility. We soon reached our sacks of berries, and the
gourds we had left at the foot of the india-rubber trees were
filled with gum. As we crossed the little wood of guavas,
our dogs sprang, barking, into a thicket, whence they im-
mediately came out. Thinking some wild beast must be
there, we all surrounded this thicket, ready armed; when
James, who had laid down to discover the cause of this
alarm, cried out, "Ah! it is our sow again, who has got
some young ones." A well-known grunting replied to the
boy's exclamation, and to this grunting succeeded a general
laugh. The poor beast had got six pretty little pigs, which
appeared to have been born four or five days. After having
deliberated on what we should do with all these little animals,
it was resolved that we would take- two only, and that the
others should be left in the wood, where they would
multiply. .

Our arrival at F alcon's Nest was a real triumph; we felt
great joy at seeing our animals again, who also seemed glad
of our return. The buffalo and jackal were fastened up.
Fritz's eagle was also tied up; but my son was so im-
prudent as to take off the bandage with which the bird's
eyes were covered. Immediately it began to give blows
right and left with his claws and terrible beak, with which
the paroquet, who was near him, was torn in pieces in a
moment. Fritz was very angry, and wished to punish the
murderer with death. "Give him to me," said Ernest, "I
will undertake to make him mild and tame." "No, indeed,"
replied Fritz, "I caught him, and I shall keep him. Tell
me your secret." "If you keep your eagle," said Ernest, "I
shall keep my secret." I was obliged to interfere in the dis-
cussion. " Why," said I to Fritz, "do you wish your brother
to reveal his secret without any compensation P "

They came to an agreement Fritz yielded his ape to
Ernest, who showed the way of calming his eagle. His
method consisted in blowing some tobacco smoke under the
bird's nostrils, who, feeling himself dizzy, lost all his ferocity.
Ernest took a pipe and some tobacco, and began to smoke
under the eagle's head, who, after a few puffs, was entirely
calmed. Little by little he lost his strength, tottered on his
legs, and became motionless. Fritz, who thought he was
dead, regretted having permitted such a trial, but the bird
soon recovered from this state, and then showed himself as
quiet and tractable as he had been savage and violent.

The next morning the bamboo props which we had
brought were fixed beside our young shrubs. We put on
our car a good stock of sugar-canes, and a long pointed iron
to hollow the ground at the foot of the trees, then we set
off, recommending my wife and little Francis, who alone
remained at the lodge, to prepare us a good dinner with the
palm-cabbage and the sago paste. The cow being sufl'icient
to draw the carriage, which was moderately loaded, the
buffalo was left in the stable; I did not wish to make him
work till the wound in his nostrils was healed. The props
were of great use, for our trees were all bent down by the
violent winds which'had blown over the shore the preceding days.

We finished our work about noon, and returned to.
Falcon's Nest, where an excellent repast awaited us.

The execution of a project which we had formed for
some time, occupied our afternoon. It was to substitute a
fixed staircase for the rope ladder which led to our aerial
castle; the ascent of which was perilous, especially for my
wife and youngest son. I could not think of constructing
this staircase outside; it would have been too difficult, if not
impossible. I resolved, therefore, to make it in the trunk
'of the figutree, which I supposed to be hollow, because it
served as an asylum to a swarm of bees.

To sound the cavity of the tree, my children and I took
each a hatchet, with the back of which we struck here and
there along .the trunk. This noise disturbed the bees; they
came out in great numbers, and threw themselves with fury
on ,my careless James, who, in spite of my orders, had ven-
tured too near the hole Serving as issue to the hive. His
face and hands were instantly covered with stings, which
caused him great pain. I relieved the poor little fellow by
rubbing him with wet earth.

Whilst I was thinking how to manage the removal of the
bees, I remarked in the opening of the hive an unusual
activity; the bees came out and went in, going and coming
with extraordinary agitation; I found that a new swarm
was going to separate from the mother hive. In a few
minutes, an immense number of bees came out of the trunk,
flew about in the air for some time, and then tested in a
mass on the first branch of a small tree,' where they were
suspended like a large bunch of grapes. I had several times
seen the way in which they gathered a swarm, and resolved
to adopt the same method. I covered my head with a piece
of linen, in which I had cut some small holes, to enable me
to see and breathe, and wrapped my hands in a handker-
chief. I approached the tree and placed the hive I had pre-
pared under the branch where the bees were. This done, I
shook the tree, when the greater part of the swarm fell into
the hive, which I hastened to place on a plank fixed at the
foot of the trunk. The most difficult part was done; I took
care to have at the top an opening by which the bees could
go in and out. A great buzzing took place between the
bees that remained on the tree 'and those in the hive; an
hour afterwards the entire swarm had taken possession of
their new abode. In the evening, when the bees were
asleep, the hive was carried into a corner of our kitchen
garden, the entry turned towards the south, and the next
day the little colony began to work. Thus, possessors of a
swarm which promised, by multiplying, to assure us in the
future a provision of honey and wax, we less regretted sacri-
ficing that which was in possession of the trunk of our fig-
tree. We, therefore, put in the opening two or three matches
of lighted sulphur, and sealed it closely. The next day, we
not only obtained the provisions which they had accumulated
during several years, but could construct our staircase with-
out hindrance.

I then sounded the trunk of the tree, and found, to my
great satisfaction, that it was hollow from the bottom to the
branches on which we had fixed the flooring of our house.
I was then sure of being able to construct a staircase in the
interior. Without losing time, I began to work, aided by
my three eldest sons. We first made in the bottom of the
tree a large opening, in which we fixed the door of the
captain's cabin. Thus our abode was well shut up. A long
and thick beam from the vessel was fixed upright in the
middle of the trunk, to support one end of' the steps, which
rested at their other extremity in the hollow grooves inside
the tree; and some openings, in which we fixed the windows
we had brought from the vessel, were made in the trunk of
the tree at equal distances, and made of the trunk a sort of
tower, surmounted by a house half hid in the foliage. This
work, which occupied several days, could not boast much
elegance of architecture, but it was solid and convenient, and
appeared to us superb.

Whilst 'we were working at our staircase, Belle had two
little pups, a male and female, and I permitted James to join
his jackal to the little pups as a sucking brother. The docile
bitch made no difficulty of suckling the new nursling, who
was well pleased with this adoption. The two goats, had,
almost at the same time, given each a couple of little kids,
and the sheep five or six lambs.

We saw with pleasure our flocks increase; but foreseeing
that our animals might take it into their heads to run away
like the ass, James thought of attaching to their necks some
little bells which we had found in the ship, whose noise
would show us ...e direction of their flight.

The incision which I had made in our young buffalo was
quite healed; I passed through it a little stick, with which
we could lead him, as with a bit. Thanks to the expedient,
he soon became easy to lead; but it was not without trouble
that he suffered himself to be mounted, or to carry burdens.

Fritz was very earnest in the education of his eagle. The
bird knew his master, and obeyed his voice; but he still
showed himself too desirous to regain his liberty for us to
relieve him of the cord which bound him.

Ernest also undertook to instruct the monkey which
Fritz had given him. It was a truly comic spectacle to see
the phlegmatic boy use his patience to conquer the giddiness
and turbulence of his pupil. The lazy professor, for whom
the smallest burdens seemed always too heavy, had an idea
to make Knips carry them. He fastened on his back, with
two thongs, a little basket which he had weaved with reeds,
in which he first put light loads. The ape, not liking the
exercise, rolled in the sand, ground his teeth, and made use
of all kinds of tricks to get rid of this burden. But by al-
ternate corrections and coaxings, Ernest taught him to
carry, with the best grace, little packets, suitable to his size.

James, in his turn, began to teach his jackal, whom he
had named Hunter, and whom he intended to make a sort of
setter-dog, standing still before living game and bringing it
after it is killed. The animal did not take well to this
training. He would bring back things that they threw to
him, but he would not do the standing still. However, James
did not despair of success.

Scarcely was our staircase finished than we had to make
more wax-lights; our reed moulds were very useful. We
were in Want of wicks, for my wife refused, not without
reason, to let us tear up our handkerchief and cotton cravats.
I had an idea of trying a kind of inflammable wood, known
in the Antilles under the name of light-wood. I cut some
thin slips of it, which I placed in the middle of the moulds.
The mother, not thinking much of these wooden wicks,
thought of making some with threads, drawn from the karatas
leaves, which she dried in the sun and then twisted. When
the moulds were filled with these different wicks, we put in
a boiler a like quantity of bees-wax and tree-wax, which we
melted over a gentle fire. As soon as the mixture was .hot,
the moulds, whose lower ends were set in cold water, so that
the wax might cool instantly, were filled with wax by the
help of spoons. As soon as we could take the wax-lights
from the moulds, I lighted two, one of each sort, so as to
judge which was best. Alas! neither could replace the
cotton; the wood-light consumed too quickly, and the karatas-
threads burnt dull We had to consider then how we could-
obtain cotton without destmying our linen.

After the fabrication of wax-lights, I turned my thoughts
to making india--rub'ber shoes. I employed the means I had
spoken of to Fritz, when we found the india-rubber tree. I
filled a pair of stockings with sand, and covered them with
clay, which I then dried in the sun, then with a pencil of
goat's hair I spread over the stocking some liquid india--
rubber; when this coat was dry I put on another, and so on
till it appeared thick enough. I then suspended them in an
airy place, and when I was sure that the india-rubber was
solidified, I emptied the sand, and carefully pulled out the
stockings and clay, when I found myself in possession of
some comfortable boots, and my sons begged me to- make
some for them.

As it often happened that the children, in drawing water
from the stream, made it thick, because they shook the vases,
I resolved to fix the turtle-shell basin in such a manner that
the sago--tree boughs might bring the water to it.

It was thus that from day to day we formed and executed
some project. Each of our discoveries was saluted by cries
of joy from .the children, and the thanks which my wife and
I addressed to God, who so visibly blessed our efforts.THE WILD ASS. FLAX. THE RAINY SEASON.

ONE morning, as we were going to begin work, some extra-
ordinary and terrible noises were heard in the distance; it
was a sort of howling, mixed with a shrill hissing, which
terminated in lamentable sounds. Fearing some aggression,
we hastened to assemble our cattle under the roots of the
tree, and place our children in our strong castle, whilst our
dogs prepared for defence. Silence was restored for some
minutes, then the strange sounds began again, but this time
much nearer. We all looked in the direction whence came
the cries; when, suddenly, Fritz, who had more piercing eyes
than any of us, threw down his gun, and burst out laughing:
"It is our ass; yes, it is he, announcing his return. His
voice is improved; what a singer!" The children felt angry
at being alarmed by the approach of such an enemy; I was
not so sure as they were. "It may be our ass making this
strange music," said I to Fritz, " but that is certainly not all."
"Father," said Fritz, "you are right, for our ass brings com-
pany." I looked in the direction to which Fritz pointed, and
saw a magnificent wild ass trotting by the side of ours.

I thought of how we could catch it. I gently descended
the tree, followed by Fritz, after having told them all to
make as little noise as possible. I took a long cord, the end
of which I fastened to one of the roots of our tree, and in
this I made a running knot, which a small stick held open.
With a piece of bamboo I made a sort of pincers, of which
' Fritz was much puzzled to know the use. In his impatience
to capture the wild ass, he wished to employ his lasso; I

st0pped him by affirming that my method was preferable.
to . [45
The two animals approaching the tree, the wild ass per-
ceived us; as he saw for the first time a human face, he
recoiled, frightened. But, at this moment, Fritz presented to
our ass his hand full of oats; he advanced to it with such
avidity, that the wild ass, judging of the savour of the meat
by the eagerness of his companion, imitated him without mis-
trust. I profited by this instant to throw round his neck the
running knot, which I held at the end of a pole. He im-
mediately made a vigorous bound backwards, to run away,
but the knot pressed him so strongly, that the poor beast
fell to the ground, almost suffocated. I hastened to take
away the cord, and replace it by our ass's halter; then, be-
fore the wild ass had recovered from his stupor, I pressed his
nostrils with my bamboo pincers, which I tied at the bottom
with string, employing, to conquer this animal, the means
which farriers use with a restive horse. I then tied the bridle
with two long cords to the roots of the tree, and I waited
till our captive came to himself, to know what it would be
necessary to do to conquer him entirely.

During this time all the family had descended the tree.
Standing round the animal, we could not but admire the
grace of form which raises this kind of ass almost to the
dignity of the horse. In a few minutes he rose and en-
deavoured to regain his liberty; but the pain which the
bamboo pincers gave him greatly abated his ardour, and he
showed himself docile enOugh to be led to the place which
was to serve for his stable. Besides this, we had to prevent
a second escape of our ass, as our confidence in his fidelity
was justly shaken. Having then put some shackles on his
fore-feet, I tied him beside the wild ass, so that this forced
society might accustom the stranger to his new kind of life.

It was no small trouble to conquer our new acquisition.
We subjected him to privations, and even blows, but I could
only master him by employing, from time to time, a severe
method used in America, which consists in biting the ear of
the restive animal. At the end of a few weeks, Lightfoot
(that was the name we gave to the wild ass) was so sub-
missive that we mounted him without fear.

During this time our hens had given us more than forty
chickens, which ran about cackling joyfully. This augmenta-
tion of our poultry, joined to the acquisition of the wild ass,
recalled to me a project I had formed some time since, to
make, before the rainy season, a stable and an enclosed
poultry-yard. Over the arched roots of our abode we con-
structed a roof with bamboo canes, fastened strongly together,
and interlaced with thinner canes; we covered this frame
with moss and clay, and then with a coat of tar; we had
thus a solid roof, over which we might walk without fear.
We surrounded it with a pretty balustrade, so that it looked
like a terrace. The interior was divided into several compart-
ments, serving, some for stable or barn, others for a milking-
house, and store-place for provisions which we amassed in
preparation for the rainy season, which constitutes the winter
of regions situated in tropical latitudes.

One evening when we were returning from digging
potatoes, I left my wife and two youngest boys to conduct
the procession to Falcon's Nest, whilst Ernest and Fritz
followed me to the Green Oak Wood, to join to the booty
of the day a stock of sweet acorns. Fritz was mounted
proudly on the wild ass; Ernest carried his ape on his
shoulder. We carried some empty sacks, proposing to fill
them, and let them be carried back by Lightfoot, whom we
taught to render services of this kind, since he refused to be
harnessed. When we arrived in the middle of the wood we
fastened Lightfoot to a tree, and began to fill our sacks,
which was soon done, the harvest being very abundant. As
we were thus busied, our ape suddenly bounded into a
neighbouring thicket, before which he had for some minutes
appeared to be lying in wait. We heard at the same time
cries of birds and beating of wings, which made us suspect a
combat between Master Knips and some inhabitant of the
bushes. Ernest, who was nearest the field of battle, advanced
cautiously, and soon cried out: "Come, Fritz! here is a nest
full of eggs; come and take them, whilst I hold Master
Knips. The hen has just escaped." Fritz ran in all haste
towards the bush, and a few minutes after brought me one
of those tufted fowls said to be from Canada. I helped
Fritz to tie the legs of this animal, whose capture appeared
a valuable acquisition to our poultry-yard. Ernest, who had
driven off Master Knips, returned with his hat full of eggs,
. and covered with leaves, similar to those of the iris. Showing
me his prize, he said: "I have brought some of the leaves
of which the nest was made; they resemble lances, and little
Francis will amuse himself with them." Our sacks were
placed on the back of Lightfoot, reserving still a place for
Fritz, the animal's usual rider; and the prudent Ernest
carrying his eggs, and I the hen, we went towards. Falcon's
Nest. The joy of my wife was great at sight of our new
prize. She took so much care of the hen, that she sat
quietly on her eggs, and gave us, at the end of twenty days,
fifteen chickens.

Some time after, as". the sword-leaves which had served
as playthings for Francis, and which were then dry, were
found scattered round our tree, Fritz said to the child,
intending to amuse him: "Francis, we will make some whips
with your playthings, which will serve to drive our cattle."
After having pulled some of these leaves into, three or four
strips, he began to form them into long braids. By chance
I saw him making them. Seeing the flexibility and strength
of these strips, I examined them closely, and had the pleasure
of recognising the p/zamz'um terms", a plant which the Indians
use the same as our European flax. Our housekeeper was
equally rejoiced, and cried out: "That is the best discovery
you have made. Pick as many of these leaves as you can,
and I will make you shirts and clothes of all kinds!" She
forgot, dear woman, how much there is between the first
simple material and the prepared linen.

Whilst I endeavoured to make her comprehend this, I saw
Fritz mount the wild ass, and James the buffalo ;- then,
without saying anything, disappear, at a gallop, in the
direction of the Green Oak Wood. A quarter of an hour
afterwards we saw them return. Like foraging hunters, they
had hung on each side of their beasts enormous packets of
flax plants, which they laid down at our feet. I congratu-
lated them on their eagerness, and promised my wife that
though it might be only a trial, we would do the best we
could with our flax. "First," said I, "we must soak it." "How
must we soak it, father?" said Fritz; "must we have a fire?"
"No, we do not want a fire," I replied, "for the soaking
consists in exposing the flax alternately to the damp and
air,'to let the plant corrupt to a certain degree. The soft
parts then separate easily from 'the long threads; the
vegetable paste which unites them dissolves, and we obtain
the linen thread by pounding or peeling the stalks." "But
do not these threads get rotten 'with the rest? " asked
Fritz. "That might happen," said I, "if they did not stop
the soaking soon enough. However, the strength of the
threads makes this accident very rare. Besides, there is
nothing to fear if, instead of exposing the plant to the heat
of the sun, they simply put it to rot in the water."

My wife thought it would be better, because of the great
heat of this country, to employ this method of steeping, and
pointed out the Flamingo Marsh, as a convenient place for
this operation. The idea was good, and the next morning
we harnessed our ass to the car, on which we had piled our
bundles of flax. Francis and Knips took their place in the
middle. Armed with our shovels and mattocks, we followed
the convoy. When we arrived there, the bunches, divided
into several little packets, were placed at the bottom of the
water, and loaded with large stones, that the flax might be
entirely submerged.

While working, my sons had an opportunity of admiring
the instinct of the flamingoes in the construction of their
nests, several of which were abandoned. These nests are
in the form of a truncated cone, rising above the water;
the eggs are at the bottom, so that the female may sit
having her legs in the water. These nests are built in
earth, so well heaped up that the water, can neither dissolve
nor overturn them till the covey had passed, and the little
ones were no longer in danger of perishing.

At the end of a fortnight our housekeeper, thinking the
flax was sufliciently soaked, asked us to draw it from the water.
We extended it on the grass in the sun. In a single day
it was quite dry. We carried it back to Falcon's Nest,
putting off till later the peeling, Spinning, and weaving
of it.
As I foresaw the approach of the rainy season, I thought
we. had better busy ourselves in making provision of food. .
For some days it happened, now and then, that the weather,
which had been till then warm and clear, became gloomy;
the sky was often obscured with thick clouds, the wind
blew with violence, and now and then heavy showers fell.
All the potatoes and cassava, which were to be the basis
'of our winter food, were picked and put in heaps. We
collected also a large stock of cocoa-nuts and sweet acorns.
In the place of the cassava plants and potatoes, I sowed
some corn, for, in spite of the numerous and delicate ali-
ments which this fertile country offered, we still missed our
bread. We took care to transplant also to Zeltheim a
quantity of young cocoa-nut trees and sugar canes. In spite
of our activity, the rain surprised us sooner than we ex-
pected. It fell in such torrents that little Francis, seriously
alarmed, asked me if there was going to be a deluge, and
if we ought not to construct an ark, like the patriarch
Noah. We c0uld no longer inhabit our aerial castle, where
the violence of the wind and rain greatly incommoded us.
We' were obliged to change our abode to the bottom of the
tree, under the roof of reeds. But the chambers were so
full of provisions, tools, and cattle, that we could scarcely
move. The worst was that we were almost choked when we
wished to light a fire. To make a little room, a great many
things were placed in the staircase, and all our animals were
confined in the same compartment; we could thus work,
and stretch ourselves at our ease to sleep. As to the cook-
ing, we did as little as possible; our appetites yielded to the
frightful torment the smoke caused us. Besides, we had
collected but a small quantity of wood. So we had reason
to bless God that the temperature was mild.

My wife was seized with a fear that she could not over-
come, thinking that her children might fall sick; all her
resignation vanished before this thought. Happily, her fears
seemed to be vain. They were all strong, beautiful, and
healthy.

Our reserve of forage was exhausted in a short time; it
was impossible to supply it by potatoes or other provisions,
without exposing ourselves to perish with hunger. We
then determined to set at liberty, to seek their own food,
those of our animals who were inhabitants of the country.
But as it was important not to restore them to savage life,
Fritz and I several times during the day, and every evening,
sought them, and assembled them at the foot of our tree.
The mother, seeing that in each of our journeys we were
wet to the skin, thought of making us each a waterproof
coat. She took two sailor's shirts, to which she fastened
a hood to put over the head, and spread them with india-
rubber. Covered with these mantles, we could go out in
the rain without fearing for our clothes or our health.

It was during this first winter quarter that I undertook,
as a pastime, to write a journal of our life in this desert
land. I was obliged to have recourse to the memory of
my wife and sons, to make a recital of the events that had
taken place from the day of our shipwreck. The children
instructed each other by their mutual questions; Ernest
took notes, so as to forget nothing he knew; little Francis
and James were his. pupils; the pious mother taught them
morality, and I preached hope and courage to all.

These were our recreations; other labours abridged the
hours, which sometimes seemed very long. The captain's
chest of books had been opened; it was a great help to
us; there were several good books; amongst others, some
scientific dictionaries, ornamented with plates. These books
were not perfect; we s0metimes found the authors at fault,
especially about plants, trees, or exotic animals, which we
had had under our eyes. Ernest immediately noticed the
errors on the margin, and altered what personal experience
had shown us to be contrary to the truth. But what good
and useful lessons we found by the side of these imper-
fectionsl What a benefit is printing, which advances
science, and loses nothing it has once gained! The work
my wife appreciated most was making a large and small
card to dress the flax. To do this, I rounded and sharpened
with a file some long nails, which I fixed at equal distances
in a plate of tin; the edge of the sheet was bent all round,
and formed a. box, into which we poured some melted lead,
to fix the nails. I soldered on this card some little straps,
which were to be nailed on to a rest. My invention ap-
peared so solid and convenient that my wife, anxious to

make trial of it, was impatient for the sun to dry our flax,
so that we might card it.
RETURN OF THE FINE SEASON. THE CAVERN OF SALT.
' THE BANK OF HERRINGS. THE SEA-DOGS.

IN. cities winter has it pleasures; the well-closed houses, the
unions of families round the hearth, and brilliant fetes, make
us sometimes forget that winter is a time of trial for the
poor. I think, however, that no one can be insensible to the
return of fine days. As to us, it would be impossible to des
scribe our joy, when, after long weeks of privations of all
kinds, and forced seclusion, we saw the sky Brighten, and the
sun shine radiant over rejoicing nature. It was with real
transport that we quitted our unwholesome chambers, breathed
the fresh air, and contemplated the beautiful vegetation that
surrounded us. Everything seemed refreshed; we felt ani-
mated with such ardour that we threw far behind us the
remembrance of the weariness and troubles of winter. My
wife blessed God who had at last restored the sun to the
already paled cheeks of our young children, and the hope of
labour to their benumbed limbs.

One of our first cares was to visit what we called our
domains. Our plantation of shrubs was in good condition;
the seeds we had sown had come up, the foliage of the trees
was renewed, and the fertile soil was covered with an infinite
number of flowers, whose sweet scent filled the air. On all
sides birds of various plumage were singing gaily. Never had
we seen so smiling a spring.

The mother wished to begin directly carding and spinning
flax. Whilst the youngest boys took the cattle to feed on
the fresh grass, Fritz and I spread in the sun the packets of

flax. When the stalks were sufficiently dry, we thrashed,
. 353
peeled, and combed it. The boys, each armed with a large
stick, beat the stalks. The courageous housekeeper, aided by
Francis and Ernest, undertook the peeling. I did the combing,
and succeeded so well, that the mother, delighted and inde-
fatigable, begged me to make, without delay, a spindle, so
that she may convert into thread my beautiful tufts of flax.
By skill and application I succeeded in making not only
a spindle, but a spinning wheel. My wife, transported with
zeal, began to work without allowing herself a walk, of which
she had been deprived so long; she willingly consented to
remain alone with Francis whilst we went on an excursion to
Zeltheim, her only desire at the moment being to provide us
with clothes.

I went then with my eldest sons to the tent. It was in
a very sad state. A part had been carried away by the Wind;
the greater part of our provisions were spoilt by the rain.
We immediately dried all that appeared fit for use. Happily
the pinnaee had not suffered. Our tub-boat, on the contrary,
was entirely out of service.

The loss which afflicted me most was that of two barrels
of powder, which I had left under the tent instead of carrying
them into the magazine in the rocks, where, fortunately, I
had placed four others. This accident made me conceive the
project of constructing a winter quarter, where we, as well
as our provisions, might find shelter from the torrents of rain.
I dared not hope that, according to the bold proposal of
Fritz, we could hollow an abode in the side of the rock, for,
with our tools and small strength, several summers would
not be sufficient for this work; but I wished to try to hollow
a cave, to enclose our most precious provisions. I set off
one morning with Fritz and James, loaded with levers,
mattocks, and hammers. I chose a place where the rock
rose almost perpendicularly from the earth. I marked with
coal the shape of the opening we wished to make, and began
to work.

By the end of the day our labour was so little advanced
that we were on the point of abandoning it. However, we
took courage, by remarking that the stone became less hard
as we advanced, and that in certain places we could even'0

THE swrss FAMILY ROBINSON. 155

detach it with the spade. We had penetrated to a depth of
seven feet when James, who had entered into the cavity,
and was trying with a lever to detach a piece of rock, cried
out suddenly: "I have pierced! Father, I have pierced!"
"Pierced what?" I asked; "part of the mountain?" "Yes,
I have pierced the mountain!" replied he, full of joy. "He
is right!" cried Fritz, who had hastened to him; "and the
proof is, that his lever has fallen within."

I advanced and convinced myself of the truth of these
words. With a vigorous blow from my mattock I struck the
rock, which fell down before us, showing an opening, where
each of the boys wished to enter directly. I stopped them,
for the air which came out of this hole was sufl'ocating, and
I felt very dizzy when I approached to look at the interior
of the excavation. 'To try it, we threw into the opening some
lighted bunches of dried grass, which were instantly extin-
guished. I had then recourse to a method which I thought
would be more efficacious.

we had saved a cask of fusees and rockets, such as they
employ in vessels for nocturnal signals. I took some of
those pieces, which I placed on the border of the opening,
and lighted them. The fusees hissed, the grenades shone,
and by their light we saw the interior of the cave, which
appeared to us very deep, and the sides sparkled as if they
had been studded with diamonds; then all fell back into
obscurity and silence, and there remained only puffs of smoke
at the entrance of the grotto.

When we had fired two or three times, I made a second
trial with a tuft of grass, which this time burnt perfectly well.
I therefore concluded that there was no longer any danger
in penetrating into the grotto. But as it was profoundly dark,
and there might be precipices, or masses of water, I thought
itprudent not to venture without a light. I sent James to
Falcon's Nest to announce the happy discovery to those who
remained there, and to tell them to come and join us, and
bring some wax-lights, which were necessary to explore the
grotto. During James' absence, aided by Fritz I enlarged the
entrance and cleared away the rubbish which obstructed it.

We had just finished this work, when we saw my wife and
three sons advancing in the cart. Ernest and Francis waved
their hats in token of joy. We all entered the cavern; each
of us carried a lighted taper. Fritz and I were provided
with steels in case the lights went out. Our expedition was
somewhat grave and solemn. I led the way, sounding the
earth and inspecting the vault. My sons, incited by curiosity,
followed me bravely. The soil of this cavern, which a provi-
dential hand seemed to have prepared to receive us, was firm,
and covered with a very dry, fine sand. Having examined
the crystallisation of a fragment, which I detached from one
side, and carried to my lips, I recognised that the grotto
was hollowed in a bed of mineral salt.

This discovery caused me great joy, for it secured to us
'and our cattle a stock of salt easy to collect, and much
better than what we gathered with so much trouble from
the sea-shore. '

' Penetrating farther into the grotto, our admiration was
excited by its wonderful structure. Large blocks rose majes-
tically in twisted columns to the top, covered with strange
figures, which took, according to the disposition of our lights,
the appearance of men or fabulous animals. Farther on there
were oriental seats, lustres, and Gothic lamps. Little Francis
thought he was in a cathedral--James in a fairy palace.
Pensive Ernest examined and reflected. My wife pressed my
hands. "No more winter for the little ones," murmured she.
Fritz said joyfully, "It is a diamond castle, the most beautiful
in the world!" "And God is the architect, my son," said his
mother. Fritz embraced her. " God is powerful," said he
to his mother, with tearful eyes, " He has made all that is
great, all that is good, but what is best of all, He has given
to us a perfect mother" "Ah! what happiness to be beloved, "
said my wife, embracing her children.

I found, in some places, pieces of crystal, which appeared
to be detached from the vault. This made us fear more
falling in, but I soon found that these pieces came from our
discharges of powder, and not from damp. When we had
decided on choosing this grotto for a winter residence,

numerous projects were formed as to the arrangement of this
new habitation.
Falcon's Nest remained our summer residence, but we
no longer thought of the improvements we had resolved
to make against the bad season. Our attention was directed
to the subterranean castle, which would secure us a comfort-
able retreat during the rainy epoch. First of all I made the
entry a proper shape, and hollowed out some windows each
side of the rock. I fitted to them the door and windows
from Falcon's Nest, which were not required there, since the
aerial castle was to be only a summer residence.

The cavern was very spacious; it was divided into
several compartments by the columns. On the right of the
entry was our sitting-room, on the left the kitchen, the
stables, and the working-room. At the bottom were the
cellar and store-room. The part destined for habitation
was divided into several pieces. The first was our bed-
room, the second the dining-room; then my sons' bed-
room and the hall, where we placed the books, arms,
and some curious things we had collected. In the compart-
ment destined for the kitchen we constructed a large fire-
place, with a chimney high enough to carry off the smoke.'
All our tools and provisions had their fixed places; we
also made numerous arrangements to lodge our fowls and
cattle. Never since we lived in this place had we displayed
so much skill and activity.

Whilst we were working at ,the grotto we were forced
to inhabit the tent, and our principal food was the eggs
and flesh of some turtles, which we found on the shore.
1 formed an enclosure for the turtles, so that we might take
them when we required them for table. As soon as we
perceived one of these indolent animals, Fritz or James
ran and cut off its retreat; we helped them to turn it on its
back, then with a gimlet we pierced a hole at the edge of
the shell, through which we passed a cord, fixed to a stake.
The turtle had liberty to plunge into the sea, but could not
get away.

One morning when we were going from Falcon's Nest
to the Bay of Deliverance, we saw a. strange spectacle.
Over the sea a large extent of water seemed in motion, and
sparkled in the sun. Above these shining waves a cloud
of gulls and other birds flew, uttering sharp cries. My sons
were lost in conjectures, for this curious phenomenon was
seen for the first time.

Fritz thought a subterranean volcano had burst. The
mother suspected the existence of a bank of sand, which
we had not remarked; the doctor declared this motion of
the waves must be caused by a marine monster. This idea
appeared very acceptable to the children, always ready to
see something marvellous in the unknown. But an instant's
observation made me know the truth. It was clear to me
that a shoal of herrings had arrived. "You are not ignorant,"
said I to my sons, "that they thus name a multitude of
herrings, which come in such numbers that they often
cover an extent of several leagues."

Whilst I spoke, the shoal of herrings came so fast into
the bay that the fishes hurt themselves by jumping over
each other; thus was explained the scintillation of the sea
we had first observed.

I resolved to profit by this new source of food which
Providence sent us. Fritz went into the sea with a basket,
which he had only to immerse when it was full of fish.
He then threw the herrings on the sand. Francis picked
them up, and brought them to Ernest and James, who
cleaned them with a knife. I arranged them in the old
tubs from the boat, and the mother spread salt between
each layer of fish. We thus filled all our tubs. I nailed
planks closely over them, and the ass and cow trans-
ported them to our store-house in the grotto. This labour
occupied us three days. Scareely had we finished with this .
fishing and salting, than we saw the bay haunted with a
troop of sea-dogs, who had, no doubt, followed the herrings.
They played and pursued each other even to the shore,
without appearing frightened at our presence. We killed a
dozen of them, but I only kept the skin and fat. The skin .
was destined to make harness for our cattle, and even clothes
for ourselves. The fat, after being melted, furnished us with
a sort of oil, which saved our wax-lights.

We threw the flesh into Jackal Stream, which swarmed
with crabs. They came in thousands to seize the food we
offered them. The children caught a great number, and by
my advice placed them in a cask, which they pierced with
several holes, and then fixed on the border of the stream,
loading it with large stones to keep it submerged. We thus
kept alive in the water fishes, which one or other of my sons
caught every day. We also shut up for a time about a
hundred herrings.

The fishing finished, we again went on arranging our
subterranean abode. Examining some pieces of rock which
we found scattered over the soil of the grotto, I found that
they were detached from a bed of plaster stone. I then in-
Spected the grotto at all points, and at the bottom, beside
our store-room, I discovered the vein of this precious mineral.
With a mattock I detached several pieces, which I heated
in the fire, and which, powdered, gave us a plaster of ex'
cellent quality. This discovery enabled us to perfect the
division and ornamentation of our new abode. For the
time I used it to cover over the bottom of the barrels where
we had put our herrings, to preserve them from contact with
the outer air; but we reserved two barrels to make smoked
or red herrings. To do this, we constructed, at some dis-
tance from the grotto, a large hut of branches and reeds
interlaced. The herrings were ranged on hurdles, and
underneath we made a fire of moss and damp grass, which
caused a great smoke. By renewing this operation several
times, I obtained some very dry herrings of a yellow brown
colour, which were enclosed in sacks, and placed in the store-room.

About a month after the herrings had disappeared, our
stream was invaded by a number of salmon and sturgeons,
who tried to go up the current, after the manner of their
species, to deposit their eggs in the fresh water. James,
who first perceived these new visitors, took them for young
whales. I showed him his error, and began to reflect on
the means we should employ to catch some of these fish.
James, remarking my embarrassment, ran quickly to the
grotto, crying to me, "Wait, wait, papa! you shall see; I
know the way."

He soon returned, bringing a how, some arrows with
bent hooks, a packet of thread, and two or three sea-dog
160 THE swxss FAMILY ROBINSON.

skin bladders. Anxious to know the method he had in-
vented, we all made a circle round him. He tied round a
bladder the thread, which _he attached at one end to an
arrow, and at the other to an enormous stone, which
he' found on the shore. Then bending his how, he aimed
at one of the largest salmon. The arrow flow, and was
buried deeply in the body of the fish. "Hit! hit!" cried
the little archer, jumping for joy. The salmon plunged,
and tried to get away, but it was held both by the stone
and by the air contained in the bladder. This struggle, '
joined to the pain of the arrow, soon exhausted its strength,
and we could easily draw it to the shore.'

James' success induced us to try our skill. Fritz
went to fetch the harpoon and the spindle; I armed my-
self, like Neptune, with a trident; Ernest provided himself
with hooks, which he bated with pieces of salmon; and the
fishing commenced in earnest. James did not renounce the
method which had so well succeeded. He discharged two or
three more arrows, of which only one attained the end, and it
was not without great effort that he could take his new
victim. A sturgeon bit Ernest's hook, who was helped by
Francis and his mother to pull him out of the water. I
struck two fishes, but could not capture one, my instrument
being the least suitable of all.

As to Fritz he would not launch his harpoon till he saw
near him a sturgeon, which was at least ten feet long. The
enormous fish, stuck in the back, fought terribly, jumping
and making the water fly. We were all obliged to hold the cord
of the spindle to prevent him from escaping. Little by little
we drew him into low water. To master him completely,
one of us had to go into the water, and pass behind the
animal's fins the running knot of the cord, to which the
buffalo was attached to draw him to land. When we had
cleaned the fishes, I put on one side the eggs and bladders
of the sturgeons, which I destined for a particular use. The
greater part of the flesh, cut into pieces, was salted like the
herrings. I tried to pickle the rest. For this purpose, I had
it cooked in very salt water, and then enclosed in a barrel,
and over it I poured a quantity of oil.
My wife, thinking that we could not use the eggs and bladders,
was going to throw them into the stream, but I told her that
I intended to make with the eggs 3. very recherche dish, which
the Russians call caviare, and with the bladders some isinglass.
~ I washed the eggs, which weighed thirty pounds, carefully
in the sea. We let them steep in the salt water for several hours.
We then put them into gourds pierced with holes, where
they drained, and we had then ,a dozen firm and compact
loaves, which we placed in the hut to be smoked, and thus
augmented our winter provisions. I recollected having read
of the method employed in making isinglass, and resolved
to put it in practice. I cut the bladders into strips, which
we steeped in water to soften them, and then dried them
in the sun. We thus obtained a kind of chips, which, thrown
into boiling water, melted, and became a very pure jelly.
This jelly, poured on a dish, formed in cooling transparent
sheets, which I hoPed to make use of to glaze our Windows.

The garden at Zeltheim was in full prosperity, and gave
us, almost without culture, excellent vegetables of all kinds.
It was only necessary to water it to obtain a rich vegetation,
and this cost us but little trouble, for we had formed, by
help of the sago-tree, a system of canals, bringing the water
from Jackal Stream. The generality of the seeds and plants
confided to this land were perfectly acclimatised. The rampant
stalks of -the melons and cucumbers were already loaded with
a quantity of beautiful fruit, the pine-apples gave magnificent
promise, and the maize showed numerous ripe ears. To judge
by the state of this plantation near our abode, we augured
well for our distant ones. One morning we set off together
to visit them.

Going towards Falcon's Nest, we made a halt at the
old potato field which my wife had sown. There we saw
some wonderful vegetation; the barley, peas, lentils, millet,
oats, and several other kinds of corn had grown magnificently
in this fertile ground. I remarked one part covered with
gigantic maize plants in full maturity. As we approached
the maize plantation to gather it, there rose up half-a-dozen
bustards, and a quantity of smaller birds, which I recognised

to be young quails. Two or three kangaroos also leaped
II
out of it, and our dogs pursued without being able to catch
them. Fritz sent off his eagle, who first rose like an arrow
in the air, and then pounced on a magnificent bustard, which
he seized without wounding it much, so that we could keep
it alive. James's jackal, who was becoming an excellent hunter,
caught a dozen very fat quails, which made us a good dinner.

We resumed our road, and towards the middle of the
afternoon reached Falcon's Nest. As the heat of the day
and the walk had made us very thirsty, my wife prepared
us a new kind of drink. Crushing some grains of tender
maize, and pressing them in linen, she obtained a paste,
which she mixed in water sweetened with the juice of
the sugar~cane. It made a sort of milk, which was very
refreshing.

The rest of the day was employed in grinding our maize,
and preparing for the execution of a project which I had formed
several days before. It was to make, in the open country,
'a colony of animals, which, if they acclimatised and pro-
pagated, would Spare us the very difficult task of watching
and feeding them. I could venture to attempt this trial, for
our. poultry and flock were numerous enough to enable us
to sacrifice some of each kind.COTTON. THE FARM. THE CANOE.

THE next morning then, at break of day, we set ofl'; putting
on the carriage, besides provisions, 3. dozen hens, two cocks,
three young pigs, and couple of goats. The cow, the
buffalo, and the ass were harnessed; Fritz, mounted on the
wild ass, rode before at some distance from the caravan.
Our course was directed towards a point of our domains which
we had not yet explored; that is to say, the country which
extended from Falcon's Nest to the great bay, beyond the
observatory and Cape Disappointment. At the beginning,
we had more than once to make a road by using our hatchets,
for we crossed fields obstructed by high grass and bushes ; but
we soon reached a little wood, coming out of which we saw
before us a plain covered with shrubs loaded with white flock.
"Snow! snow!" cried Francis joyfully, jumping down
from the cart on which he was seated. "This is a country
where there is really winter; not like that below, where there
was only tiresome rain." And repeating "Snow! snow!" he
ran to make snowballs. Laughing at the child, I hastened
to examine the nature of this pretended snow. Ernest laughed
also. "Well," said I to him, "do you know the name of
these shrubs?" "I guess it," replied he; "as well as I can
judge, these are cotton plants, and if so, we can procure,
without trouble, an ample stock of cotton." Ernest was
right. It was a very curious spectacle. The pods of the
shrubs, opening at maturity, had let out the down of which
they were full; a part hung to the branches of the trees, the
rest whitened the ground. This discovery caused us all
great joy; but my wife more particularly. She immediately

asked me if it were possible to make a weaving machine,
163
and seemed already to be able to renew our linen, when it
was worn out. I promised to think of the means of satisfying
her demands. We filled with cotton all the sacks that remained
empty. My wife then gathered a quantity of seed which she
proposed to sow near Zeltheim, so as to naturalise the precious
shrub close to our habitation. ,

This done, we continued. our road. We soon reached a
little hill, from the top of which we had a magnificent View,
whose extent was covered with the richest vegetation. Below
extended the plain we had just crossed, fertilised by water
from a large stream. Every one approved, when I proposed
to choose this "place for the projected establishment. The
tent was immediately raised ; and the mother, aided by Francis
and James, busied herself in preparing a meal. During this
time, I went, accompanied by Fritz and Ernest, to explore
the country and choose the most favourable place for the
foundation of our colony. I remarked a group of trees
disposed so conveniently with regard to each other, that I
resolved immediately to make them serve for pillars to the
edifice we wished to build. Our plans formed for the labours
of the morrow,- we returned to the tent, where an excellent
supper awaited us. My wife had divided the cotton, so
that each of us had a comfortable pillow for the night. We
owed to this care the sweetest sleep we had enjoyed for a
long time.

The trees I had chosen for building the cabin were six
in number, disposed in a square, of which one side leoked
towards the sea In the trunks of the three nearest the
shore, I made, about twelve feet from the ground, some
notches in which a strong pole was fixed; I made'the same
in the trunks of three others, but only at the height of eight
feet. Then on each of these poles I fixed smaller ones, close
together, and covered them with plates of bark similar to
tiles. By the help of bindweed and flexible reeds woven
strongly together, the sides were raised to a height of five feet;
the empty space which extended to the roof was furnished
with a light lattice, which permitted air and light to penetrate
into the interior. The door opened in front of the sea, on
the principal side of the house. The inside was arranged
suitably to the end proposed. One partition which rose to
half the height of the cabin, divided it into two unequal parts;
the largest one was intended for the sheep-fold, in which I
made a reserved place for the fowls, by means of palisades
whose barrie'rs would only give entrance to fowls. A door
led from the sheep-fold into the other parts of the cabin, of
which we made our resting place.

All this had been done quickly, and consequently left

much to be desired; but I promised myself to improve it
when we had more time. For the present it was sufficient
that our cattle were under shelter. To accustom them to
return every evening to the stable, the troughs were filled with
grain mixed with salt, and it was agreed that this repast
should be renewed till the colonists were accustomed to their
new abode. These labours, which we had thought to finish
in three or four days, took us more than a week; so that
our provisions were nearly exhausted. However, we would
not return to Falcon's Nest till we had finished the establish-
ment of our farm. I therefore sent Fritz and James to
re-victual us, and give food for several days to the cattle we
had left below. They took the ass to carry the burdens and
the ass and buffalo to ride on.
' During their absence I went with Ernest to search, in the
hope of finding some potatoes and cocoa-nuts, and also to
obtain a more complete knowledge of the place where we
were. A short walk conducted us to a little lake, whose
aspect was most picturesque; the shores were entirely covered
with plants of wild rice, on which a troop of birds were
regaling, who, seeing us, flew away with a great noise. I
succeeded in striking down five or six tufted fowls, but our
skill would have been fruitless if the jackal, who had followed
us, had not gone into the water for each one that fell, and
brought it to us.

A little farther on, Knips, who was riding on Belle's back,
descended quickly, and ran towards a little thicket, where I
discovered him eating some magnificent raspberries. We
could not have met with any thing better to refresh our dry
throats. This delicious fruit was so abundant, that we not
only satisfied ourselves, but filled Knips' basket, which I
covered with a little clean linen, and some leaves, tightly tied
down, in case our porter should overturn his load to eat its
contents.

Repassing by the lake, we saw on the water some
magnificent black swans, swimming gracefully. I would not
disturb so beautiful a spectacle, and one so new to us; but
Belle, who did not partake our admiration, sprang into the
water before we could stop her, and drew from it a beast
of strange form, which I took, at a distance, for an otter.
Having arrived in time to snatch the animal, already dead,
from the dog, who was ready to devour it, I examined it
carefully. The feet were furnished with a membrane for _
swimming; it had a long hairy tail, bent upwards; a very
small head, scarcely any eyes and ears; the snout, or rather
the beak, resembled that of a duck. So singular a form
made me laugh heartily, but my knowledge of natural history
gave me no idea of the species to which this individual
belonged, who participated in the nature of the bird, the fish,
and the quadruped. I told Ernest to carry it home, for I
proposed to stuff it, and preserve it as a rarity. "I know it,"
said my scholar; "it is the ornithorhynchus. I read its
description in one of the captain's books; it has already
puzzled the learned." "Well," replied I, laughing, "it will be
the beginning of our cabinet of natural history." ~ Loaded
with our booty, we regained the farm, almost at the same
time as Fritz and James, who related to us in detail what
they had done at Falcon's Nest; I saw with satisfaction that
not only had they obeyed my orders, but had thought of
several useful things.

The next day, after having abundantly provided with food
the beasts that we left, we quitted the farm, to which we had
given the name of Wuldegg. In the first wood we came to
on our road, we found a troop of apes, who welcomed us by
horrible cries, accompanied by a shower of fir-apples; I fired
in the air several times to send them off. Then we resumed
our route, and soon arrived at the Cape of Disappointment,
on which I had resolved to erect a pavilion, which might
serve us for a resting place in any excursions on this side of
the island. We went courageously to work. The trial of
our talent at Wuldegg had made us skilful, so in less than a
week we had finished the edifice, and named it Prospect
Hill.

For some time I had been in search of a tree whose bark
might serve me to make a small boat, at once strong and
light, but though my search had hitherto been fruitless, I had
not lost hope. As soon as the new building was finished, I
began to explore the neighbourhood, which abounded in rare
trees. I found some at last which might have been taken
for oaks by their height and foliage, if the fruit which they
bore, otherwise similar to acorns, had not differed from them
by their extreme smallness. After having chosen the one
which seemed best suited to my design, with Fritz's help I
fastened the rope ladder we had brought to the lowest
branches. Fritz, arrived at the extremity of the trunk, cut
the bark through to the sap, whilst I did the same at the
bottom. I then took away in its whole length a slight band.
Then by means of wedges of wood, carefplly inserted, the
rest was separated little by little. As the tree was in full
sap, and the bark was flexible, this part of the work per-
fectly succeeded. But the most difficult remained to do; it
was to form this large plank of bark into a convenient boat.
Whilst the bark was yet moist and supple, I gave it the
form I desired. I made with my hatchet a large cleft in the
two ends, which, naturally reunited, forming a roll of the
thickness of the trunk which we had despoiled ; I joined
with nails the two separated pieces, so that in reuniting,
they formed a point at each extremity. I had in this way
two peaks, which would greatly facilitate the navigation of
my boat. The middle still remained flat; with cords I
pressed the two sides, to make them take a more vertical
position. I succeeded tolerably well; but as, to put the last
finish to my work, I wanted several tools, I sent James and
Fritz to the tent, telling them to bring the sledge, to which
I had fixed the wheels of one of the cannons found in the
ship; I proposed to load it with the boat, which I wished to
transport to a more convenient place to finish it.

While waiting, Ernest and I made another tour in the
environs, where I found a certain tree, named light-wood by
the Indians, who employ it to light them in their nocturnal
expeditions. I out also some staves to serve as bands to
the boat. At the same time we discovered a new resin,
which in drying became firm and impenetrable, of which I
collected a large stock, for I saw it would be preferable to
mastic and turpentine for tarring the canoe. My two boys
rejoined us as night fell, but as it was too late to undertake
the loading, it was put off till to--morrow.

Very early the next day we placed- on the sledge the
canoe, the pieces of wood, and every thing that might be
useful to us when we left for Zeltheirn. We stopped at
Falcon's Nest only two hours, to dine and feed our animals.
We returned to the tent before sunset, but too much fatigued
to do anything that evening

The whole of the next day was employed in finishing the
canoe. To consolidate it, I nailed under each of the beaks
a piece of bent wood, and in the whole length a solid keel.
At the ,top we made a border of flexible laths and poles, to
which were fixed-rings for the cordage of the mast. I threw
in the bottom, as ballast, some stones and clay; the whole
covered with a flooring, on which we could stand conveniently.
Some movable seats were placed across. In the middle
rose our mast, furnished with a triangular sail; behind, I
fixed the rudder. There came to me a happy idea to render
lighter still our little boat. I asked my wife to make some
bottles of sea-dog skin; I filled them with air, tarred them all
over, and fastened them to the exterior. These bladders
would not only help to float the boat, but prevented it from
turning over and being submerged.

I omitted to notice at the time the birth of a calf, which
took place soon after the rainy season. I consulted with the
family as to its name. They settled that it should be
"Brummer" (the murmurer), because he was always making
little murmurings. They then fixed names for the buffalo
and the two young dogs. The buffalo was called "Sturm"
(tempest); one dog was named "Braun" (brown), and the
other " Falb" (fawn), because of the colours of their skin.

For two whole months we worked to separate, by
partitions of planks or mats, different compartments of the
cavern, to render this habitation as convenient as possible,
reserving till winter the task of embellishing it. The great
quantity of beams, planks, and materials of all kinds that we
possessed, rendered our labour less difficult than we had
thought The floor of our room was covered with a thick
bed of clay, stuck full of small flint stones; as to the plaster
with which we had covered the walls, we relied on the last
days of summer to dry them. We thought of making, with
the hair of our goats and the wool of our sheep, some felt
carpets for the dining-room and hall. For this we put on
a piece of sail-cloth a bed of hair, which we had first carded,
and which I moistened with boiling water, in which we had
dissolved some isinglass. I then rolled up the sail-cloth, on
which they beat with all their strength with large sticks.
The operation with warm water was renewed, and having
beat long and vigorously, we opened the linen, whence came
out a long piece of felt, which, dried in the sun, answered
perfectly the end proposed.THE FEAST or DELIVERANCE.

ONE morning, when I awoke sooner than usual, and did
not wish, by rising, to disturb the sleep of my family, I
endeavoured to count the time which had passed since we
had been on' the island. My calculations showed, to my
great astonishment, that it was just the eve of the anniversary
of that day. After some involuntary sad thoughts over the
past, I told myself that I was ungrateful. My heart melted
at the thought, that God had not only saved us all from
death, but, in His goodness, had provided us an asylum in
a sort of terrestrial paradise, where all our labour had its
recompense, and where the least of our efforts had been
visibly blessed. A hymn of gratitude rose from my soul
towards Him who had taken such care of my beloved wife,
and our dear little children. I resolved not to let pass
unnoticed so important an epoch in our existence, and to
consecrate it by a solemnity commemorative of the senti-
ments with which our situation, past and present, ought to
inspire us.

That evening, at supper, as I had not yet decided any-
thing for the marrow, "Dear little ones," said I, "to--morrow .
is a great day, a date which should be marked for ever in
our life! To-morrow is the anniversary 'of our landing on
our charming island, and of miraculous deliverance. It must
be a fete day, memorable to all of us, and we must be ready
early to celebrate it." This news astonished them all. They
could not imagine that we had lived a year in our solitude.
" Are you not mistaken in your calculations?" asked my

wife, much moved: " what, a whole year?" "I am not
170
..

deceived, dear wife," I replied; "we were stranded on the
30th January, last year. The almanac, which I fortunately
saved, tells us that it was the 2nd of February that we
landed on this island, and we will celebrate to-morrow the
anniversary of our safety." After talking till very late, we
went to bed. " For the fete," said my wife, embracing my
children; "I will make you a good dinner." The boys, pre-
occupied with the morrow, were little disposed to sleep. I
heard them say to each other, "What is it that father has
prepared for to--morrow? what will this fete consist of?" I
feigned not to hear, and left them to their conjectures.

The morrow, at day-break, a sound of cannon from the
shore awoke us with a start. We all rose, looking astonished,
and seeming to ask each other whether we were frightened
or rejoiced at this noise. But when I saw that James and
Fritz were not in their beds, I was reassured. They soon
returned. " Well, what do you say to that thunder? " cried
James, proudly. But Fritz, who had remarked that I did not
look pleased, said, "Pardon, father, the liberty we have taken,
in opening, by firing a cannon, the {etc of deliverance. , We
only thought of surprising you all, without intending to
trouble your sleep." I then told them, that I blamed them
less for having abruptly awoke, and even frightened us, than
for having expended a large quantity of powder, our most
precious treasure, which we had not yet found the means of
replacing. However, they had acted with a good intention,
and I did not wish to sadden them.

Immediately after breakfast, which we took in the open
air, at the door of the grotto, I opened the solemnity by
reading from my journal, so as to refresh their memory on
all the circumstances of our deliverance. Then came the
pious exercises of each Sunday; then a walk to Safety Bay.
On our return, the mother gave us for dinner two roast
f0W13; and a delicious cream. At the end of the repast, I
rose, and giving the signal, "Now, my children," said I,
"prepare to give us some brilliant proofs of your skill in
gymnastic exercises; some magnificent prizes shall be given
to the conquerers." The children replied to my appeal, in
the English fashion, by a loud hurrah.
I decided that they should begin by shooting; for this
purpose I fixed, about a hundred paces off, a plank, which
might be about the size of a kangaroo, and which we
fashioned with a hatchet, so as to be nearly the shape of
that animal. Two small pieces, nailed on, formed the ears,
a strap of leather the tail, two sticks represented the fore-legs.
The pretended kangaroo was stuck up obliquely, as he is
seated on the ground. Then each of the boys, little Francis
excepted, loaded his gun and fired; Fritz, the skilful gunner,
twice touched the head; Ernest, less skilful, placed a ball in
the body. At the first shot James failed, but the second
time he knocked ofi' both ears; we saluted this skilful shot
with a burst of laughter. Then they fired with pistols, in
which Fritz again obtained the advantage. I then told the
young people to fill their guns with small shot, and for each
I threw as high as I could an old hat, which they were to
strike before it fell to the ground. There the prudent and
circumspect Ernest showed a skill almost equal to that of
Fritz; but the careless James did not lodge a single shot in
the hat. In shooting with a bow, which next succeeded, I
saw, with pleasure, that my sons had acquired great skill.
. I gave them several kinds of this exercise, which might be
of great assistance when our powder was exhausted. Francis,
who had been admitted to this trial, did not show himself '
a bad archer. His brothers made him a crown of leaves,
which, in his youthful pride, he would not have exchanged
for that of a king.

They took a little rest before beginning the race. I chose
for the race-ground the space between the place where we
were and F alcon's Nest, exacting that the runner who should
first reach the end should bring me a knife which I had left
on the table. The three eldest only were of the party. At
the signal agreed, Fritz and James sprang forward with im-
petuosity, whilst Ernest went behind them with an equal
and steady step, which made me presume that he would
reach the end sooner than his brothers. An hour afierwards
, I saw James return, galloping on his bufi'alo. " Oh, oh!
master equerry," cried I, "it was not the agility of your
buffalo that we wished to judge, but that of your legs." "I
am not so simple as to exhaust myself with running to get
nothing," replied the boy. "As soon as I saw that, in spite
of my efforts, I was the last, I renounced the prize for
racing, and when I reached Falcon's Nest mounted my
buffalo to return." At that moment Fritz arrived, and some
paces behind him, Ernest, holding the knife, as a sign of
victory. As I was surprised that he, the victor, should re-
turn last, he replied, that when he was sure of the prize, he
thought it was not necessary to hurry. I could not help
smiling at this reply, which accorded with his prudent in-
dolence. I then told the children to show us their skill in
the art of climbing trees.

James sprang towards a large palm-tree, to the top of
which he mounted, and then descended with the agility of
a squirrel; he ascended just as easily a second tree, then a
third; it was curious to see him going from tree to tree,
turning round the trunk, joking and making grimaces. Fritz
and Ernest were the first to clap their hands and own them-
selves incapable of competing with him. James was not less
skilful in riding, and Fritz alone could compete with him.
They both galloped without saddle or bridle, jumped on the
ground, then remounted, helping themselves simply by their
courser's mane when he was in full gallop. Ernest declared
this exercise beyond his strength. Francis, who till now
had been only a spectator, wished to show his skill in guid-
ing Brummer. His mother had made him a saddle with the
skin of the kangaroo. A copper ring was passed through
the animal's nostrils, who, equipped in this manner, was
brought before us. "Attention, gentlemen," said the little
equerry, with an important air, "the famous bull conqueror
is going to divert you." Alter having executed several evo-
lutions, with his crown still on his head, the child showed us
the obedience of the animal, who, at the beloved voice of his
little master, turned, went off, came back, trotted, galloped,
and finally knelt down that his rider might get off and re-
ceive our compliments.

We then went to the shore for the trial of swimming,
which terminated the Rite. Fritz had all the honours of this
exercise. Sometimes on the water, sometimes under, he
seemed to be in his element, and never to tire. Ernest, on
the contrary, was fearful, whilst James swam with so much
impetuosity, that he was soon tired. The trials of Francis
were sufficient to show that he would soon become a skilful
swimmer. At sunset we returned to our abode. The mother
had gone before to prepare for our reception, with all the
dignity of her place, as distributor of the prizes. We found
her seated on a. barrel decorated with leaves. The com-
. petitors defiled before her, and ranged themselves in a circle
round the improvised throne, waiting for the prizes of their
courage. With a charming grace the mother bestowed the
presents, which she accompanied with words of praise and
encouragement, and a kiss to each.

Fritz obtained, as a prize for swimming, a double-barreled
English gun 'and a fine hunting knife, which he had long
desired. Ernest, who was conqueror in the race, received a
gold watch like that which Fritz had. James had a pair of
spurs and an English whip, which made him happier than
the highest honours. As to little Francis, we gave him a
pair of small spurs, and a whip with an ivory handle. Then
I advanced towards the mother and offered her, amid the
plaudits of her sons, 3. pretty case, in which were a number
of useful things, such as a fruit knife, scissors, needle-case,
thimble, tapes, thread, etc. The clear woman was much sur-
prised and delighted with my present, and asked me where
I had obtained this little treasure. I replied that I found it
in the ship, and had hidden it to surprise her with a gift she
so well merited.

The young people begged me to let them close the fete
of deliverance by firing a cannon. I permitted them, telling
them to spare the powder, and that if they only wished to
make a noise, they could do so with a small charge, by
stuffing the mouth of the cannon with hay, which would
increase it five-fold. "That was a famous blow," cried James,
who had fired the piece, "I am almost deafened."

The day closed. After Supper and prayers, we went to
rest on our beds of cotton, and a sweet repose followed this
day, which would leave us such agreeable remembrances.
DIVERS LABOURS. EXPEDITION AGAINST THE APES.
THE WHALE.

ABOUT a month later, one day when we were at Falcon's
Nest, we saw, as at this time last year, the trees covered with
thrushes, ortolans, and wild pigeons, and we resolved to get
a good stock of game, and preserve it in butter or fat. A
hunt was organised; at the same time, to save our powder,
I had recourse to bird-lime, which I made with resin, india~
rubber, and a little fat. As our stock of indie-rubber was
almost exhausted, I sent Fritz and James to the trees whence
this precious substance issued, and at the foot of which they
ought to find a great deal, for before we left we had made
incisions in the trunks, and placed large gourds to receive
the gum as it .ran out.

The two children returned in the evening, bringing not
only a good stock of indie-rubber, but also some turpentine;
a crane, which Fritz' eagle had seized; a plant of anise; and
some roots, to which they had given the name of monkey-
roots, because they had discovered there a troop of monkeys,
who were scratching up the earth with extraordinary efforts
to regale themselves with them. I recognised the ginseng,
a. plant to which the Chinese attribute extraordinary nutritive
and medical virtues, and which, in that country, the emperor
alone'has the right to cultivate in his domains. We should
have rejoiced at the result of this excursion, if my sons had
not told me that having gone on to Wuldegg, they had found
our farm completely devastated; they believed it was by
the monkeys. The cabin was partly demolished; the fowls

lying strangled, and the goats and sheep wandering about.
175
I resolved to take vengeance on these creatures, but for
the time said nothing to my family. I made some bird-lime,
with which we covered some sticks, which James and Fritz
placed on the branches of the trees. In less than a week
we had taken enough birds of dilierent kinds to fill a barrel.

Two of our old domestic pigeons, who for a long time had
gone away from Falcon's Nest, were caught with the lime-
twigs; we recognised them; James asked their life. "See,
father," said he, " their eyes seem to say good-day, as to
old friends ;" so James obtained what he asked. To keep
them near us, we constructed, against the side of the rock
at Zeltheim, a pigeon-house, half hollowed, half formed of wires.
This abode was so convenient that they not only fixed them-
selves there, but enticed a number of wild pigeons, who by
degrees became domesticated. At intervals we found in the
pigeon-house some nutmegs. We washed them, and though
they were stripped of their fibrous husk, committed them to
the earth, but without any excited hopes of the success of
our plantation.

An accident, fortunately more comic than sad, happened
to James. We saw him arrive one morning, covered with
a thick coat of black and green mud, and looking most
pitiable. The poor child, whom his brothers began to tease,
was ready to cry; I stopped their mocking, and asked him
where he had fallen to get so dirty. "Behind the rocks in
Goose Marsh," replied he, in a lamentable tone. " But what
were you going to do there?" "I was going to pick some
reeds to make pigeon baskets." "Your intention was good,
and you merit praise rather than blame," said I, "though
you have not succeeded." " How not succeeded !" said he,
"I have brought two large packets of reeds." "They are
as dirty as you are, my poor boy; we cannot use them in
that condition; but tell me how you got bemired in this
manner." "I wished to choose some reeds big enough and
straight enough, and these grew in the middle; I was jumping
from one heap of earth to another, but my foot slipped, and
I fell into the marsh; the more I endeavoured to reach the
border, the deeper I sank; I then cried out, but no one
came to my assistance, so I saw that I had better try and
get out by myself. Do you know what I did, papa? I thought
of cutting with my knife all the reeds which were near me,
and I made a kind of fascinc, on which I leant my breast
and arms, while I disengaged my legs, with a vigorous spring
I got across the fascine, and thus supported above the mud,
I got to the border of the- marsh, where, however, I should
still (be, without my jackal's help."

" How so P" asked Ernest. "Though I had reached the
border of the marsh, I scarcely knew how to get out of it,
for I was afraid of sinking again, if I placed my feet at the
bottom. My brave jackal was full of uneasiness on the shore,
he saw thatI could not reach it; the good beast seemed to
invite me to follow him; I called him; he came to me, I
stretched out my arms and seized his tail; then I cried aloud,
which frightened him; he ran, dragging me, and I arrived
on firm ground." Though the child had been really in danger,
we could not help laughing at his misadventure, especially
when we imagined the singular appearance of the jackal's
dragging him along. I congratulated him on the presence
of mind he had shown on this difficult occasion. His mother
then led him away to change his clothes and clean
him.

I used some of the reeds which James had brought to
make the weaving machine which my wife had asked me to
construct. I took two of the largest, which, cleft down the
middle, furnished the upright post of the combs, destined
to 'move the threads of the chain. I then told the children
to cut a quantity of small strips of wood, which were to make
the teeth of the comb. As I was not sure of succeeding, I
would not tell anyone my secret, but I was obliged to find
some innocent pretext to satisfy the pressing questions of the
children. I told them I was going to make an instrument
of hottentot music, which would cause much delight to their
mother. They were delighted with my answer, and left me
in peace. When I judged there was a sufficient quantity of
little wooden teeth, I hid them carefully, deferring till later
to show the weaving machine to our amiable housekeeper.
At this time the wild ass brought into the world a young

one, of the most beautiful kind, who was unanimously adjudged
IZ
to me, as I had not any particular steed. I gave him the
name of Rasch (rapid), which he soon justified by the lightness
and elegance of his form. ,

As the rainy season again approached, the time came to
make abundant provision of different forage, so as to be able
to keep our cattle near us. I busied myself then in bringing
fresh water to the neighbourhood of our winter palace, of
which we had just finished the interior arrangements. By
the fortifications and enclosures with which our abode was
surrounded, we had so well cut the passage which conducted
to Jackal stream, that we were obliged to fetch the water
from the source of the stream. To avoid such a journey
during the bad season, we made a long conduit with hollow
bamboo canes, joined to each other, and covered with resin
at the joints. This conduit, supported by wooden forks
stuck in the ground, led to a large barrel, which served as
a reservoir.

We put to profit each fine day that still remained to us,
to collect potatoes, rice, acorns, and a number of useful
plants. The delicious pine-apple was not forgotten. As
we wanted vessels to enclose all our gatherings, the mother
made us sacks of sail-cloth, and our raft was demolished to
provide us with barrels.

. I had not forgotten the meditated expedition against '
the apes. One morning we set off, my three eldest sons and
I, well armed, and well provided with bird-lime, which was
to be our sole means of attack. Arriving on the borders of
the lake, I chose a convenient place for our encampment;
' then, after having erected the tent, and fastened our steeds
so that they could not run away, we went in quest of the
enemy. Fritz, whom I sent forward, soon returned, announc-
ing that he had discovered the haunt of the thieves, at some
distance from the border of the little wood. I then planted
round the farm some little stakes, which we had taken care
to drive in lightly, and between which we entwined some
long bindweed. As a bait, we placed near the stakes some
open cocoa-nuts, and some gourds filled with rice and palm-
wine, and covered them, as well as the stakes and bindweed,
with bird-lime. We spread it also on the roof of the hut,
and on the trunks of the trees. These preparations finished,
we all retired, to let the enemy approach; but the rest of
the day and night passed without seeing them appear. The
next day when we awoke, the first thing we saw was a troop
of apes advancing towards the hut. We remained motion-
less, not to frighten them, and we soon saw them fall into
the snare which we had spread. In a few moments their
skin was sticking to the stakes, to the bindweed, and to the
gourds. It was a strange spectacle to see the thousand con-
tortions they made, which only made them stick the faster.
On all sides were cries of rage and despair. The confusion
was at its height. Our dogs threw themselves on the
apes; but seeing the terror of the poor beasts, our anger
ceased. I recalled the dogs. In spite of the injury these
unlucky beasts had done us, we could not help pitying
them, so we restored them to liberty, after having admin-
istered some blows of the whip, and all the troop took flight
in great confusion, and I hoped it would be a useful lesson
to them.

Fritz thanked me for having confined our expedition to
salutary correction. " We should not have had the courage
to carry our vengeance farther," said he. "Let us now go
and repair the damage to our farm; they will not come
again." "If we fasten some windmills to the ends of the
building," said James, " they will prevent their returning."
We all began to work, and a few hours after about thirty
mills, placed at equal distances, were turning round the
walls of the enclosure. I was not very sure of the efficacy
of this method, but I did not impart my doubts. It took
four days to repair the damage and restore life to our estab-
lishment, which we left on a better footing than it was be-'
fore experience had taught us what attacks it might have
to resist.

The stormy days soon came on. Thunder, lightning, and
rain forced us to hide in our grotto. The sea took part in
these convulsions of nature, and the noise of the waves
which beat on the shore filled us, for some time, with- in-
voluntary terror. I had not expected these storms till the
beginning of June, but they came much sooner, so we were
obliged to remain twelve weeks confined in our winter
quarters. We kept near us only four of our domestic
animals: the cow, because of her milk; the wild ass, who
suckled her young one; the buli'alo and donkey, to be use-
ful in some journeys we were obliged to make to F alcon's
Nest, where we kept the rest of the cattle,' the fowls, and
the stock of forage. I should say that we also had with us
the dogs, the eagle, the jackal, and the monkey, whose
tricks were always amusing.

The arrangement of our salt cabin still required perfect-
ing. The three openings in the rock but feebly lighted the
interior. After having reflected for some time, I thought
of a project, which the skill and lightness of James rendered
easy. I took, a long and thick bamboo cane, one end of
which I stuck firmly in the soil of the cavern, whilst the
other end reached the roof. James climbed this new kind
of mast, and in a natural cleft of the roof, he stuck firmly
a wooden stake, to which he fixed a little pulley, and
through it was passed a cord, with the two ends hanging
to the ground. During this time, the mother had cleaned
and filled with oil a large lantern found in the ship, the
three wicks of which we lighted, and suspended by means
of the cord to the roof; whose crystal facets shone like a
thousand fires. .

The arrangement of our apartments occupied us for several
days. Ernest and James furnished with shelves the part
destined for the library; the mother and Francis busied them-
selves in the hall and kitchen; and Fritz and- I reserved to
ourselves the arrangement of the workshop. In this part
were placed all the smith's and carpenter's tools we had saved
from the wreck. On one side we fixed our forge. We had
bellows, anvil, and hammers, but we still wanted sorne tools
to execute smith's work successfully. Every day we felt the
want of a number of conveniences, which the European scarcely
appreciates, because he has never been deprived of them, such
as chairs, tables, drawers, etc. To keep my children from idle-
ness, I busied myself with them in making the things we
wanted, and if success did not always crown our efforts, at
least we did not suffer from ennui.
With the wrecks and pieces of rock taken from the cavern,
we made before the entrance a terrace, then erected with
strong bamboos, supporting some planks, a sort of portic0,.
surmounted by a balcony, whence we could see a long dis--
tance. Thanks to the care of Ernest and James, our library
looked like a real museum. On the shelves were ranged
the books which had belonged to the captain and officers of
the ship, among which were several on natural history, orna-
mented with coloured engravings, some treatises on botany
and zoology, and other useful works. Besides these, there
were. mathematical and astronomical instruments, and a mag-
nificent terrestrial globe.

Among the books of study, I discovered several grammars
and dictionaries of difl'erent languages, which gave us the
idea of perfecting ourselves in those which we knew a little,
and learning those of which we were ignorant, so as to be
nearly sure of being able to enter into communication with
the first ship which might pass near us, to whatever European
nation it belonged. French was known to us; the two eldest
proposed to learn English; James decided on Italian and
Spanish. Ernest wished also to improve himself in Latin,
which is very useful in the study of natural history and
medicine, of which we had several treatises in our library.
He became also tutor to little Francis, and did it so well that
the clear child, far from having a fear of books, as he had
before, was impatient for his lesson hour. . '

When the most pressing labours were finished, we un-
packed the chests which we had brought away from the
vessel. We saw ourselves in possession of several glasses, two
tables with marble tops, two writing desks, etc. My wife
made the first choice among this unexpected furniture, and
she arranged, with the help of her sons, a little room, of
which she was very proud. We found amongst these riches a
sea watch, and several superb ornaments, which only required
care in cleaning and arranging; so the twelve weeks we
passed in the grotto were so well filled that I could only
execute a very small part of my projected work. My children
wished to give a particular name to our subterranean castle;
they chose Felsenheim (abode in the rocks).
The end of the month of August was marked by terrible
storms. The sea beat against the shore with frightful roar-
ings; thunder and lightning seemed. to threaten nature with
complete devastation; so we blessed Providence, who had let
us find this spacious grotto--a true dream of the Thousand
and One Nights--where we were in safety from the fury of
the elements.

At last the weather changed, the sky became clear, and
we could venture to go out. of our retreat Whilst we were
occupied in contemplating the wonders of the new vegetation,
Fritz, with his lynx eyes, perceived in the little Bay of
Flamingoes, near an islet, an object which looked like a
stranded sloop. I took my glass, but could distinguish noth-
ing certain. We resolved to make an excursion to the bar,
to see the thing closer. Besides, we wanted air and exercise
after three months' seclusion. After having emptied our
canoe of the rain water with which it was filled, and furnished
it with its rigging, we set off, James, Ernest, Fritz, and I.
As we sailed, we found that what we had taken for a sloop
was nothing but an enormous whale, which the violence of
the sea had thrown on a projection of the little island. The
waves, which beat furiously on the side where the whale was
lying, forced us to make a long detour to land. This island was
scarcely more than half a league in circumference; there were
no trees on it, but the ground was covered with plants of all
kinds. To reach the whale, my sons and I took two dif-
ferent routes; I climbed over the rocks, from whose heights
I could see Falcon's Nest and Zeltheim. I soon reached my
sons, who had followed the sea coast. They came to me,
showing their hats full of corals and shells, which they had
picked up. As we had not the necessary utensils to cut
up the marine monster, I put off this work till another time,
and returned to the shore.

My young sons, who had found rowing very painful, asked
me if I could not invent some machine to make our canoe
glide better over the waves. I smiled at seeing the unlimited
confidence they had in me. "I am not a sorcerer," said I,
- "and I have no fairy in my Sleeves; but if you can procure
me a large iron wheel, I will try what I can do." "An ironTHE STRANDED "'IIALFH
wheel!" cried Fritz, "there is a beautiful one on our jack."
I would not promise more, but without promising or refusing
anything, I persuaded them to row back.

We arrived at the shore, where my wife awaited us. She
was delighted with the beauty of the corals, which my sons
showed her; and when I announced our intention to return
to the island the next day, to cut up the whale, she asked
to accompany us. I consented with pleasure. The following
day I loaded our boat with utensils and food; we took also
some of the tubs which remained from our boat. The sea
was calm, so we landed without any difficulty near the
monster, whose repulsive appearance frightened little Francis
and his mother. Indeed, this enormous mass, which was at
least seventy feet long, and might weigh about sixty thousand
pounds, was hideous to behold.

We began at once to cut up the whale. Fritz and James,
armed with their hatchet and scythe, mounted on the animal's
back, and began to cut off the fins. There were several
hundred on each side of the upper jaw, those in the middle
more than ten feet long, and the others gradually diminishing.
The fins of whales are bent like a scythe, and are of a black,
horny substance. They are fixed in the palate and take the
place of teeth, of which the whale has not much need, since'
it feeds on little animals, which it swallows at a gulp. My
sons were astonished at the smallness of the eyes, which are
similar to those of an ox. We were not alone in doing this
vile, but useful work; a multitude of birds of prey landed
every instant on the body of the whale, and were even so
bold as to take pieces of flesh close to our hatchets. My
sons killed several; and as their down appeared to please
the mother, they put them on the boat. We filled our
barrels with pieces of fat, cut from the sides of the whale,
and with this precious cargo, whose smell was not very
agreeable, we returned to Felsenheirn.

The next day we began to convert into oil our stock of
whale-fat. After having extracted, by strong pressure, a
quantity of fine, pure oil, which we enclosed in two barrels,
we placed our pieces of fat in a pot on the fire, and thus
obtained a dozen skins full of common oil. We took care to
perform this operation at a distance from our abode; still
the horrid smell from the pot reached Felsenheim.

"Why did you not do this dirty work at the island?" said
my wife, when we returned to dinner. "You would have
had there wood enough to melt a hundred times as much fat,
and we should not have had this smell. I must tell you an
idea I formed, when I saw the fertility of that island. Would _
it not do to establish there a colony of our poultry? There,
' at least, we should have nothing to fear from jackals and
apes." "The idea is excellent," cried I, "and I think we
should see about it directly." The young people wished to
put their mother's project in execution the same day, but I
told them that I would first try to make our canoe more
easy for the rowers. I set to work immediately; the wheel
of a spit, and a notched axis on which it caught, were my
only resources. I first placed across the canoe, a bar of iron
which reached out a foot on each side, in the middle of which
I had fixed the notched axis. This bar rested in notches,
made in the side planks, and covered with layers of copper,
to prevent the wear caused by rubbing. To the two ends,
outside the boat, I fastened four pieces of whale fins, similar
to the sails of a wind-mill. I then placed, on two supports
fixed in the middle of the boat, the catching wheel, whose
teeth would bite on those of the axis, to which I had fixed
a handle. This done, we had only to turn the handle, so
that the fins should strike the water, where they were im-
merged one after the other, giving to the canoe a rapid
motion. -

At this sight, the children uttered cries of joy, and when
Fritz and I, after having gone round the bay, touched the
shore, they all threw themselves into the canoe, and wished
to try an excursion to the island. I told them that the day
was too far gone, but promised for the next day a voyage
to Prospect Hill. The first light of day found all the family
on foot; as everything had been prepared the evening
before, we had only to cast our eyes over the provisions, to
see that nothing had been forgotten; then we got into our
canoe. The weather was magnificent, the sea calm, so our
navigation, facilitated by my invention, was very fm-tunate.
In passing by the Wood of Apes, we landed, to renew our
stock of cocoa-nuts.

When we arrived at Prospect Hill, our first care was to
visit the colony, where I found all in order as to the materials;
but the goats and sheep had become so wild, that my bOys
had to use their lassoes to catch them. Thanks to this ex-
pedient, we gathered together the fugitives, and distributed
to them some potatoes and salt, on which they feasted. The
fowls and chickens were more tame, and the mother easily
caught several couples, and tied their legs and placed them
in the canoe, to transport them to Whale Island. After
having visited every part .of our domains, and assured our-
selves that all was in good condition, we went to dinner.
Some cold meat, the milk of our goats, and the tongue of
the whale made our repast, but we were obliged to abandon
to the jackal the last-named article, on account of its oily
taste. I then went with Fritz to cut some sugar-canes, and
chose, in the environs, divers suckers of plants which I wished
to naturalise in Whale Island, and we then put to sea.

Arriving on the island, I first put in the ground the plants
I had brought from Prospect Hill; the mother helped me
in this work, for the boys had dispersed over the island.
Suddenly, we saw James running towards us. "Father," cried
he, "come and see, I have discovered the skeleton of a

mammot ." At the speech of the young b0y, I began
' to laugh, and replied that his mammoth could only be the
carcass of our whale. However, as he insisted that I should
go and ascertain the fact, I followed him, but I was stopped
on the road by Fritz, who called me to his assistance to
master a monstrous turtle which he had caught. I hastened
to join him, carrying two solid oars. I. arrived just in time;
a few minutes more, and the turtle would have got back
to the sea; with our oars, we succeeded in turning over
the animal, who, once laid on his back, gave us no more
trouble. As James pressed me to go and see his discovery,
I went with him to the famous skeleton, which was no other
than that of the whale. A few days had sufficed for the
sea-birds to gnaw to the last fibre this immense body, of
which there. only remained the bones. I asked James what
made him think it was a mammoth, and from his answer
I found that he had been mystified by Ernest; I joked
him on his credulity, and gave him a lesson on natural
history, to which he listened with great attention.

While talking, we returned toward the plantation; as
it was too late to put all the shrubs in the ground, the roots
were wrapped in damp leaves, and I put off the completion
of my work till another day. We began to think of departing;
but we knew not what to do with the turtle; our united
strength was scarcely suflicient to lift it. At last I thought
of making a tug of him; I fastened round the neck and
fore feet of the animal a cord, the end of which I fixed to
our boat. To prevent the turtle from going to the bottom,
I tied round his body two empty barrels, we put him again
on his feet, and he directly threw himself into the sea,
dragging the boat, into which we had jumped. I went to
the front of the boat, to cut-the cord in case of danger, and.
guided the turtle with a long pole. Our navigation was most
fortunate, and on arriving at Felsenheim, our first care was
to fasten the beast to the shore.

The next morning 'we killed him. His fat and his flesh,
which has the taste of veal, promised us some succulent
meat, whilst his shell would make a new basin for the
fountain at F elsenheim; it was eight feet long, and three
wide. It was one of those green or giant turtles which
inhabit the ocean between the trapics. '
THE WEAVING MACHINE. THE PALANQUIN. THE BOA.

IT was at this time that I finished, with Ernest's help, the
weaving machine which I promised Our heusekeeper, who had
been for a long time uneasy at seeing our stock of linen
diminish. How glad I was, then, at having, in my youth,
endeavoured to comprehend the mechanism of the trades of
. weavers and other workmen, when I went to visit their
workshops. My machine was perfect, almost to elegance;
so my wife could not thank me enough when I showed it
her, mounted and ready to work. This success encouraged
me. I wished to prove my skill in making saddles and
harness for my sons' steeds. The saddles were already
shaped; I covered them with kangaroo skin, and stuffed
them with moss. I made some thongs, bridles, and traces;
but unskilful in this new trade, I had to go, like a tailor, and
measure the animals several times.

I had scarcely finished these labours when there arrived,
as in the preceding year, the shoal of hen-rings, of which I
laid in a good stock. To the herrings succeeded the sea-dogs.
We killed about twenty, and salted the skins to preserve
them. The fat and bladders were put carefully away; as to
the flesh, it was thrown to the crabs in Jackal Stream, and
we caught a great many with this bait. I was resolved also
to make some baskets and hampers, which my wife wanted
very much to gather and preserve her seeds, fruits, and roots.
Our first trials were made with common osiers, and were
only fit to bring them from the ground; but we soon ac-
quired tolerable skill. Two large baskets which we made

were such a good shape that James and Ernest, proud of
x 187
their work, placed Francis in one of them, and with two
bamboo canes passed through the handles, carried him in
triumph.

" Oh, father 1 " cried Fritz, who was looking at them,
"could we not make a similar litter for mamma, who would
like it much better than the cart, when she wishes to
accompany us in our excursions?" "Without doubt, Fritz;
but whose shoulders are robust enough to be porters for this
new kind of palanquin?" "It shall be, if you like, Sturm
and Drummer," cried James; "we could strap on them two
poles, to support the basket; shall we try, father?" I con-
sented willingly, so the two animals were brought; we put
on their saddles, on each side of which we fastened the sticks
which were to support the basket. James mounted on Sturm
and Francis on Brummer, who went down on their knees at
the command of their masters, whilst Ernest got into the
basket. At a second order, the buffalo and ox rose and
began to walk quietly. The osier basket balanced as gently
as a coach on steel springs. By degrees the two porters
increased their pace, to the great pleasure of Ernest, who
could not, however, help shutting his eyes and catching hold
of the sides of the basket, when he received a stronger shake
than usual. James and Francis, who remarked and were
amused at their brother's frightened movements, vigorously
whipped their steeds, who began to gallop. Poor Ernest,
jolted and shaken, rolled in his basket like an india-rubber
ball, crying out with all his strength, till the two animals,
after having had a good gallop along the shore, came and
stopped before us, to claim our plaudits. Ernest, red with
anger, broke out into just reproaches to his brothers, who did
not want for answers. I interfered, by remarking to the two
careless boys that their bad joke might have had fatal conse-
quences. They owned their fault, and begged Ernest's
pardon, which was immediately granted.

As the mother and I were quietly talking before the
entrance to the grotto, Fritz, who was a little way off and
looking towards the alley leading to the bridge at Jackal
Stream, came to us and said: "I don't know what animal it
is I see down there, which seems to come from this side,
making clouds of dust." "It is most likely one of our
beasts, rolling in the sand," said his mother. "Oh, no,"
replied Fritz, "our animals are all shut up; and besides, the
pace of none of them is the least like that of the creature I
see."

At these words my wife, frightened, entered the grotto,
where I sent my sons to prepare our arms. I took the glass,
which I set in the direction of the bridge. "What have you
discovered, father?" asked Fritz, anxiously. " It is an enor-
mous serpent," I replied, in a low voice. "Then I shall not
be the last in the fight," said the brave boy; "I will run
and fetch our guns and hatchets." "Prudence, before every-
thing," said I; "this animal is too terrible to try to wrestle
face to face with him." Saying these words, I drew him
into the grotto, where we prepared everything to receive
him. Our terror was but too well justified; we distinctly
perceived the frightful reptile dragging his enormous folds
along the shore. He had already passed the bridge; he
raised his hideOus head and stopped from time to time, as if
to explore the places round. We had barricaded our door,
shut up all the openings, and mounted on the terrace,
where we could see him without being perceived. There,
with our guns on our arms, we observed all his movements.
It was a boa of the largest size. The monster came straight
towards us; but suddenly he seemed to hesitate, as if
alarmed by the traces of a human neighbourhood.

At this moment Ernest, whose nerves were over-excited,
let go the trigger of his gun; it went off. James and
Francis, thinking it was right, fired at the same time. At
this triple'discharge, the serpent raised his head, rather with
surprise than fright; but, whether neither of the aims had
been correct, or the scales of the animal would not admit
the balls, it appeared to have received no wound, and as
Fritz and I prepared to fire, we saw him glide swiftly to-
wards Goose Marsh, where he disappeared. A cry of
satisfaction escaped from our breasts; we felt, at least for
the moment, saved from an imminent peril, but the probable
neigthurhood of the boa made me seriously uneasy; at
anymoment the terrible animal might appear, and I could
think of no means of getting rid of him without running
the greatest danger. I expressly prohibited my wife and
children from going out of the grotto without my permission.

For three days fright kept us shut up in our abode. The
least noise from without threw us into mortal agony. We
dared scarcely venture over the threshold. However, the
monster gave no sign of life, and we should have thought
that he had gone entirely away, if the unaccustomed agitation
and fright of our fowls had not warned us of his presence.
Our provisions were diminishing without our being able to
renew them, and all our works suffered considerably from
our forced inaction. The forage was almost exhausted; we
foresaw that we should be in want of food if we continued
to divide with our animals the few provisions that remained.
I resolved therefore to set them at liberty, so that they
might provide for their own subsistence. It was decided that
we should drive them to the side of the stream opposite to
the marsh where the serpent had taken refuge.

Fritz took this care upon himself. 'He made the beasts
go out, and prepared to escort them, and we kept a look-
out on the terrace ready to fire on the enemy, if he threatened
his march; the buffalo and cow were tied together, when
the ass, to whom three days of rest and good food had
given extraordinary vigour and gaiety, set off into the field
uttering formidable hee-haws, and making such grotesque
gambols, that in spite of the grave pre~occupation of the
moment, we could not help laughing. Fritz leaped on the
wild ass, and prepared to run in pursuit, when I restrained
him, showing him the danger he ran in venturing to the
side of the marsh towards which the ass had gone. We
tried to recall the runaway, who looked at us from time to
time with an air of bravado. 'We showed him salt; all was use-
less; he thought only of enjoying his liberty, and getting farther
and farther from us; he went straight to the reptile's haunt.
Suddenly, we perceived a horrible head rise above the reeds.
At this sight the ass appeared petrified with terror, uttered
a sort of strange groaning, and turneda mournful look towards
us. One would have thought he had had a sun-stroke, for
the serpent approached him without the ass making any
attempt to run away. In an instant the poor beast was
surrounded by the monster's rings, and stifled in his horrible
embrace.

We contemplated in melancholy silence this heartrending
scene. The children asked me to let them fire on the boa,
to deliver our poor ass. I stepped them, by showing that
they would only irritate the monster, whose fury would
turn against us, without profit to our poor ass, who already
gave no signs of life. "Let us wait," said 1, "till he has
swallowed his victim, for when he is full there will be no
danger in attacking him, and we shall be sure of conquer-
ing him." " But," said James, "the frightful beast cannot
swallow our ass at a single mouthful." "As serpents have
no teeth to tear their prey," I replied, " they swallow it
all at once , but look! see how with his rings, he presses
and crushes the body of the unhappy animal, and brings it
to the size of his throat."

The mother, who feared the efi'ect of this heartrending
spectacle on her youngest son, and could scarcely bear
to witness it herself, took the child into the grotto. I was
profoundly horrified myself. Not only was the ass dead,
but his body was already an undistinguishable mass. The
boa, to give himself more strength, had rolled his tail round
a part of the rock, and we saw him knead the tattered flesh
like a soft paste. The reptile then covered his prey with
saliva, and opening his enormous mouth, began his repast. He
first stretched his whole length in front of the mass he
had prepared, then seizing the ass by the hind feet, he drew
him towards him, and by degrees the thighs, the body,
and the fore-legs were engulfed in the throat of the monster,
who seemed to feel as much pain as pleasure in satisfying
his formidable appetite. But when he came to the head,
which he had neglected to grind like the rest of the body,
he was stopped, and fell down completely motionless.

It was for this moment I waited. Immediately seizing
my gun, I cried to my sons: "Courage! the monster is now
ours." I sprang towards the serpent, followed by Fritz and
James; but not by Ernest, who, always more timid than
his brothers, remained on the terrace observing us. The
boa looked at us with sparkling eyes and powerless rage.
He was literally unable to move; then Fritz and I both
fired, and fractured his skull. A last angry look shone in
his eyes, his tail beat the ground: he was dead. At this
moment James, who wished to have his share in the victory,
discharged his pistol in the boa's belly. This produced a
sort of galvanic efi'ect on the serpent's tail, which rose and
struck our mad-cap so roughly that he was thrown down.
This was happily the last misdeed of this formidable enemy.

We uttered cries of victory, which drew to us the mother,
Francis, and Ernest. We embraced each other with transports
of joy. It seemed as if a new existence had been given us.
" As for me," said Ernest, always ready to make use of his
little learning, "I bless our poor ass for having devoted
himself for -us, like Curtius for his fellow-citizens." " What
shall we do with the serpent's body?" asked James. "We
will stuff it," replied Ernest, "and keep it to ornament our
museum of natural history." "But could we not eat this
great eel?" said Francis; "there would be broils and stews
for several weeks." "Eat the flesh of a serpent," cried the
mother, "of a serpent which is perhaps venomous?" "The
boa, my dear wife, is not venomous, and if it were, there
would be no danger in eating it, provided we threw away
the head, where are found the fangs and glands containing
the poison."

Ernest, whose curiosity was never satisfied, and who always
seized opportunities of instructing himself, asked me if
it were true that some serpents were sensible to music. "That
is very certain," replied I, "and not only do they love
music, but they dance to it, raising themselves on the end of their
tails. The Indian jugglers, who teach them this exercise, make
it a great subject of admiration to the population of uncivilised
countries. These jugglers surround their art of charming
with profound mystery, because this mystery is the only
reason of their success with the ignorant. It is supposed
that they use particular herbs, endowed with soporific virtues,
which the serpents cannot _resist; and besides, they first pull
out their venomous fangs." " How dare they do that, and
' how do they take them?" asked James. "This is an
operation which I should never like to practise." "In
the most simple way," replied I. "The serpent advances,

opening his mouth in a menacing manner; they present
' to him a strip of linen, on which he seizes furiously, and
they immediately pull it out with a jerk; the fangs are
broken, and the animal is unable to hurt them."

" Father," asked Fritz, "what should we do if we were
bitten by a serpent?" "The most efi'icacious remedy
would be, either to cut out the flesh contaminated by the
venomous teeth of the animal, or to burn it with gunpowder.
There are other means less heroic, and equally successful;
for example, to wash the wounds with salt water, with
dissolved alkalis, or even with oil." "Oh," cried Ernest,
"the remedies you mention are worse than the disease." "You
would not say so, child, if you knew that a few hours after
you have been bitten by a rattlesnake, if you have not
cauterised the wound by the methods I have told you, a
horrible death ensues." "I am very sorry that there are serpents
in our island," said little Francis; "there were none in
Switzerland. That was the best." "Then you would like
to quit our beautiful island, and return to streets; you
would abandon the pine-apples, the cocoa-nuts, our beasts,
our grotto, our house in the tree! Shall I go and take a
place for you in the carriage?" "You are naughty," said
Francis, "you are always laughing at little Francis! I cannot
like the serpents!" "As for me," said my wife, _"I am of
Francis' opinion; I shall never have an hour's peace when you
are out." "Courage," said I, " and trust in God!"

13EPITAPH ON THE ass. THE BOA STUFFED.

OUR long conversation had been a pretext for a rest, till
we were a little recovered from our fatigues and anxieties
of all sorts; we were seated in the shade of an enormous
rock, having beside us our loaded guns and pistols. To tease
Ernest and make him expiate his obstinacy in remaining
behind during our combat with the monstrous reptile, I asked
him to write an epitaph for our ass, saying, that since he
had several times manifested poetical tendencies, this was the
time to show his talent; the subject was certainly worth the
trouble.

My little poet did not in the least see the joke; on
the contrary, he took the invitation in good part, and, resting
his head in his hands, he began to obey me. Ten minutes
after, his face cleared by his content with himself, like Archi-
medes or Pythagoras after .their glorious discoveries, he rose
and said :--

"I have found my epitaph, but you must not laugh at
me, father." I encouraged him to speak with confidence, and
tell us the result of his meditation, which he did with the
blush of a neophyte. Here is his composition :--

" Here lies an honest ass,
Victim of his imprudent conduct,

Which, notwithstanding, was a good deed,
Since it preserved from a cruel and imminent death
Four children, their father and mother,

Shipwrecked on this shore."

"Well done, boy," cried I, laughing, "your verses are
194
certainly the best that have been made on this desert island;
here are six beautiful lines, the fourth ought to count for two,
for it has almost as many feet as the centipede. To recompense
you, I will write it On the rock near which our lamented donkey
died, awaiting the day when we can have it engraved elsewhere."
Saying this, I drew from my pocket a thick red pencil, which I
always carried with me for my work in the wood, and wrote
on the rock the six lame lines, dictated to me by Ernest,
who was divided between the pleasure of being an author,
and the consciousness that he had not performed a c/zgf
airmen.

I had just finished transcribing this epitaph, when Fritz
returned to us; he had been to the grotto to bring the
animals to carry away the corpse of our enemy. I first
drew from the boa's mouth the remains of our poor ass,
which we buried in a deep ditch, over which we rolled
several large pieces of rock to protect them from the car-
nivorous animals. Then the oxen were fastened to the serpent,
which they dragged to the entrance of Felsenheim; arrived
there, "Father," asked the young people, "how shall we clean
this vile beast, so as to preserve him for a trophy?" "I will
shew you a particular method, which will perhaps succeed,"
I replied. "You must make a circular cut in the neck, and
fix strongly to the earth with cords and pegs the first folds of
the skin slightly turned back; then you must fasten the oxen
to the head, which they will drag with the rest of the body
by going gently, and the inside will come out by degrees;
then turn the skin, salt it, and rub it well with ashes; turn
it back, and fill it with moss, sewing pp the cut first made;
and then, having given the animal the proper posture, dry
it in the sun."

These instructions were immediately followed by my four
children, directed by Fritz, and I assisted in their work to
encourage them. The stuffing was attended with some pleasant
incidents. James, with nothing on but his trousers, got into
the skin, which was suspended to the branch of a tree in its
whole length, and by' degrees filled in the moss, which his
brothers handed to him on forks.

This part finished, we had to give the stuffed serpent a
characteristic attitude, and this embarrassed us for some time.
One proposed this, the other that, and none of them came
to a satisfactory solution. I assisted them by fixing a stake
three feet high in a block of earth, and rolling round it the
body of the monstrous boa, supporting its breast on the blunt
end of the stake, so that its head and neck advanced
horizontally in a menacing manner; the mouth was open; and
the tongue hanging out, tinted with the juice of Indian figs as
red as blood; instead of glass, I had to put for eyes two
pieces of gypsum stuck in with isinglass.

Though dead, the horrible beast appeared so like life, that
whilst it was exposed to the sun our dogs and domestic
animals shuddered when passing before it. Thus disposed,
it was placed at the entrance of our library museum, on the
door of which my children wrote in red letters this inscription,
" Entrance forbidden to asses."AN EXCURSION. A NEW GROTTO.

THOUGH all danger was past for the present, I was not
without anxiety, imagining, with some appearance of reason,
that since the serpent killed by us was a female, we might
meet with other animals of her species, the male or young
ones. I resolved on two hunts; one in our neighbourhood,
the other in the environs of Falcon's Nest. The last ex-
cursion was to reach as far as the pavilion on Prospect
Hill, on the road from which was a. defile of rocks, which
might have served as a road for our terrible visitor.

When setting out with my sons for Goose Marsh, I
remarked a sort of hesitation in James and Ernest, who
still retained the impression which the murderer of our ass
had made on them. "I own that a shudder runs through my
body," said James, "when I think of the wretched time
which this monster made me pass. I feel as if all my bones
were broken." I re-assured them by appealing to their heart
and reason. "I think," said I, "that the serpent we have
killed has probably left little ones, who may grow and attack
us some day. It is a question of safety that we should face
the peril before the enemy has attained his strength." This
last reason decided them. We set off, provided with our
best hunting accoutrements, and also with a quantity of
bamboos, several planks, and some full leather bottles, which
in case of need would help to keep us above water.

When we arrived at the marsh I made my little troop

advance with precaution over the shaky earth. As we
I97
advanced, I threw the planks or bamboos before us, and with-
out accident we reached the other side of the marsh. Here
and there in crossing we had seen traces of the boa ; but to
our great joy nothing showed that she had left eggs or little
ones. A little further on, at the sharp declivity of a hillock,
we discovered a tolerably large grotto, from the bottom of
, which gushed a little stream, and the roof was ornamented
with stalactites in the form of small pillars. The bottom
was covered with extremely fine earth, as white as snow,
which to my great joy I found was fuller's earth.

"Here is a precious present to make to your mother,"
said I, filling my handkerchief with handfuls of this earth,
and telling my children to do the same. "This will clean
our clothes if we return a little dirty; a soap ready made,
which will dispense with the tiresome lime-boiling." In
'seeking the source of the stream, I remarked that the water
.came out of a fissure in the rock, which we enlarged a little
for curiosity. The stone in this place was so crumbly that
we soon obtained an opening, through which Fritz and I
crawled, telling James and Ernest to wait for us. We soon
found ourselves in profound darkness. To tell pretty nearly
the extent of this grotto, I fired a pistol straight before me,
and was certain that it was quite equal to the other. As I
wished to assure myself of the salubrity of the air, I lighted
a wax-light which I had in my pocket, and it burnt perfectly
well.

We advanced with precaution, looking round 'us as far
_ as the light permitted, when Fritz cried out joyfully, "Father,
father! a new salt grotto! Look at these wonderful crystals,
these sparkling blocks!" "These are not salt crystallisations,
my dear," said I, "for I have just tasted the water which
runs from the top, and there is no flavour in it. I should
think rather that we have entered a real grotto of rock
crystal."

" Y esl yes! you are right, father!" cried Fritz, more and
more joyful; " we have discovered a precious treasure."
"Quite as precious, my dear child, and quite as useless to
us as was Robinson Crusoe's famous golden ingot."

During this conversation we had continued our explora-
tion through the grotto, I talking, and Fritz detaching care-
fully 23. group of crystals worthy of figuring in our museum.
Our wax-light was nearly burnt out, and I told Fritz it was
time to retire. Before going out, he wished to fire, to enjoy
the imposing effect produced by the repeated echoes of the
vaults.

When I reappeared with Fritz at the opening by which
we had penetrated into the grotto,I perceived James in an
attitude of sorrow. He was sobbing, but at the first sound
of our voices he ran towards us with joyful exclamations.
"What is the matter, dear child? " said I. " Why so sad and
so gay in the same minute?" "My joy, father, comes from
seeing you again. My grief from the great fear your pro-
longed absence caused me. Twice I heard a terrible noise,
and it seemed as if everything was falling down in the place
where you and my brother had disappeared." "Dear little
fellow," said I, embracing him, "we have, thank God, been
in no danger; but where is Ernest?" "He is down there,
father, in a thicket of reeds," replied James.

I left Fritz with him, and went in the direction taken
by Ernest, whom I soon surprised, tranquilly seated in a
bed of reeds; he had heard nothing, and had busied him-
self in making a sort of fishing-net, of a particular form,
very ingenious, on which I congratulated him. "That is
not all I have done, father," said he, swelling himself out;
"I have killed a young serpent, about four feet long, which
is there, covered with reeds, beside my gun." "A serpent?"
replied I, laughing; and after having scattered the reeds
which hid the doctor's prey, I added, "It is better than a
serpent; it is a long eel, big and fat, which will make us,
this evening, the stew little Francis dreamt of." His two
brothers arrived, and learning his mistake, began to tease
Ernest. "' Dear Ernest," said I, "I am glad you have done
this, not only because it has procured us an excellent
supper, but because it proves that you have courage. You
have only attacked an eel, but you thought it was a serpent;
it is the same thing in my eyes."

This said, loaded with Ernest's net and fishing, and
Fritz's crystals, we returned home. Just as we arrived, the
mother was washing some linen in the basin of the fountain,
and you may guess the welcome she gave .to our samples of
fuller's earth. The fragment of rock crystal enriched our
collection, to the great joy of little Francis, who was never
tired of admiring this large diamond.JOURNEY-TO THE FARM. THE CAVY. THE MUSK RAT.

SATISFIED about Goose Marsh, I resolved to make a second
expedition to the farm. I had for a long time intended to
fortify this point of our possessions. We prepared to depart
the next day, and as the expedition I wished to undertake
would require our united strength for some weeks, everything
was put in requisition, the travelling tent, the cart, tools, pro-
visions, and ammunition of all kinds.

At the break of day every one was on foot. The mother
made herself a convenient seat on the cart, which was drawn
by Sturm and Brummer, who, at the same time, carried on
their backs James and little Francis. Fritz, on Lightfoot,
trotted about a hundred paces before us, whilst I, on foot as
usual, walked beside the cow, and Ernest, also on foot, kept
near the carriage. At our sides were the jackal and the four
dogs. we set off, full of confidence and gaiety. As usual
when we were absent, we set free the goats, sheep, and fowls;
my wife did not forget to spread here and there some pro-
visions for them, so that the good creatures might keep in
the neighbourhood. Then we advanced towards Wuldegg,
where we intended to pass the night. We relied also on
filling our sacks with cotton, and examining the lake and the
neighbouring rice ground a little nearer. So far we had seen
only' rare traces of the serpent, like hillocks of moving sand.
These traces were effaced the farther we went from Falcon's
Nest; those of the apes even had disappeared.

Our farm appeared in a very satisfactory condition. We
ate our dinner with a good appetite, and then resolved to

examine the environs. I took little Francis with me this
20!
time, to whom I entrusted a gun suited to his size, after
having given him the necessary instructions how to carry
and load it. Ernest was left with his mother at the upper
end of Swan Lake, of which Francis and I were going to
explore the left shore, and Fritz and James the right. Besides,
as it was good to have with us some useful allies, each little
detachment was escorted by our light troops; Ernest and his
mother had Belle and Knips ; Turk and the jackal were
with Fritz and James; Francis and I were accompanied by
Fau'nc and Braun.

We followed the left shore of the lake, often crossed in
our march by thickets of reeds, in which our young dogs
seemed to take pleasure. Black swans, herons, snipes, ducks,
flew over the surface of the water, too far off for our guns,
which enraged Francis, who was impatient to try his skill.
Suddenly there came out of the reeds a sort of disagreeable
bellowing, like the braying of an ass, so much so that Francis,
pointing to the place where it came from, thought it was our
young ass. "That cannot be," replied I. "In the first place,
our ass is too young to bray so loudly; then, it is impossible
that he could have passed us without our seeing him. I am
rather disposed to think it is a bittern or a starred heron,
sometimes called the marsh ox, because of its cry, which re-
sembles distant bellowing." " But, father, how can such a
little bird make such an extraordinary noise?" " My dear
child, you must not judge of the size of animals by the power
of their voices. For example, the nightingales and canaries,
which are very little birds, have very strong voices, which are
heard farther off than that of ducks or turkeys; this comes
from the particular conformation of their throats, and in pro--
portion to their lungs. The bittern, when he wishes to cry _
out, buries a part of his beak in the mud of the marsh, so
that his voice, immediately re-echoed, acquires a strength like
the bellowing of an ox." '

Heron or bittern, Francis greatly desired to try his first
fire on this extraordinary bird. To procure him this natural
satisfaction, I called the dogs to me, and showed .them the
direction in which the small gun of my little hunter was
extended. A few minutes after, there was a rustling among
the reeds; and almost immediately a firing, followed by a
cry of triumph from the little man, told me that he had been
successful. "Hit! hit!" cried he loudly. "What is it then i"
asked I, for I was at some distance from him, and could
distinguish nothing. "A wild boar, father, a fine wild boar!"
,"I hope you have not killed one of our little pigs, which
were left at liberty." Saying this, I came up to the little
boy. It was not one of our pigs, fortunately, but a cavy,
two feet and a half long. This animal has a hard skin, of a
blackish brown colour, lighter under the belly. The toes are
united by membranes. It feeds generally on aquatic plants,
and can remain a long time under water, without being,
properly speaking, amphibious.

When we resumed our journey, Francis, like a true hunter,
wished to carry the cavy on his shoulders; unhappily, they
were too weak for such a. burden. I was amused at his em-
barrassment, and would not assist him, so that he might learn
to help himself. "If I emptied the animal," cried he, after
having walked a few steps, "the weight would be so much
diminished, and then, perhaps, I could carry it to Wuldegg."
The idea was a good one, and in spite of the natural re-
pugnance he had to this operation, he began to put it in
execution. But the burden was still too heavy for his little
shoulders; he sighed heavily, and puzzled his head to find
some new expedient. "Ah! I know," cried he; "I will tie
my game on Braun's back; he is strong enough to carry it."
Francis was relieved from 'his burden, which honest Braun
received very docilely, and began to walk as contentedly as
before. We soon reached the pine wood, where we made a
little halt, and then returned to Wuldegg, without having seen
the least traces of the boa '

On arriving at Wuldegg, we found Ernest surrounded by
a great number of rats, freshly killed. I asked him where
they came from. " Master Knips discovered them," he re-
plied, "in a nest at the extremity of the rice-ground. This
nest was in the form of an oven, whence Knips saw one,
then two, then three rats come out. You may guess his
grins and hisses. I ran, armed with my stick, and impru-
dently ventured under this vault, to judge better of the
number of enemies I had to knock down. Striking here
and there with my stick, I examined the place attentively.
It resembled a great cylinder, built very artistically with
lime, stalks of rice, leaves, and reeds; when suddenly I saw
myself literally invaded by an army, growling and threaten-
ing. - I had to fight with my feet and stick, and Knips on
my back ground his teeth, and hissed more sharply than
ever; the vile animals still returned to the charge, so much
so that, in despair, I began to cry out loudly for assistance.
'Nobody heard me but brave Belle, who ran as quick as
lightning, and using her teeth right and left, before and be-
hind, soon made an empty space around me. I was saved.
Those of my enemies who were not killed fled more 'rapidly
than they came, leaving me master of the field of battle,
whence my dear mother, who soon arrived, helped me to
carry away the slain."

Ernest's recital had doubly interested me, first, because it
concerned him, then because it greatly excited my curiosity.
I wished to be conducted to the field of battle, and I found
that the building of which he had spoken resembled those
which beavers make. " My conjectures are confirmed," said-
I to Ernest; "your enemies are neither rats nor beavers,
properly speaking; they are musk-rats, or ondatras, as they
call them in North America, their native country."

On returning to the mother, we met Fritz and James, who
appeared extremely satisfied with their expedition, whence
they brought nothing except a heath-cock and hen, and a
dozen eggs, wrapped in a sort of fur. Our children were
mutually telling the events of their hunting, speaking with
enthusiasm of the exploits which they had accomplished, and
those in which they had failed. I told them that before
dinner we each had something to do--to skin the rats, who
were all as big as rabbits. Without losing time, we set to
work. This done, the skins were stretched separately with
little strips of wood, then salted, rubbed with ashes, and then
exposed to the sun. As to Francis's cavy, it was cut up,
and one quarter was put on the spit and immediately eaten.
The rest was preserved for the next day, though we did not
much like the flesh, which had a strong marshy smell.
Towards the end of dinner, Ernest said he wanted some-
thing to take away the disagreeable taste which the roast
cavy had left in his mouth. Then, going to their game-bags,
James and Fritz presented to Ernest, the one some almonds
and two small cocoa-nuts, the other some pale green apples,
which had an agreeable smell. "That is right, dear children,"
said I'; "but what is this new fruit that James has brought?
Has he tasted it?" " N 0, clear father," replied the mad-cap;
-"I should have done so, but Fritz prevented me, saying it
might be a poisonous fruit, perhaps the manchineel apple.
But it looks very good, and I hope Fritz is mistaken." I
praised Fritz for his prudence, and cutting one of these un-
known apples, I remarked that it did not look like the
manchineel, since there were pips in it, and the manchineel
has none. Knips approached slyly, took away the half I
had placed beside me, and ate it with evident satisfaction.
This was a general signal. They all seized James's apples
with so much eagerness, that I could scarcely save one for'
my wife. Ashamed of their gluttony, they each offered theirs
to their mother.

I'was going to interrogate James, to know under what
tree he had gathered this excellent fruit, which I suspected
to be the cinnamon apple of the Antilles, when I perceived
that sleep, the result of the day's fatigue, began to overpower
my four boys. I invited them to lie down on our cotton
bags, and set them the example.
THE PECCARIES. THE GIGANTIC BAMBOOS. CONTINUATION
OF OUR JOURNEY.

WAKING at dawn, after a tranquil and comforting sleep, we
resumed our journey in the direction of the marsh of sugar-
canes, which we had named Zuckertop. We had previously
built a but of crossed branches, over which we stretched a
sail-cloth, to preserve us from the heat of the sun, during
the short time we should rest there. Whilst my wife was
busy preparing our" breakfast, I beat about the environs with
my children, to seek traces of the boa, but did not find any.
We were scarcely seated, regaling ourselves with sugar-canes,
when we were interrupted by the continued barking of Our
dogs. We took our guns, and ran towards a thicket of reeds,
whence all this uproar came. A few minutes after there
came out a crowd of little pigs, who ran off quickly one after
the other. We had time to fire before they were out of
reach. Three or four shots made a dozen victims, but did
not derange the rapid retreat of the troop. Their move-
ment, and the grey colour of these animals, showed me that
we had before us some wild hogs, very different from the
European kind. Perhaps they were musk-hogs, or peccaries.
As we were some distance from the hut, where we had
left my wife, and could not carry the game without the cart,
I sent James to fetch it. Whilst waiting, having read that
the flesh of these animals is not good to eat, unless, im-
mediately after death, you take out their little odorous gland,
I hastened to do this with'the peccaries we had killed. When
all was finished, we loaded our booty on the cart, covered

with flowers and green branches, and returned to the hut
206
with joyous songs. The produce of this hunt was too great
for us to hope to eat it before the flesh was spoilt, so we
took measures to preserve it.

While waiting till a special smoke-house was built, which
I told Fritz and James to do as quickly as they could, I cut
the hams and other good pieces from the bodies. The
carcases and heads were abandoned to the dogs and eagle.
The flesh was carefully washed, salted, and placed in sacks
open at the top, which they hung on the branches of the
trees. Under these sacks a hollow gourd received the
drOppings of salt water.

The next morning was employed in preparing a roast
pig, with which Fritz wished to surprise his mother. Under
his direction, his brothers made a cylindrical hole, of a certain
depth, in which they made a fire of branches and small wood,
to heat the stones. While watching this improvised oven,
Fritz prepared his pig; he singed it, washed it, stuffed it
with potatoes and odoriferous plants, and finally sprinkled
it with salt. I had told Fritz to surround his animal with
bark, to protect it from the dust and ashes. The roast thus
prepared, was interred in a bed of burning stones, coals, ashes,
and lastly earth; and whilst it was roasting in this primitive
oven, we returned to hasten the building of the smoke-
house, which was not finished till the evening. Immediately
after we suspended the hams on the platform of the hut,
and kindled on the hearth a fire, stuffed with damp grass
and dry leaves, and a thick smoke soon filled the hut. This
smoke was continued for several days, till the hams were
thoroughly dried. .

Three hours sufficed for the roast pig. When we took
it out of its bed, there rose from the hole such a savoury
smell, that the mother was reconciled to what she called
savage cookery. Fritz was triumphant. Thinking of the
exquisite say-Our which the bark with which it was surrounded
had given to the roast, I carefully examined the tree which
had produced it, and presumed it must be the ravensara of
Madagascar. In their language it signifies "good leaf," whence
botanists have given it the Greek name of agathrophyllum,
which has the same signification. It unites the perfume of
the musk, clove, and cinnamon. They extract from _ it an
oil, with which Indian cooks perfume their meat.

The preparation of our hams detained us two days longer
near the smoke-house. My wife and one of her sons attended
to the fire, whilst we made several excursions in the environs.
Every day we brought back some booty. Among other riches,
we discovered in a bamboo thicket a number of reeds, sixty
feet high and of proportionate thickness, which we could
easily employ in making barrels, taking care to cut them
near the knots. Besides, the spikes with which these knots
were ornamented being as hard as iron nails, were carefully
gathered by us. Lastly, the young bamboo shoots we had
gathered were especially appreciated by our housekeeper, who
preserved them in vinegar, surrounding them with ravensara
leaves. .

In a visit to Prospect Hill I met with a great disappoint-
ment, as we did before at VVuldegg, from the numerous
depredations committed by the monkeys. There, also, the

goats and sheep had dispersed into the neighbourhood; our
fowls had become quite wild; and the cabin was so much

destroyed, that I was obliged to put ofl' till another day the
task of rebuilding it.

When our hams were sufficiently smoked, we prepared to
continue our expedition. I took some hams to increase our
provisions; the rest were preserved in the smoke-house,
carefully barricaded with sand, earth, and spikes, to keep off
the attacks of birds of prey, ferocious beasts, and monkeys.
At last, one morning early, the little caravan gaily set off,
confiding in the protection of Providence.
WALK IN THE SAVANNAH. TROOP AND EGGS OF OSTRICHES.
THE GREEN VALLEY. FRIGI-IT OF ERNEST. THE BEARS.

AFTER a march of two hours, we arrived, without adventure,
at the outskirts of a little wood. It was a charming and
perfectly sheltered place. The little wood was bounded on
the right by a sharp rock, having on its left the mouth of a
little stream, running into the great bay. At about a gun-
shot farther there was a narrow passage between the stream
and the rocks, which gave access to our domains. This was
an agreeable and advantageous position in all ways, so here
we fixed our tent, and made the necessary preparations for a
long sojourn. Whilst dinner was preparing, I proposed an
excursion into the little wood, to assure ourselves that we
' had no suspiciOus neighbours; and, indeed, we met some
wild cats, who were chasing the badgers, and fled at our
approach. After dinner the heat became so suffocating, that
we could undertake nothing. The evening was employed in
preparations and projects for the following days, principally .
for the morrow, which we destined for an excursion longer
than any we had hitherto made.

At the rising of the sun we were ready, my three eldest
sons and I, and after breakfast we set off, escorted by all our
four-footed hunters except Belle. In passing by the defile,
we saw our barricade of bamboos broken and overturned,

doubtless by the last storms and inunclations ; and we saw
I4 209
that it was by this opening the serpent had got into our
domains. We determined to repair these disasters on our
return. Before venturing into the savannah, we stopped to
look at the vast and magnificent landscape before us. On
the left, by the side of the river, which we called West River,
extended a waving group of mountains, crowned with verdant
woods and palm-trees. On the right extended numerous
groups of sharp rocks, which served as a natural barrier to
this grand landscape.

We forded the stream, whose shores appeared smiling,
since they permitted us to perceive by the side of the
mountains woods gay with verdure. But, as we advanced,
the country became more desert and arid. There was no
longer any humidity. Grass became more and more rare.
The only plants which appeared were dry, thorny, and dis-
agreeable, such as we find on burnt soil. Happily, we had
had the precaution to fill our gourds at the stream. After
a painful march of two hours, during which my three young
companions had only opened their dry mouths to complain
of heat and fatigue, we arrived at the foot of the hill, which
we had fixed as the end of our journey, and we stretched
ourselves in the shade of a rock, to repose and refresh. We
contemplated in silence the distant perspective which ex-
tended before us, the blue mountains which shut in the
horizon at a distance of fifteen or twenty leagues, and the
West River, which ran through the plain.

We had been lying down some little time, when Knips,
smelling here and there, with strong contortions, sprang,
hissing and crying, towards the rocks, followed by our dogs.
We were'not much disposed to move at first, because we had
just Spread. out our provisions, when suddenly Fritz rose,
looking attentively before him. " What do I see there?"
cried he. "I should say it was two men on horseback. A
third approaches them at a gallop. They are coming to our
side. Father, do you think they are Arabs of the desert?"
"It is impossible, my dear," I replied. "However, as we
cannot be too prudent, take my eye-glass, and look attentively.
What do you see now?" "I see numerous troops of cattle,
grazing here and there--then hay-stacks walking--loaded
chariots, which come and go from the wood to the river.
What can they all be?" I took my glass, smiling, and told
my three boys, who were excited by this adventure, that
what they took for men, mounted on large horses, were only
'giant ostriches, to which, if they liked, we would give chase.
They consented with pleasure.

The ostriches approached nearer to us. I resolved to
await and surprise them, if it were possible; so I told Fritz
to recall the dogs and ape, whilst Ernest and I hid in a
hollow of the rocks, where Fritz and James, leading our
animals, soon joined us. We soon saw the ostriches very
distinctly. There were five, among which I distinguished
four females, the male being known by his white feathers.
"My dear children," said I, "try not to frighten them away,
if you wish to capture one, for it would be of no use to
think of running after these animals, who in speed can defy
a horse at full gallop."

The ostriches had approached within a hundred feet of us,
when, perceiving us, they stopped; but as we held in our
dogs, and remained almost motionless, they took confidence,
and advanced innocently to meet us, contemplating us with
an astonished air that was very amusing. Perhaps they
would have become familiarised and approached near enough
for us to catch them with the lasso, if our dogs, becoming
impatient, had not slipped from us, and thrown themselves
with a great noise on this new kind of game.

Like feathers borne by the wind the ostriches dispersed
over the plain, spreading their wings like sails. We soon
lost sight of them. Fritz, obeying my orders, had promptly
uncovered his eagle's eyes, and let him go the mornent the
ostriches flew away. The male, whom we particularly admired
because of his beauty, remained a little behind, without doubt
to protect his companions. This delay was fatal to him.
Fritz's eagle pounced on him and had reached his neck and
floored him in less time than it takes me to relate it. We
arrived just in time to pluck and put in our hats the most
beautiful feathers of the poor creature.

We resumed our route. Ernest and James, who were
walking in front, soon stopped and called loudly to us;
"Come quickly!" cried they; "an ostrich nest, an ostrich
nest! " We ran, and saw in a hole in the sand about twenty
eggs, as white as ivory and as big as a child's head. "This
is a magnificent prize," said I, "but do not derange the order
in which these eggs are placed, for fear the hen should
abandon them when she returns." "Do you not think they
are already abandoned?" asked Fritz. " No," replied I, "in
this hot climate an ostrich generally leaves her eggs to be
hatched by the sun during the day, and sits on them only in
the night." The children could not, however, resist the
temptation of taking one or two of these eggs to show to
their mother. I took away ,two as gently as possible; and
after having placed, at some distance from the nest, a little
heap of stones, to help us to find it again, we continued
our excursion.-

We soon entered a verdant valley, forming a very agreeable
contrast to the dry plains we had just crossed, and gave
it, by common consent, the name it well merited, Grunthall
(the Green Valley). Here and there troops of buffaloes and
antelopes were tranquilly feeding, and we could easily have
approached them if it had not been for the barking of the dogs.
Insensibly, however, we approached the cavern where James
had taken his young jackal. We were only a short distance
from it, when we saw running towards us, pale and trembling,
the valiant Ernest, who, with his friend Faune, had gone on
in front, to be the first to enter the grotto, where we intended
to rest. "A bear! father, a bear !" cried he, in a terrified
voice, throwing himself into my arms for protection. Ernest's
alarm had a serious cause, for the barking of the dogs was
miXed with growlings of an unequivocal nature. I sprang
forward, with my gun on my arm, recommending courage and
prudence to my children. ,

I soon perceived an enormous bear coming gout of the
cavern to rid himself of our dogs, who bravely held his head;
then behind this bear another, more gigantic still. Fritz, who
followed me close, chose this last for his adversary, whilst
I kept to the first. James, a 'little frightened, but yet ready
to do his duty, stood at some distance. Ernest alone failed
us; he had not yet recovered from his fright. Fritz and Iy):
-

ER

U.

1" (1'!

AR,

15

"A BEAR, A a
fired at the same time. Unhappily our blows were not mortal,
because, fearful of wounding one or other of our dogs, who
were harassing their dangerous enemies, we could not choose
.a plan. However I had broken the jaw of one of the bears,
and Fritz had broken the other's front leg, so that they had
become a little less formidable. The dogs continued to provoke
their terrible adversaries, and the two bears defended them-
selves energetically, sometimes seated, sometimes standing,
full of a rage which made their growlings echo through the
cavern. It was necessary to finish them, or the wrestling ,
might prove fatal to our courageous companions. I took one of
my pistols, advanced a few steps, and choosing the moment
when the head of one of the bears was uncovered, I fired;
whilst Fritz, not less lucky than I was, struck down the
other with a ball in his heart. "God be praised I" cried I,
with emotion, on seeing our two ~enemies struggle in the last
convulsions of agony. James, a witness of our victory, ran
joyfully to announce it to Ernest, and tell him to come to
us. " Why," asked I, without reproaching him for his inaction
in presence of peril, "were you so eager to go first into the
cavern?" "Father," replied he moumfully, "God has punished
me, for I entered it intending to frighten James, by imitating
the growling of a hear. I never expected that two bears
were going to turn into earnest what I meant as a joke." "My
dear children," said I, "let us sincerely return thanks to God:
for, if we have not found traces of the serpent, which we
came to seek, we have, instead, purged our neighbourhood
of two enemies not less terrible, and which one day would
have found us."

Terrible, indeed, were these animals. The biggest measured
about eight feet, and the other a little more than six. Their
powerful claws, their vigorous shoulders, their enormous necks,
their hair, the ends of which shone with a metallic lustre,
were the admiration of 'my boys, who, seated on the still warm
bodies, amused themselves by examining them in detail.
Assuredly we had before us two examples of the silver bears
met by Captain Clarke on the North-West coast of America.
The skin of these beasts would furnish us with magnificent
furs. But as it was impossible to' take them then, I contented
myself with dragging the two bodies into the cavern, the
entrance of which we closed with thick branches. Fritz and
James also left there their ostrich eggs, whose weight in-
commoded them; for it was late, and we had to hasten if we
wished to reach the hut before night.
LABOURS OF THE MOTHER DURING OUR ABSENCE. THE
CONDOR. SKINNING THE BEARS, AND PREPARING THEIR
FLESH. EXCURSION OF THE THREE BOYS. THE ANGORA
RABBITS. THE ANTELOPES. FRITZ'S RECITAL. THE GUIDE
CUCKOO. THE NEST 0F BEES.

AT ,sunset we returned to my wife, who gave us her usual
cordial reception. The repast was prepared, and the fires lighted.
During supper, they naturally asked for a recital of our ad-
ventures, which was given as shortly as possible, so as not
to infringe on the time required for repose. The mother told
us that, with Francis, she went through the little wood to a
hill, at the foot of which she discovered a considerable bed of
fine white clay, called pipe-clay, which would make us some
nice china-ware. Then with some bamboo stalks she had
made a sort of trough to receive a stream of water, which
filtered through the rocks, and would serve for our cattle.
Besides, with some fragments of rock and this clay she had
constructed, in a cleft of the rock, an oven, whose entrance shut
very easily. Lastly, she had made the oxen draw a stock of
bamboo canes, destined to serve as the first materials for the
wall of defence we intended to build. I cordially thanked
my wife for the trouble she had taken; and to try the clay
I made some bowls, which I placed on the pile of wood of

one of our night fires, after which we took the repose we so
much needed.

A little before sunrise, I got up and woke my family.
As I expected, the clay bowls had, got quite hard. I re-
marked that the too great heat had vitrified them beyond

measure, so it would be necessary, when we made the
at;x

216 THE swrss FAMILY ROBINSON.

crockery, to have a furnace, in which we could -moderate the
heat.

Prayers said, breakfast eaten, and the oxen equipped, we
set oil~ for the bear cavern, where we arrived without accident.
Fritz, who was walking in front of the caravan, cried out, as
soon as we perceived the .entrance of the cavern, " Make haste,
if you wish to see a regiment of turkey-cocks and hens, who
are probably assembled there to assist at the funeral of our
' enemies. Come! there is a sort of proud guardian who hinders
them all from approaching the bed of these two sovereigns of
the forest." He Whom Fritz called the proud guardian, was
a large bird with a red crest, having a strip of flesh under his
beak, a collar of white feathers on his breast, the neck naked,
wrinkled, and of a pale red. His plumage was black, with
the exception of some white places. He walked gravely before
the opening of the cavern, which he entered from time to
time, as if to survey what was being done there.

We were looking with astonishment at this singular spec-
tacle, when a great rustle of wings was heard above us. We
looked up, and perceived a bird with. immense breadth of
wing, who soon fell at our feet, pierced by a ball from Fritz's
gun.

The feathered band we had seen before the entrance of
the grotto took flight and dispersed in all directions; the
large bird, the pretended guardian of the dead, alone re-
mained, looking with large round eyes at the corpse of the
new comer, which our dogs had fallen foul of. He soon
however followed the prudent example that had been given
him. We had then before us only the new comer and one of
the turkey-cocks, which he had crushed in his fall.

I entered the cavern with precaution, and found that the
tongue and eyes of one of our bears had disappeared. Some
hours later their magnificent furs and succulent hams would
have been taken from us by these aerial marauders. I soon
returned to the two birds, and after an attentive examination
concluded that he whom we had taken for a turkey-cock was
a Brazil vulture, and he whom Franz had killed was a condor,
as was shown by the extraordinary size of his wings. The
rest of the day was passed in skinning the bears, which wasA HERD OF AN'I'ELOI'ES.
a very difiicult business. It took us two whole days, during
which we bivouacked under the tent, which was erected a
short distance from the grotto.

My b0ys wished to resume our excursions, so at their
earnest solicitations I permitted Fritz, James, and Francis,
accompanied by the dogs, to undertake an excursion into the
savannah, whilst I remained at the tent with my wife and
Ernest. They set off, after I had recommended to them
union and prudence.

Whilst the active housekeeper, aided by Ernest, proceeded
to smoke the bear's flesh, I found sufficient occupation in the
cavern. I had remarked, after minute examination, that the
interior rock was formed of a kind of mica, crossed by long
filaments of amianthus. I excavated, and soon met with
pieces of mica'at least two feet long, as transparent as crystal.
This was a precious discovery, as it would make glass for our
windows.

Towards evening, whilst grilling two delicious pieces of
bear's flesh, we began to feel uneaSy abOut our young hunters,
when joyous hurrahs and the barking of the dogs announced
the return of these dear children. I went to meet them;
they jumped off their steeds, took off their saddles, and let
them enjoy the pasturage near the stream. We returned to-
gether to the tent. James and Francis each carried on his
neck a little live kid; Fritz's game bag was quite full.
"Beautiful hunting! father, beautiful hunting!" cried the jovial
James; "see these kids." "Without counting the Angora
rabbits, which Fritz has in his bag," added Francis, quickly.
"Without counting, also--" said James at the same time.
"Softly," said I, "let us proceed with order; let Fritz relate
your adventures methodically."

He immediately began in these terms: "An hour after
quitting you, we crossed the Green Valley, penetrated through
a ravine into a great plain, and arrived at a little hill.' From
this place we perceived the defile of rocks. I resolved to try
and hunt a flock of animals which were feeding at some
distance, and which appeared to be gazelles, hares, or ante-
lopes. We went carefully, holding in our dogs, so as not to
frighten them; in spite of this, the alarm was given to the
tr00p. Some bounded off, raising their heads and shaking
their ears. Then the dogs were let loose and we galloped
after them. The whole troop sought safety in flight, but we
had posted ourselves so well, that we made them pass through
the defile of rocks. The worst was done, but to secure our
conquest we had to make them go into the hermitage. I
stretched across this passage, at the height of three or four
feet, a cord, to which I fastened the ostrich feathers we had
in our hats, and some rags found in our game-bags, relying
on the wind to agitate them, and force those of our prisoners
to turn back, who should be tempted to return to the fields.
I had read of something like this in an account of travels by
Captain Levaillant. "

"Well remembered " my boy, said I, interrupting him. "I
am glad to see that you profit by your reading. Now tell
me how you caught these Angora rabbits, and what you are
going to do with them, for I am not disposed to permit the
introduction of these animals into our domains, since they
multiply very fast, and would do great damage to our
plantations."

" The capture of these rabbits is due to my eagle," replied
Fritz, "who sprang on a troop that were feeding at the foot
of a hill, and brought me two living ones and one dead, which
I gave him to cat. As to what you call their introduction
into our domains, have we not at our disposal two little
desert islands, which we will people with these pretty little
animals, without their costing us anything? We shall thus
secure another dish for our table and furs for our hats, for
we shall not always have beaver rats to make them of."
"You speak wisely, dear child; so I will leave you the honour
of executing a plan so well conceived." "May we speak, in
our turn?" asked James, with impatience. "Undoubtedly,"
I replied, smiling. "Let us hear how you caught these pretty
kids. "At a gallop, father, at a gallop! Fritz had gone
away with his eagle in pursuit of the rabbits. Our dogs
were smelling here and there among the tufts of grass;
suddenly, there rose up two animals, resembling large hares,
who took to flight, making astonishing leaps. We followed
them closely with our dogs ; after a quarter of an hour's
pursuit, they were out of breath, and fell to the ground or:-
hausted. We descended from our steeds, sent 06' the dogs,
and picked up our large hares, which we then saw were little
kids; we tied them by their feet, and hung them round our
necks."

"Very well, dear children; let me only tell you that your
pretty kids are dwarf antelopes. Now I wish to know
why Iames's face is so swollen. Has he been fighting a
legion of mosquitoes?" "Oh! my wounds are more
honourable," replied James. "I will tell you how I received
them. We were returning home, when I remarked a bird
who preceded us flying from tree to tree, and who as we
approached seemed by his singing to invite us to follow
him. I thought that this bird was mocking us, so I lifted
my gun to shoot him, when Fritz stopped me, by observing
that I should certainly fail, my gun being loaded with ball
and not with lead. ' Besides,' added he, 'this bird resembles
the guide cuckoo; he, perhaps, gives us advice, which we
should do well to follow. We then followed the cuckoo,
who in a few minutes stopped on a tree and ceased
singing. We st0pped also, and soon saw that the tree
on which he settled served as a retreat to a swarm
of bees, which the cuckoo showed to us, in the hope
that when we had taken it away we should give him
part. We were considering how to take the honey, when
Fritz proposed to stifle the swarm with a sulphur match,
which I immediately lighted and pushed into the hive, but
the whole swarm immediately rushed out and fastened
themselves upon me. In less than no time I was assailed
by such a number of enemies, that I thought all the bees in
the world were in my clothes. They stung and harassed
me so much, that I jumped on my buffalo and galloped
away. You see in what a state the bees have left me
though I rubbed myself well with damp earth, as mother did
before." " You should have been more careful, my poor James,"
said I, "since this is not the first time you have suffered."

Supper finished with the recital of the bee-hunter, to
whom the mother applied some salt water to cure the
wounds which still pained him.
ARAB TOWER. TAKING AN OSTRICH. GENERAL DEPARTURE
AND ARRIVAL AT THE GROTTO. THE EEL. EDUCATION
OF THE OSTRICH. HYDROMEL. MAKING HATS.

MANY things remained to be done before our return to
the general quarter, a return which it was necessary to
hasten for more than one reason, the first of which was the
approach of the rainy season. Our bears' meat was salted
and smoked; but I would not abandon either the ostrich
eggs we had found, nor the euphorbia gum which I had
discovered in a little wood, during one of our short halts in
the same expedition.

I determined to take a last journey into the savannah;
we set off, leaving with the mother no longer little Francis,
who was very anxious to signalise himself, but the indolent
Ernest, who owned his dislike to fatiguing excursions. Fritz
had this time given up to me his Lightfoot, and mounted
young Rasch, the ass, who had become an excellent runner.
Francis and James were on their buffaloes. Braun and Faune
would have followed us, but as they might be necessary to
our housekeeper's safety, I ordered Ernest to keep them
back.

We went towards the Green Valley, but in an opposite
direction to the Bear Cavern, and arrived at Arab Tower,
the name which we had given to the eminence from the top of
which we had taken the ostriches for mounted Arabs. Fritz
remained with me to gather the euphorbia gum from the

trunks of the shrubs in which I had previously made incisions;
220
the sun dried this gum, of which we obtained a considerable
quantity, collected in a bamboo vase brought for that purpose.
This precious collection finished, we thought of catching
James and Francis, whom .I had allowed to go forward, and
who had gone past the ostrich nest. Without doubt the two
children wished to beat back to this side some ostriches, so as
to give an opportunity for Fritz to take one or two alive, which
he very much wished to do, and for this purposeI gave up to
him his Lightfoot. We did not wait long for the result of this
battue. Soon from the bushes which surrounded the nest,
sprang four ostriches, three females and one male. As they
came in front of us and our young companions, followed by
the dogs, they could not well escape us. When they were
near, I threw my lasso; but the cord, instead of winding
round the ostrich's legs as I intended, went round her body;
For one instant the motion of the wings was paralysed, but
the vigorous animal soon got rid of this ill-adjusted tie, and I
even think it would have escaped, if Fritz had not immediately
let loose his eagle, whose beak he had wrapped in cotton, so as
not to wound the bird too much. The eagle flew upon the
ostrich, clung to its head, and stopped. its impetuous course.
James, arriving at a gallop on his buffalo, took his turn
with the lasso, and, more skilful than I, caught the ostrich's
legs, who fell heavily on her side. To surround her, and tie
her more firmly, was the work of an instant. After having
thrown a handkerchief over her eyes, I tied her wings with
a large strap of sea-dog's skin, fixing to it a cord, one end
of which we fastened to Sturm's collar and the other to
Brummer's. I had resolved to lead her thus between the
two buffaloes, but as I did not wish that she should annoy
either of these brave servants, I tied her claws c105ely. These
precautions taken, I took off the handkerchief and some of
the slings which hurt her unnecessarily, and then waited. At
first, irritated and humiliated at feeling herself vanquished, she
remained obstinately motionless, half seated on the ground.
Then suddenly, thinking herself free, she jumped, as if to
take to flight, straight forward, but the cows restrained her, -
and she fell on her knees. Rising again, she recommcnced
her attempts, but still vainly, thanks to the strength of Sturm
and Brummer. She was at last obliged to yield, and obey
the leading of her brave conductors.

Whilst James and Francis, mounted on the buffaloes,
carried our captive to Arab Tower, I went with Fritz to the
ostrich nest. We were only a few steps from it, when a
female ostrich rose from the eggs so unexpectedly, that we
had neither the time nor the thought to pursue her. Her
presence proved that the nest was not abandoned, and that
we might hope among the eggs laid by her there might be
some which contained little ones. We took a dozen, leaving
the others buried in the sand, so that the mother might
return and continue her office. This booty was fastened
carefully on our steeds; we rejoined our young companions,
and went with them towards Bear Cavern, passing through
Green Valley. Cries of astonishment saluted our return with
the ostrich, but the mother was alarmed in thinking of the
food our majestic prisoner would devour. "What," cried
she, " will be the use of this glutton?" "She will serve me
for a courser," replied James, with enthusiasm; " if our little
country is joined by firm land to Asia or Africa, I will go
on her in a few days to the nearest European colonies, to
seek for assistance and news from Europe. I baptise her
Bransewind (impetuous wind). As soon as she is taught,
Ernest, you shall have my dear Sturm." Notwithstanding
some objections from Francis, it was unanimously agreed
that the ostrich should become James's steed, who took it
upon himself to teach her.

It was too late to think of returning to Wuldegg, but
early the next day we set off: the ostrich walked between
the two buffaloes, with her eyes covered. The carriage was
fastened to the cow, which Ernest mounted; James and
Francis rode on Sturm and Brummer; I was on Lightfoot,
and Fritz on Rasch.

We made a little halt in the defile of rocks. The children
wished to resume the ostrich feathers they had left in this
place, and I wished to collect a little more porcelain clay,
and some aromatic beans, which smelt like vanilla

Before departing, I fortified anew our barricade, so as to
prevent the entry of thieving animals into our possessions.
This done we set off, so as to arrive at Wuldegg before
night, and the only halt we permitted ourselves to make was
at Zuckertoss, whence we took our pecari hams, now suf-
ficiently smoked. On our arrival at the farm, we hastened
to unload our animals, supped on some slices of cold meat,
and threw ourselves on our cotton beds, for we were ex-
hausted with fatigue.

At break of day I saw with pleasure that among the
chickens hatched by our fowls were several fat young pullets,
which my wife wished to carry to Felsenheim, our best-loved
_ abode, where we arrived about noon. The first care of our
dear housekeeper was to open all the windows of our habi-
tation, to sweep and wash it; and so much was she occupied
in this occupation, that she did not think of dinner, and we
had to content ourselves with cold meat. Whilst my two
youngest sons were helping their mother, I proceeded with
the others to unload and put away our booty. The ostrich
was fastened in front of our abode, under the shade of the
trees, where she was to remain till perfectly educated. Our
ostrich eggs were bathed in luke--warm water; those in which
we supposed there remained some life, were placed on a little
bed of cotton and put in our oven to dry, and where by the
aid of a thermometer I kept them at the necessary tempera-
ture for incubation. The Angora rabbits were transported
to Requin Island, where they were left to propagate, and
where we intended to build them a suitable habitation.

Whale Island was devoted to the dwarf antelopes. We
would willingly have kept these graceful beasts, who were
not more than twelve inches high, near us, if we had not
feared they would be tormented by the dogs. As to some
land tortoises which we had found in the environs of Zucker--
toss, I at first thought of letting them loose in our kitchen
garden, to purge it of the snails that infected it; but my
dear wife, fearing less the ravages of the snails than the
damage which these tortoises might do among her young
plants, I told James to deposit them among the reeds at
Goose Marsh. The child obeyed; but scarcely had he
arrived there when I heard him call Fritz, telling him to run
with a stick. I thought at first it was some frogs to which
my children wished to give chase; but great was my surprise
in seeing them return with a superb eel, which was taken in
a net that Ernest had spread before our departure, without
saying anything about it. A part of this fish was immedi-
ately prepared for our dinner, and the rest was put in
butter to preserve it.

Some slips of pear trees, and of fruit which smelt like
vanilla, were planted at the foot of the bamboo columns, which
supported the roof in front of our habitation, to the top of
which they would soon climb. The mother placed in her
pantry the bear and pecari hams, as well as the little barrel
of grease we had taken from these animals. The bear skins
were plunged into the sea, and fastened down with large
stones, for fear of accident. The young pullets were put in a
special cage, to- be brought up out of the reach of master
Knips or the jackal. The condor and the vulture were put
in Our museum as trophies; we put off stuffing them till the
rainy season. The amianthus, the sheets of mica, and the
procelain clay, were carried into our workshop, where I
intended to use them at my leisure. The skins of g the musk
rats, gathered into a heap, were suspended in the air, under
the roof of our gallery. These divers arrangements occupied
two days, at the end of which I thought of sowing a field,
and preparing my bear skins, things that would suffer from
delay.

Tillage, being a thing strange to us, appeared painful,
and though we all helped, I could only grub up a single
acre of land, near the mother's sugar-cane plantation. This
acre was sown, one-third with wheat, one-third with maize,
and one-third with barley, and here and there we threw
other kinds of grain, relying on Providence to make them
come up suitably.

On the other side of Jackal Stream I devoted a little
strip of ground to the culture of potatoes. As we only gave
to this fatiguing work about two hours in the morning and
the same in the evening, there remained some interval between
to employ in other ways. "('6 had, for example, undertaken
the education of the ostrich, and I must own that we did
not advance much in it. It was necessary to use tobacco
fumigations, as we did F ritz's eagle ; each time she fell stupefied
the children mounted her, to accustom her to burdens; but
in spite of our caresses, in spite of the excellent harness we
had provided for her, in spite of the care we took to lengthen
her cord each day, so that she might have a little liberty,
the poor beast refused all nourishment, seeming resolved
to die with hunger, to punish us for having taken her away
from her companions and her savannah. She became so
weak that I began to feel some uneasiness and remorse about
her; fortunately, my wife advised us one morning to make
her swallow what are called broth balls, composed of steeped
maize and fresh butter, to which the prisoner soon took a.
fancy, and from that day she consented to eat all that we
presented to her. Soon she ate with such good will, that our
fears changed their nature, and my wife asked if our provisions
would not become insufficient to satisfy her voracity. Luckily,
Miss Bransewind deigned now to take maize and sweet
acorns. Her strength having returned, her education went
on: at the end of a month, she would rise, lie down, turn,
walk, trot or gallop at the command of her leader. Only,
as we destined her to serve as a steed, I must own I was
somewhat embarrassed to know how to make a 'suitable bit
and bridle. A bit she must have, to guide her; but whoever
saw a bit adapted to a beak? I was .on the point of renounc-
ing it, when, recollecting the influence which the succession
of light and shade had over her, I thought of a leather hood,
almost like that of Fritz's eagle, except that it descended
more over the neck, and was provided on each side with
movable ears, which they could open or shut at pleasure:
if they lowered one of the ears, the ostrich went to the side
whence the light came; if they lowered both, she went straight
forward. The saddle required also particular attention, but
in spite. of the difficulties I succeeded so well, that my children
said I should obtain a brevet title of ostrich saddle-maker.
This equipment finished, they tried it, and the results over-
whelmed us with joy, for if Bransewind sulked a little as a
draught horse, she merited her name as a racer; for example,
she' went and returned from our habitation to F alcon's Nest

in less time than Fritz had taken to go one way. So James,
:5 -
as master of the ostrich, was envied by his brothers, who
asked me to reverse my decision. But I insisted, and James
continued to dispose at his will of the ostrich, who, neverthe-
less, was considered as common property, on which each of
my four sons had equal rights. Fritz, Ernest, and Francis
consoled themselves by thinking that the eggs which were in
the oven would be hatched, and procure each of them a
steed like that of James. Their hope was of short duration:
the eggs opened, and some ill-formed creatures came out,
but only to die a few days after, in spite of our solicitude and
care.

The preparation of bear skins had gone on simultaneously
with the education of the ostrich. I had cleaned them by
the help of a scraper, formed out of an old sabre; instead
of tan, I used honey vinegar; and to soften them so as to
render them fit for service, I rubbed them with a mixture
of grease and ashes, which had the desired effect. And, dpropos
of my vinegar, I should notice here, that while making it
for the preceding use,I had obtained an excellent hydromel,
which was very agreeable, and made us a refreshing drink
for our daily wants.

This double success emboldened me; I tried the trade
of hatter, to make little Francis a beaver hat, from the skin
of the musk rats. 1 found some difficulty at first, but was
not discouraged. After divers essays, I made a sort of felt,.
to which I gave a fine red colour with our cochineal, and
to render- it impenetrable, I impregnated it with liquid india-
rubber; then I exposed it for a night to the heat of our oven
to dry it on a shape, and had the satisfaction of taking out
next morning a Swiss cap, light and strong. My dear
wife, happy at the pleasure which this head-dress gave
the child, added to it a silk lining, a gold band, and
a bunch of ostrich feathers. The child was not easy till
I had promised my other sons to make them similar caps,
on condition that they should furnish me with plenty of skins,
besides which I told them I should require enough to make
one for their mother and myself.
RETURN OF THE RAINY SEASON. MAKING POTTERY.
A VOYAGE T0 REQUIN ISLAND.

THESE divers operations had so much interested us, that
we had not noticed the near approach of the rainy season,
and my success as tanner, distiller, and hatter, emboldened
me to try the manufacture of pottery.

The dining-hall served me as a workshop; my turning-
wheel was a cannon-wheel adapted to a wooden axle, to which
I fastened a plank, cut in a round. To begin, I made some
bowls, to replace the gourds, which did not keep the milk
sufficiently fresh. To make these vases look nice, I mixed
with my porcelain clay some pieces of mica. Then I looked
among the things brought from the ship for some glass ware,
which had been brought to exchange with the savages; I
broke up on the anvil some black and some yellow, which I
reduced to an extremely fine powder, and mixed it in my
porcelain; thus I obtained, after a few trials, some coffee
cups, a sugar basin, and six little plates.

My stock of porcelain clay being exhausted, and the rain
not permitting us to go for more, I busied myself in stuffing
the condor and vulture. I softened the skins by plunging
them into tepid water, which I sprinkled with euphorbia gum,
.to prevent the invasion of insects, and then stretched them
on pieces of wood, shaped like the body of the birds. Little
rings, surrounded by cotton, were placed in the neck. Each

ring was held in its place by a brass wire; and for the eggs,
227
I made little balls of porcelain clay, which I coloured and
baked, and they restored to the two birds their natural
appearance.

To these occupations succeeded others, as I did not like
to see my children inactive. Our lectures, the lessons which
Ernest gave to James and Francis; the course of natural
history, which I gave to all, and which interested us the more
as we had in Our island many illustrations, which Europe
could not have given us; yet all this was not sufficient to
relieve the monotony of our long days. Fritz helped me to
find an object of general activity. " Now," said he, "that we
have made of Bransewind a rapid courser to cross the earth,
let us make another for a more extended course, which is the
sea. Let us make a Greenland canoe S"

The proposition was received by me with satisfaction,
by my children with enthusiasm, and by my dear wife with
a sort of fearful apprehension; completely ignorant of what
a Greenland canoe was, she feared to see us engaged in an
imprudent enterprise. I reassured her as well as I could by
telling her that it was a canoe made of sea-dog skin, and
she was forced to give her consent, in spite of the aversion
with which the sea inspired her.

W'e immediately set to work, so as to finish at least the
body of our canoe before the return of fine weather. First,
with our .largest whalevfins, bent naturally, I made two
keels, dove-tailed one into the other, and about twelve feet
long. Under these keels, which I covered with resin, I
made three notches, to which I fixed rollers, to facilitate
the transport of the canoe over the land. The two arches
of the fins were united by bamboos, and I fastened their
extremities firmly, reserving two little corners, between which
I raised a third fin, destined to support the high sides of the
boat. I united the kecls with a copper band, to which I
fixed an iron ring for anchorage. Bamboos, cut into slips,
served for sides to the canoe, in the lengths, except in its
highest part, where I put a reed, of the kind we found in
Goose Marsh. \Vith these reeds we interlaced the sides, upwards.
As to the helm, I made it on the surface of the canoe, by
making a circular opening for the rudder, which I surrounded
with thin wood, and made it fit the rudder so nicely that
no wave could get in.

The body of our canoe was finished; perhaps it was
a little higher than it ought to be, but this modification
did not seem to take away the lightness and elasticity
of the boat. Having carefully caulked all the seams with
tar and moss, we covered both the inside and outside with
sea-dog skins well prepared. I intended to erect a mast and
sail, but at present the canoe was to be propelled with a two-
bladed oar, a little longer than usual. I added to one of the
blades a bladder covered with pitch, so that it might not fall
into the water. Our canoe was finished to the general
satisfaction. But before its conductor, who was to be he
who originated the idea, should venture in it, I begged my
wife to use all her skill in making us swimming vests; these
vests, in my opinion, ought to be coverings adapted to the
sides of the tiller hole, and completely enveloping the rower,
leaving his movements free. Besides, between the two skins
which were to form these vestments, we might insert air
by means of a little pipe furnished with a stopple, which
would enable the rower to fill it like a balloon, and thus
to support himself on the surface of the water.

The bad season passed in these interesting occupations.
But, in spite of the rapidity with which the time seemed
to glide away, we saluted with joy the return of fine weather.
Fritz, especially, was anxious to try the canoe, and I was
not less curiOus to see how he would manage it.

Now then, one superb afternoon, our strange canoe was
launched into the sea, and my eldest son, to do honour to
the safety clothing, invented by me, put it on, swelled it
out, and gravely entered the water, where he supported
himself as easily as if he were walking on firm ground, to
the great astonishment and laughter of his brothers, who
because of the enormous protuberances before and behind,
called him Punchinello. But Fritz, without troubling himself
with their jokes, advanced, and landed in Requin Island,
amidst our plaudits, whilst we followed him in our canoe.

We visited our dwarf antelopes, and left them, for a
treat, a mixture of salt, bruised maize, and sweet acorns.
The state of their skin showed us that they had "frequently
taken refuge in the hut we had built for them, and this
satisfied us as to their future fate.

Before departing, we went round the island to pick up
some corals and shells for our museum, and. we remarked
this time a great quantity of sea-weed and other marine
plants, of which we picked up some good handfuls. On our
return to the Bay of Deliverance, the mother chose among
these plants several leaves, about six or seven inches long,
which she carefully washed and stretched in the sun to dry,
and then put in the oven with a sort of mysterious solemnity,
on which I joked her, without obtaining a satisfactory
explanation.

Some clays after, as we returned tired, hungry, and thirsty,
from a journey to Falcon's Nest, the dear woman presented
to us, in a large gourd plate, the most beautiful transparent
jelly we had ever seen; this was made from the famous
leaves which the good mother had formerly dried, to make
a surprise for us. My wife then told us, that during our
excursion to Requin she had recognised, among the marine
plants, leaves similar to those which she had seen prepared
with sugar and citron or orange juice, by the housekeepers
at the Cape, where we had sojourned a short time. She
had simply substituted for citron some vinegar, honey,
ravensara leaves, and a little cinnamon.

As we had found our plantations in the Isle of Requin in
good condition, mango trees, cotton trees, pines, cocoa-nut
trees, and ginger, we might hope to find in an equally prosperous
state those of Whale Island, to which we soon went. On our
arrival, I found that the number of rabbits had increased; that
the little gluttons had gnawed the bark of our young trees,
and entirely devoured the shoots of our cocoa-nut trees; the
pines alone had been spared, doubtless because of their
resinous flavour; so, to preserve for the future our nursery
grounds from devastation, we had to surround them with a thick
hedge of prickly plants. We found on the shore the carcass
of the whale, so cleaned by the birds of prey, and whitened by
the action of the air and sun, that I had no difficulty in taking
away the parts which appeared useful; for instance, the back-
bone. I took at the same time some samples of two marine
plants, on which I had seen the rabbits browsing; one of
a. disagreeable, marshy flavour, which might be the fums
sacckarz'nus; the other of a violet perfume, which appeared to
be the fumpalmahw.

We returned to our habitation, each with new projects
in his head.
DEPARTURE OF THE BOYS FOR. A RAT-HUNT. MASSACRE OF
DEVASTATING PIGS. RETURN OF THE YOUNG PEOPLE.
SHOAL 0F HERRINGS AND SEA-DOGS.

ONE morning, whilst my youngest sons had gone with rat-
snares, to procure material for making their hats, I went to
choose a tree, of a certain thickness, from which I wanted to
make a mill, and to get a stock of clay. I fastened Sturm
to our old sledge, and accompanied by Belle and Braun, went
to the wood near Jackal Stream.

At the bridge, casting my eyes over our plantation of
potatoes, situated on the right of the stream, I observed
horrible destruction, caused by marauders, which must be
hogs, as was shown by their footsteps. Evidently the marauders
must be numerous, to have committed so much devastation,
yet none of them could be seen, and I despaired of meeting
any, to chastise them, when the furious barking of the dogs,
answered by a grunting, satisfied my impatience. I ran, and
saw our old sow, become almost wild, surrounded by eight
young boars about two months old, and a hog, of the first
lot we had left for the augmentation of the race, who was
now of a very large size. Blinded by the anger which they
had caused me, I fired twice on the troop standing before
me, grunting and showing their teeth. Three young boars
fell, and the rest fled behind the bushes pursued by the dogs,
whom I immediately recalled. Then I carried the bodies
to my sledge, and went in quest of my tree. I i'ound it at
some distance from our clay ditch; it was about two feet

thick, the trunk was straight and smooth; having marked it,
232
in the manner of wood -- cutters, I returned to the grotto.
Our rat-hunters had not yet returned; the mother was alone
with Ernest, who had passed part of his day in the library.

Towards evening, when we began to be anxious about
them, the three children returned, led by James on his ostrich.
Fritz and Francis escorted two large sacks, carried by
Brummer, and which contained twenty ondatras, a kangaroo,
an ape, two animals of the hare kind, and half-a-dozen rats,
of a different kind from the first. Besides, Fritz brought a
handful of large thistles, of which we took no heed for the
moment, because of the enthusiasm which the contents of the
two sacks created.

"Oh, father! what an incomparable steed my ostrich is,"
cried James. "She runs like the wind; twenty times I almost
lost my breath. She has, I may say, a blinding rapidity;
you must make me directly a mask with glass eyes, for my
next journey." "Wild boy," replied I; "no, I must not do
that." " Why, dear father?" "First, because you ought not
to impose your wishes as obligations on your parents; then,
because I have to make, in the general interest, many things
more serious than a glass-eyed mask, for a young gentle-
man who might try to make one for himself." James was
silenced. '

" Dear father," said Fritz, "we have been well diverted
to-day. We have lived on our hunting; we have brought
home a good booty; and yet_ we would willingly exchange
all our riches for a small glass of muscat wine, if the price
is not too great." "Well proposed, dear Fritz. I grant the
glass of muscat wine to everybody, because you have well
deserved it. Only, another time do not set off on an ex-
pedition, as you did this morning, without asking permission
of your mother, or of me. Now, my children, unharness your
steeds; a good horseman always attends to his horse the
first thing."

When all were united for supper, our housekeeper served
one after the .other the prepared meats, announcing them with
comic gravity. "There, gentlemen," said she, "is a sucking-
pig; here a young and savoury salad, grown in my garden;
here, lastly," cried she, uncovering 'a superb gourd-dish, "here
is an excellent jelly, drawn from the sea." The good--humour
of the housekeeper was applauded as it deserved. She was
applauded a second time, when she returned with some cassava
fritters, and a bottle of our hyclromel. Never was our supper
better or more gay. '

Fritz then recounted the day's expedition; how his brothers
had remained all day in the environs of \Vuldegg, placing
their snares here and there; how they had taken the ondatras
with young carrots, and the beaver-rats with small fishes;
how they had dined on fresh fish and anise roots. " And
my jackal ; you have not spoken of him," interrupted James;
"he drove to us the kangaroo and the two hares, who for the
first and last time in their lives smelt powder."

"In seeking for adventures," resumed Fritz, "I found these
large thistles, at the' ends of which are hooks, which I thought
would be useful in carding the felt. Besides, among the vege-
tables I found these little cinnamon apples; and lastly, with
my gun I gave a good lesson to a large monkey, who threw
some cocoa-nuts on my head."

The whole of the next day was employed in skinning the
game. The following morning we set off to cut down the
tree which I had marked. We carried on our sledge the
cords, hatchets, and necessary tools. During the journey, I
showed the children the devastation caused by the wild boars,
and the place where they had received their chastisement.
Arrived at the tree, I made James mount it to cut off the
branches, which, in its fall might crush the neighbouring trees.
He fastened two cords, the ends of which, left free, were fixed
at some distance, so that we had nothing to fear in directing
the motion of the tree when cut. Then with a strong scythe
we made two deep notches in the opposite sides, one a little
higher than the other, and after that pulled vigorously at the
cords. The tree cracked, shook, and fell down, without damage.
As soon as it was on the ground, the trunk and principal
branches were cut in blocks four feet long; the rest, destined
to be burnt, was left on the ground to dry. All this took
nearly two days, but at last I had what I wanted to make a
proper mill of.

When the mill was finished, we tried it by grinding a
quantity of rice, which gave general satisfaction. While
Watching the working of the mill I noticed that our domestic
(owls, returning from the neighbouring field, where they went
with singular eagerness, had their crops full, and seemed well
satisfied with their walk. I immediately visited the field,
which I found in full maturity, though only four or five
months had passed since it was sown; whence I concluded
that we might for the future rely on two harvests in the
year.

This was certainly an agreeable anticipation, and yet it
caused us some embarrassment, because this unexpected labour
coincided with the shoal of herrings and sea-dogs. So our
dear housekeeper, more than we did, lamented this excess
of abundance, not seeing how it would be possible to attend
to so many things at once.

"Own, my dear," said she, "that God is lavish to us;
we have never been so rich in our life." "That is not quite
right," said I, smiling; "we have no money here." " In fact,"
said James, "we do not want money. Do you remember the
time, father, when you used to give us twopence every Sun-
day, and that used to make us jump for joy? Who would
jump now for bushels of crown-pieces?" I reassured my
wife, telling her she had nothing to fear, and that, on the
contrary, she ought to thank the Lord for this profusion of
'wealth. I resolved, though she objected, to gather in our
corn by the Italian method, which is the most expeditious,
though least economical. Then, as there was no serious
difficulty in letting the maize and potatoes remain a little
longer in the ground, we could occupy ourselves with the
herring fishery.

Without delay, then, I cleared out a barn floor to receive
our com, which would have to be stamped on by the beasts
of burden. We reserved the completion of the work to our-
selves, beating it with oars and planks.

The next morning, armed with sickles, we went to the
field, and began to work immediately, by seizing with the
left hand a number of ears, cutting them with the right hand,
and throwing them in a basket tied with straw. The method
was new, and pleased the children, so much so that by even-
ing the field was reaped. "Fine economy, indeed l " cried the
mother, when she saw us begin; "all the shorter ears' and
the straw remain in the stubble field." "Dear wife," replied
I, "you are mistaken. The Italian is not such a fool as you I
think. What you believe to be lost, is not lost; only, instead
of eating it he drinks it." "How can you drink ears of corn
and straw without scratching your throat?" "The Italian
drinks them in this way. His soil being more fit for tillage
than for feeding cattle, the grass and hay would fail them it
they did not cut their corn as we have just done. In a
week or two the grass will come up among the stubble as
Well as it can. The Italians cut the whole together for their
winter pasturage, and what the straw wants of nourishment
is compensated by the ears, -which are mixed with it, and
contribute greatly to the abundance of milk their cattle give."
The mother suffered herself 'to be convinced of the excellence
of the method we had employed, though, at the bottom, she
protested against this wasteful expedient.

We now proceeded to beat out the com. This was a fete
for the children, who each bestrided his favourite steed to
make him stamp over the ears and force out the precious
grain. The mother remarked that this Italian method per-
mitted the buffaloes to levy a tithe of our harvest, and I
recalled to her this passage of scripture: "Thou shalt not tie
the mouth of the beast that beateth out the com." This
quotation took away her scruples. I must tell you that we
had more than a hundred measures of wheat, and almost as
much barley, to put into our provision room.

To obtain a second harvest this year we had to hasten
the sowing, but this time we did it in the Swiss method;
that is to say, changing the nature of our seeds, so as to let
the earth rest. We had just gathered barley and wheat; we
sowed rye and oats.

This important work was not quite finished when the
shoal of herrings came, but we would not leave of more

than we could help; my wife recommended us to fish only
two small barrels full of herrings, and a few sea-dogs.
TRIAL OF THE CANOE. DISAPPEARANCE OF FRITZ. THE
WALRUS. THE STORM. ANXIETY ABOUT FRITZ.

THE canoe had been some time ready, and Fritz, who had
been appointed captain of her, was anxious to justify his
title,' and as our most important labours were finished,
. nothing hindered us from giving ourselves the pleasure of
trying her.

On the day fixed we were all on the shore. Fritz was
solemnly invested with his functions before entering the Nor-
wegian canoe. Each of us pressed round him, as his esquirc,
to dress and arm him suitably. Thus clothed, our new
Greenland Chevalier took in his hand the double oar and
harpoons ; after which, like .Neptune, he installed himself
in the canoe. .

His costume was adapted round the opening for the
rudder, and his harpoons placed on his right and left, in
their respective places; he proceeded to blow himself out
till he resembled a giant frog. Ernest and James with a
cord drew the canoe, which Francis pushed, and a song of
triumph was struck up by Fritz, thus abandoned to himself.
I was very proud at seeing with what ease he manoeuvred
his skiffland partook of the gaiety of my three other chil-
dren, replying to their brother's song by long shouts of
laughter, whilst their mother, on the contrary, felt her heart
ache at the thought of the perils one of her dear ones might
run. To tranquillise her, in spite of my confidence in the
skill of our eldest son, I got our old canoe ready to follow

Fritz, and come to his help if necessary.
237
After having balanced itself tranquilly for some minutes
in the calm waters of our little bay, the canoe began its trial
evolutions. Sometimes, with the double oar, Fritz went in
a straight line with the rapidity of an arrow; sometimes he
went to the right or left; sometimes, to prove that he could
not be submerged, he made it turn upside down, to the great
fright of his mother and plaudits of his brothers. Fritz, a
little excited by our noisy marks of approbation, and not
hearing the cries and prayers of his mother, who every in-
stant feared some catastrophe, soon ventured into the current
of Jackal Stream, which, before he had time to recognise it,
carried him rapidly into the- open sea. This imprudence
alarmed me. 1 hastily got into my canoe, accompanied by
James and Ernest, and went in pursuit of the fugitive, telling
his mother not to be afraid of this little escapade, for which
I intended to scold Fritz.

He had completely disappeared, and it was only by going
out of the bay and gaining the open sea that we could hope
to see him. Our canoe went rapidly, with the help of our
six oars, like a gull on the waves. We soon reached the
lower part, where the vessel had been stranded, and where
I supposed the current must have taken my eldest son. There
were rocks just above the water, others higher, on which the
waves beat foaming. Seeking a place where we might venture
with safety, we got into a labyrinth of rocks which hid the
horizon.

We went and came in this kind of archipelago, not being
able to get out of it easily, and impatient to find our imprudent
one, when, at a considerable distance, I saw a little column
of smoke, followed in about five seconds by a feeble noise,
which I recognised for a gun-shot. "Fritz is, down there,"
cried I, joyfully. "Where, where?" asked James and Ernest.
The same instant I heard a noise like the first. I discharged
one of my pistols, and a third fire answered me. I assured
my young companions that Fritz was only about a. quarter
of a league from us, and begged them to row hard. Some
minutes later we rejoined our fugitive.

After Fritz had shown us a walrus or sea~cow, which he
had killed in .his excursion, and which was lying stranded
on a fragment of neighbouring rock, I reproached him for
the uneasiness which his imprudence had caused us. He
excused himself, throwing all the fault on the violence of
the current, which had carried him away, and passing over
in silence his wish to venture into the open sea to try his
canoe and his harpoons. 'I pardoned him, happy to bring
him back safe and sound to his mother, and after having taken
from the walrus her head and her two horns, to serve as
ornaments for the prow of the canoe, we returned to
port.

We had made about a third of the journey when a storm,
which I had foreseen but thought more distant, burst suddenly
upon us with great violence. Unhappily, Fritz was so much
in advance of us, the roaring of the waves and wind was so
great, and the torrents of rain so completely hid him from us,
that to recall him and take him into our canoe was impossible.
My heart ached with inexpressible anguish. But I had to
watch over other creatures not less dear. I immediately ordered
my young companions to put on their safety clothes, and fix
themselves firmly in the canoe with straps, so as not to be
carried away by the waves; then I took the same precautions
myself, and trusted to the mercy of God. The storm increased
every minute. The waves rose furious, obscuring the sky;
then they fell back like avalanches. One minute we were
engulfed in the hollows they made under our frail barque,
and the next we not less frightfully mounted on high. Happily
the canoe sustained bravely the shock of the waves; as fast
as it took in the water we emptied it as well as we could,
but I tried in vain to direct its course with the rudder. The
anguish of our present situation was nothing compared with
what I felt about the imprudent one who had caused it all.
In spite of the rapidity of his canoe, he could not have reached
land before the tempest came on! What had become of my
first-born? Sometimes I imagined him thrown with his frail
barque on some formidable rock, and dashed to pieces.
Sometimes I thought him engulfed for ever in the depths
of the sea, and become a prey to some sea monster. My heart
suffered, but my mouth was silent, not to frighten the two
dear children I had with me, perhaps less frightened than I
was, because of the holy and ingenuous confidence my presence
inspired them with. I was full of these poignant thoughts,
when thIOugh the obscurity, and in spite of the barrier which
the waves raised round me, I perceived that we were at the
top of Deliverance Bay. Then I took an oar myself, and we
worked with so much energy that we soon gained the passage
between the rocks at the entrance of this bay.

What was my delight when i perceived on the shore my
wife, Fritz, and little Francis on their knees, praying for us,_
whom they thought they had lost for ever! I will not try to
depict the joy with which we were welcomed, and that with
which we welcomed the dear - creatures we never thought to
see again. The mother and I were so happy in embracing
our children that we could not blame the imprudence
committed.

After fresh thanks to the Lord, and a comforting repast,
quickly served by our excellent housekeeper, we busied our-
selves with the canoes. They were both drawn on the strand,
and then to the grotto with their load.

' This unexpected rain had so increased the streams which
descended from the high wall of rocks, that in different places,
especially at Falcon's Nest, they had escaped from their beds,
and occasioned here and there some damage, which required
immediate reparation.' Jackal Stream was so much swollen
that it had carried away our bridge, and caused grave damage.

While we were occupied in repairing, chance led us .to
a new discovery--namely, of some little pears, about the size
of a small plum, scattered all over the sand. Their appearance
was so tempting that my children tasted them immediately,
but scarcely had they touched them with their teeth ere they
flung them away in disgust; Master Knips, who also tasted
them, showed himself equally decided in his disapproval.
I was anxious to know what this new fruit might really be,
and recognised with much satisfaction that it was that of the
clove,---a new culinary treasure to be ranked side by side
with the pepper, the cinnamon, and the other spices, which
already figured in our ragouts.

The repairs, and salmon and sturgeon fishing, took us
some days, which glided tranquilly away, and we recovered
from the agitation of our adventurous excursion on the open
sea.

One beautiful moonlight night I was roused from sleep
by the barking of our dogs, answered by uneasy gruntings.
Thinking of a new attack of jackals, I rose hastily, took my
gun, and passed my head through the door, which was always
left open on summer nights to permit the fresh air to penetrate
into the house. I looked here and there to see what was
passing, when I heard Fritz's voice asking, "Are you up,
father? " " Yes," replied I, "come with me." Fritz soon arrived,
and we ran in the direction of the tumult to see what occasioned
it; we found that the dogs were busy repulsing an invasion
of hogs. As well as I could judge they were ours, who,
become wild, had passed over Jackal Bridge, where the
children had doubtless forgotten to take away the planks,
as we had been accustomed to do.

We had some trouble in making the dogs leave their prize.
Pursuing the marauders to the stream, I found that it was
not from the children's negligence that these animals had been
able to reach us, but from their own skill in following the
three beams which served as supports to the bridge, and which
were, of course, fixed. This decided me to change the bridge
of planks for a drawbridge, and the next day my boys and i
set to work.

Two strong posts, united top and bottom by two cross
pieces, were fixed in the ground. A. series of steps ran across,
on which we could easily mount. A cord, moving over a
pulley, fastened at one end to an iron ring, was fixed at the
extremity of the bridge, of which the flooring could be raised
and held in the air by a very simple contrivance. We were
thus henceforward sheltered from invasions like those which
'had caused us so much emotion.

During the first few days the children made a sport of
raising and lowering the bridge, or of climbing up the posts,
from the top of which they perceived beyond the stream,
feeding in bands, the antelopes and gazelles, who fled as
soon as we appeared on the bridge.

"What a. pity, father," said Fritz one day, "that these

graceful creatures are not tamed! It would be a pleasure
16
to see them, like our domestic animals, going and coming
round us without being frightened at the noise of our work."
"Yes! we should establish here a buffalo lick, as they do in
Georgia," replied Ernest; "the gazelles would come to it of
themselves." "What is a buffalo lick?" asked Fritz. "It is a
place formed by nature in certain countries, notably in New
Georgia, between the Savanna and the Allegheny. It is
not more than three or four acres. There the soil is mixed
with a kind of marl, or very fine salted earth, which both
wild and tame animals lick with so much avidity and pleasure,
that cavities are found in the ground, which are the result
of these visits; whence comes 'the name bufl'alo licks ; whence,
also, in certain countries of Europe, on our native mountains,
for example, are artificial salt licks." "Oh! let us establish
a salt lick, father," said the children, jumping for joy at
the thought that they could take at their case stags, musk
goats, gazelles, buffaloes, &c. "Willingly, my children, if
the thing pleases you. With porcelain clay and salt, we
should have an excellent bait; let us go, then, and get a
fresh stock of this earth, and at the same time we will gather
some large bamboos, which I want for a plan I have in my head."

My children consulted each other with a look. "Father,"
said Fritz, "it is a long time since my brothers and I had
an expedition. We should like to visit Wuldegg and Prospect '
Hill, and push our researches right and left over the route.
What do you say?" All eyes were fixed on me, burning
with desire. "If you wish it, dear children, I ask no better.
For a long time the master's eye has been wanting to our
domains." "Let us set off! Let us set off l" cried they. "In
that case," said Fritz, "I will go and prepare some pemmican
for the journey, if mamma will have the goodness to give me
some pieces of bear's flesh." "Some pemmican? What is
that?" said my wife. " Mother," replied Fritz, "it is the flesh
of bears or of goats hashed, pounded, and reduced to a small
compass, which the fur merchants of Canada carry with them
in their long excursions through the Indian tribes. It takes
little room, and is very substantial. Now, dear mother, as
we have resolved on a grand expedition, we will make a
pemmican of our bear's flesh."
Though the mother was less favourable than ever to excur-
sions, which took her husband and children far away from
her, she suffered herself, as usual, to be persuaded of the
necessity of this one, and helped Fritz in making his savage
ragofit. . During this time the other boys prepared their
hunting apparel, and I was convinced, by seeing the activity
of their preparations, that they intended to make this
expedition last some time. The old sledge, transformed
into a carriage by the two common wheels, was loaded with
sacks, baskets of all kinds, as well as the tent and the canoe.
Besides, James, thinking I did not see him, joined to the
stock of pemmican, already more than sufficient, some pigeons,
which he proposed, I thought, to eat, to vary a little the
pieces of pounded bear. I pretended not to perceive all
these little contrivances, and hastened to depart.
DEPARTURE FOR WULDEGG. THE IIYENA. THE MESSENGER
PIGEON. FRITZ'S LETTER. THE BLACK SWANS. THE
ROYAL HERON. THE TAi'IR. THE CRANES. THE BIRD
0F PARADISE. RAVAGES MADE BY APES.

ON the morning of the day fixed, when I invited my wife
to make part of the expedition, she declared, against my
attempt, that she would remain in the house, having need of
repose, and Ernest, after many consultations 'with James
and Fritz, declared also that -he should prefer to remain;
seeing our project thus modified, I resolved to let the three
boys set off alone, and to profit by their absence to make
with Ernest the press for the sugar-canes. Our three young
hunters bade us adieu, and departed joyfully, with many
exhortations from us to be careful.

They soon reached the environs of Wuldegg, where they
intended to remain for that and the following day. On
arriving at the farm, they heard what sounded like shouts
of laughter, which greatly frightened them, as well as their
buffaloes and their dogs. James' ostrich, terrified and very
impressionable, I might say nervous by nature, fled, carrying
his rider in the direction of Wuldegg river. Fritz and
his brother descended from their steeds, to ascertain the
cause of this panic, and whilst the first tried to calm the
animals, the other advanced cautiously into the thicket to
see what he could, his brother having told him to return
immediately in case of serious peril. Francis, though some-
what frightened by the terrible Iaughter which he heard

every instant, advanced stealthily, armed with his gun, and
244
calling the dogs, who seemed unwilling to follow him. In a
few minutes, gently moving a bush, he perceived at a short
distance an enormous hycna, devouring a little beast which
he had just knocked down. The hyena, on perceiving the
little hunter, repeated for the fourth or fifth time, without
letting go his victim, the lugubrious laughter heard by the
boys. Francis, well comprehending the danger of his action,
neverthelesss fired at the horrible beast and broke one of his
fore paws, at the same time making a grave wound in his
breast.

Fritz, after having succeeded in calming his buli'aloes and
fastening them firmly to two neighbouring trees, ran to his
brother's assistance, who happily no longer needed it. The
two dogs, who, from the most incomprehensible timidity
passed to the most extreme fury, had rushed on the enemy.
Fritz dared not fire for fear of wounding Faune or Braun,
who indeed soon made themselves masters of the field of
battle.

A short time after, James rejoined his brothers with his
ostrich, who had become more docile, now the frightful laughter
which had so much alarmed him was no longer heard, and
the three boys put their booty on the sledge, and carried it
to Wuldegg.

At the same time, after the labours of the day, seated
under an arbour, we who remained at Felsenheim were talking
of our three dear travellers, the mother showing some appre-
hensions, I questioning Ernest on the mysterious intentions
his brothers appeared to have had when they set out; Ernest
replied only in rather enigmatical words. However, towards
the end of supper he said to us, "Be tranquil, dear mother
and father; I hope to be able to-morrow to communicate
most satisfactory news of our three travellers." "How is that?
are you going to join them? This would be very inconvenient
to me, as I shall want your help." "I will not quit you, dear
father; and yet I promise to give you news of them to-
morrow. Who knows? I shall dream, perhaps, what they
have done to-day, and I shall thus learn in what place they
are." "Hold," cried I, interrupting the dreamer; "there is

a belated one returning to the. dove-house. It is too dark to
distinguish whether it is one of our pigeons, or a stranger
who has gone astray." "We must shut the trap," said Ernest
hastily. "Who knows, this is perhaps a courier, who arrives
to us from Sydney! Did you not speak one day, father, of
the possibility of this colony being neighbour to ours? If
this pigeon who has just entered is a courier, we might use
him for a correspondence with New Holland." "I desire it,
without heping it, my dear child," replied I. "But it is late,
we must go to bed. To-morrow, early, you can, if you think
proper, consult your courier from Sydney, and read the
gazette you hope to find under his wing. Good-night, and
don't dream too much." -

The next day Ernest was up earlier than usual, and went
to search the pigeon-house, and when his mother and I sat
down to breakfast, he advanced and saluting us gravely, pre-
sented to us a paper, folded and sealed in the form of a
despatch, saying: " To your very noble selves, the humble
postmaster of Felsenheim respectfully begs you not to be
angry that he has not sooner delivered the despatches from
Wuldegg, and those from Sydney, in Australia; but the post
only arrived last night."

We could not help laughing at this; and seeing in it
some joke of Ernest's, to make us take patiently the absence
of his brothers, I entered gaily into the comedy, by taking
the same serious air in reply. " Well, Mr. Secretary, what
has happened in our capital? Communicate, I pray you,
what this paper informs us relating to our subjects." Im-
mediately Ernest unfolded his paper, saluted us again, and
with a clear voice, read as follows :--

"The Governor-General of New Holland, to the Governor
of Felsenheim, F alcon's Nest, Wuldegg, Zuckertoss, 8rd, &c.,
safety and consideration!

"Very noble, much loved, and very faithful ally. We learn
with. displeasure that lately three adventurers have .gone from
your colony, to live as brigands, to the detriment of the large
and small game of this province. We have learnt also that
a troop of hyenas, equally horrible and dangerous, has made
an irruption into your government, and has already caused
much damage to your cattle.
" Consequently, we pray you to consider the means of
repressing effectually and quickly these disorders, to make the
hunters return to your colony, and, at the same time, to put
an end to the attempts of ferocious beasts against the rights
of men and peaceful animals. On this, very noble, much
beloved and very faithful ally, may God have you in His holy
keeping!

"Given at Sydney, the 12th of this month, in the 34th
year of the colony.

" The Governor,
"PHILIP PHILIPSON.."

This reading finished, Ernest burst .out laughing, and
jumped about so carelessly that a little note fell out of his
pocket. I was going to pick it up, but Ernest prevented me.
"This," said he, "is a private letter from Wuldegg. If you
desire it, however, I will read it to your lordship; it contains,
perhaps, more truth than the official despatch of Sir Philip
Philipson, who appears to have received with a little too
much credulity exaggerated reports concerning this colony."
"This is a strange enigma," cried I; "did Fritz leave a letter
for me, telling you not to deliver it till to-day." "No, clear
father," replied Ernest, who saw that his mother was getting
impatient; "the truth of all this affair is contained in- a note
which the pigeon brought last night, but I could not catch
'him till this morning." I read, without speaking, these
words :-

"Beloved parents and dear Ernest,

"An enormous hyena has devoured two lambs and a
sheep. Francis has covered himself with glory. He wounded
him in the breast! The dogs finished him. We have passed
nearly all the day in skinning him. His skin is very beautiful.
Our pemmican is worth nothing; my mother was right to
distrust my cookery.

"Your FRITZ.
" Wuldegg, the 15th."

"This is a true hunter's letterf' said I, laughing. "God be
praised for poor little Francis' victory over the hyena. But
how can this dangerous animal have got into our territory?"
"I trust they will be prudent," murmured the mother, thinking
of her three boys, exposed far from us to new encounters.
She wished us immediately to join them; but, besides that
a second aerial messenger would better show what we ought
to do, we should very likely miss these couriers.

Indeed, towards evening, a little sooner than the former
one, a second carrier pigeon entered the dove-house, which
Ernest immediately shut, and whence he brought the following
note :----

"A quiet night. A superb morning. Navigation in the
canoe on Wuldegg lake. Capture of black swan. A royal
heron. Cranes and! sea-ducks. Unknown animal ran away.
To-morrow at Prospect Hill. Adieu to all.

"FRITZ, JAMES, FRANCIS."

This note greatly tranquillised us. It proved that no other
hyena had appeared.

Our travellers told us afterwards that they intended to
explore Wuldegg lake, and to mark the places where we
might land from the water, without fear of sticking in the
mud. To do this, Fritz got into his canoe and rowed along
the shore, whilst his two brothers coasted behind the reeds.
At a sign from Fritz, Francis and James approached the place
marked by him, and planted there some bamboos, to know
it again.

While making this exploration, Fritz tried to take alive
some black swans with red beaks. Arming himself with a.
long bamboo, with an iron hook at the end, he gently ap-
proached three young cygnets, which he imagined to be less
wild than the others, and caught without wounding them.
These prisoners, brought to Felsenheim, were an ornament
to Deliverance Bay.

Scarcely had they been placed in safety, than Fritz saw
coming out of the reeds, a short distance from him, a mag-
nificent royal heron, at which he threw his noose. The noble
bird beat about with his beak, claws, and wings, and Fritz,
to master him, had to strand his canoe among the reeds.
There the heron, who was almost strangled with the noose,
became an easy prey, and our hunter tied his wings, and
covered his eyes.

Whilst the three brothers, standing on the shore, were
admiring their magnificent captives, a large quadruped came
out of the marsh, blowing violently, and disconcerted them
so much, that they did not think of firing. By the descrip-
tion they gave me, I thought it was the tapir, a sort of in-
complete elephant, an innocent quadruped that lives near the
great rivers of South America. Fritz nevertheless Went in
pursuit of him, whilst his two brothers carried the swans
prisoners to Wuldegg.

As James and Francis were passing near the rice grounds,
they heard a numerous troop of cranes fly over their heads,
at which they shot their arrows, when four or five cranes fell.
This was a lucky shot, and Fritz, who returned without
having taken anything, was rather jealous about it; so, when
he arrived at the farm, he took his eagle, and, accompanied
by the dogs, went to the little guava wood to seek some
game. He had walked about a quarter-of-an-hour, when
the dogs started a flight of birds, which resembled pheasants,
and which immediately scattered among the neighbouring
trees. He threw off his eagle, who reached one of the birds,
while Fritz knocked down another, which was magnificent,
because of its splendid tuft and its long waving tail; this
capture was worth more than his brothers', and besides, he
had just killed a bird of paradise.

The dinner hour united our three young hunters, who,
while talking of their mutual exploits, ate with a good ap-
petite a pecari ham, some potatoes roasted in the ashes,
some guavas, and some cinnamon apples; as for the pom-
mican, finding it did not suit their stomachs, they abandoned
it to the dogs. The evening was employed in collecting a
stock of cotton and rice, which they intended to carry to
'Prospect Hill, where they wished to pay a visit, and put
everything in order. Besides, for the execution of a project
they had in their heads, they made a copious provision of
cocoa-"nuts and palm wine, by cutting down, after the manner
of the Caribbees, the two trees which had furnished them.
I scolded them for this waste, which they sought to excuse
by telling me, that to replace the trees they had planted
.eight or ten cocoa-nuts.

Here I' will leave it to Fritz to relate part of his adven-
tures, particularly how they went the following day to our
but on Prospect Hill, where they arrived about noon.

"Scarcely had we reached the little pine wood," said he,
"when we were met by some truly riotous apes, who, grind-I
ing their teeth, overwhelmed us with a storm of pines; happily,
the greater part of them were ripe. However, ripe as they
were, the pines became disagreeable by their numbers, so we
thought to make them cease by firing among the branches
of the trees, whence fell immediately four or five of the
aggressors; their numerous comrades, justly alarmed by
our fashion of replying to their bad jokes, made themselves
immediately invisible and mute.

" Going by the plantation at Zuckertoss, I saw, with 35--
tonishment, that the stalks to the height of eight or ten feet'
were broken and crushed. We arrived at last at our rustic
castle on Prospect Hill, where, after having taken care of
our beasts and unladen our booty, we made an inspection
of the plans. Ahl dear father, the abominable apes had be-
haved here worse than at Wuldegg; everything was de-
vastated, crushed, soiled by them! There we were then,
sweeping, cleaning, washing the little house, to render it
habitable for us, as well as for the sacks of cotton and the
bear-skins which we had brought.

"The next morning we sent a third carrier pigeon, with
a despatch dictated by James, in a pompous oriental style,
giving you the bulletin of this expedition, as well as news
of our approaching return."

Here I resume the recital. We were perfectly reassured
of the fate of our dear children, when, shortly after dinner,
a third pigeon arrived, carrying the following letter :--

"The defile is forced. Zuckertoss is quite ravaged; the
sugar-canes are pa'rtly taken away, partly broken; numerous
enormous vestiges of monstrous feet are shown on the soil.
Hasten, dear father, to come to our assistance. We dare not
go forward or backward, and, though sound and safe, we
have not strength enough to fight against a danger of which
we do not know the extent and gravity."

This news was of quite another character from the pre-
ceding, and you may imagine I was not amused with it.
Without any delay I saddled the wild ass, and, after having
told my wife to go the following day with our baggage-
wagon to the defile, under charge of Ernest, I set off at a
gallop.
CONSTRUCTION OF A SUMMER HABITATION. FRUITS OF THE
CACAO-TREE AND BANANA-TREE. THE MYSTERIOUS SACK.
THE SULTANA ' HENS. ELEPHANTS. PANTHERS. THE
AMPHIBIOUS MONSTER. THE DECEIVER DECEIVED. RE-
STORATION OF FALCON'S NEST. CONSTRUCTION OF A
BODY-GUARD IN REQUIN ISLAND. '

I WENT, in three hours, a distance which generally took
six. My arrival was saluted with cries of joy and embraces.
Without losing a minute, I wished to see the extent of the
disaster which my children's letter announced, and was soon
convinced that they had not exaggerated. There was devas-
tation everywhere. The beams which served to enclose the
narrow passage, and which we had fixed there with so 'much
trouble, were hid in the ground, broken like wisps of straw;
and the neighbouring trees, where we intended to build for
the summer a Kamtschadule cabin, were broken and stripped
to a great height. In the bamboo thicket, the youngest plants
were either broken or devoured. But, where the devastation
presented the most frightful character, was in our plantation
of sugar-canes; what was not pulled up or broken was trodden
down. Even our smoking hut was overturned. W'hence came
these devastations? Who were the authors of it? I had
remarked, towards the mouth of the West River, some heavy
prints, which might be those 'of hippopotamus feet. Besides
these, there were other footprints, smaller than the preceding,
like those which large wolves or hyenas would have made.

These traces, however, were towards the coast, and did not

come to the defile.
252
We raised the tent in haste, and collected some wood to
make a great fire, to protect us against the attacks of our enemies
during the night, which Fritz and I passed in conversation
on the events of the day, with our ears on the watch, and
our guns between our legs.

The next day, about noon, Ernest and his mother arrived
with the cart, to which they had fastened the cow and ass,
and we began to prepare everything for a long sojourn, that
we might repair the numerous damages. When the fortification
of the defile was solidly rebuilt, which took about a week, I
began to construct in the neighbourhood a summer habitation,
in the Kamtschadule manner, formed of four beautiful trees,
united at the height of twenty feet by a very strong flooring.
To reach this aerial abode, I made a staircase, which, though
solid, could be raised through the frame of the flooring. This
cabin presented, a very picturesque aspect. It served us, at
once, for a sleeping-room, an observatory, and poultry yard.
This new abode was called "The Hermitage."

Whilst I was working at the house, and the mother was
preparing things for the household which demanded much
care and time, our boys went on excursions, and each time
brought back something new. In one of these journeys, Fritz
returned with two fruits, which he had taken for cucumbers or
gherkins, and which were simply the fruit of the cacao-tree
and of the banana-tree. We tasted them both, and I must
own that they did not deserve their reputation. The beans of the
cacao, enclosed like pips in a sort of pap, were extremely bitter;
the bananas were eatable, but insipid, and resembled soft pears.

"It is strange," cried I, "that fruits so much esteemed
elsewhere appear to us of such a disagreeable savour. In the
Isles of France the pap of the cacao is found exquisite, mixed
with sugar and orange-flowers, and its kernel, which we find
so bitter, is delicious when dried and preserved with sugar.
In the two Indies, the bananas, roast or boiled, are found very
agreeable, probably because they are gathered at the proper
time, which is a little before they are ripe." " If it is 50," said
the mother, "I will take charge of these fruits, which I will
plant in ,my garden, and hope that we also shall find them
delicious." "Dear wife," said I, " for the cacaovbeans to
germinate they must be put in moist ground as soon as they
are taken out of the fruit. As to the bananas, they are
generally reproduced from slips; so, if you wish, Fritz, before
our departure, shall go and gather some slips and some fruits,
which you can plant."

The day before our departure Fritz received from. his
mother a commission to fetch some fresh cacao fruits and
some slips from the banana trees, and, from me, to bring from
this last excursion all the samples he could find of the vegetable
and animal kingdom. He set off on the river, taking, besides
his canoe, a sort of Californian raft, very light, which, when
he returned in the evening, was loaded almost to submerging.
James, Ernest, and Francis ran to unload the riches of the
little flotilla. Each, carrying something, hastened to the cabin.
Ernest and Francis had already taken the first loads, when
Fritz confided to James a large damp sack, in which were
shown some singular movements. James opened it directly,
hiding himself behind a bush, and the sight of its contents '
drew from him an exclamation of surprise and joy. After
having thanked his brother for this present,'he placed the sack,
with much precaution, taking care to keep it half plunged in
water, in a secret place, whence he would fetch it on the
morrow. As to Fritz, he jumped on shore with a large bird,
whose claws, wings, and head he had tied, and which he
presented with visible satisfaction. It was 'a Sultana hen.

He then gave us an account of his excursion. He spoke
of the extreme fertility of the country, which he had perceived
on the opposite shore. He had seen there thick forests,
which extended from the shore to the side of the mountain.
He had been almost deafened by the clamours of a multitude
of birds, with varied plumage, pintados, Indian fowls, etc.;
among which, with his noose he had taken the Sultana hen.
Going up the river, higher than Buffalo Marsh, he had found,
on his right, a wood of mimosus, where some elephants
were gravely walking, in bands of ten and twenty, pulling
off the young branches, of which they swallowed whole
' heaps, without troubling themselves at the presence of the canoe
nor of him who rowed it. A little farther on, .Fritz had
perceived, coming to drink at a little stream, some panthers,
whose wonderful fur gave to the landscape a picturesque
appearance, quite new to the adventurous traveller. "I felt
for an instant," said he, "a great desire to try my skill on one
of these magnificent animals, but I thought it would be
imprudent, and soon my warlike ardour melting like snow
in the sun, I felt a not less earnest desire to turn back
towards our quiet habitation. I was thinking thus wisely,
when, having fired twice, I suddenly saw the water heave
tumultuously, as if a spring had burst out, and soon I saw
an enormous head, of a reddish-brown colour, issue from
the river, and bellow with a noise that resembled braying.
I had only time to remark, during this braying, a double
row of frightful teeth, which seemed buried in the gums
like so many stakes, sharpened at the point; with four
strokes of my oars, I was some distance from the monster;
in four more, I had completely lost sight of him, hoping,
with all my heart, that he would not seek to rejoin me. I
retook my Californian raft, which I had left in a little creek,
while I went to the upper part of the river, and returned
here by the shortest way."

"What animal was it," inquired James, " with yawning
jaw and terrible teeth, which Fritz saw on the surface of
the waters? "

' "It was probably an alligator," said Ernest; "or, if you
prefer a more, familiar name, a crocodile."

Such was our eldest son's recital. It proved that we had
in our neighbourhood a great number of formidable animals,
panthers, elephants, hippopotamuses, and others, which it would
be very difficult to keep from invading our domains. Apart
from these fears, Fritz' expedition had been very fortunate,
since he had brought us numerous samples of vegetables
worth having. During his absence we had prepared every-
thing for our departure, which was fixed for the following
day.

The next morning, then, whilst the mother, Ernest, James,
Francis, and I, with all our equipage took the land route, Fritz
went by water. In his name he went down the river, doubled
the promontory of Disappointed Hope, and examined atten-
tively all the coast, which was "unknown to us.
We all set out at the same time, and accomplished our
voyages with equal good fortune. The navigator, in doubling
the cape, made a new discovery. Among the brushwood on
the face of the cliffs he observed a bush, whose flowers were
small, white, and very numerous, and had the appearance as
well as the foliage of a myrtle. He brought a branch of the
shrub, which seemed to me a kind of tea-plant, and was
accordingly received with special distinction.

The hope which we cherished, that sooner or later a
ship would sight our shores, and carry us back to our native
country, induced us to collect all that the island contained
which was precious or useful, so as to enable us to negotiate
with the strangers for payment of our passage, if any opportunity
offered for quitting our island.

It was for this reason we yearly collected supplies of cotton
beyond our wants; of fruits, which we dried or preserved; of
aromatics and spices, such as pepper, vanilla, cinnamon, cloves,
and even nutmegs, which our pigeons brought every season
- from remote islands, and of which we relieved their crops'
when they returned. The reader will therefore understand,
that the discovery of the tea-shrub was regarded by me as
one of the most important we had made. .

The return journey was without adventures. James, mounted
on his ostrich, preceded us. He had lowered, by our orders,
the drawbridge, and then hastened to steep in the mud the
mysterious sack he had received from his brother. Ernest
and I, while waiting for Fritz, had unloaded our riches. At
first, the number of winged fowl rather frightened me, when
I thought of the depredations they would commit in our
plantations; and to obviate as much as possible this incon-
venience, I ordered them to be taken immediately to 'our
maritime territories. The Indian fowls, the tufted hen, and
the cranes, the last with their wings cut, were transported into
the neighbouring islands. The black swans, the royal heron,
and the Numidian lady were placed near Goose Marsh. The
old bustards obtained the privilege of remaining near us, even
during our meals, when we ate them in the open air. As
soon as Fritz arrived, about two hours before sunset, we had
a comfortable repast. This finished, we were seated on the
threshold of our grotto, consulting quietly, when a terrible
' roaring, like the rolling of thunder, was heard in the direction
of Goose Marsh. Our dogs sprang up barking. I rose quickly,
and ordered James to go and fetch some balls, whilst the
mother, Ernest, and little Francis showed as much fear as
our faithful guardians. As to Fritz, who in such cases was
always the first to run to arms, he did not move, and even
smiled imperceptibly, which reassured me. " Do not be
alarmed, my children," said I; "what we take for the roaring
of a ferocious beast is perhaps only the cry of a bittern or
a marsh hog." "Unless," continued Fritz, "it is a serenade
given by James's giant frog." "Ah! ah?" replied I, laughing,
"it is a trick which he has tried to play us. . . . I now
understand the mystery with which he transported a certain
sack, which you confided to him so secretly. . . . Well,
to punish him for his joke, which has uselessly alarmed his
mother, my dear children, pretend to be very much frightened
as soon as James returns." All the family joined in this
improvised comedy. Each ran helter-skelter; one pretending
to seek for arms; one rolling about with staring eyes;
Fritz, standing on tip-toe, seemed to be looking round him
anxiously. '

"What is the matter?" asked James, coming in, quite
proud of the fright, in which he supposed his frog' had thrown-
us. "What is the matter?" repeated he, remarking that Fritz
looked as frightened as any of us. "A monstrous puma, who
is coming roaring towards us I " replied Fritz; "we have just
seen him there, in the thicket."

"A puma! What is a puma?" asked James, who seemed
to become uneasy, in his turn. "It is," said I, "an American
tiger, whose skin is of one colour, whence its name, 'fllzir
camolor.' This animal is very ferocious, but his skin is much
esteemed; he has------" " He has what I don't want to
know," said my madcap, going quickly back into the grotto.

As soon as he had taken refuge there, we resumed our
places under the arbour with shouts of laughter, which re-
doubled when we saw Master James, his gun in his hand,
still pale with fright, looking through one of the windows of

the gallery, and not understanding our tranquillity. All was
17
at last explained, and the joker declared he would never make
another practical joke.

Some days after, as we began to recover from the fatigue
of the last expedition, the mother asked me, earnestly, to
employ once more our common activity in the restoration of
our ancient palace of Falcon's Nest. I consented willingly;
and we went to our aerial abode as soon as my children had
finished preparing the "salt-lick," of which I have previously
spoken.

The labour of restoring our castle in the fig-tree went on
rapidly. The roots at the base were planed and polished; a
little terrace of clay was constructed all round it. We rendered
it impervious to the water with a mixture of tar and resin.
Our room was covered with barks of trees, carefully joined,
and on the principal side we made two little balconies of
. trellis work, very picturesque. At last, this first nest, formerly
so ugly, became by these arrangements 3. very charming and
very comfortable abode. _

Fritz now proposed to construct a body-guard and an
establishment of four cannons on a platform at Requin Island.
The enterprise was difficult; however, we succeeded in it,
though not without long efforts and great fatigue. I began
by constructing on the rock a capstan, as strong as possible,
to which I adapted some tackle which permitted me to raise
the cannon, disengaged from its frame. This work of drawing
up lasted a day, for the height to be cleared was fifty or
sixty feet, and we could only proceed slowly, because of the
weight of the cannon. Behind the cannon, replaced on its
frame and pointed towards the sea, we constructed 'a sort of
large sentry-box with planks and bamboo-canes, near which
was raised a mast, with a cordag'e, to hoist our flag, which
was to be white in time of calm, and red in case of alarm.
When all was finished, that is to say in about two months,
we were so glad, that we. resolved to celebrate our work with
a certain solemnity, by firing six discharges of cannon, in
the manner of salute to the Swiss flag, 'which we hoisted for
the first time.
GLANCE AT THE COLONY AT THE END OF TEN YEARS. EX-
CURSION OF FRITZ IN HIS CANOE. THE NESTS. THE
BAY OF PEARLS. THE SEA-DOGS. THE ALBATROSS.

CHAPTERS are added to chapters, as years to years, insen-
sibly, uniformly; since I am relating the history of my life,
or rather that of my family, during these ten years, passed
far from the world, far from human kind, far from our native
country, without any resources but our industry, without other
consolation than our sincere faith in the goodness of God,
and our reciprocal affection. During the ten years, how
many events had happened to our little world! Each day
had brought its trouble, and also its pleasure, because the
work most hard to the hands is always most sweet to the
heart, and we never thought of repining at the labour which,
after having given us daily bread, gave us repose of soul.
Every evening, before sleeping, we thanked the Lord for
His inexhaustible bounty to us, His humble, but grateful
creatures. Every morning, before beginning the painful labours
of the day, we prayed Him to bless our efforts, by keeping
us all in health, our only riches, and the love of work, our
only pride.

During these ten years, which pass so slowly with the
sick and idle, so quickly, on the contrary, to those who, like
me, have a family to bring up, to love, to protect, everything

had gone well for the prosperity of our little colony. Under
' 259
our renewed efforts and incessant labour, our plantations, our
divers establishments, had reached a great state of prosperity.
Each year had perfected and enlarged our possessions, and
added to our well-being. We lived, literally, in the midst
of our work. After God, we were the creators of our little
universe. How great is the power of man, when he obeys
the law of work! Apart from certain inevitable mortifica-
tions, apart also from certain slight indispositions, equally
inevitable, all had grown around us; the trees of our gardens,
and the children of our love. They were---they appeared
to me at least--all four, beautiful and good, each according
to the difference of his temper and disposition. They loved
each other tenderly; working like men, playing like children.
Fritz had reached his twenty-fourth year, Ernest his twenty-
second, James his twentieth, and Francis his seventeenth.
Time had scarcely touched the face of my dear wife, who
had remained the angel of our solitude; her beautiful soul
was always reflected in her sweet looks. The children
adored her, and surrounded her with tenderness. Each tried
to spare her trouble and fatigue, and to give her pleasure.
"I have never been so happy," said she to me sometimes;
"it is more than happiness; and if we could live always
for these children, if death would not separate us from them,
if in this solitude we were not condemned to disappear, one
after the other, leaving the survivors to melancholy and
abandonment, I should bless God, who had made this earthly
paradise; but alas! alas! a day will come, my love, when
our eyes will close!" I comforted her by telling her that
the good God who watched over us, would not abandon us,
that He would finish His work, and take care of our future
life. "You are right," said she, "my complaints are impious.
May God, who sees my heart, pardon me, and give me your
courage." My hairs were silvered, but I was strong and
well; age had weakened none of my faculties, and my con-
fidence in God was entire. I felt myself near Him and in
His keeping.

Our domestic animals had prospered also. Brummer had .
completed his growth; the cow and the buffalo had given
us a calf each year, and of this abundant progeny we had
saved two samples, one who had become a good milch cow,
the other a strong bull. We had called the first Blass (pale),
because of her white skin, and the second Bri'ill (roarer), be-
cause of his threatening voice. We also had two young asses,
a male and a female, one we named Pfeil (arrow), and the
other Flink (awake). Of the jackal's numerous breed we
preserved only one, who promised to become an excellent
blood-hound, and whom James called by the name of Coco.
Our cattle multiplied greatly, and our poultry abundantly
supplied our table.

One day when Fritz had set on early with his canoe,
we went in the afternoon to the body-guard at Requin, to
look out on the sea as far as possible, and endeavour to dis-
cover our adventurous child's canoe. The Swiss flag floated
at the top of the mast, and the cannon was loaded ready to
be discharged. We waited, but nothing appeared. How-
ever, in a short time, by the help of a glass I began to dis-
tinguish a black point moving, which soon took form; it was
our dear boy. He was using his oars, but as far as I could
judge, more slowly than usual, on the tranquil face of the
sea, and going towards the Bay of Deliverance. "Fire!"
commanded Ernest, in his quality of artillery officer.

James approached with a match, and at the same time
as the noise of the cannon, our navigator might hear our
joyous hurrahs which saluted his return. Then we descended
in all haste to the shore, to meet Fritz, and receive him on
' land near our habitation. Then I saw the cause- of the un-
usual slowness of the canoe. At the prow of the canoe, that
is to say on the walrus head, was suspended a voluminous
packet, which seemed made of bristling feathers. At the
peep a large sack was tied, floating at ease. At one side
of the canoe swam an important captive, which we did not
yet distinguish.

"You are well attended, Fritz," cried I; "whence come
you so loaded P Have you been in danger?" "None, father,
thank God!" replied Fritz. " On the contrary, this voyage
has been very lucky, as you may soon judge."

The canoe drawn on the. shore and unloaded, we eagerly
surrounded Fritz, to know the divers incidents of his voyage
which he was very desirous to relate to us. "Before all, clear
father," said he, " I pray you to pardon me for setting off this
morning without your authority. Since I have so light and
convenient a boat, I can scar-eel}! resist the desire of using it .
for adventurous expeditions. For a long time I have wished
to make a more intimate acquaintance with the country west of '
Felsenheim, and with the parts where I killed my walrus.
Foreseeing some unexpected encounters, which might prolong '
my excursion, I carried in my canoe, besides my provisions,
3. boat-hook, a harpoon, some nets, my hatchet, my gun, my
pistols, a compass, and my eagle.

" The weather was suitable for my project. The sea was
calm, and the sky without clouds. I took advantage of a
moment when you were in the grotto, to get into my canoe
and follow the current of the stream, which in a short time
carried me out of sight. Arriving at the place where 'ten
years ago the vessel was stranded, the clearness of the water
showed me at a certain depth some large cannons, some balls, '
some bars of iron, and other things which we might draw
from the water, when we have made a diving bell, as I think
you intend to do. ' Then I went westward, towards the--
coast, doubling a promontory formed half of rocks joined to
each other, half of rocks scattered over the water; there was
established an innumerable band of birds, and at some distance
from these, a quantity of sea-animals, marine lions, bears,
walruses, etc.

"Soon after this night came on, but I did not dare to
land, owing to the close proximity of such dangerous animals.

"I anchored my canoe while I slept, and only when
morning came did I venture on shore for breakfast.

" My fears of the night before were well founded, for when
I had finished my meal, and was employing a few moments
in cleaning and loading my gun, I heard a rustle among the
" bushes near me, and, looking up, saw an immense tiger. ' It
was well that I had my gun in my hands. I fired imme-
diately, and rolled him over with the first shot. I feared to
wait and secure the skin lest his mate should be near by, but
got into my canoe again at once.

_" As I did not feel quite at ease in the vicinity of these.--

THE swrss FAMILY ROBINSON. 263

monsters, I~ thought of gliding more quickly through the
passages formed by the rocks, and in about an hour, I came
suddenly before a sort_ of triumphal arch, built by chance,
with enormous pieces of suspended rock. Under this thick
vault, which seemed able to brave the most formidable tempests,
a population of sea-swallows had made their abode. They
flew around me by hundreds, squalling to deafen, and perhaps
to frighten me. They were about the size of wrens, with
feathers of a dazzling whiteness underneath, and deep black
at the top, and the wings were ashy grey. 'As to their nests,
'I counted thousands, skilfully built, and stuck in all crevices
of the rocks. Each of them reposed on a support adhering
-to the rock, and resembling a spoon without a handle. I
carefully detached some which I have brought, and which
you can taste if you like, as they say they are good to eat,
from the kind of gelatinous gum with which they are made.
I suppose these are the famous nests which the Chinese
consider such a delicacy.

" I continued my voyage, and when I had crossed the
high vault of rocks, I found myself in a magnificent bay, of
which the shore was bordered by a savannah, whose extent
was lost to sight; here and there some verdant woods, some
masses of rock, and in the middle a. winding river which
extended to a forest of cedars. All along the coast I could
see in the depths of the sea, which was as transparent as
crystal, very extensive beds of shell-fish, joined together and
attached to the rocks by filaments, which resembled tufts of
hair. I thought that these shell-fish might have a more agree-
able taste than the little oysters in the Bay of Deliverance,
and I detached some with my hook, and fished them up with
my net. I threw part of them on the shore to eat, and placed
others in the sack for you, tying it behind my boat. 'Then I
landed to rest a little; I opened my oysters, which appeared
very tough, and in which I found several little round bodies,
the size of a pea, which resembled pearls. Here they are,
dear father; examine them, and tell me if I am right."

At these words, Ernest, James, and Francis bent eagerly
towards the peas, which Fritz presented to me, and which
" were nothing less than pearls of a dazzling whiteness and264 ~ THE smss FAMILY Rontnsou.

incomparable purity, some very large. "You have discovered .
a treasure, dear boy," said I; "whole nations would envy us
this precious find, for they are worth millions. Unhappily, it
will be as impossible for us to profit by them as by your
swallows' ,nests, since we have no connection with the rest
of the universe, and for our own use, these inestimable riches
are not worth a sack of nails or a measure of corn. However,
.as we must not disdain the gifts of Providence, who will,
perhaps, permit us one day to be reunited to our European
brethren, we will go soon and explore this place; who knows
if the treasure we should amass here, may not insure your
well-being hereafter?"

Fritz resumed. " After a short repast, I continued my
navigation along this smiling shore, sloped with verdant
bays, which seemed to invite me every instant to stop. At last
I arrived at the mouth of the river, of which I have spoken,
whose shores were covered with aquatic plants with large
leaves, over which ran large birds with long claws. After
renewing my stock of fresh water, I soon attained the
promontory which shuts in Pearl Bay, almost in front of the
arch of swallows' nests, which is about a league from it. There
extend a series of rocks which completely separate the bay
from the sea, with which it only communicates by a narrow
strait. It would be impossible to find a situation more
advantageous for a sea-port.

" As Iwas going through this pass, a sudden tidal current
prevented me, and I went along the promontory to seek an
issue similar to that I had found on the other side, but without
SUcceeding. Returning, I perceived a number of animals about
the size of a sea-dog, who were playing in the water and on
the rocks. I was too far off to fire at them, and yet I
wished to know what they were. I rowed on a little, and
then sprang my eagle, who rapidly went into the midst of
the frolicsome flock; then quitting my canoe and running
from rock to rock, I arrived in time to take away the prey,
on which the eagle pounced with his powerful claws; the
whole troop had disappeared as if by enchantment."

" But," asked 1, "how did you bring your booty here,
as it is of considerable weight?" "It cost me some trouble,"
replied Fritz, "I would not leave my sea-dog there, and yet
I knew that if I could not devise some means of making it
lighter, it would be impossible to bring it away with me.
Whilst I was reflecting, I was struck with the great quantity
of birds which were crying around me----sea-swallows, gulls,
albatrosses, etc. Their importunity became so troublesome,
that to get rid of them I struck round with my boat-hook:
one fell at my feet quite stupefied, with its wings extended.
It was an albatross. Then recollecting the proceedings of
the Greenlanders, I pulled from the bird one of its strongest
feathers, which served as a pipe to put? out my sea-dog, whom
I then tied behind my canoe. But it was time to think of
returning, and I would not st0p longer. I came safe and
sound through the breakers, and using my oars with a. will,
soon found myself in well-known waters, and saw at
a distance our white flag floating, and also heard our
artillery."
CONFIDENCES OF FRITZ. THE ENGLISHWOMA'N ON THE
FIERY ROCK. DEPARTURE FOR THE PEARL OYSTER
FISHERY. THE UNLOADING.

FRITZ had finished his recital. But whilst his brothers,
and even my wife, were examining with curiosity the riches
which he had brought, he took me mysteriously aside, and '
drew me to a distant bank, where, when we were both seated,
he completed his relation in these terms: "Listen, now,
dear father, to something strange. As I turned towards
the albatross to get a feather, I remarked suddenly that one
of its claws was surrounded by a piece of linen. I hastened
to detach this linen, on which I found written in English,,
with a sort of red ink, these words: 'Whoever you may be,
to whom God shall send this message, seek for a volcanic
island, which you will know by the flame which escapes
from one of its craters. Save an unhappy woman, abandoned
on a fiery rock.'

"I read the phrase a dozen times, to assure myself that
I was not dreaming. What! cried I, is it possible? A
human creature living in these uninhabited countries? How
did she come there? By shipwreck, undoubtedly, as we
did. Ah! can I find her, in time to save her?

"I tried to recover the poor bird, who was only stunned.
I poured some drops of hydromel in his beak. Then with
a feather steeped in the bloody wound of my sea-dog, I

wrote in English, on a piegeafi of my handkerchief, 'Have
confidence in God; assistance is perhaps near.' Then, tying
the two rags to the claws of the albatross, who was quite
recovered from his swoon, I let him try his wings, and he
flew away in a westerly direction with a rapidity which
vexed me, for I had hoped that he would go more slowly,
and thus permit me to follow him, and discover the fiery
rock.

"This is what I wished to tell you alone, father. And
now, will my words of hope and consolation reach the
unfortunate one? Where is she? How can I find her?"

"My dear son," I replied, "I rejoice extremely that you
have acted so prudently. You were quite right to confide
this singular adventure to me alone, and thus spare your
mother and brothers great anxiety. The message, tied to
the claw of the albatross, may be of ancient date, and this
unfortunate woman may be separated from us by - an in-
accessible distance, for albatrosses fly a long way, and the
country, whence it-- came, may be many leagues from our
colony. We will speak of it again byeand-bye, and now
we will return to our dear family, who will be astonished
at our mysterious absence." Saying this, I rose; Fritz did
the same, and we went hand in hand to meet my wife and
children, and then sat down to supper with a good appetite.

The conversation during supper was principally on the
pearl oysters, and I described the manner in which pearls are
formed in the shells. The result of this conversation was
that we determined to explore this pearl fishery as soon as
possible. But we had not the necessary tools for this special
work, so we each undertook a part of the work for supplying
them. I made four iron hooks, two large and two small
ones, provided with a strong wooden handle, which was to
be fixed to our canoe, so that in rowing these hooks might
scrape the bottom and detach the oysters. Ernest made, by
my direction, a bent instrument to take from the rocks, to
' which they adhered, the swallows' nests, of which I wished
to make an ample stock. James made a light ladder with an
iron hook at its upper extremity. Francis helped his mother
to prepare some linen sacks, to receive the oysters as soon
as they were detached.
As to Fritz, he thought only of one thing, that is to say,
to make in the skins which covered his canoe a second opening,
which his brothers naturally supposed was to receive one of
them, as a companion in his excursion, but of which I alone
guessed the special destination. Our provisions were all pre-
pared: fresh pemmican, cassava cakes, maize, almonds, etc.,
etc.; nothing was wanting, even to a small cask of hydromel.
The whole was loaded on our canoe, with our arms and bag-
gage, and one day, when the weather appeared favourable,
we departed, leaving the mother at home, under Francis's care.
We had as companions in the voyage, Knips the 2nd (Knips
the Ist had long been dead); James's jackal, a little too old
for such a journey; Belle, tolerably old also; and our two
vigorous dogs, Braun and Faune.

James had insisted on getting into the canoe with his
brother, and placed in the second hole, he proposed to serve
as pilot, aided by Fritz, who knew the way. We followed the
canoe, and advanced boldly through the Walrus rocks, against
which the waves beat furiously. We perceived here and there
bones of marine animals, whitened by time, of which my
young companions wished to take away some specimens for
our museum. Arrived in the tranquil waters of the great bay,
we admired, playing on the surface of the sea, which was
shining like a looking-glass, some elegant paper nautiluses, of
which our pilots fished up some specimens, and we deposited
them carefully in our canoe.

We soon reached a flat promontory, which we named Cape
Camus; when we had doubled it, we perceived at a great
distance behind the arch promontory the famous bay of pearls.
The gigantic vault under which we passed, well merited the
praises which Fritz had given it. We were assailed, as he
had been, by the myriads of sea-swallows, which were as
numerous as flies in summer. You may suppose we did not
lose much time in admiration: here were riches of which
we might one day make use, and we immediately began to
seize them; the ladder was of great use in reaching the
clifts of the rocks. But as the climbing of my rash
children began to make me uneasy, I ordered them to cease;
the nests were put in a large sack, and placed in the canoe,
' and we resumed our voyage, after we had taken some refresh-
ment.

The tide, which was rising, helped us to cross without
difficulty this dangerous defile, and we soon found ourselves
in one of the most magnificent bays I had ever seen. It
might have been seven or eight leagues round. Some little
islands here and there enlivened its aspect. Besides, on the
side of the sea, it had a belt of rocks protecting it against
the impetuosity of the waves, in the middle of which was a
passage of some fathoms deep, offering a convenient entrance
even to the largest vessels. The only fault mariners could
find with this bay is that there are several banks of sand and
high grounds, though these are partly composed of oyster
banks, which are easily perceived and not dangerous.

We sailed, with great pleasure, over this beautiful piece of
water, and neared the shore, which, with its verdant meadows,
its shady woods, its hills, and picturesque river, pleased our
eyes and seemed to put hope into our hearts. A spacious
creek a short distance from the oyster bank, was chosen for
the landing. Our dogs, to whom we had doled out water
stingily during the voyage, did not wait for an invitation to
jump out of the canoe and go to drink in the clear stream
of water which ran at some little distance from us. The ape,
who also smelt the stream, and who was as desirous as his
companions to taste the limpid water, made very amusing
grimaces, going and coming from poop to prow, looking at
the sea, looking at the sky, looking at us, imploring everybody,
wishing to jump, and not daring to do so. I laughed, at first,
at his piteous contortions; then I had compassion on him,
and throwing on the shore a strong cord to the extremity of
which was fixed a piece of wood, I thus gave the poor animal
the means of gaining his desire. He got on the shaking
bridge, walked along it cautiously, helping himself with a
stick, which I put in his hand to balance him, and reached
land like his comrades, not without having several times
scratched his ear anxiously during the transit.

We followed our little rope-dancer without delay. The
day was declining; it was necessary to think of our supper
and lodging for the night. The supper was not very long
preparing; it consisted of pemmican soup, boiled potatoes and
maize cake. A large fire was kindled, by the help of wrecks
, brought long since by the sea, and dried by the sun; our
- dogs were left on the shore, and we returned to sleep in the
canoe, which was anchored at some distance higher up, and
over which we spread our tent.
JAMES'S FRIGHT. THE WILD BOAR. TRUFFLES. LIONS.
DEATH OF BELLE. FRITz's EXPEDITION.

THE night Was troubled at first by the distant howlings of
jackals, to which ours found it necessary to reply. At break
of day we were up, and after a good breakfast we went to
the oyster-bank, where the fishing was so abundant that I
resolved to continue three days longer. The oysters were
left on the shore, in compact beds, for the sun to open and
putrify them. We also dried a quantity of kelp, which we
had discovered in the neighbourhood, and which I hoped
would be useful some day in making soap and purifying
our sugar.

Every evening about an hour before supper, we made
pedestrian excursions in the neighbourhood, whence we always
brought either vegetables or birds. The evening of our last
day of fishing we each felt curious to penetrate farther into
a. little wood, where we had heard the cries of turkeycocks
and peacocks. Ernest and the valiant Faune preceded us.
Behind them marched James and the jackal, advancing care-
lessly in the high grass; whilst Fritz and I remained on the
shore, putting in order some of our tools. Suddenly we heard
a firing, then a. frightful cry, then a second fire.

Immediately Belle and Braun sprang in the direction of
the noise, followed by Fritz and his eagle. I went also to
know what was passing. Soon, to this cry of distress, suc-
ceeded another, quite different, and through the trees I
perceived James, who, stumbling and groaning, was sup-

ported by his brothers.
271
"What is the matter? what has happened? James, my
child, are you wounded?" asked I.

"I have a pain here," sighed James, faintly; "I have a
pain here, then there, then somewhere else, then everywhere."
I proceeded immediately to a scrupulous examination, but
could find no fracture, no apparent hurt, to the great as--
tonishment of James, who ceased not to sigh, and say that
he must be wounded. There were only here and there some
blue spots, which showed slight contusions.

" For a hunter, my dear James, you appear a little too
tender," said I, completely reassured. "Too tender!" cried
he, with a sort of comic indignation; "when I have been
struck, murdered, trodden under foot, pounded! when this
creature might have ripped me up! Ah] father, if our brave
dogs and Fritz's eagle had not come, I should have become
the prey of the monster."

" But will you tell me what this monster is that has given
you so much pain?" "A wild boar, dear father; an enormous
wild boar," replied Ernest. " He has tusks half a foot long,
and an immense head. We surprised him eagerly rooting
up the soil, on which he raised large hillocks; and but for
the balls we lodged in his body, James, whom he had knocked
down, would have been crushed." "I thank God," I replied,
" that the peril is past, and our dear James escaped with a
fright." Saying this, I gave the imprudent hunter a glass
of our canary wine; I washed, with the same wine, his bruised
members, and then carried him into the boat, where he soon
fell asleep.

To this accident, which fortunately had no fatal conse-
quences, we owed the discovery of truflles. The wild boar
who had caused so great a fright to poor James was busy
grubbing up the earth to get some.

The truffles, though of very secondary utility in our
kitchen, would be well received by the mother, and we col-
lected a stock of them, which we placed at the bottom of
the canoe. My sons asked me to give them some account of
this singular product of the earth. I told them that naturalists
class truffles in the family of mushrooms, and that they
grow without leaves, stalks, or roots. To discover them, they
take with them dogs or pigs. These animals, guided by
their smell, discover the places where they are found, and
scratch up the earth. They find great quantities in France,
Italy, and many other places. They are much esteemed,
more perhaps for their rarity than for their taste.

The next morning I went to see the wild boar. My two
eldest sons accompanied me; James, still overcome with the
fright of the previous day, preferred to rest. 0n arriving at
the outskirts of the wood we perceived the dogs and jackal,
who had remained near the wild boar, and who after saluting
us with a thousand gambols, conducted us to the animal,
whose enormous size surprised us. "What a good oppor-
tunity to replace our Westphalia barns," said Fritz, examining
the immense thighs of the wild boar. "I should like to take
the head, to place in our museum," said Ernest. " But, first,
we must transport the body to the shore, where we could
cut it up more conveniently." "I warn you," said I, " that,
with the exception of the thighs and head, the flesh of this
animal is very coarse; it would be best to take only those
parts, and abandon the rest." My advice prevailed. My sons
cut off the barns and head of the wild boar, which we placed
in a sort of sledge, made with branches of trees, to which the
dogs were fastened.

This night, our safety fires being kindled on the shore
and all seeming calm, we were preparing for sleep, when
suddenly we heard a terrible roaring, which made the forest
resound, and which the mountain echoes repeated. Our dogs
and the jackal replied to it by frightful howlings. A great
fear seized us, for the first time we heard that voice, which
announced the neighbourhood of a formidable animal.

"What a frightful concert!" cried Fritz, seizing his gun
and rising resolutely. " Keep in the canoe," said I; "I will
go myself and discover the enemy," but at the same time,
the courageous young man jumped out of his canoe and dis-
appeared in the darkness. With my eye on Fritz, I gave
orders to prepare our arms, awaiting the moment to make
use of them, if he required our assistance. The roarings con-
tinued, still approaching us. My children were the prey to

involuntary terrors, and all I could say scarcely reassured
I
them. I felt that there was imminent danger, and expected
to see through the darkness the flaming eyes of a panther
or a leopard.

Soon, by the light of our fires, we saw advance an animal
of enormous size; it was a lion. Arrived in front of the
fire, he remained motionless; the flames lighted up his face,
where we read fierceness, rage, and hunger; he lashed his
tail furiously, and one would have thought that he was going
to spring on us. This frightful performance lasted a long
time; we dared not move, and I did not know whether I
ought to fire, when we heard a report.

"It is Fritz," cried Ernest, in a frightened voice. The
lion sprang up roaring, then fell back into the waves of blood
which flowed from his breast.

"We are saved l " cried I; "the lion has been wounded
in the heart; Fritz had made a masterly shot." I jumped '
on the shore, recommending Ernest and James to remain
in the sloop, and to keep their arms ready. The dogs came
to caress me, but they soon began to howl afresh, running
towards the wood; this was a warning. I stopped, and it
was well I did, for at the same instant there came out of the
forest a second enemy, which I recognised to be a lioness,
doubtless the wife of the superb animal that Fritz had killed.

The lioness, by her cries, seemed to be calling her com-
panion; she smelt here and there, and stamped with fury.
When she perceived the corpse, she approached it, licked
the blood which ran from the wounds, then, when she com-
prehended that her companion was dead, she roared, ground
her teeth, and appeared to seek for vengeance.

At this moment a gun was fired; the lioness uttered a
cry of pain, and held up one of her paws, which the ball
had broken; but she was only wounded, and might still
be formidable. I rapidly adjusted my gun, and broke her
jaw; then the dogs threw themselves on her, and clung to her
sides. A terrible combat ensued; a mute spectator, I dared
not move. A gun shot would have put an end to this bloody
scene, but the fear of wounding one of our dogs stopped
me. Suddenly, when I saw our poor Belle fall, ripped up
by a blow of the lioness's claw, I sprang, without more
reflection, before the lioness, who raised herself furiously
against me, when I plunged my hunting-knife into her
breast. The enemy rolled on the ground, never more to rise.
Fritz arrived with a similar intention to mine. For greater
security, I fired one of my pistols at the lioness's head; then
we called James and Ernest, who had already sprung to
our assistance, and threw themselves in our arms, showing
their happiness at finding us safe and sound, after having
run such great danger.

The two lions were stretched on the sand, and though
we had nothing more to fear from them, we could not look
at them. without a shudder. The inanimate body of poor
Belle lay beside that of her enemy.

"Brave beast!" said Fritz, "she has become the victim
of her devotion. Here is again, my dear Ernest, a' melancholy
opportunity of showing your literary knowledge by compos-
ing an epitaph to our faithful companion." "That is true,"
replied Ernest: "but my heart is too full to be able to rhyme,
so I will make an epitaph in simple prose." So saying the
doctor retired to think of an inscription. During this time
Fritz and James dug a hole, in which to place the dog's
body. I washed the wounds of Faune and 'Braun, and
even of the jackal, who had fought valiantly beside the
dogs, and had received, like them, several wounds from
the lioness's teeth and claws. When the grave was ready
_' we placed our old friend in it. A flat stone was laid over
the ground, and our young scholar recited, in a melancholy

tone, the following epitaph, which served as a funeral oration
to the brave defunct :----

" Here reposes BELLE,
An excellent beast, admirable for her fidelity,
She died the death of the brave
And of the martyrs, victim of her devotion,
From the claws of a gigantic lioness,
And wept by the friends whom she saved."

" Well," said Fritz, pressing his hand, "we will engrave
this epitaph as soon as possible over poor Belle's tomb."
James was inconsolable. He wept. "My poor Belle, my
dear Belle; our best friend," cried he. I let his tears fall;
our eyes were suffused. The night air, however, had created
our appetites, and we busied ourselves in providing a.
repast. " Now I think of it," said James, drying his eyes,
"we have the head of the wild boar, which was put under
the ashes, where it must be cooked by this time." The
boys went to fetch the roast, which they found burnt as
black as coal; they were going to throw it away; I stopped
them, and plunging my knife into the fleshy part of the head,
I showed it to them, cooked to perfection, of a beautiful red
colour, and exhaling a pleasant odour of truffles. During
the repast, Belle's praises formed the principal part of
the conversation. After this we all went to bed.

In the morning we began to skin the two lions. Our
work was neither long nor troublesome, and we found our-
selves in possession of two magnificent furs. We had been
absent from Falcon's Nest for several days; my wife might
be uneasy about us. Besides, our oysters, heaped on the
shore, and beginning to putrefy, exhaled miasma, which it
would not be healthy to inhale. We resolved, therefore, to
return to the grotto, and return some time after to gather the
pearls which would then be found in the decomposed oysters.
W'e departed, Fritz alone in his canoe preceded us. When
we were out of the shoals he advanced a little, and presented
to me, at the end of his oar, a letter, which the factor, said
he, laughing, had forgotten to give me.

Not to make his brothers uneasy, I lent myself willingly
to this joke, and retiring to the back of the boat, I opened
the missive ; I was more troubled than surprised on learning
that Fritz was quitting us to go and seek for the unhappy
Englishwoman on the fiery rock. This project appeared
adventurous and romantic; but I felt glad that he attempted
it. My heart ached on seeing him fly like a swallow over
the surface of the water. " Adieu! Fritz: be prudent!" cried
I, in a loud voice, "and return soon, my child! Think of
us, of thy mother!" A kiss, which he sent from the distance,
was all his answer. He soon disappeared behind the promontory.
We could only pray for his prompt return, and continue our
voyage. My wife, from whom I hid the real motive of
Fritz's absence, was full of satisfaction at the riches we brought
She thanked us heartily, and showed all the pleasure she
felt in our return; but the absence of her eldest son made
her uneasy, and all that I could say about Fritz's prudence,
and his knowledge of navigation, could not calm her natural
fears.

For three whole days we were busy cleaning, arranging,
and storing the provisions we had amassed. The evening of
the fourth day, Fritz not having reappeared, I began to partake
the great anxiety of his brothers and mother, and proposed
to go with the pinnace to seek for our dear adventurer. My
wife, from whom I could not hide my fears, supported this
idea, and even wished to accompany us. After having
provided ourselves with an ample supply of provisions, and
assured ourselves that the pinnace, which we had not used
for a long time, was in good condition, we set sail. A
fresh wind carried us into the Open sea with such rapidity,
that, arrived at the top of the bay, our boat, which I
endeavoured in vain to guide, went against a monstrous
block floating in the water, and received such a strong
shock that we were overturned on the bridge. My wife
and children uttered a frightened cry. At the same instant
we saw the floating mass rise with a great noise, throw into
the air two immense spouts of water, then plunge and disappear
in the foaming Whirlpools. We had struck a whale. The
neighbourhood of such a monster was not reassuring, and I
judged it prudent to have our cannons ready to fire. The
gigantic fish reappeared at some distance off. Ernest im-
mediately pointed, as well as he could, one of our pieces, 'to
which James set fire. Our artilleryman had aimed justly;
we saw the ball strike the monster in full flank; he buried
himself again in the sea, leaving after him a long trail of
blood, and making the waves boil. Some minutes after he
showed himself again; a second shot was fired, which
nearly reached the head; he beat about violently, then
his strength appeared to be exhausted, and he was soon
stranded on one of the reefs of the bay.

I congratulated my sons on having delivered us from such
a neighbour, and gave them such explanations on the nature
of whales, when suddenly James cried out, "A savage, father,
a savage!" We all looked in the direction which the boy
showed us, and perceived, indeed, at a great distance, a canoe
of a strange form gliding over the waves. The savage who
was in it seemed to have perceived us, and disappeared behind
a point of rock. Alarmed, I ordered James and Ernest
to reload the cannons, and be ready to support an attack, for
I doubted not that the man in the canoe was the forerunner
of a horde of savages. My sons were very brave, and their
mother exhorted them, and endeavoured to inspire them with
a calmness she did not feel herself. However, the savage
showed himself again, and seemed to examine us more
attentively than the first time, then again disappeared behind
the little promontory, to reappear a few minutes after. Seeing
that he stopped and Continued to observe us, I cried aloud,
with all the strength of my lungs, but he did not appear to
comprehend me, for his attitude of mistrust remained the
same.

"I am of opinion," said James, "that we should send some
good English oaths to him, perhaps he would comprehend
them better," and seizing the trumpet, he used three or four
energetic expressions well known to sailors, which had more
effect than my amicable words. Almost at the same instant
the savage raised above his head a branch of a tree, as a sign
of peace and fraternity, and came towards us with all the
strength of his oars. The boys were delighted at the good
success of James's idea, but it was quite another thing, when
in the savage with the black complexion, his head ornamented
with feathers, the sight of whom had so alarmed us, we
recognised our dear Fritz. He was soon in our arms, and
the mother, intoxicated with joy at seeing him again,
overwhelmed him with kisses and caresses, without troubling
herself about the strangeness of his costume, and the black
colour of his face. She only began to care for it when the
smiles of her other sons made her think that Fritz might
have coloured her.JENNY.

['1' was then necessary to tell my wife what we had hid from
her. Her surprise, and I might say her anxiety also, were
extreme. The children, guessing a mystery, overwhelmed
Fritz with a multitude of questions, to which it would have
been very difiicult to reply, for they spoke all at once; at last,
when this flood of words was a little calmed, I asked him
what I was still ignorant of, first if he had succeeded in his
expedition; then why he was metamorphosed in this manner.
"My expedition has been very fortunate," replied he, looking
at me with a significant air, "and I applauded myself, dear
father, for having undertaken it. As to my disguise, it was a
measure of prudence. I took you at a distance for Malay
pirates, and the cannon-firing which I heard making me think
you were in force, I thought it necessary to change my European
vestments, which would have attracted attention and curiosity."

The mother interrupted the young man to make him wash
himself, for she could not bear to see him with a negro's face.
When Fritz had resumed his natural colour, "Father," said he,
"God has granted my wishes. I have discovered the island
of the fiery Rock, and if you like, as the rising tide obliges
us to seek an anchorage, we will disembark in a little neighbour-
ing island, where we shall find again--"

'I interrupted Fritz, and taking him apart, interrogated
him in a low voice. I wished, after what he was going to tell
me, to know whatI could think of the person towards whom

he was going to conduct us; he stopped me with a word,
279
which was quite sufiicient. "Father," said he, "I thought
I saw my mother at fifteen years of age, or rather your
daughter, if _we had had the happiness of having a sister worthy
of her and you." " Come," said I to Fritz, " come and conduct
us."

Fritz immediately displayed an ardour and astonishing
activity to make us land quickly. Getting into his canoe
and showing us the passes, he led us behind a little island
at the extremity of Pearl Bay, where a narrow tongue of land
formed a natural port, in which we landed. Fritz jumped
on shore, and without saying anything, ran towards a little
, wood, where was built a hut shaded by gigantic palm-trees.
We followed the footsteps of our guide, and soon found our-
selves before a hearth composed of large stones, on which,
instead of a pot, was placed a large shell. Fritz fired one
of his pistols in the air; at this signal we saw descend from
a neighbouring tree, not a woman, as I expected, but a young
sailor of a slight figure. and a. sweet and timid face.

I cannot describe the strange sensation that we all felt
at this moment. For ten years human kind had been dead
to us, and suddenly it arose before us in this juvenile figure,
so simple and sweet. We remained an instant stupefied and
voiceless before this unexpected apparition. My sons especially
could not believe their eyes. On his side the stranger appeared
undecided about his conduct towards us. But Fritz put an
end to our embarrassment.

" Dear mother, father, and brothers, I present to you a
friend, the young Lord Edward Montrose! Let him be
welcome, as a friend and brother, in our family circle!" "He
is welcome," we all replied warmly. At these words the
charming face of the sailor expressed so much happiness that
our Sympathy was instantly obtained. As chief of the family,
I advanced, and taking the young man's hands I saluted him
in English with as much friendship and kindness, as if he
had been one of my own children, returned after a long
separation. He replied timidly, and in a low voice; then,
addressing my wife, he recommended himself particularly to
her protection and kindness.

I comprehended from my son's exclamation that he would
not at first tell his brothers that the new comer was a young
.girl; I kept the secret as well as my wife, and I told my sons
to pay every possible respect to our host. This recommenda-
tion was useless; the young lord was already receiving the
most delicate attentions, and the dogs even played their part
by their caresses and joyful barks. The young people, in
their ardour, ran to the pinnace and brought tables, chairs,
and all sorts of provisions for the evening repast. The mother

spared nothing to show her culinary talents, whilst the young
Edward almost betrayed himself by the skill and eagerness

with which he helped our housekeeper in the kitchen prepara-
tions. Our supper was most agreeable. My sons, a little
excited by canary wine, gave themselves up to all the gaiety
of their age. It was late; I must put an end to the conversa-
tion by ordering a retreat. Everybody rose.

The stranger wished to remount to the top of the tree
whence we had seen her descend, but my wife opposed it,
and prepared a convenient couch in the pinnace. During
this time the young people, who had prudently kindled a
fire on the shore, were seated and talking by its light. The
three youngest by a multitude of questions tried to find out
how Fritz thought of taking the journey to the Fiery Rock.
He began to relate the history of the albatross and of his
excursion with so much ardour, that he forgot all at once to
substitute the name of Lord Edward for that of Miss Jenny,
which was the true name of the young girl. " Ah, ah," cried
the boys, " Fritz has betrayed himself, and our new brother
is changed into a charming sister." Fritz was a little dis-
concerted; however, he put a good face on it, and replied
laughing to his brothers. Francis was stupefied. " My word,"
said he, "I should never have thought that there could be
another woman in the world like mamma."

The next morning the boys advanced, with a half con-
fused air, to the young girl, whom they saluted by the strongly
accented name of Me's: jenny. The poor child blushed and
cast down her eyes; but at last she amicably extended her
hand to the young rascals, and recommended herself, with the
best grace, to their fraternal friendship.

After breakfast, which was very substantial, thanks to
some chocolate of Fritz's making, we thought of setting sail-
to find the stranded whale; this capture was too precious to
be abandoned entirely to birds of prey. We cut up the fish
as well as we could, and by Jenny's advice the fat quarters
were enclosed in linen sacks. When this work was finished
we returned to the Fiery Rock to take from it what the
young Englishwoman had left there. From a praiseworthy
sentiment she wished to preserve each object which recalled '
some circumstance of her isolated life and the special protection
of Providence. The whole was embarked in the pinnace; then,
after bidding adieu to the Fiery Rock, and having given to
the creek, where Fritz had landed, the name of "The Happy
Bay," we set sail towards Pearl Bay, where we were to make
a short sojourn before returning to Felsenheim. The bodies
of the lions had become the prey of vultures and other cami-
vorous birds, who had only left the bones. We erected our
tent, with the intention of remaining only long enough to
collect the pearls from the heap of decomposed oysters. But
a discovery, which I made, delayed our departure.

Among the rocks which bordered the coast I remarked one,
which appeared to be of a calcareous nature. I resolved,
therefore, to construct an oven, to try and prepare a quantity
of lime. We all began to work bravely; the oven was built,
filled with calcareous stones, above and underneath which was
lighted a fire, which must be kept up several days. This
operation leaving us much leisure, Fritz, whom his brothers
had begged to relate to them the history of his meeting with
Miss Jenny, took advantage of the time when the young girl
had gone to bed to give us the recital in these words :--

" You remember, without doubt, how I quitted you after
having given to my father a letter, in which I told him of
my projected excursion. The sea was good, but I had no
sooner passed Pearl Bay than a tempest arose. My canoe
not being strong enough to battle with the waves, I thought
it prudent to suffer myself to be carried along by them, and,
without being frightened, I recommended myself to God. My
hope was not deceived. After three hours of storm, the sea
was calmed, the sky became serene, and my boat glided tran-
quilly over the waves.
"But I was far from all known shore. The landscape which
surrounded me was very different from all that I had seen
up to that day; there were, on the borders of the islands, in
the midst of which I was sailing, enormous rocks, whose top
was lost in the clouds, gigantic trees, new to me, crowds of
birds with brilliant and varied plumage, majestic rivers, which
flowed into the sea. Several times I was tempted to go up
one of these beautiful streams of water, but the fear of delaying
the term of my expedition restrained me; I had only one
desire, to find the Fiery Rock, and to reach that I would not
have recoiled' before any obstacle. However, the heat of the
day became so great, that, in spite of my resolution not to
~ stop, I was obliged to seek a shade under the arches of
foliage which bordered one of the coasts; but, as I set foot
on this fertile and enchanted land, I perceived, at a little
distance, a troop of hippopotamuses, who were playing on
the surface of the water. Besides, I saw shining the scales
of enormous serpents, who were creeping like interlaced twigs
at the foot of the trees. There required nothing more, as
you may suppose, to make me prefer the heat of the sun in
the open sea to such a dangerous shade, and I began to row
quickly without being able to land at all; for every instant
I discovered on the shore either lions, panthers, elephants, or
other animals, not less formidable. After rowing several hours,
I had at last the satisfaction of finding myself in a more
peaceful spot. Inoffensive birds alone broke with their songs
the silence of these new shores. I landed in safety, fixed
my boat to some large stories which I found there, and made
a meal of oysters and other shell-fish, which I found in great
quantities on this coast.

"The day was closing, and as it would have been im'
prudent, at so late an hour, to venture into unknown regions,
I resolved to pass the night in my canoe, which I anchored
at some distance from the shore, by the help of a large
stone, which I let fall to the bottom of the water, after having
tied it with a cord to the prow of the boat. Though believing
myself out of their reach, I fired several times, to drive away
noxious animals. I wrapped myself in one of our furs, and slept.

"The next day I awoke early, and after thanking God for
the tranquil night I had passed, I resumed my voyage. I
was full of strength and ardour. My canoe flew like an
arrow, and I gavernyself up to the happiness of enjoying the
magnificent view which stretched before me.

"At noon, fatigued by several hours of continual rowing,
I determined to land near a little wood, whose aspect charmed
me. There were magnificent trees, peopled with paroquets
and a thousand other birds, who made the most harmonious
concert. At once surprised and enthusiastic, I advanced under
the verdant bowers, which climbing plants, running from one
tree to another, formed over my head. I had uncapped my
eagle, who, finding himself free, took flight and soon returned,
holding in his claws a little paroquet, which I took away from
him to examine it. Suddenly I heard behind me the noise
which a number of leaves make when trodden by a heavy
foot. I turned. What did I see? An enormous striped
tiger, who was not more than ten or a dozen steps from me.
It was too late to flee. I was so frightened I could scarcely
hold my gun, which besides would be but little help to me.
A cold sweat ran through me; I thought it was all over
with me, when my eagle, who doubtless comprehended the
danger, sprang on the tiger's head, and with his beak and
nails tore out his eyes. I was saved! The tiger, occupied
with defending himself against this unexpected adversary, took
no heed of me. I seized my pistols, and discharged them
almost close to him; I broke his skull. He fell, uttering
terrible roarings. But the joy of my victory was poisoned
with profound grief. One of my pistols, hurriedly directed,
had reached my eagle, who fell dead at the same time as
the tiger. I picked up the poor bird, and shedding tears
of regret, carried him to my canoe.

"Quitting this coast, with my heart full of sadness, with-
out having even thought of skinning the superb animal I
had just killed, I rowed with indolence and discouragement.
I was almost on the point of turning back to Falcon's Nest,
when over a little rocky island on my right I distinguished
a thread of reddish smoke, which rose towards the sky. 'The
Fiery Rock!' cried I, raising my hands to heaven, and all
my ardour returned.
"I rowed with all my strength till I reached the island,
where I landed, not without danger, because of the rocks
which bordered the coast. I climbed painfully, helping my-
self with hands and feet over a rock, whence I could examine
the country. After having considered an instant, I followed
a small hollow way, which led me to a sort of platform,
sheltered on two sides by the neighbouring rocks. I went
softly towards the entrance of a sort of grotto, which might
serve as an asylum to some dangerous beast. I had loaded
my pistols, and walked on tip-toe, my eyes and ears on the
watch, when suddenly, in the winding of the rock, I perceived,
with an emotion which I cannot describe, a human being,
who was reposing, her head resting on her arm, on a bed
of moss and dry leaves. I remained motionless, mute, before
this apparition. My surprise was as complete as if this meet-
ing, the object of my expedition, had been quite unexpected.
What! some one there, under my eyes, who was none of us!
In an instant, perhaps, another voice than yours would strike
my ears, other looks would meet mine.

"I dared scarcely breathe. I was all the time looking at
the unknown. My joy was extreme, on discovering that, in~
stead of a creature overwhelmed by age and misery, I had
before me a young and charming being. The features of
the sleeper had, at least during sleep, such a particularly
infantine expression, that I thought at first she was not more
than twelve or fourteen years old. Her costume was that
of a young midshipman; long light hair encircled her pretty
face. Her little hand seemed to play in the silken curls.
I blessed God, who had chosen me to be the saviour of this
amiable creature, who in His goodness had sent another child
to our father and mother, and to us a sister of our own; for
her costume only deceived me for a moment. Francis him-
self, who was so beautiful in his infancy, had not had those
delicate features, which I could compare only to those of
my mother; my heart beat so loudly that I was afraid she
would hear it. How long my silence and contemplation lasted
I cannot say. All I can aflirm is that for nothing in the
world would I have troubled this tranquil sleep. A thousand
confused thoughts agitated my mind. What would I not
have given for my good mother to have been, in my place,
so that herkind look should be the first to meet the stranger
on her awaiting; that her tender voice should pronounce the
first words! This situation would have been prolonged, for
I had not the courage to change it, if a little bird, who had
not my scruples, had not boldly perched, ev'en on the pretty
sleeper's forehead. She immediately woke, half raised herself;
her large eyes looked round for what had troubled her repose,
but the culprit had flown away, and they rested on me. The
unknown uttered a cry of surprise and fright. I could not,
however, have looked very terrible, for I never felt so troubled.
With almost a suppliant gesture I endeavoured to reassure
her. '

"'Fear nothing,' said I, 'I will do you no harm.'

"'Who are you?" said she, 'whence came you? How
came you here? Whoever you may be,' continued she, 'if
you are an honest man you are welcome in this solitude.' .

"The sound of her voice, the anxiety of her looks, the
extreme emotion which agitated the unknown, had restored
me to myself. ' I ,am,' replied I, ' the saviour, whom the
message you confided to the albatross implored. I have
quitted all to answer your appeal. I am not an Englishman,
as you may judge by my accent, but I am from a free country,
where we know the respect due to misfortune. A tempest
has doubtless thrown you on this rock. A tempest has thrown
me, my father, mother, and three brothers on a neighbouring
island. For ten years we have been separated from the
universe, on a corner of land,' which has become a world to
us. If you will have confidence in me, I will conduct you
to my family.' After having hesitated a moment, and shown
in her anxious looks the thousand contradictory thoughts
which crossed her brain, the unknown came towards me, and
extending her hand: ' May you and yours be blessed,' said
she, 'you snatch me from a life worse than death, from a
frightful solitude. If your mother and father do not repulse
me, if your brothers will welcome me, I will be' to the first
the most submissive and grateful of children, to the others.
an ever devoted sister.'

" The similarity of our misfortunes soon established a great
confidence between us. Miss Jenny--that was her name--
told me that she had been thrown half dead on this rock.
It had required from this young girl miracles of courage and
industry to live there. The Fiery Rock does not resemble
our island. Alone on a soil much more barren than ours,
without any of the resources which our vessel furnished us,
she had but very insufficient ameliorations to the terrible situa-
tion in which the shipwreck had thrown her.

"I was neVer tired of hearing and answering her. I passed
from wonder to wonder at the recital of the life she had led,
and in visiting with her the barren places where she had not
despaired either of God or herself. Miss Jenny was the first
to recover calmness, and she gave proof of it, by inviting me
to help her prepare our supper. Thanks to the provisions I
brought from the 'boat, this meal appeared exquisite to Miss
Jenny.

"'I was a gourmand formerly,' said she, laughing; 'they
spoilt me at home. Poor father, ah! if he knew what fate
had reserved for his daughter 1' And after laughter came
tears, which caused more to flow. 'Poor, poor Miss,' said 1,
'God will restore to you What you have lost.'

"'We passed the night, I in my canoe, she in the branches
of a tree, to which she climbed with the agility of a squirrel.
It was there she fixed her abode. _

" The next day I used all my efforts to persuade young
Miss to get into my boat and go with me to Felsenheirn; but
she would not leave the thousand little things she had made
herself, and used in her solitude. l lefi her, therefore, alone,
and set off with the double end of fetching a larger boat, and
taking you to Miss Jenny. It was then I thought I distin-
guished some sea-pirates, and endeavoured by a disguise to
turn away their attention."CONTINUATION or MISS JENNY'S HISTORY.

FRITZ'S recital was prolonged very late, and yet none of us
had found it long. As the next day we were to be on foot
early, I gave the signal for retreat, in spite of the exclamations
of the young people, who desired to know the rest of the
story.

The following day, afier breakfast, the boys surrounded
Fritz, begging him to continue his recital, and to tell them
the history of Miss Jenny; for the young girl was too timid
to speak before us all. Fritz consented, and here is the
short story he had to tell. "Sir William Montrose, major in
a regiment in Great Britain, had Obtained the command of
an important place in the East Indies. In this country, the
major lost his wife, who left him a child seven years Old:
this was Miss Jenny. The commandant concentrated all his
afi'ection on his daughter, whom he brought up carefully, and
of whom he wished to make a woman capable of encountering
peril and adversity. The good disposition of Miss Jenny
rendered the task easy to the commandant; and at fifteen
years old, she was as skilful in the management of a gun,
and guiding a horse, as in mixing in the most brilliant
society.

"A fortuitous circumstance then forced the young girl to
separate from her father, who was appointed to a superior
command in a distant expedition. Sir William, who could

not let his daughter follow him on this occasion, had con-
288
fided her to the captain of a vessel, who was returning to
Europe, so that during his absence she might make acquaint-
ance with a sister whom he had left there, and who had no
child. At the end of a year, the father would retire, and
rejoin his sister in London. The young girl embarked in
the costume of a midshipman, so as to sail in a ship of
war. -
" The voyage was fortunate for a few days; but a horrible
tempest arose, which threw the ship out of its course and
drove it near the coast, where we had been wrecked ten
years ago. The ship having struck on the rock, opened and
sunk. A sloop only could be put to sea. Miss Jenny jumped
into it with the captain and some sailors; but a sudden wind
upset the boat, and it was by a miracle that the young girl
was carried by the waves on to a rock of the volcanic island,
where we found her. She never more saw any of the persons
who were in the sloop with her.

"The first days of solitude were full of horror. Thrown on
an unknown land, she was exposed to hunger and dangers
of all kinds. How fortunate it was for her that she had
received an education, which had developed in her the courage,
firmness, and skill, so necessary in the new life she was
commencing! She recommended herself to God, and began
to construct a hut, or rather a nest in a tree, as we had done
at the beginning of our sojourn in our island. She provided
her food each day by hunting and fishing, which she effected
by the help of bent nails, and threads drawn from her
clothes.

" Some irons which she had taken from the wrecks of -
planks thrown on shore, and which she sharpened by grind-
ing them on the rocks, served to make a number of arms,
necessary for her safety. She thus made some arrows, which
she learned to shoot skilfully, and which served for her
. hunting. She had lived almost entirely on fruits, shell-fish,
roots, and dried fish, especially during the rainy season,
which was terrible for her.

"One of her favourite pastimes was to bring up young
birds, some of which, including a stormy petrel, she tamed.

It was thus that the albatross, after having. gone away
19
from the Fiery Rock, returned, to carry to his mistress F ritz's
note."

Such was my son's recital. We all surrounded Miss .
Jenny, to show her our affection; and the young girl, pleased
with so much kindness, replied to it by marks of lively
emotion; the grace with which she thanked us, added to
the charms of her pretty face.

During the day, Miss jenny displayed much activity
in assisting us in our work; I could see how skilful she
was in occupations, even the .most opposed to those of her
sex, and i blessed God for having sent us this charming
child.

By sunset, the pinnace was loaded with all that we
intended to take away. 'We greatly desired to return to
Felsenheim, of which my sons were impatient to do the
honours to their young companion. They had given so
delightful a description of it, that the next morning, when
we raised the anchor, the dear child testified so much joy,
as showed us that the Fiery Rock had not destroyed all her
happy feelings.

On passing near Prospect Hill, I proposed to land and
visit the farm. Fritz and Francis, who preceded us in the
canoe, went on to Felsenheim to prepare our rooms, and 4
we landed. On perceiving our establishment, Miss Jenny
uttered a cry of surprise and admiration; for two years
she had seen no traces of human constructions, and our
farm, with all its population of hens, cocks, and pullets,
recalled the best organised farms of the civilised world.

The next day we set sail and reached Whale Island, where
the sight of our colony of rabbits greatly pleased our new child.
The two young men who had preceded us had, as they thought,
done all they could to receive us in a suitable manner. Our
entry into the Bay of Deliverance was saluted by two
discharges of cannon, to which we replied with our small.
pinnace artillery. As we doubled the Cape of Requin
Island, we perceived Fritz and Francis, who came to meet
us in the canoe. They received us at the entry of the bay.
Fritz, with imperturbable gravity, announced himself as the
governor of Felsenheim Castle, where he invited us to take
some_ refreshment; then he courteously offered his hand to
Miss Jenny, and conducted her to the shaded gallery which
surrounded the grotto. -

In front of the entrance door we saw with surprise a
table covered with the finest productions of the coast. On
gourd dishes were spread magnificent pine-apples mixed
with green leaves; pyramids of oranges, and baskets of figs,
guavas. .Canary wine, hydromel, and milk fresh from the
cows, invited us to refresh ourselves. In the middle of the
table, appeared a magnificent roast fowl, and an enormous
dish of fried fish. Above this spread, hung a double garland
"of verdure, in which we read these words, composed of flowers:
"Long live our sister Jenny! Blest be her arrival in the
abode of the Swiss Robinsons ! "

It was a complete feast: a reception as solemn as it could
be, with the means at our disposal. Miss Jenny took her
place between my wife and me. Ernest and james sat
opposite, 'but- Fritz and Francis would not sit down. With
napkins on their arms like waiters at an hotel they went to
and fro, with agility, cut up the meat, changed the plates,
and poured out our drink, with perfect good humour.

After dinner was a source of rejoicings. Each of the
boys did his best to charm the young lady. She must'
visit every part of the grotto. This was what most astonished
the young girl. _

" Dear Miss, .come here," said one. " Examine that
first," said another. "Come this side," said a third. The
amiable child, in spite of her tact and good grace, did not
know how to satisfy all; but the mother took her from this
eager group, to show her the kitchen, which in the eyes of a
housekeeper is not the least important part of the house.

The following day everybody was on foot early, for we
wished to make an excursion to Falcon's Nest. With the -
exception of Miss Jenny, who was rather tired, and to whom
Francis had lent his buffalo, we went on foot. The castle
in the tree was a little dilapidated, and we set to work to
clean and restore it. Three days sufficed to restore our
aerial fortress to its air of neatness and comfort.

Some adverse rains now came to warn us that we must
hasten to gather in our harvests, and finish our winter prepara-
tions. During these labours, Miss Jenny showed a skill and
good will, which made her help precious. She rendered a
thousand little services to my wife, to whom she was very
useful. Everybody worked with ardour, and we had nothing
to fear from the great rains when they began. Though
habituated to the return of these melancholy seasons, we
never saw, without a sentiment of sadness, the approach
of our annual seclusion return. The roaring of the sea, the
violence of the wind, the growlings of the thunder concurred to
render them unpleasant; but this year, thanks to the
sedentary work, in which Miss Jenny excelled, and thanks
especially to the agreeable society of this charming child,
all our riches were doubled in price. Since we had such
an agreeable companion with whom to divide it, everything
became new to us, because everything was new to her.
I will not describe in detail the little events of this happy
and . peaceful time. Jenny perfected us in the knowledge,
and especially in the pronunciation of the English language.

She learnt to understand German, and to speak it with
tolerable correctness, which was a great pleasure to my wife.
The union was complete between her and the young girl,
who one day asked her tremblin'gly, so much importance
did she attach to the question, if she might call her mother!
It was a little scene full of tears and sweet emotions, which
good hearts will comprehend! " Ah! I have a mamma," said
Jenny, embracing my wife, "a good and tender mother!"
"I have a charming daughter," said my wife, "a good and
brave child," and she pressed Jenny to her heart. And
when my sons came laughing to dispute Jenny's kisses
from their mother, "Fie, you jealous rascals," said Jenny,
smiling, "fie, you misers! who will give nothing good to
her, who has wanted it so long. Ah, you naughty
brothers." '

Jenny had a remarkable voice, and a true musical talent.
Her memory was such that she knew by heart pieces from
all the masters. She enchanted our solitude. She taught
music to Francis, who had great taste for it. These sweet
songs and improvised concerts were quite a revolution
in our life. Jenny's pure voice filled the grotto; we listened
to her and were silent. These sweet melodies raised our
souls to God. We found the winter less painful; and the
sun reappeared before we thought of complaining of his
absence.CONCLUSION

COMING out of our retreat after the rainy season, my
sons were seized with an "insatiable desire for liberty and inde--
pendence ; they sprang out of the grotto, like birds escaped
from their cage. Fritz, the intrepid navigator, proposed to
make an excursion to Requin Island, and to mount on the
rocks to see if the sea had brought anything new to the environs.
He departed, accompanied by James.

I told them as soon as they arrived at the island to fire
off two cannons, as we did every year after the rainy season
was over, as much with the intention of being useful to ship-
wrecked persons who might have been thrown on our coast,
as to try and establish communication with ships that might
pass our shores.

Our young people were very glad to obey this injunction,
but what was their alarm, when they distinctly heard in the
distance a reply to their double discharge. At first they
doubted, thinking it was an echo; but soon this discharge
was succeeded by another, then a few minutes after, as they
were listening, 3. third gun sounded. In their first emotion
they fell on each other's neck without speaking a word. At
last Fritz cried out, " Men! Men !" "God grant that they
are good ones!" replied James; and then, with an involuntary'
trembling, he added, " What must we do P " " Let us go and
warn our father," replied Fritz. And without delay they
went back to their boat, which, under their united efforts,

soon reached the shore.
394
"What is the matter?" I asked, seeing their alarmed
looks. "Oh, father, father I " cried they, throwing themselves
into my arms, "have you heard nothing?" "Nothing," said
I, "absolutely nothing." Then they told me the great news.
I thought they were mistaken, but they affirmed so energetically,
so seriously, that they had heard three cannons fired, that
it was impossible to doubt the fact. But ought we to rejoice
' or be alarmed P Had we in our neighbourhood some Europeans
or Malay pirates? Such were the questions that puzzled me.

I hastened to assemble my family and hold a council,
for I found the thing too serious to decide alone. The night
. surprised us_.before we decided; I gave the signal for repose,
recommending my sons to watch by turns before the grotto.
The night was not so calm as the fine weather of the day
before had foretold. A frightfiil tempest arose'; the rain fell
in torrents; the roaring of the wind prevented us from'
distinguishing any particular noise on the sea-coast. For
two days and nights we might believe that the bad season
had begun again, and it was, consequently, impossible to go
out on discovery as we had resolved to do. The third day,
the Wind having fallen, and the sea become calm, we were
enabled to go to Requin Island. I went there, accompanied
by Fritz, carrying a flag, by which we might give to our dear
friends, who remained at Felsenheim, a signal of alarm or
rejoicing. If I'waved the flag three times and then threw
it into the sea, they were to flee to Falcon's Nest; if, on the
contrary, I raised it over my head and planted it by my side,
they had nothing to fear.

You may easily understand with what heart-beating we
landed in the island and climbed to our observatory. Whatever
care we took to inspect the horizon on all sides, we could
discover nothing. I ordered Fritz to load the cannon and
fire. '

A few minutes after he had obeyed me we heard in a
south-east direction, that is to say, on the side to which we
had never sailed, a gun, then a second, then a third, and so on
to seven. There could be no uncertainty as to the presence
of a ship on our shores; it remained to know the character

of the men who were in it.
We returned home without having made a signaL They
overwhelmed us with questions, to which we could not reply;
but I announced my intention to go with Fritz on a voyage
of discovery, and this they assented to. Jenny, generally
so calm and reasonable, manifested an intense joy, for she
was sure it must be her. father, who, on his return to London,
having heard of her shipwreck, had crossed the seas to seek
her. I dared not dissuade the dear child, but I did not partake
her pious confidence.

I then ordered them to take all proper precautions to put
our provisions in safety; then Fritzand I got into the canoe ;
my wife, Miss Jenny, and the three boys went to Falcon's
Nest, taking the cattle with them. Adopting Fritz's idea,
. we disguised ourselves as savages, for this costume, we thought,
would render us less suspected by the new comers, and we
hid our best arms at the bottom of the boat. It was about
noon when we quitted the shore, and more than one o'clock
when we turned round the cape east of the Bay of Deliverance.

After going for two hours along shores which were unknown
to us, we came to a cape, which we had to double, keeping
as near as possible to the coast, so as to observe without being "
seen; you may judge of our astonishment, when, on turning
the point of the promontory, we perceived in the middle of
the bay a magnificent three-master, lying-to on its anchors,
and surmounted by the English flag. I could scarcely
restrain Fritz, who wished to swim to the vessel. I was obliged
to represent to him how imprudent it would be to give himself
up to men, who had, perhaps, hoisted the British colours to
exercise their piracy more safely. We remained hid behind
a little cliff, whence we could distinguish perfectly all that
passed on the vessel, and on the shore in front of the point
where it was anchored.

At some distance from the shore a large tent was erected;
a fire kindled, before which some joints of meat were roasting.
Two sentinels were walking to and fro on the point. Having
ventured to go. out of the creek, we were perceived by the
two watchers, one of whom disappeared for an instant, and
returned, followed by an ofl'icer holding a long telescope.

"That is the captain," said Fritz. "We have nothing to
fear, father, for his features are undeniably those of a European."
Fritz's remark was just; nevertheless I did not think fit to
venture yet. Taking the trumpet, I cried out with all my
strength, these English words! "Englishmen, good men I " -
without adding any commentary. The captain, who took
us for real savages, made us a sign to advance, showing pieces
.of red cloth, hatchets, nails, necklaces, and other things, which
serve as exchange with the inhabitants 'of the new world.
This mistake amused us, but we could not find in it sufficient
guarantee of friendship. Whatever it may be, we resolved
to present ourselves with better apparel before these strangers.
We made signs of farewell, then we disappeared slowly behind
the promontory. Joy had doubled our strength; in a short
time we were with our family, who impatiently expected us.
The prudence which had guided us in this interview, was
"approved by all the family. After having consulted, it was
decided that we should all embark the next day in the pinnace,
and go with great ceremony to the ship.

We employed the rest of the day in fitting out our pinnace,
which was dressed with flags, and in preparing our clothes.
We chose some fruit, and some of the principal productions
of our island, which we wished to offer the captain, for it
was best, we thought, to give them a high idea of our power
and riches.

The next day, after breakfast, we raised the anchor. Near
the cannons, which were loaded, were placed James and
Ernest. Fritz, in the dress of a marine officer, preceded us
in his canoe. As soon as we perceived the English ship,
the sight of which caused us, and particularly jenny, a lively
emotion, I ordered them to hoist the British flag, which
immediately floated at the top of the mast in front of the
pinnace.

The astonishment of the English was great on seeing a
boat enter proudly, with sails set, into the bay, and I own
that, if ' we had been corsairs, we could have made a good
bargain with the ship, in the first moment of trouble and
fear which our appearance caused them. Having braced the
sails at some distance, I went with Fritz- in the little sloop,
and we approached to salute the captain, who addressed us
in the most friendly words, and asked , us to come up into

his ship. This worthy officer welcomed us with the frankness

and cordiality of a sailor, conducted us into his cabin, and

ofi'ered us some old cape wine, asking us by what means we

were on an island, where he expected to see only savages

I briefly related to him the history of our shipwreck, and

establishment .on the coast. I spoke to him of Miss Jenny,
and asked him if he had heard of Sir William Montrose.
He .told us he knew the name of our young companion's
father, and had heard that Sir William, after having succeeded
in his expedition, had landed happily at Portsmouth, and then

come to London, where he sent in his resignation. His own
name was Littlestone, and he commanded the ship Unicorn ; 7
he had a mission, for which, said he, he would ask some
information, which I. should perhaps be able to give him.
Assailed by a tempest, he had been happy to find an excellent
port when he least expected it, in our island, which was
perfectly unknown to him. He had been anchored there for
some days, when he heard our first discharges of cannon, to
which he replied, not without being. much puzzled. When
the captain had finished speaking, I begged him to come to
the pinnace, that I might have the honour of presenting him
to my family. He willingly agreed, and getting into one of
his boats, was rowed by two of his sailors to our vessel. He
was received with all possible demonstations of joy, especially
by Miss Jenny, who was delighted to speak to a fellow
countryman of her father. .

The captain had among his passengers an English family,
whose acquaintance we were happy to make. It was that
of Mr. Wolton, a distinguished mechanic and ship-builder,
whose health had sufl'ered much during the passage; his wife
and his two charming daughters, one aged fourteen, the other
twelve, gave him the most touching care, without being able
to obtain the slightest amelioration; he required land air.
We proposed to them a cordial asylum at Felsenheim, where
they would have all the conveniences, which they wanted on
board. This proposition was accepted with gratitude, and we
proceeded the same day to remove the honest family to our
abode. '
The surprise of the new comers on seeing all our riches,
would be difficult to express; they made exclamations every
instant, at which my sons were greatly amused. They could
not believe that we alone had been able to realise all they
saw. In the evening we had a delicate supper in the gallery
of the grotto, and up to bedtime, the most frank gaiety animated
the general conversation.

During the night, my wife and I were busy with grave
thoughts. The opportunity was offered us of seeing again our
European brethren. Should we profit by it? But why, said
we, after reflection, why quit a land where we are so happy,
to renew relations which time and absence must have entirely
broken? Had we not arrived at an age when we required rest
too much to run the chances of a voyage. We did not wish
our decisions to influence those of our sons who might wish
to see their country again; but the idea that they should all
quit us, rent our hearts. .

Miss Jenny, as she knew her father had returned to England,
would desire to rejoin him. I did not doubt that her departure
would cause great grief to my eldest, who did not conceal the
deep affection with which this young girl had inspired him, an
affection which I believed to be returned. ,

We could not decide immediately on these divers points.
The next morning at breakfast, Mr. Wolton, who already felt
much better for his sojourn on land, extended his hand to me
and said, "The life you lead in this solitude pleases me; I feel
new life in the midst of this beautiful nature, and I shall esteem
myself happy to establish myself in a corner of this island, if
you will consent to it." This proposition was welcomed with
joy; we expressed all the happiness we should have in ad-
mitting him amongst us, as well as his wife and his daughters.
I seized this moment to declare that my wife and I had resolved
to finish our days in this island, to which I wished to give the
name of New Switzerland. "Long live New Switzerland!"
cried all the guests, raising their gourds, filled with palm-wine.
". And long live those who wish to remain there!" added
- Ernest, James, and Francis. Remarking that Fritz kept
silence, it was easy to understand that he had a secret desire
to accompany Miss Jenny. The poor boy hoped, without
doubt, that her father would consent to unite her to her
liberator.

Though my heart suffered cruelly at this double separation,
I hid my emotion, not to augment the grief of my wife,
who with great difficulty restrained her tears. But the poor
mother had understood all, as well as myself. I saw her
suddenly turn pale. The heart of the mother, more feeble
than that of the father, was breaking; she fainted. Fritz threw
himself on his knees: "My mother! my mother, I will not
quit you; no, no, never, never, if I die at your feet." Jenny
was bathed in tears.

"Pardon," said she to my wife, sobbing, "pardon, pardon!"
She also had understood it. When my wife came to herself,
Jenny drew her into her chamber. What passed between the
mother and child? ' My wife came from this conversation
calm, still sad, but resigned. _Her arm was round the young
girl's waist, who rested her charming head on her adopted
mother's shoulder. , .

Mr. Wolton and his family, feeling that their presence at
this solemn hour might be inconvenient, had left us alone.
Jenny advanced towards me; " My father," said she, in a tender
voice, and this was the first time she had given me this name,
" my father, bless me, as my mother has just blessed me.
Let me, let me depart. Your children will return to you.
Do not fear that they can separate for ever from you. Sir
William Montrose is a man of honour and kindness. He will
pay his daughter's debts, when he knows that his daughter's
happiness depends on those debts being paid. He returned
to Europe for me, for me alone; he will quit Europe for me
and for you," looking at Fritz. "Trust us both," said she;
"Fritz answers for me, I dare to answer for Fritz." '

"I have talked a long time with the captain of the ship,
who will take us away. The intention of his voyageo was to
find a point in these seas, which might serve as a refuge for
English vessels. He told me that chance, by throwing him
on your island, had shown him what he sought. My father
is intimate with the lords of the Admiralty. Your island will
cease to be your island only, but it may become a small
portion of powerful England, a centre of life, whence your
children will depart sometimes, without doubt, but where it will
be lawful to return and establish them for ever. Do not think
I indulge a vain hope. If all this is. not accomplished, there is
one fact, at least, which cannot fail to be accomplished, that is,
our reunion here before six months. Dear father, cast a look
of confidence on her who wishes to remain your child, and
believe in her. Under the sting of misfortune children become
men. Fritz and I have ripened in its school; have faith in
us." I embraced the noble child. My wife had said "yes ;"
I said " yes " in my turn. Fritz, divided between joy and
. grief, went from one to another, half laughing, half crying.

At last calm returned. I took Fritz apart, and tried to
fortify and prepare him against the disappointments that might
await him in England. "Be tranquil, father," said he; "your
son will always and everywhere do his duty. I should not
be worthy of success, ii I was not prepared for the reverse."

What shall I add P A year had not passed before all
that our charming prophetess had foretold was realised, except
in one point; her father was dead when she arrived in London,
and she had not the consolation of seeing him again.

Five years have since passed, and the report of our story
has been spread through Europe by the sailors of the Um'com;
the stories which they told of the wonderful riches of our
island have attracted to it a crowd of colonists from all parts.
It contains new more than two thousand inhabitants. Ernest
and James have married the two amiable daughters of Mr.
Wolton. James has become a ship-builder, and is at the
head of a considerable establishment, which he has raised
under the eye of his father-in-law. Ernest has made two
voyages to Europe; he is a corresponding member of several
academies of natural science, and corresponds with the prin-
cipal scholars of Europe. He has enriched the museums of
London, France, and Holland with numerous subjects which
Europeans, but for him, would only know from travellers'
tales. Francis is the captain of a merchant-vessel. He is
not married, and does not seem to wish to marry; "My
vocation is to be son and uncle," said he, laughing. He loads

with presents his mother and little nephews and nieces, who
adore him.
'As to my dear wife and me, we areold, perhaps, but that
- is our least care. Our happiness is secured, since it is centred

in that of our children, who are all industrious, gay, good-
looking, satisfied with their fate, esteemed, and worthy of
being esteemed by 'all. When the time comes that we must
render up our account to the Sovereign Lord of all things,
we are ready, for the great voyage, that which leads to God,
is not made uneasy to those who, every hour of their ,lives,
have lived, served, and honoured Him. '

THE END.

.__.___..----- .
PRINTED AT m "INSURGB PRESS, 9.51") l! IOWG "Rm.IE. . rhalu. .4

 
 

.. i .1 .Ki-i-l.\ .. I ' . .1. 231.51 , ..
.. . 2.x . .. .5 . .. .. 1P ,I.l.l..'ll.(.a||ll U. . |:|.. ,y I 1 . ,. . . . ...z. ..
% gwfi. i m

mafia .- .'1

4.
{a

l

I
3:}

x:
5'

Qt

        
 
  
 
 
      
       
   
 

' '3 -

may; ' .3
1 I?" "5;: "(33122
<<O 'X:."-WO 0:3 1
rm?"deg'SS 3.2:; f. .393;
Log-:8 o. ' "am". I: ~0~r*._
' Wt: ..... .2: :3.
"4'": '"ofl ; e .

0-0

v
M
'N

I" v

.5;' F
MWWum '

MN .
t ' o

 
   
   
 

' " 3:: ' . fig.
' ' '3...
ng- ' : a o . o : To:
ifmg PS25: WfiSSPSEUR?~m~m~fC/-
z ' 7:":- melt, m. ~umfflm"'fft
52 - "MW"??? '33 'er 7?

m5}.

'3ng

I'm! 9
<<m r:

    
    
     
 
    
       
  
 
  
     
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
    

w"

 
 
  

. w 8.1 3 ,3
I x 1 5.! . O
. E 0 PS005. 4 ' .c'f":*

   

' '33.:

L" - =5 m ~25;

; 321:. ' ' 0-. Wflfiffijwnfie'Oif
""" 'z'gu.-.QF'.=7'~"1..,.-.33 333%;

O..."
O

 
 

I m""~"---'----

. O'Coo-ob

7:
'32:, '
mg

.5 n'--'-"m -- '
.~m-.......deg wag; ;'
.Liaiuflz. geeamfsm :51}:
W?" 3.3% :Eiif:333{i
mgfifitnz we. ta;
~ mmmdmh "M""mzzamgt

{hr-8m; . ;

$215.
a
a?
3.73:
if"
r

i

2.-
'... 1.?

:. .1

s

  

 
  

O
000.com.

, I!" u v a

$53

Gnu Fran-ur-
27,0353}? '
C
. o 9'

-8
P

. We
.3313:

0-"!1' 3'9 I'fliuit-Uv'vw' ' .

007791.

"WUOI'O.

DI... "00d!
MOMI'i i}-

'.321.
mm

:2"
4
"I;
in...

. .0
u '
. u .0. C
a m . , . .
t . '. zit
' . ,g 3 9' ' .. , f
'. 000 .u'. :1"
_ oo o
u 'u "a
00", ' '
. m
I...

_' 33955331}:
'JWWIE '
. um